Let's turn in our Bibles to First Corinthians chapter twelve tonight, and we are continuing to look at this text dealing with uh uh basically preparing us for one of the most well-known passages In all the New Testament, 1 Corinthians chapter 13, the love chapter. Here's what the text says, 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 27. Now Ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular. God hath set some in the church. First, apostles, secondarily, prophets, thirdly, teachers. After that, miracles and gifts of healing, helps, governments. Diversity of tongues. Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles? Have all the gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? But covet earnestly the best gifts, yet I show you a more excellent way. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become a sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal Though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and I have not charity, I'm nothing. Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, though I give my body to be burned and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. All right, we're going to stop there, and we're going to go ahead and kind of remind ourselves again what we talked about for a little bit of time last week, and then we're going to pick up with the flow of the text. So last week we saw that this passage is sort of the capstone of the discussion that Paul has been dealing with on spiritual gifts. And I broke it down into four statements. The first is this, we are to remember who we are. And that's why he says, ye are, and then he talks about their relationship to one another and their relationship to God Secondly, he says, remember who is in charge. He says, it is God who has set, and then he gives all of these different gifts and offices. that he talks about in the church. Thirdly, he says desire what is best for the body. And that's what he means when he says earnestly desire the best gifts. And then lastly He says, follow the best possible practice. I show you a more excellent way. So out of those four statements that we just looked at, we're going to see each of the truths that are being highlighted here. So the first one was that we are the body of Christ, and we talked quite a bit about that last week. He says in verse 27, you're the body of Christ. and your members one in particular. And we saw in this passage that he emphasizes that there is both a corporate side to our relationship and there's an individual side. So when the Bible says that you are the temple of the Holy Ghost, he dwells in you, and he says you're not your own, you're bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and your spirit. We showed from the text that he goes in between the plural and the singular second person, which shows you that Sometimes he's talking about us as a body collectively, and sometimes he's talking about us as individuals. And so when he talks about the body collectively, he says We all as a body are the temple of the Spirit of God. And that means that we have some responsibilities to one another within that corporate context. And then when he says, each of you is the temple of the Holy Spirit, and he dwells within you, as in each of us as individuals. Paul's not saying, oh, I was wrong the first time. Now I'm telling you something totally different. He's saying that there's a sense in which we as a body collectively are the temple, and there's a sense in which we as individuals are the body, the temp, the temple. And so there are certain specific responsibilities for us as individuals. So he says, glorify God in your physical body, in your spirit. These belong to him. That's the idea. And so we talked about some of those implications. The second thing that we got into last week was the fact that he is in charge of the body. He is the sovereign. He is the ruler. And so in verses 28 through 30 it says, God has set in the church first apostles. Secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues. He asks the question, are all apostles? And we mentioned this last week. that the the the class condition that this is asked in the Greek text is telling us that the answer is no. It's almost like when you ask a person a question and they're like, I can tell that's a rhetorical question. I can tell by your body language that you expect a certain answer, okay? Um that's what Paul is saying by the way that he poses the question. He says, are all apostles? Of course they're not. Are all prophets? Of course they're not. Do all teach? No. Are all working miracles? No. Do all have the gifts of healing? No. Do all speak with tongues? No. Do all interpret? No. And interestingly It's important to take note because of the modern charismatic movement that it is clear in this text that not all Christians, even when Speaking in tongues was a normal thing going on in the first century church. It was not every Christian that had that gift. And so We need to be careful. I wouldn't say we necessarily in our church context, but within the evangelical world, those who have this view that everyone has to speak in tongues if they truly are indwelled by the Spirit or they're empowered by the Spirit, it's very clear that that's not true. The text does not teach that. When Paul asks the question, he's saying, it's obvious not everybody in the church speaks in tongues. And it's obvious that not everybody prophesies and it's obvious that not everyone interprets. And so that's why he poses the question in that way. But the whole reason that we get into this is to simply say it's God who distributes the gifts. It's God who determines the prioritization of those gifts, and it is ultimately God who determines how these are to be used. And so that's where we stopped last week. What I'd like us to do this evening is pick up with a third truth. And that's what we find in verse 31. We should desire to exercise the most edifying gifts. And verse 31, the way he puts it, is covet earnestly the best gifts. Now, when he uses the phrase covet earnestly, obviously he wrote it in Greek, not English. And when we see the word covet in English, we don't think of a good thing, do we? Okay? So that word in the Greek text is not always determining, uh not always used as some sinful kind of desire, but the ideas have an intense desire, earnestly long for what is best for the people in the church. That really is the sense. So when we see that word covet, it's not have this jealous Attitude of I want something that doesn't belong to me. It's not what he's referring to. He's talking about a zeal a deep desire. And in fact, interestingly the word actually is the same term that we get the word zealous from. So it's an earnest desire. The idea is be motivated rather than be complacent. pursue out of an intense desire. And I'm going to give you a parallel passage that gives you a similar idea. And that is in 1 Timothy 3 verse 1. Here's what it says. If a man desire the office of a bishop, he desires a good work. Now, that passage, when he uses the word desire office , And he says, desire a good work. That term that is used there is actually the same term that is sometimes translated like a lustful passion. Okay? He's not communicating that a person should, and it's good for them, to have a sinful desire for power. That's not what he's saying. What he's saying is a person needs to have a strong and intense motivation to do the work of the ministry. And so if a person does not have that desire, they should never do it. They should never be forced into that. In other words, if if If if a pastor has boys, he shouldn't be like, if you really love God, you have to follow in daddy's footsteps and you have to be a pastor. That's a horrible thing for a pastor. to do, or for a missionary to do the same thing. The idea is that God has to put in the heart of an individual the desire to do that. But it's also interesting when we talk about this desire for the office, which is a desire for a good work, that is coupled with certain qualifications. In other words, it's not just the desire, but it's a desire that clearly comes with spiritual maturity, and it comes with the abilities from God. to do the work of ministry. So that's how we know that this desire, though it is strong, is not a sinful passion because the expectation is whoever has this desire and is going to be appointed to to office in the church has to be someone who meets spiritual qualification. And by the way, one of the most dangerous things a church could do is put someone who's clearly unqualified because they do lust for power. They do like being in charge. They do like domineering over people. And those kinds of individuals should never be in pastoral office. But sometimes they are, because churches don't always follow these clear-cut instructions from Scripture. But the reason I bring this up is to simply say it like this. The coveting earnestly the best gifts is another way of saying, long to serve the church in the best way possible. That's really what he's saying. So this is telling us that there is a sense in which there's priority given. Not all the gifts are of equal priority. And by the way, I could put it like this. They're not all of equal priority at the same time. So I'm going to get into this in just a minute, a little bit later in this discussion, but there are times that what someone needs is not a teacher, but they need someone who just ministers mercy to them. Okay? And there may be times that what a person needs is someone who can give good sound advice and they have a lot of discernment. Or it may be that what somebody needs is a person with a strong back who can physically work. And so we have to recognize that this issue of the best gift also has a seasonal element to it. And there are certain situations where that's the gift that needs to be applied in that particular situation. That gift, though it's important in other seasons, is not necessarily important in this season. I'll give you an example of this. When you go to visit someone in the hospital, that's not the time to preach them a sermon. That's the time to just be present. That's the time to listen. It might be the time to actually not say very much. You may have a very short visit because they physically are exhausted by answering your questions. So just being there, just sitting there, uh just Letting them know that you care, that's huge. So the teacher side may not be what they need. They may just need someone who is kind, someone who's compassionate, someone who's there to be an encouragement to them That would be just one example. Or or at or at a funeral. Sometimes pastors think that funerals are the time to be like wax eloquent and preach a 45-minute sermon. I've been in funerals like that, and I'm like, what are you doing? Nobody cares what you have to say. They really don't. Or it happens at weddings as well. Nobody cares what you have to say at the wedding. You know, get through it. Make sure it's focused on the Lord, but understand your context. And so the priority of gift could be depending on the circumstance that you're in. So when he says best, he means most useful in that particular circumstance. And this is how he puts it. You need to prioritize love in the church and the practice of love, biblically understood, I need to say that We need to prioritize this above all of the other gifts in the church. Biblically understood, it's very important. And so here's what he says in verses 8 through 10. Charity never faileth, but whether there are prophecies, they will fail. Where there are tongues they shall cease. Where there is knowledge it shall vanish away. Now tonight I'm not going to get into the specifics of what he means by fail and pass away. I am going to talk about that on another night. But what you can see here is that he is prioritizing love above prophecy. Love above tongues. He says we know in part and we prophesy in part, but when that which is perfect has come, that which is in part shall be done away. You can see priority there. Or look down at verse 1 of chapter 14. He says, follow after charity and desire spiritual gifts. but rather that you might prophesy. Now he is emphasizing the priority of prophecy over tongues. And by the way, this is very important for the church at Corinth because there was an imbalance. They were emphasizing tongues over prophecy, and they were elevating certain gifts in a way that was unhealthy. But you could see priority. So the idea is prioritize the spiritual gifts that lead to the edification of the church And so here's that caution that I was trying to get at. Sometimes authoritative instruction is the priority. For instance, when we gather for public worship. I think that the most central thing that we do in a service is the preaching and teaching of God's word. Now that would be assuming that it's actually preaching and teaching God's word, not just getting up and shooting from the hip and saying whatever's on somebody's mind. But but the idea is that our singing is going to be centered on the preaching of the word, um the way that we think about things, the music, all of this is centered on the word. In fact, you'll even notice On Sunday mornings when we open up the service, we read a scripture, and then we say, here's going to be our theme of focus. And I'm not going to say that every week it's perfect. But for the most part, you can see that they're that the hymns that we sing are centered on that theme And not only are they centered on that scene, but a lot of times they're kind of put in an order that sort of presents a picture that's being developed throughout the service. That's not an accident. The idea is we're saying the reading of Scripture, the preaching of Scripture is setting the tone for what we're focusing on, and everything in the service kind of comes around that. So when we gather together, authoritative biblical instruction is priority. But sometimes faith and a confirmation of the message is the priority. So here's what's going on. You just heard a sermon, and after the service, somebody comes through and they shake my hand and they say, Pastor, I really have some questions about that sermon. Like, all right, well let's go let's go sit down, let's talk about it. And they and they start talking about something that's going on in their life. And they're they're weighed down by it, and it's a heavy issue. And you know what they need? They don't need me to re-preach the sermon. They need me to give them encouragement so that they can say, hey, despite how I feel, despite the circumstances that I'm in. God's word is true, and I can trust it and I can rest in it, and I need somebody to come alongside of me, and I need their faith to strengthen my faith. Do you understand what I'm saying? And sometimes it's not the pastor and sometimes it's not a deacon. Sometimes it's just a friend. Somebody's out in the parking lot and they're getting ready to get into their car and they just look at their friend and they're like, I'm really struggling right now And they're like, what's going on? And they start, they're like, I I don't need to drive home. Let's just talk about it. And and they start going through this thing and they need their friend to encourage them and uplift them and strengthen them. They need their faith to strengthen that person's faith to strengthen their faith. And so what they need is not a sermon, they need somebody with strong faith, confidence in the Lord. Or another example, mercy. When I'm struggling, when I'm burdened, when I'm weighed down, I might just need somebody to like sit next to me. And I'm not and I know that they're there and they they're not trying to fix me right now. They just want me to know they love me and they care about me and they're sad with me and they want to carry that burden with me, whatever that means, whatever that looks like That's what they're doing. They're merciful. They're compassionate. Sometimes it's an act of service. Moving somebody's washing machine and dryer. Going and cleaning out gutters, taking wood to someone like uh Miss Carrie Teeth, you know, she she cook uh she she she burns wood all winter. And so guys just going over there and splitting wood. I mean, there's nothing spiritual per se about splitting wood and giving it to a shutdown. Actually, it's ministry. It's huge ministry. And that may be what someone needs. Or administration. Things are a little bit chaotic, and we need somebody who can think through the best way to organize this situation. I think of VBS. We need an administrator. We don't need two administrators who have different opinions about things. That would be the problem. We need an administrator and those who can work with the administration. Sometimes we need discernment, a very complicated situation. And a person goes, I have no idea how I'm supposed to handle the situation. It's not that I don't want to do what's right, it's that I don't know what the right thing to do is. And there are things like that in life. They really are. They're super complicated. So the point that I'm trying to make is all these different gifts that he's mentioning, they actually might be the highest priority at a particular time. And that's why God gives them to all these different individuals in the church. So important. Earnestly desire the best gift. Truth number four. Follow best practices. Follow best practices. Verse 31, yet show I you a more excellent way. What an interesting statement. Yet I show you a more excellent way. And I want to make this distinction here. Or I want to actually not make the distinction, but draw attention to the distinction. He's not saying a more excellent gift. He's saying a more excellent way. They're different. The way is how you practice the gift over and over and over and over again. It's a pattern. It's a way of life. So what Paul is concerned about here is that in the church there is a consistency of pattern that is being presented to the congregation. There is a consistent practice that's going on in the church. That's what he means when he says, I show you a more excellent way. And the second thing I want you to notice here that I think is very significant. Is how personal Paul makes this instruction. Listen to what he says in verses 1 through 3. We are taught. Not to use the word I too much. Isn't that true? We. Not me. I. But notice how many times Paul references himself, though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels. and have not charity. I am become a sounding brass or a tinkling symbol. Though I have the gift of prophecy, and though he doesn't say I here, but It's applied, though I understand all mysteries, and I have all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I can remove mountains and have not charity. I am nothing. Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. What's Paul's deal here? He's talking about himself a lot here This is what Paul's saying. I am not above the instruction that I'm giving you. Paul has made a point to this church. In fact, when we read 2 Corinthians, Paul has made a clear point that their desire to undermine his apostolic ministry was wrong. He defends his apostleship. He defends his ministry. He defends the way that he goes about doing things. But he says, even though I am doing the very best that I can to be a faithful example. What I'm about to tell you applies to me too. And here's what he says. Fact number one. His apostolic office and faithful service did not guarantee a favorable verdict at the judgment seat of Christ. You say, what's the judgment seat of Christ? The judgment seat of Christ is not the great white throne judgment. Okay? We go to the book of Revelation, he talks about the books being opened and everyone's judged according to their works, and whoever's not found written in the book of life is cast into the lake of fire. This is called the second death. The great white throne judgment is a difference. place, location, evaluation than what we're talking about here. That is a place where those who have rejected Christ will find their final sentence on that day. The judgment seat of Christ is an evaluation of the quality of the use of what God gave us in this Christian life. Maybe another way to put it is the judgment seat of Christ is kind of like an evaluation that you get when you do your job. Okay? So I'm a marketplace chaplain, it's something that do a part-time. It's um Not the hugest thing that I do, but I get evaluated every year. And I sit down with the guy that's above me and he's like, he's like, you turned in this thing weight. And I'm like, I only did one hour for the whole week and I w but you were late, okay? It's not acceptable. And you're supposed to have this number of convert conversations and You know, all these different kinds of things. They give you an evaluation and they give you numbers based on like how good or bad you did. And it's it's kind of like, I feel like I'm back in school, like a little kid again, right? But you know what it what it does? It's trying to give you some kind of marker of evaluation. And you know in your jobs you may have this as well. Am I going to get a promotion? Am I going to get this posting over here or that posting over here? And you have people that are evaluating how you've done. And sometimes when people do these evaluations, we feel like they're not very fair. And sometimes they're not. It's true. Because we're all fallible. But when it comes to the judgment seat of Christ, Jesus is perfectly just in how he's going to make his evaluation. And he is going to evaluate what we did with what we were given. It's that simple. What we did with what we were given. Now, do we understand all of the implications of that? The answer is of course not. There is no way that we can fully grasp everything there is to understand about this. particular concept, but it is so clearly taught in the New Testament. He says, though I do these things, if I don't do them with charity or love, I am nothing and it does not profit me at all. Now listen to some of these other scriptures where Paul makes similar statements. 1 Corinthians 9, verse 25. He says, every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate. He's disciplined in all things. Now we do this to obtain a corruptible crown. We do this to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an in a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible crown. Now he's talking about the athletic games. And athletics were huge in the ancient world. I mean, we think athletics are huge today, and they are, but even more so in those days. The implications of being crowned victorious in the Isthmian Games or in the Olympic Games or in the circus there in Rome in the Colosseum or when they they they had the Circus Maximus which was the chariot race of you know, the best of the best all throughout the Roman Empire. Being crowned in those events was like the greatest honor of somebody's life. He says they train and discipline themselves to receive a crown that corrupts, a wreath that was dead the moment they placed it on their head. But we an incorruptible crown. He says, so I run not as uncertain. I fight not as one who beats the air. I keep my body, I bring it into subjection. Lest by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be a castaway. It's a pretty amazing statement. He's using all these athletic analogies. Like the guy who boxes, like the guy who wrestles, like the guy who runs. He says, I train myself so that when I have taught you and I have preached the word of God, I'm not going to stand on that day and I'm going to be found unfaithful, even though I taught you the truth. And here's the fact. We may speak the truth consistently over and over and over again, but not do it with the right heart. It's really true. There are lots of pastors that teach the word of God week in and week out, and they do a good job, but they're not doing it for the right reasons. They're parents who they are teaching their kids the word of God and they're really doing a pretty decent job, but in their heart they're not doing it for the right reasons. Or they're people that serve and they're not doing it for the right reasons. And so Paul is concerned. I'm going to provide a little bit of, I hope, some balance to this in just a minute, but we need to be gripped with this reality. That when we serve God, if we're not doing it for the right reasons, the profit to us is diminished. 2 Corinthians 5. 10. He says, we, himself and everybody, we all must appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or whether it be bad. Reward or loss. First Timothy 6. 12 he says, fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art called and hast professed a good profession before many. Witnesses, that thou keep this commandment without spot, unrebukable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ. Diligence. This is a really interesting one. Second John 1. 8. Look to yourself that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. Interestingly, this is a discussion about a woman who was opening her home to minister to people who were traveling and teaching, but some of them weren't teaching sound doctrine. And so he said, don't welcome someone into your home that's a false teacher and don't help them along their way. Because you've been kind to them, and that's a good thing, but you've also promoted error by helping them Revelation 3. 11, Behold, I come quickly, hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy crown. What's the point? We're all going to stay at the judgment seat. And when we stand there on that day, we want to be found faithful. It's not just what we do, but it's why we do it. And it's the consistency with which we do those things. And by the way, we are not perfect. No one is. I'm going to have a little bit more to say about that in just a minute for some nuance, I think. I think it'd be helpful. This principle applies to all kinds of gifts. Tongues, prophecy, wisdom, faith, giving, martyrdom. He even talks about this in the text. So there's different categories of giving of oneself, but all of them have this one link in common. If it's not done in Christian love, it doesn't profit. Fact number three, God can work through people despite their flaws. By the way, if that wasn't true, then he'd work through none of us. Is that simple? There's no parent in here that's perfect. There's no pastor that's perfect. There's no deacon that's perfect. There's no Sunday school teacher that Perfect No Christian school teacher that's perfect. No Christian is a perfect example. We're all works in progress. We are growing. We are learning. We are changing. And so it's important to recognize that God can work in us despite the flaws that we have. So when he says, Do I bestow all my goods to feed the poor? Do I give my body to be burned? and have not charity profited me nothing. It's interesting how he doesn't say it doesn't profit them anything. He says it doesn't profit me anything. What's the point? If I give sacrificially to someone who has a great need, if I did it for the wrong reason, maybe I miss out on the blessing of it, but they're being fed. They're being helped, and God uses it. A person may present the gospel and their motivation is very mixed in the way they present it. And God uses that to draw a person to himself. and convict them of their need of salvation and they place their faith in Christ. He did it despite what's going on in the heart. And so we need to see this with a little bit of balance. He uses sound teaching for his glory, even when sometimes it doesn't come through a perfect instrument. He provides for needy people through the gifts of others, even though sometimes the reason that people are giving isn't the right reason. He provides insight and wisdom through flawed instruments. Sometimes the person will say, I'm not going to listen to what my mom and dad have to say because they got their problems. Okay. But you should ask the question, is what they're saying true or not? Because even if they didn't do it the right way themselves, they might have learned from it. They might be able to tell you, I'm going to give you advice, not because I did this perfectly. I wish I had. But I'm going to tell you I learned a lesson the hard way. Please don't do this. Well, you didn't. do it. Okay, I'm trying to preserve you from a problem. Okay, that's all I'm trying to do. So I think we have to keep this in the back of our minds. Even a person who is a martyr is not perfect. Sometimes we look at church history and we read the stories of these people who died courageously for their faith, and you know what's interesting? If you read about their theology, they had problems. If you read about sometimes why they put themselves in that situation, you go, I don't know if that really was the the right thing to do. Maybe it would have been better if they didn't put themselves in that situation. Maybe they were willing to die on a hill that they shouldn't have been willing to die on a hill for. Sometimes we are, you know, we look at history and we think about those things. But the bottom line is God uses their testimony. And so I think it's important for us to keep that in the back of our minds. He can use us to profit others despite our flaws. And I think that this should provide for us an encouragement because we are fallible people, but it should not be something that we use as a crutch to say, well, you know, I don't really have to worry about the way I do things. I don't have to worry about my motives. I could just, as long as I'm doing the right thing, that's all that matters because God's going to use it. We should make sure that we don't fall on the ditch on this side or on that side. We need both of these things here. And so I'm reminded in Isaiah 55, my word shall not return void. It shall accomplish that which I please. It shall prosper in the thing whereunto I sent it. Every time a Sunday school teacher gets up to teach the Word of God , They ought to get on their knees before they go into that lesson. Say, God, I am not perfect. I know that I may not understand this lesson to the best of my ability. But to the best of my ability, I'm doing this to honor you and to glorify you and to do it the way that honors you. So take what is going to be a flawed a a flawed example and use it for your glory. And help me not to be proud and help me not to look at this like it doesn't matter how I've prepared and all those things. Or Philippians 1. 15, this is a very interesting perspective Paul has. He says, some preach Christ out of envy and strife. And some also of good will. The one preaches Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds, and others of love, knowing that I'm set for the defense of the gospel. What then? Notwithstanding everywhere, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached, and therein do I rejoice, yea, and I will rejoice. You know what that is? That's a mature perspective. A mature perspective that can say, you know what matters to me the absolute most above everything else is Christ is preached. I think it's absolutely tragic when a person preaches Christ in pretense, in pride, because they're trying to lift themselves up above me. I can care less about who gets the preeminence. I think it's terrible that their motives are that way, but you know, I do praise God that the the gospel is being preached. It's a really mature perspective. I'll give you an example of this. I think when when kids are you know getting into their teen years and college years, their parents are kind of like bad at everything. Do you guys ever remember going to that sta that stage of life? Oh yeah, I grew up in this home and we had this problem and that problem and And you know, all these different kinds of things. You know what a mature perspective is? It's when you get old enough to look at your parents to go, they were flawed, but you know what? They did the best they could. And I love them and they loved me. And I'm thankful for it. what they did. That's called maturity right there. And you know what? Some people never get there. They cut their parents off when they're in their forties and fifties. Such a foolish thing to do. Such an arrogant thing to do A mature perspective can look at someone with nuance. You can see their flaws, but you can see their strengths. You can appreciate how God used them, and you can allow God to work in them where they have their problems. Very, very important. And so I do think that this sense of nuance is important. 2 Corinthians 4 7, we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Paul is really emphasizing that when he does the work of ministry , He does it as a flawed instrument. So when he talks about the judgment seat of Christ, he is not suggesting that on that day the Lord Jesus Christ is going to say, you were a perfect servant. You got everything right. You never stumbled in any way. Paul in no way believes that. The ultimate tenure of his ministry was one of faithfulness and one of endurance and one of growth. And I think that's what the judgment seat of Christ is all about. And God knows exactly how to make such an evaluation. Fact number four, we should also not take comfort in our ministry success or our consistent external conformity. Sometimes what can happen is people say , see all the success for what I'm doing? And what they can do is they can take comfort in that, and then they can have a little area of life that they're like, you know what? I can I can do whatever I want here. You ever seen that? I've seen it. It's so dangerous. And so we have to be very careful that the fact that God blesses, the fact that a church grows, the fact that people get saved, the fact that people are maturing does not absolutely guarantee that That the instruments that are being used are doing it all the right way. We have to be very careful in how we look at this. We're going to experience struggle in the Christian life. Galatians 5. The flesh lust against the spirit, the spirit against the flesh. These are contrary, so that you may not do the things that you would. Everybody is going to struggle in the midst of doing right. Romans 7, the good that I would that I do, I do not. The evil which I would not that I do. Now if I do that which I would not, it's no more I that do it, but Sin that dwelleth in me. I find then a law that when I would do good, evil is present with me. I delight in the law of God after the inward man. I see another law in my members warry against the law of my mind and bring me into captivity. Have you ever experienced that? Yes, we all have. And so when we live our Christian life, we experience tensions. We have that tension of duty. We have the influence of the Spirit of God who's motivating us and prodding us and encouraging us. We have those fleshly passions that are battling against what the Spirit of God is moving us to do. We have worldly influences around us that are putting thoughts and ideas. into our minds and sometimes we start drifting down those roads and we begin to get a little bit off of track. The fact is some of the circumstances we encounter are very complicated. The reason I say all this is to say, don't think that when we talk about the judgment seat of Christ, you will be a perfect example. But you should strive to the best of your ability to be faithful. We're gonna grow. And we need to make choices. I want to make one more statement about this because I think this is very important. When we talk about faith , Faith is not the absence of every potential doubt. Do you realize that? Faith is a choice to trust even though there are doubts. That's very, very important. And I think sometimes a person will say, I cannot trust God because I have this little question in my head that I haven't quite worked through yet. And I have this little issue over here. Or I I've trusted the Lord, but now I'm beginning to have this question here, and I'm beginning to waver. Faith involves a choice. to trust God even when doubts may arise. Faithfulness is not an absence of distraction. It's a choice to self-correct in the moment to fulfill our commitments. What I mean by that is I can be faithful at something and I get distracted. My head gets turned to the side Over on this side. My head gets turned on the side over here. But what is faithfulness? Faithfulness is being willing to self-correct when I start pulling off a course And so when we talk about this issue of fables, that's important to recognize. Courage, this is another one. It's not the absence of fear. Courage is a choice to take responsible action despite your fears. I mean sometimes we have situations that we are forced, we have to step in, and we have to address an issue, and everything inside of us doesn't want to do it. We're afraid. We feel all this tension inside. We don't know how it's going to go. We have all these different potential ways that this could end up. And in our mind we are struggling so much. But we know we have to take that step. And you know what we do? We take the step. That's courage. You say, well, but there was a lot of fear in that. Yeah, but you stepped over it. You were able to move past that Love is not the absence of self-centered impulses. It's a choice to put to death those selfish desires and choose to act in the best interest of the one we love So when I say I love my spouse, that doesn't mean that there are going to be times that I'm very self-centered in my thinking and even in my actions. And I may say something to my wife that's completely wrong. And if I love my wife, when she says, why'd you say that? And she pushes back, I self-correct. Or maybe my impulse is to say something that I shouldn't or to do something that I shouldn't. But because I know what is right and I choose to love that individual, I'm going to put to death those fleshly passions. And I'm going to choose to do what is right in the best interest of the one that I love. So the point that I'm trying to make here is that in the Christian life, there's struggle, there's tension. Don't ever get in your head that, well, courageous people don't have fears. That's not true. Or people who are very loving and very giving of self never go through moments where they are very self-centered. They do. Or people that are very consistent and they're very faithful, that they don't get their head turned from time to time. They absolutely do, but they they self-correct. And God in his mercy keeps working in our lives. So I think that this is very important for us to keep in the back of our minds when we look at this. Even forgiveness. It's not the absence of pain. It's a choice to take those pains to God and to let Him be the ultimate judge. Joy is not the absence of sorrow. It's the weight we choose to give the most proportion to. Am I going to fixate on the pain and the sorrow? Or will I focus mostly on the blessings that I can be grateful to God for? And so when we talk about these issues, there is nuance. We have to think through this carefully. When we go through 1 Corinthians 13, I don't want everybody to walk out here going, well, I will never be able to love like the Bible says, and so what's the point of trying? It's like it's like please don't preach Proverbs thirty one on Mother's Day, right? I've had some ladies say If a pastor pulls up his Bible and says, ah, Proverbs 31, let's encourage the mothers. Well, I gotta go out of here feeling so miserable. We have to realize that we're growing. And so how do we put it all together? Let me give you some final thoughts. It's not just what we do, but it's also why we do it. Even when we are struggling, God can work through us. Even when God has worked through us, we should never allow ourselves to justify wrong motives or actions. The consistent expectation should be to serve out of Christian love. We should consistently grow in this virtue. So, Lord willing, next week we will look at 1 Corinthians 13. Let's die for prayer. Father, we thank you so much for the things we've been able to think about tonight And I pray that none of us would leave this place discouraged, but that we would recognize that we are in a battle, we're in a conflict, and there are tensions we experience in the Christian Life. We can be victorious. Help us to do that. On the other side, help us to never excuse our sin, to justify wrong motivations. To somehow think that we've arrived, or to believe that your blessing means that we've got it all together. Help us to always live with a humility. That recognizes we're still a work in progress, we're still growing, we're still maturing. We'll never be fully like Christ in our practice until we stand before Him on that final day. And I pray that you'll help us to take your word and put it to heart. We ask this all in Christ's name, Amen.