We're going to actually look at a good number of passages this evening. If you could turn with me back to 2 Chronicles 29, I'm going to read that text that we looked at this morning. just for a moment. I'm not going to read the entire section like I did this morning, but I want to use this as a as a starting point to get into the second part of our message that we looked at this morning. And the topic we're looking at is the Christian's responsibility in giving. I think if we could summarize the section that we looked at this morning, we could say this. In the Old Testament, The believer was responsible to pay tithes and offerings. And those tithes and offerings were not just a simple straight 10% of their income as in produce. and money and animals and various other things. But when we start looking at it in its entirety, we're looking at probably thirty-five animals plus percent of what they made in a year was going to be given in tithes and offerings. And what we saw as we transitioned from that is now that we're under the new covenant Now that we're a part of the church age, the old covenant system of tithes and offerings has been replaced with a new system of giving That's giving within the local church context. And the word that we can use to describe our responsibility to give is the word stewardship. We are to be stewards, we're to be managers of the resources that God has given to us. And we see that those resources are not just financial resources, but that talks about our talents. It talks about our mind, that talks about our physical energy, that talks about our strengths, that talks about our spiritual gifts, that talks about certain aptitudes that wouldn't necessarily be in the realm of spiritual gifts. but they are entrusted to us and where to manage those things. We even talked for a moment a little bit about our kids and our family and how difficult it is for a parent to watch their kid move to another part of the world, another region of the nation. And the reason they're doing that is because they want to go into the Lord's work. They want to preach the gospel. They want to be involved in church planting. It's difficult for a parent to allow that, not discourage that kind of a thing to happen. But that's what we're supposed to do as stewards. You know, if you were to ask my mom and dad, I in fact I know my dad said this. I remember listening to him talk. One day someone was talking to him and they said So did you envision being the only Porsche living in Pensacola when all your kids grew up? And he said, nope. I envisioned being here with my son's family and my other son's family and my daughter's family and I didn't know how it worked out. And uh the truth is that That's not the way it works out for lots of people. And the question is, are we going to let God be the one who determines where our kids go Or are we going to be selfish and try to hold them back from the Lord's work? And so that word stewardship is an extremely important word. You and I are to be stewards, managers of the resources that God has given us. Again, 1 Chronicles 29, I'll begin in verse 11. This is what David says: Thine, O Lord, is the greatness. And the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty, for all that is in heaven and in earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all And in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great, and to give strength unto all. Now, therefore, our God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name. But who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee. We are strangers before thee, and sojourners as well as all our fathers That is a glorious text because David was not able to build the house of God. David said, I'm going to give all my energies as an old man to preparing the way for my son to go. And build the house. And this is a wonderful passage because it talks about David's overflowing joy and love and gratitude to God and how he can actually give of his own resources to God. And then he states What am I really doing? I'm giving you what you gave me. None of this stuff came from me. I'm just a manager. I'm just a steward. Tonight I'd like us to look at part two of New Testament Christian Giving What are the practical ways that we are responsible to give? How should we view this issue as the stewards of God's. Resources. How should we look at that? Let's look at a series of questions and let's answer them one at a time, looking at many passages of scripture. The first question is this: How can we be good stewards in the church? The first passage I want you to turn to is Matthew chapter 6. In Matthew chapter 6, verse 33, Jesus tells us what is the highest responsibility of the Christian. In fact, all of our responsibilities, you could say, kind of flow out from this statement that he's going to make in Matthew chapter 6. In Matthew 6, Jesus says this. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. That statement basically means this. God in his kingdom should be your first and highest priority. In your giving and in your stewardship. I want to ask you, not is God one of your priorities, but is he your highest? Priority. There's a really big difference. I think there are lots of Christians today that say, God is important to me. The church is important to me. God's work is important to me. The kingdom of God is important to me. And so is football. And so is my family. And so is that new car that I want to buy. And so is that addition on the back of my house. And so is and they list all these things. Now they wouldn't tell you that. I guarantee you they wouldn't tell you that But if you look at how they spent their money, how they used their time, what they thought about, and what they did, you'd find out something. God's kingdom is one amongst a whole list of things that to them are moderately important. That's not what God wants, folks. God says his kingdom has to be our highest priority. And so when we ask the question, how can we be good stewards in the church? We need to recognize that God has to be our highest priority. There's a second passage I'd like you to turn to, and that is in 2 Corinthians chapter 8. In fact, we're going to refer several times to Paul's writings to the church at Corinth. But in 2 Corinthians chapter 8, we'll start in verse 2. I'll give you just a second to find that while I take a swig of water here. 2 Corinthians chapter 8. This is what Paul writes to the church. In a great trial of affliction. The abundance of their joy and deep poverty abounded to the riches of their liberality. Now, the word liberality means generosity And if you wonder why liberals are well, we could get into liberality and generosity. They like taking other people's money and giving it to other people, right? Income redistribution. But when you see that word liberality, think generosity. Basically saying this, there are people that I'm bringing to your attention that the way that they give, the way that they manage the resources that God has given them. There are people who have gone through intense poverty. They've gone through intense hardship. They've gone through difficulty. They don't have it as good as some of y'all have it. But you know what? Out of joy they are generous. He says, to their power I bear record, beyond their power they were willing of themselves Praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift. The idea is this. You ever had somebody that wanted to give you a gift And you look at them and you're like, I think I'm probably in a better position than you are, and you're begging me to take this, and I I feel guilty doing that. I don't know if you've ever been in a situation like that. But that's basically what Paul's saying. I know your situation. I know your hardship. And you're begging me to take This gift and to distribute it. And I don't think that it's even right for me to do this. I don't feel right about it. That's what Paul's saying. What's the point? It's this. When we give, we got to give from the heart. These people gave from the heart. We come to another passage in 2 Corinthians 9. He says, Every man as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give. Not grudgingly. Not of necessity. In other words, you're not being forced and manipulated and you're giving because somebody is grabbing your hand and say, put that there. That's not what he's saying. Don't do it that way. You're not giving grudgingly or of necessity. God loves a cheerful giver. These passages tell us that God wants us in the New Testament to not give because we're compelled and forced to and manipulated to, but because it's in our heart. And I think this passage where David is talking about worship and praise to God, it's a perfect example. Of here's a man who's overflowing in praise to God, and he says, I want to give. That is why giving is a part of our worship. It's one of the ways we express our gratitude to God. It's one of the ways that we say, we want you to use us, God. We come to a third section, and that's this, 1 Corinthians 16. If you could take your Bibles and turn there. Not only should we put God's kingdom first, and not only should we give from the heart, but we should give on a consistent basis. 1 Corinthians 16, 2 says this. On the first day of the week, let every one of you lay up in store As God has prospered him. That there be no gathering gatherings when I come. You know, the way that we get paid in our country versus the way people get paid in other countries is a little different. We tend to get paid on a monthly basis. Some of you get paid on a bi-weekly basis. In those days, people got paid on a daily basis. Or on a weekly basis. And so basically what Paul's saying is after that week is done, you have been given the resources that you need to live off of. Take a little section out of that, what you've purposed to give to God. In proportion to the income that you've made, set it aside and give it to the church, and they're going to keep it in a storehouse because when it's time for the church to give that gift, they'll have it ready We need to give consistently. Not just every three months or four months, but on a regular basis we give. As God prospers us, we give. We come to a force, and that's found in 2 Corinthians chapter 8. 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 2. We need to give generously We already mentioned this passage, but he says, in great trial of affliction, these people abounded to liberality, generosity. We need to be generous givers. Let me ask you a question before we continue on this. Are you someone that puts the kingdom of God first? Do you give from the heart? Are you someone who gives on a regular basis? Are you a person who's Laying in store as God prospers you. That's New Testament giving, folks. You know what's interesting in these texts, he never mentions a percentage. He doesn't do that. In the New Testament, that that is not that's never given. In other words, you have to decide before God what is responsible and what is right and what he would have you to do. And don't forget the Old Testament background. There's a very high standard. We then go on to this. We need to give in proportion to our ability. Again, in 1 Corinthians 16:2, the phrase, as God has prospered him. Is the phrase that we need to keep before our minds. I want you to turn with me to a very important passage, and that's 1 Timothy chapter 6. 1 Timothy chapter 6. We'll start in verse 17 and we'll read down to verse 19. And I'd like us to kind of pick out some details from this passage. 1 Timothy 6, Paul writes this. Charge them that are rich in this world that they be not high-minded. Basically this, don't be proud. Somebody who's wealthy, and by the way, we as a church are wealthy in the eyes of the rest of the world. Let's just be very honest about that. Now I know that the cost of living here is different than other parts of the world. I totally get that. But the truth is that the majority of the families in here have one. Two, maybe more cars than that. There are some people in this church that may own multiple properties. The truth is that we have uh no fear that we're not going to be able to put food on our tables on a daily basis. We're able to take care of our health care needs because we have good employment many times and we have good health care. The truth is, the way that we live, and we shouldn't feel guilty because God's prospered us in this nation. That's not the point. The point is that God does prosper some people, but there's something we need to keep in our minds If God does that. Notice what he says. Those who are rich in this world should not be proud or high-minded. They should not trust. And uncertain riches. You know, there are times that people will go through a season of life that they're doing very well financially. And all of a sudden they get a terrible health issue. And they end up in a totally different position within a short period of time. Somebody has a great job, they lose that job. They're not able to get back into that field. Someone has a health issue and they end up being disabled and the rest of their life, they're not able to do the things that they were able to do. The truth is that things can happen that completely change a person's life. And he says: if somebody is wealthy, they better not be proud and they better not trust in those uncertain riches. He then goes on to say this, they need to trust in God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. If God has blessed you financially, that's not a bad thing. That's not a sinful thing. He made that decision. He decided to bless you in that way, and you should be thankful for that. But You need to be careful. Because those things can become a hook. Those things are things that we can trust in Those things are things that we can begin to love more than the giver. Those are things that can cause us to become proud, and we forget that it's God who gave us the ability to financially prosper. He says this. They need to be rich in good works, ready to distribute. The word distribute means give. Willing to communicate. The idea is that they see a situation that they're aware of and they say, I want to help that situation. I want to be a blessing to that individual. Over the course of my lifetime, there are many people who have been a tremendous blessing to me at times. Over the course of my lifetime, I'm thankful that God's allowed me to be in positions where I could help other people. The truth is, when God blesses us, we need to be able and ready and willing. To give, and to give generously, and to give from the heart, and not to give begrudgingly. He says they must lay up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come. That they may lay hold on eternal life. There's one word that I think describes this entire section. You know what it is? Stewardship. When God blesses you, you've got a responsibility to manage those things well. You need to decide how to use those resources for the glory of God. You know, I know a lot of people have financial advisors who are supposed to manage their money. You know what happens when that manager manages your money and he ends up tanking your finances? Well, you get rid of them. You get a different guy to manage it. Why do you do that? Because he didn't handle it well. He wasn't a good manager. He wasn't a good steward. You know, God does the same thing with us. And it's not just money, it's all the resources that he gives us. I remember one time talking to a young man who was involved in ministry, and in our conversation, he made a statement to me that I'll never forget. He's like, Joel, this particular thing about you, where did that come from? From God, he goes through this whole list of things and he says, you better use all those things for the glory of God. Really interesting statement. I'll never forget it. It's a person who's really serving the Lord very faithfully and very humbly. You wouldn't even know who the guy is. Very faithful individual. You know what? That's something we all need to hear. Managing resources. We continue on. He says this in 2 Corinthians chapter 8. We need to give sacrificially. Second Corinthians 8 2, it says this, I bear record that beyond their power they were willing. You know, there are a lot of folks that are willing to give their money, but not their time. There are a lot of people that are willing to give their time, but not their money. There are a lot of people that are willing to give their time and their money, but not their kids. The truth is, it's not what you're willing to give, it's what you're not willing to give that really determines How much you're managing the resources God has given you. Are you willing to give sacrificially? We come to another principle that's this. We need to give to meet the needs of those who minister in the Word. Now I know this could sound kind of self-serving for a pastor, and I'm not here to try to bump up salaries or anything like that. I'm simply here to say that biblically a church is responsible. To make sure that those who minister in the Word are financially able to care for their families. First Timothy 5, verse 17 says this: Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor. Especially they who labor in the word and the doctrine. Do not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. The labor is worthy of his reward. Now we talked about this passage today when we were in Sunday school. This is an example of case law, and I said, so Paul's basically comparing me to an ox right here, right? Now, where that comparison came from, I don't know, right? It's because of case law. Basically, in the Old Testament, it's very simple. If something works for you, you take care of it. If your kid goes out and works for you, then make sure you take care of them. If you hire somebody to go work for you, make sure that you take care of them. If somebody does the job for you, if somebody is blessing you and being a benefit to you, you need to make sure that you take care of them. That's basically what he's saying. All the way down to your animals. If your dog's watching your house, make sure you feed him. Or he might stop. He'll go to somebody else's house. The point is, we need to take care of those who minister in the Word. Listen to what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 9. He says, Do you not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the temple? And they which wait at the altars of the temple are partakers of the altar. Even so hath the Lord ordained that they which preach of the gospel should live of the gospel. Galatians 6, let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things. Now I'm not mentioning this because I think we have a problem in our church. In fact, we don't. This is a very faithful, a very diligent church. We do not have a problem in this area. But it's part of our biblical responsibility. And so let's keep that in the forefront of our minds. When we think about our missionaries. Okay? When we think about a church plant and somebody that's doing that work, we need to keep in our minds that those people have dedicated their lives. To doing the Great Commission work. And we need to make sure that those people are properly taken care of. This is one of the reasons why I think it's a complete joke for us to support a missionary at $25 a month. There are churches that do that. It's an insult, it really is. They're not taking seriously a passage like this one. The reality is there's a good reason why we as a church Make sure that our partnerships with our missionaries, with those who are doing the work of the ministry, it's a profound, it's a significant responsibility. We then move on to one more that I want to mention, and that's this. We need to give to meet the needs of the body of Christ first. I can't tell you how many times we get calls in our office on a regular basis. And it's a good thing Angela's in there instead of me, because you know I don't do well with these kinds of calls, okay? But somebody says, you know, I I I need to help with my mortgage payment. My car broke down. I I need I I need to get caught up in this area or that. And they tell the stories. I remember when I was in Ghana. I had to cut the doorbell and put a switch on it because every morning it would be like me, meet, six o'clock, my kids wake up. Walk out to the gate, excuse me, and good morning, sir, have this problem, and they'd go ahead and tell me other story. The truth is that there are constantly people who have needs. Some people, they're not real needs. They just want to get something. Some people they have real needs, significant needs. And if we knew their situation, we'd want to help them. But where do we start? We start with our church. Our responsibility is to take care of those within our congregation. Not that we don't care about those outside. We should. But we cannot neglect those within our midst who have need. Legitimate need. Galatians chapter 6 says this. As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto those who are of the household of faith 1 Timothy 5:8 says this: if any provide for not for his own, specifically for those of his own house, he has denied the faith and is worse than an infidel. Now, you know, there's two sides to this issue. There's the side that we sometimes don't really want to admit we have a need Now there are folks I don't know if anybody's ever been there. I've probably been there before. Or I was just too stubborn to admit, I got a little problem here, and I could really use some encouragement, some help. There are other times that we see need and we kind of we snub it Kind of turn a cold shoulder to it. The fact is, we're a family. This church is a family. It's a body of believers. For some of the folks in this congregation, the closest relationships you have are not with your mom and dad, not with your brother or your sister, the people in this congregation. This is your family. We cannot neglect. The folks in this place. First John 3, 17 says this Whoso hath this world good and seeth his brother in need, and shutteth up his vows of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him? He says you can look at somebody with a real need and just ignore it. There's a problem in your heart. And then I want to mention James 1, pure religion. Before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and the widows and their affliction. There's a huge section in the book of 1 Timothy that is dedicated to how to take care of widows in the church. Imagine that. Widows indeed. The first time we have deacons being established in the church was because of a controversy within the church about widows who were being neglected in the ministry of the church. And it was really coming down to one group in the church was prejudiced towards another group. That's really what's going on. But the fact is this : taking care of the needs of the body is very important. I then come to a second question that's this. Well, what is the New Testament practice? I want to give you two commands and two principles that I think can summarize what we've talked about here. The first command is this the church must financially care for those who are teaching in the word. First Timothy 5, I'm not going to read it again, but we stated it already before. Commandment 2, the church must financially care for the destitute within the church. 1 Timothy 5, 3 to 16. I want to read to you just a little section of that passage. He says, Honor widows that are widows indeed. If any man or woman that believeth hath widows, let them relieve them, and let not the church be charged, that it may relieve them that are widows indeed. He's making two appeals to the church. One appeal is that the church needs to take care of those who are truly destitute. The other appeal is that the church members need to take care of their family members. Very, very important, folks. I want to encourage you that when I when I talk about giving, I'm not just talking about money. You know, one of the things that I have really experienced in the last several months being back here is how many of those in our church? Need the care and the attention of the body because of the physical infirmities they're dealing with. We've got a lot of people in our church. They're not here today Because they can't get here. They're not here today because they have people that they're taking care of on a regular basis. We got folks in our church who are carrying heavy burdens. They are under as much pressure if not more than some of our young mothers. And I know young mothers deal with a lot of pressure You know, little kids running around the house and getting into everything, you clean up the room and you walk out and you come back and it's a mess, all that kind of stuff, right? We have people in our church who are caring for family members and they're dealing with those kinds of pressures. Huge pressures, financial burdens. We need to come alongside those folks. When we talk about giving, it's not just giving a dollar. I mean, you know, figuratively speaking. It's about giving her time. It's about coming alongside these people. It's about praying with them. It's about listening to them. It's about talking to them. It's about encouraging them. It's about be Being a support to those who have tremendous need And so the church has two great commands. One, make sure you take care of those who minister in the word, and two, take care of those who in your church have legitimate need. We then come to a couple of principles that I want to mention them. I think they're very important. Principle one: churches need to give to meet the needs of church planning ministry. When we talk about missions, what we're really saying is this. We are partnered with others who are planting churches in other cultures. That's basically what we're saying. We're partnered with people who are extensions of this ministry. They are planting churches They are doing the work of the ministry. We're partnered with them. We need to be involved in those kinds of things. Now there's no command that I'm aware of in the New Testament that says Thou shalt make sure that you involve yourself in church planning ministries. There isn't one. There is one that says don't muzzle the ox. There is one that says the widow indeed needs to be taken care of. But by principle, by what we see in the New Testament, we realize that churches need to be involved in church planning ministry financially We need to pour our resources into this kind of work. Listen to this passage. Romans 15. I've mentioned it many, many times. I strive to preach the gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation. But now having no more place in these parts, Whensoever I take my journey into Spain, I will come to you, to be brought on my way thitherwith by you. For now I go to Jerusalem to minister unto the saints, as it pleased them in Macedonian and Achai to make certain If the Gentiles have been made partakers of the spiritual things, their duty is also to minister unto them incarnal or physical things. When therefore I perform this and have sealed to them this fruit, I will come by you into Spain. Now we've talked a lot about the Book of Romans because on Mondays we are studying the Book of Romans. And I think understanding the context of that book is really important. But do you realize the book of Romans was an appeal to a church to get behind a church planning endeavor? That's what the text is telling us. Paul wanted to go to Spain. He didn't want to go to Spain because he wanted to hang out on the Caribbean. Or not the Caribbean, the Mediterranean. What is that? The Riviera or something like that? He didn't go to Spain because he wanted to hang out on a beach. He went to Spain because he wanted to start churches where there were no churches And so Paul had been pouring all of his energy into the regions that he was talking about. And as he looked at that work that he'd done, he said, This, you know what? I think I've gotten to a place. where my job is to leave, to let them continue the work, and I go and do something else. So Paul's about to get out of the way. He's about to move on. He's not been to Rome to plant the church, but he has friends at Rome. People who he had personally discipled, people who he loved dearly, people who cared about him, he cared about them And he said, I want to come and I want to meet you at Rome and I want to fellowship with you, and then I want you guys to send me over to Spain so I can do in Spain what I just did in these regions of Achae. But you know what Paul realized? They were a divided church. Jews and Gentiles at each other's throats. They were not getting along. The gospel was not the primary thing in those churches. And so what does he do? He expounds the gospel. From beginning to end, he expounds the gospel because the church needs to get unified on the gospel. All of that, simply put, was to get the church to get behind a church planning effort in another culture. Folks, as a church, there's a reason we're involved in missions. Because we want to do what Paul wanted the church at Rome to do. In Philippians chapter 4. I'm not going to read the section, but he basically says, you church at Philippi ministered to me when I was in other cities. They did not have the capacity to financially support me. You did. And I really appreciate that. Thank you. May God richly bless you for the labor that you've had in the work that I did. That's basically what Paul's saying in Philippians chapter 4. The point is, folks, we need to be involved materially in church planning endeavors. As long as there's a church in this community meeting in this location, we need to be involved in this kind of work. We then come to a second principle, and that's important here as well. Churches should give to encourage suffering believers in other places outside of their local church. You know, a major section in the book of 1 Corinthians, and a major section in the book of 2 Corinthians. Is Paul basically trying to get together a gift to give to the church at Jerusalem? Why did he want to give a gift to the church at Jerusalem? It's because they were a suffering church. They were a persecuted church. There was tremendous antagonism from the Jewish authorities. Those same authorities that crucified Christ. The same authorities that killed Stephen were the same authorities that were troubling the church at Jerusalem. People lost their jobs. People were being thrown in prison. People were being killed by the authorities in that city. They were a suffering, hurting congregation. To add to that, there was a terrible feeling in that region. And that church was going through tremendous hardship. And you know what Paul did? He went around to those churches that he'd worked with. And he said, we need to put together a love gift to send to those people. We're not making them dependent on us. We're saying we love you, church. We're hurting with you, church. It was a statement of solidarity. It was an encouragement. It was saying, God loves you and He wants to use us as a channel to demonstrate that love to you. That's what He's doing. To put it in a common situation, it's kind of like the folks down in Panama City. They just experienced a terrible hurricane. Be like if we as a church said, you know what, there's a church down there that's really hurting. It's not like we're going to be able to rebuild their building or anything like that. But we love them and we want them to know that we care about them and we're praying for them. We get together a gift and say, we want to give this to you so you can distribute that to the people. people in church to help them out with legitimate needs that are going on. It's that kind of a thing. Not that I'm trying to pull something like that together in a sermon. It's the kind of thing we're talking about. Thinking about others in need. It's kind of like what we did in Ghana with the church in Cape Coast. They had an opportunity to get a van. I knew about the situation very well. You know, they needed a van. And we're able to pull together some funds and help them. You know, we're not supporting that church. They're an independent church, but we're able to help them. It's like when your kid graduates from college and you say, I want to give you a gift to show you I love you. You know, your kids, they get married and they got nothing to start out with and say, hey, I want to get you a couch in your living room. That's the kind of stuff that we're talking about. Showing love to those who have need. As a church, we're responsible to meet the needs of those who minister in the Word, the needs of the destitute within our congregation, to be involved in church planting endeavors. And to encourage other believers in other parts of the world or other parts of this nation who are going through tremendous need. I want to come to a final question, and that's this. How can we simply do this in a very practical way? I want to put it in two senses. One is to the church and one is to our members. First to our church members, we got to put God first. We've got to put God first. Two, we have to see giving as a privilege. Three, we need to give joyfully. Four, we need to give sacrificially. And five, we need to give in proportion to how God has blessed us. If we will take those five simple statements, take them seriously, and live in the light of them, you know what? We're going to give of ourselves and manage as stewards the resources God has given us in an effective manner. And in a way that God is pleased with and God will delight and use. And to the church, you know what? Well, we do have a budget, but we need to think of our budget in light of the kinds of things that God values. We need to properly weight the items that we give our resources to. Our budget should reflect the kind of practices we see in the Apostolic Church. The truth is that as a church, I think we for the most part do that. But that needs to always be on our minds. That we put into practice The things that we find in this text. I like to preach expositionally. That's what I'm most comfortable doing. But there are times that we have to take a topic, go into that topic, deal with that topic, expound that topic, and hopefully live in the light of that topic This is what God expects of us in the area of giving. And I hope that we will rise up to what He wants us to do, and we'll do it faithfully. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father, we thank you for all these texts that we've looked at tonight. We've looked at a lot of scripture. I pray that you'd help us as a church to have firm biblical convictions about the things that we pour our energy into. The things that we invest our time in, and the things that we give our money toward. Father, help us to manage our resources with the kingdom of God as its highest priority. Father, help us not to neglect our church body. Help us not to neglect church planting endeavors. Help us not to forget about other churches and other believers who are going through tremendous hardship. Father, help us to be loving others And help us to be managing the resources you've given us. For there may be a day that we're in a position to receive because we cannot give. I pray that you'll bless this congregation, that we will be spirit-filled in the way we approach this issue. And I pray that we'll be channels through which you bless many people and you accomplish your work in the lives of many people. We ask these things in Jesus' name, amen