Well good evening. Good to see each of you. We are having trouble getting our live stream up, so we'll have church the way we used to, I guess. So anyway, it's good to see each of you this evening. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we'll look forward to a great service, um, opportunity to just sing praise to the Lord and share testimonies of his goodness. So let's pray. Father, we thank you for the opportunity to gather again this evening. I pray that you'd help us to get the rest and the refreshment that we need, that we would be spiritually encouraged this evening. As we focus on your word and as we think about the importance of how we view our work, I pray that you would speak to our hearts. Be with those in our congregation who might be discouraged and weary and well-doing, I pray that you would encourage them. Those who maybe are putting too much time and energy into work and it's lost. uh a biblical perspective. I pray that you'd help them to uh get those uh the view of scripture on work uh back into their their heart and life. I pray that as we share praises and testimonies of your faithfulness, that you would encourage us through that. And we'll ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good evening. Are we Oh, we're hot tonight. Okay, good. We'll take our hymnals or look up on the screen. We'll turn to page 96. Page 96, and we'll start off with this evening's song service. With O God, our help in ages past, please stand with me. Oh God, our help in ages past. Our colour is to come, our shelter comes by. The neighbor could have got the name as best I could know you and I will extract. Okay, we're gonna turn back to page ninety-three. Page ninety three, glorious things of thee are spoken, sing out. The name of we are spoken , no God, we 're not remote for the See the spring of the water, bringing brothers. Well if I might stand out , whatever you 're doing, you can bring a driver. Meditation by the clear. Go ahead and have a seat while we turn to page 68. And holy, holy, holy. Oh, wait a yeah, oh, oh, right, all right, yeah. Early in my morning, our son shall rise to me. Holy, holy, holy , mercy, God. All my work shall be. We had a we are listening by the Okay, turn to page one fifty five and And for the last song, before the testimonies and special requests, favorites, wonderful grace of Jesus. Jesus, don't forget and said Jesus breaking out. Where shall it race begin? Taking away the bread. Sending my fear for the wonderfulness of me on the master. We're like the mighty holy king We 're than the madness bring like a badness as a vision race for even me Let me help the magnets fresh. We call my delicious magnify the precious name of Jesus. Wonderful grace that Jesus reached one is. They do the other balls Change of Honor They make me live with me for the wonderful day. And then the mountains like the fountains all sufficiently sword even me And the smoke of like expressions The precious name of Jesus Christ. Wonderful is that you 're. . Jesus reaching the must have work making you God 's new try. Jesus is my death for our day and the wonderful grace of Jesus. The whole matter was raised to me And then the mighty rolling city And the birds like the fine The fishing ways more even me and make it the right impressions and all my sinner Oh magnify the precious name Amen. Good singing. Okay, well on Sunday nights we'd like to give you an opportunity to You know, there's something about sight reading and knowing things by ear. I knew that by sight reading, but man the piano just weren't quite uh I wasn't there with the with the Morgan, so I'm going to mark that one special and and get it. We're gonna get that one. Okay. Is there another song by that title, Gaze on the Cries? Because that certainly sounded familiar when I first saw it. Okay, page thirty-three in the red book. He is me , he is big, he was great as big , and I 'll just pray forever. By the way, we have to work in our king , by the way , we have to work in the game. Wow, I haven't said that in a long time. Took me a minute to catch on to it and I still didn't quite get it. Okay, now page 57 in the red book Okay. Zing to the same. Are there okay, don't forget you can throw out a testimony here if we're while we're singing these. So don't uh don't uh Seigneur d'un sang. Let us worship, worship the Lord, pray Larry and worship the Lord , for the proclaim Jesus Christ. Come, let us worship, worship the Lord, let us worship the Lord, worship the Lord, come, let us worship the Lord. Let up your voice, dig in revives, Come on as worship Worship the Lord, Sama Jehovah, Yaken. Conquering I and Yakry Man. Worship, worship, come with us, worship the Lord, forever, worship. Worship the letters, worship the Lord. Okay, any testimonies? I running off here and didn't want to forget that. Okay, still nothing has been jogged, so okay. We'll go to our last song before the special, page 227. in the red book. Page page 227. Who picked that one out? You did. 227. We can't get out of that Christmas spirit, huh? Amen. Who is he and God is mine? Stand with me. The travelers fall with me and deep distress As they did a reality Lord, the King of Glory, as is the free over, and proud imported all on the last , he from the grave. Come to be an elderly the previous round With the round the world alone with a Lord of wondrous Lord To the Lord that we reply that is being undecorn, that improve him for the ball. Please be seated. Yeah, we can go Sin grips the heart within, A curse on fallen men. This pride and selfishness we hold inside. Though we were all condemned, we had a loving friend who came to save us. He lived a perfect life and gave the blind their sight, fulfilled the things foretold by prophecy. He humbly took his cross and died to save all lost their sins forgiven. The greatest story ever told is of his Jesus, how he came to work to rescue sinful men, sent from the Father up above to sacrifice In love and take our place and give an ending grace. The Son of God who gave his life and took the grace, obeyed his father's will despite the cost, but death could not contain his power, his love, his grace. For he is risen. The greatest story ever told is of this Jesus. How he came to work to rescue sinful men. Sent from the Father up above us to sacrifice in love and take our place. And give an ending grace the greatest story ever told. Is of this Jesus. Okay. That's a beautiful song. If you could take your Bibles, let's turn together to the book of Ecclesiastes. And we are in Ecclesiastes chapter 2 this evening, and we are working our way verse by verse through the book of Ecclesiastes. And so There will be some nights where Hansel will preach, but when I'm preaching, I'll be going through the book of Ecclesiastes. And I hope that you'll find this to be an extremely practical study. Ecclesiastes chapter 2, verses 4 through 6, and then we'll read again verses 10 and 11. And before we read this text of scripture, I want to ask you a question. And the question is: why do you work? Why do you work? Some people will say because my wife makes me work. Some people will say I work because I don't want to starve. Some people will say I work because I want to get out of the house. Some people say I work because that's the only place that I find value. Why do you work? Is the work that you do really of any significant and lasting value? Is it okay for a person to say, you know, I'm just going to take the easy life and I'm just going to kind of kick back? And I'm going to just do as little as possible in life and then just enl enjoy life and not work. Is it wrong for somebody to be constantly at work rather than basically taking care of their family, being a part of their church family, and those kinds of things. How should we look at work? Very very important question for us to think about this evening. And so we're going to answer that as we look at Ecclesiastes chapter 4, and we're going to look at verses 4 through 6 and then 10 through 11 together. Here's the scriptures say, I made me great works. I builded me houses, I planted me vineyards, I made me gardens and orchards. I planted trees in them of all kinds of fruit. I made me pools of water to water therewith the wood that bringeth forth fruit trees. So I was great and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem. Also my wisdom remained with me, and whatsoever mine hand desired I kept not from them. I withheld not my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced in all my labor. And this was my portion of all my labor. Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, on the labor that I had labored to do, and behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit. And there was no prophet under the sun. It's kind of interesting. This man, Solomon, lived an extremely interesting life. In fact, whenever we come to the end of a person's life, there are times that we will sit down and we'll think about what are the things that we have been able to accomplish with our lives. For instance, you think about when someone writes an obituary. When they write an obituary, they talk about a person's life and they put on paper a lot of the different things that a person has been involved in. Think about when somebody's applying for a job. They try to put together a resume and they put all of their experience and the things that they've been involved in over the course of their life. Well there is no obituary that could have read like the obituary of Solomon. There is no person who could have ever put together that CV for a job that was going to have all of the different things in it that Solomon could put in his resume The fact is that Solomon was an extremely wealthy man. He was an extremely gifted man. He was extremely intelligent. He was very industrious. He was very powerful. He worked really, really hard. Solomon was a person that had an incredible resume. But what's amazing about Solomon's life is when he came to the very end of his life. And he looked back over all of the things that he'd experienced, all of his pursuits, all the things that he lived for. What's amazing Is that in these verses, Solomon tells us, here are all these amazing things that I built, but at the end of it all, it was very empty. It was a vexation of heart. Why don't you think about a person like a Bill Gates? Bill Gates is a multi- multi-multi-billionaire. Microsoft has pretty much been like the dominant well between Microsoft and Apple. I know there's a lot of dis discussion about those kinds of things. But the reality is that the man didn't even complete college, as far as I know. And he built this incredible corporation. He's a person that's very active in the world today. He's a person that owns more farmland, believe it or not, than anybody else in the United States of America. What he's going to do with that, I have no idea. But here's the bottom line. There's going to be a day when Bill Gates passes into eternity, and people are going to read his obituary. And the kinds of things that they're going to read about that that man did, what he accomplished, what he built, all the money that he made, at the end of it all, the question is this. Worth all this money today, but what will be it worth in eternity? That's a big question Solomon basically is talking about this very concept of how you can live your life and you can build all kinds of things. But at the end of it all, it is possible that all of those labors are empty and they leave you with a vexed heart. The main point of the section that we've been looking at in Ecclesiastes chapter 2 is warning us against the emptiness of common pursuits. Last week we talked about the fact that many people live for pleasure, for enjoyment. And at the end of it all, they find out that a life that's lived for pleasure is a life that's empty. Well this evening we're talking about a life that is lived for what you can build. And we find that just like a life that is lived for pleasure is empty, a life that is lived for what you can build and what you can hold in your hands And what you can step back and examine is also a life that has the potential to be very, very empty In fact, the reason that we have this warning in the scripture is because God wants us to live lives that are meaningful. God wants us to have a proper view of work. God wants us to leave a legacy that has value, that's not empty. And so the reality is every single one of us needs to have a biblically shaped view of this thing called work. It is possible for us to be industrious and at the end of it all have absolutely nothing of real lasting value. It's also possible for us to be industrious, and at the end of our lives, the reality is we invested our labors in things that mattered. Things that had value and things that to God are actually important and of real value. And so I want us to talk about this issue of work tonight. The following section really breaks down these common pitfalls. And this is going to tell us about the issue of work. The first truth we're going to find in the text in front of us is that Solomon was an industrious man, yet he found his work to be empty. In fact, when we read the book of Proverbs, there is so much very, very important instruction about wisdom and work. And we're told not to be lazy. We're told to be industrious. We're told that a person that works hard is a person that prospers. In fact, the Bible encourages us to be hard-working people. But the Bible encourages us to be hardworking people with a perspective that's shaped by eternity. Notice what he says in verse 4. He says, I made me great works, then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on the labor that I had labored to do, and behold, all was vanity. and vexation of spirit, and there was no prophet under the sun. Now I want us to recognize the kind of works that Solomon talks about in these verses. There were actually five categories of work that he did. And by the way, it's kind of interesting the kinds of things that he was talking about here. He talks about architecture. He built houses. Now when he says he built a house, he's not talking about the kind of house you and I live in. He's talking about palaces. He's talking about incredible places. Places that were built entirely by hand. The stonework was done by physical labor. The wood was brought in all of the way from Lebanon in the north of Israel. And huge trees were brought down to that city of Jerusalem. And they built these massive homes that Solomon lived in, and that the people that worked under him lived in. When we talk about him being a man of building, building architecture houses, we're talking about a person who had intelligence He had management skills. He took the very best of the best. It took years, in fact, in some cases, decades for some of these kinds of places to be built. One of the houses that was built by Solomon was the very temple in Jerusalem. And we see in the scriptures how much time and energy and detail went into the temple architecture. He talks about agriculture. He talks about how he built vineyards. And by the way, you don't build vineyards by just planting something in the ground. The reality is there's a lot of planning that goes into that. This is a very arid climate. He had to get water to those plants that were going to produce. He had to learn the skills and the science of being a man who managed vineyards. And so you're talking about an endeavor that would have taken decades, decades of labor, lots and lots of industry involved. He talks about gardens, and when he talks about gardens, he has the idea of things that were a pleasing to the eyes, aesthetic beauty, things that were absolutely beautiful to behold. Solomon built those things. When he talks about orchards, he's talking about industry. The fact is he planted places that were going to produce huge amounts of food and people are going to benefit from that and enjoy all of that fruit. He talks about technology. It's kind of interesting. He says, I made me pools of water to water therewith the wood that bringeth forth trees. What he's basically saying is, I built massive aqueducts that were going to bring water from places that had water to places that were arid but could actually be farmed. And so I designed those things, I managed those projects, I built those, I had the money to go into it. And the reality is, if we were to look at this man's life, you go, he built a lot of amazing stuff. In fact, he says there was nobody living in my time that had the kind of work done that I had. The Queen of Sheba came all of the way from Africa. Because she heard about the greatness of this man, and she wanted to see with her eyes the kinds of things that he built and the kinds of things that he enjoyed, and she wanted to hear about his knowledge and his wisdom. Solomon was an impressive, industrious man. But here is the question. With all that work done What was his final analysis of the value of the things that he did? Here's the answer. Then I looked on all the works of my hands, what they had wrought, and on the labor that I had labored to do. And behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no prophet under the sun. It's like a man who is a massive multi-multi-billionaire, and he looks at this massive empire that he's built over the course of his life. And he looks at all of the time and he thinks about all of the energy and all of the hours that went into that and all of the planning and all of the meetings and all of the industry that was involved in what he built over the course of his life and he looks back and he says, I have no joy in it. That's what Solomon said. In fact, that is a stunning analysis, isn't it? That's kind of terrifying if you think about it. That you could do all of that and at the end of your life say it was kind of empty. There was like no value there. So the question is this: why was Solomon so empty in his analysis of the work that he did? Why did Solomon look at all of his work and say, you know what, there was no real value there? This vexes my heart. The answer is that Solomon's emptiness was ultimately caused By the consequences of living in a fallen world. I want to talk to you for a few moments this evening about the importance of work and how work fits into God's plan for people. The first thing I want us to see is that work was a part of God's original plan for mankind. Go with me to Genesis chapter 1, and I want you to read what the Bible says about that first week where God created the world. In Genesis 1:26, listen carefully to the details and don't miss what he's saying here. It says, And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the fowls of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female, created he them And God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over it. Now you might be sitting here and you say, well, Pastor, what does that set in the scriptures have to do with work? Well, actually, it has a lot to do with work. In fact, this entire section talks about the most fundamentally important thing that we were created to do, and that was to work and care for God's creation. God wanted us to enjoy his creation under his authority, relating properly to him, but actually managing, caring for, taking care of this world that he made. It's an amazing thing to consider. In fact, there are four principles of work that we find in this text. And I want to remind you, this is before the fall. So when we talk about work, it's not like when God created Adam and Eve and put them in the garden, they just they just lived a life of leisure. They didn't do anything but sit around in the garden and enjoy eating fruit. And then after the fall, God says, All right, it's time to start working That's not the way it worked, folks. He created them to work in the garden, and they understood work before the fall and the joy of working God's creation before the fall. And then after the fall, they experience the hardships of work after the fall. Notice a couple of details. First of all God created mankind with intelligence and moral awareness. When he says, let us make man in our image, the idea is that God created us in a way that reflects his nature. In other words, there are certain things about God's nature that are reflected in people that are not reflected in any other portion of the creation. The intelligence of mankind, the moral awareness of mankind, the ability to manage and the the ability to harness the resources at our disposal and actually use them for industrious, good purposes. Those are things that God gave us that reflect His very nature. You can look at the creation and you'll see other. Parts of the creation, plants, animals, but they don't have the same nature as humans. So God created us with intelligence and with moral awareness. And the question is why? Because he wanted to use our brains. He wanted us to actually think. And he wanted us to actually plan. And he wanted us to actually manage. He wanted us to actually use the capacities that he gave us. When God created us with a moral awareness, he wanted us to use those capacities in a good way consistent with his character. We also see that God made mankind to steward his creation. He says, let them have dominion. The idea is let them rule. The concept of authority is not an evil concept. A lot of people abuse authority. A lot of people misuse their authority. A lot of people don't actually use their authority the way they're supposed to. But the fact is that God created order in his universe. He put us in a position to take care of what he made. We're supposed to steward that. A third principle is that God made mankind to reproduce and to use the creation for good purposes. He says, be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. In other words, God created us to have families. God created us to have offspring. God created us to raise up our children in the nurture and in the admonition of the Lord so that we would teach them how to take care of what God made. So that we would teach our kids how to work and how to labor and how to relate properly to God. That's a part of our responsibility as people. And fourthly, God made mankind to harness the laws that He created for good purposes. And we see this in the phrase, subdue it. The ideas we were made to work, to build, to learn, to create, to manage the creation. We were made to enjoy the beauty and the order of creation. God wants us to look at what He's made and not only use it for good, but to actually delight in it and actually enjoy it. Do you enjoy studying science? Absolutely enjoy studying science. I love gardening. One of the reasons I love it is because you learn so much about the laws that God created and how they actually work and how things actually Produce and grow and thrive. It's a fascinating thing to consider. Well, God made us to actually enjoy those things. And God wants us to actually delight in those pursuits that He created. People that have a high view of God, that understand the purpose for which God made them, are people that know how to work There are people that know how to manage. There are people who are industrious. There are people that actually enjoy what God made because they understand this is an important part of why God made us. But then we see a second aspect here. Not only is work a good thing, but work was affected by the fall. In other words, not that God said you don't have to work anymore, but the way we work has changed. Because there are things that used to be simple and easy. Now they're much more difficult. I want you to notice what the Bible says in Genesis 3, after the fall, the consequences, the results of mankind's sin against God. In Genesis 3:16, it says, Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception. In sorrow shalt thou bring forth children, and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee. And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the fruit which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it, cursed is the ground for thy sake. And sorrow thou shalt eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee. And thou shalt eat the herb of the field, and in the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread till thou return unto the ground. For out of it wast thou taken, for dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return. Now I want you to understand that the good things that God created The labors, the work that we are to do, all of a sudden we continue to need to have the responsibility to do those things. But now the labor is different. Notice how he talks about it. Things that were meant to be a blessing become painful and difficult and full of trouble. I want you to think how much of a blessing it is when God gives a family a child. Every child is an incredible blessing. It's really true. Chad says amen. You better believe that, Chad. Every child is a blessing. It's a gift from God. God gives us children because he wants us to raise those children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. In fact, in the book of Malachi it says, why did God give life? He gave it so that he could raise up a godly seed. The fact is that children are a blessing. And when you hold a baby in your hands, You see that that's an incredible miracle. That life is a gift from God. And there's incredible joy associated with holding a child in your hands. But on the same side, there is associated with that joy tremendous pain and suffering and grief. Our family knows what it's like to hold a child in our hands, who's alive and healthy, and one who's not. And some of you in this room know what that's like too. There are people that know what it's like to not be able to have children, and it's a desire that they've had their entire life. People know what it's like to see a child who dies when they're very young. People know what it's like to experience the hardship of a child who you've invested in so much and they make terrible, foolish decisions as they get older. The reality is something that is meant to be a blessing, and indeed it is a blessing, because we live in a fallen world, now is associated with pain and suffering and difficulty. And so when he says in sorrow, you will bring children forth into the world, the reality is that is true. He's not just talking about the physical pain of carrying a child for nine months and bearing that child, but he's talking about raising that child. He's talking about all the pains that may be associated with late nights and early mornings and bad decisions and lessons learned. In fact, raising children is an incredible blessing, but it's hard. He talks about providing for the family. He says to Adam, he says, Curse is the ground for thy sake, and sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns and thistles shall it bring forth to thee, and thou shalt eat the herbs of the field, and the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread till thou return unto the ground, for out of it thou wast taken, and to the dust thou art, and to the dust thou shalt return The fact is when you go and you actually work the soil and you you make a garden and you see that begin to produce, you see the incredible order of God's creation. You see Those amazing things that we learn about how things grow. And you also learn about things like mildew on your on your plants. And you learn about little little worms getting in your cabbage and in your broccoli. And you learn about things that attack the roots and all of a sudden you realize this gardening thing is really tough. I had these beautiful plants and the deer came and ate them. How in the world? I put all this labor and this time and this energy and there's not enough light here and these plants are not even producing fruit. And all of a sudden you begin to realize something. If I'm going to survive based on what I produce, I'm in trouble. There's a lot of people in this world that they're really thankful for grocery stores because they'd all starve if we didn't have them. The reality is that working and taking care of our family is now much more difficult than it would have been. And so a husband bears this incredible load of responsibility. And he has to work by the sweat of his brow. And there are some times that he looks at his family and he says, I don't know if I'm supporting you enough. I don't know if the family has what they need. And a husband carries that load. And the reality is that Adam is now going to experience difficulty as he takes care of his family. You won't be content with your God-given roles. It's so interesting. In verse 16, he says to the woman, Thy desire shall be to thy husband. The idea is that a wife is going to look at her husband and she's not going to appreciate his role in the family and her role in the family. And she's going to buck against his leadership. And she's going to want to seize his responsibility and usurp her responsibility. And so the idea is that you won't be content. As a wife to function as a wife and as a mom. And you won't be content with the way that your husband may lead his home as imperfectly as we do. When he talks about the husband, he says that he will rule over thee, and the idea is that he's going to be a poor manager and a poor leader. I'm sure that there's no wife in here that's looked at her husband and seen him make a horrible decision and gone, oh man, I should have. I saw that coming. I'm sure nobody's like that. But the reality is that every husband has made foolish decisions, hasn't handled his leadership the way that he's supposed to. at times. And the reality is because we live in a fallen world, the work that we do is now complicated by being a being in a fallen world. But then in verse 19, the thing that probably should really resonate the most in a lot of what Solomon is saying is you'll leave behind everything you labored for. And verse 19 he says, In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread till thou return unto the ground. For out of it wast thou taken, for dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return. You think about that for a minute. You live your whole life, you spend all your time and your energy, and at the end of it all, what happens? You die, your body decays, and essentially you're just dirt in the cemetery. Yo, what kind of an existence is that? Well, if God's not a part of it, that's all there is. And that's pretty empty, isn't it? That's pretty vexing, isn't it? But I have good news. The good news is there's a lot more to it than that. The fact is it's true that we're gonna die one day and it's true that we're gonna leave behind all of the things that we have built and all of the labors that we have endeavored with. But the fact is, because there's a gospel and because there's a God in heaven and because there's eternity, there actually can be a restored sense of value in the work that we do. In fact, in 1 Corinthians 15, I want you to listen carefully to what Paul says in light of the resurrection. He says, in a moment. In the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible has put on incorruption, and when this mortal shall have put on immortality, Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy stink? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Now I want you to process kind of the main point of what Paul is saying. Paul is basically saying because there's a gospel Because Jesus died for your sins. Because he rose from the dead. Because there really is an eternity awaiting God's children. Because that is reality. When you die, you are going to conquer death by the resurrection. And it's not by your power, it's by the power of Christ's resurrection. And the reality is because of the gospel, God conquers death. We actually will experience victory when we die. Not by our power, but by the power of Christ. So as your body is decomposing in the ground. And as all your labors have been left behind for others to think about, the fact is you will be more alive in Christ than you've ever been before. You're going to be in his presence forever. You're going to receive a real glorified body that is free from sickness and pain and death and sorrow. And so Paul reminds us of this reality. The gospel gives us a renewed sense of goodness and value to our daily labor. And I want you to see the application that he gives in verse 51, because this is really the point, the practical point of what he's just said He says, therefore, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the what? The work of the Lord. For as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. What you think about this? God created us to work. The fall comp complicates the work and frustrates the work. And because we're going to die, if all there is is this life, then our work is worthless. But he says there is more. There is an eternity. There is a gospel. And because there is a gospel, there's a reason to work Because the work that we do can have value, eternal value. And so he says, be always abounding in the work of the Lord, because your labor is not in vain in the Lord I want you to realize that without God and the gospel and eternity, our labor is as empty as what Solomon expresses. The very best you can do leaves you with nothing in the end. But because there is a gospel and because there is eternity, our work has value. Without the gospel, it's worthless, it's frustrating. It's something that just is motivated by greed or by duty, maybe a sense of pride. But because there's a gospel, there is a purpose. The reality of God and the gospel in eternity is something that gives us hope. It's something that presses our souls. And so I want to read you just a couple of scriptures that kind of emphasize this so you'll get the sense of what Paul is saying. In Luke chapter 18, he says, There is no man that hath left house or parents or brethren or wife or children for the kingdom of God's sake, who shall not receive manifold more in this present time and in the world to come. Eternal life. Colossians 3:23, whatsoever you do, do it hardly out to the Lord, and not unto men, knowing that ye shall receive of the Lord the reward of the inheritance, for ye serve the Lord Christ. Ephesians 6 5, servants obey servants be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh. Not with eye service as men pleasers, but as the servants of Christ. Doing the will of God from the heart, with good will, doing service as to the Lord, and not to the men, not to men, knowing that whatsoever good things any man doeth, he shall receive of the Lord 2 Corinthians 5 says, We're confident that it is better to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Wherefore we labor that whether present or absent, We may be accepted of him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or whether it be bad. I want you to realize from this section of Scripture that if you will do your work for the glory of God, you will find there's value in it. And that's any work. You might say, well, I'm not a pastor. I don't preach. I don't teach. So there must not be any eternal value in what I do. Hey, if you're a dad, there's eternal value in being a dad. If you're a mom, there's eternal value in being a mom. If you're a Sunday school teacher, there's eternal value in being a Sunday school teacher. If you work in just a simple task, whether you're a plumber, whether you're an electrician, whether you're a plumber, whatever you do, if it's an honorable work and it's Feeding your family and doing your responsibility as a husband, as a wife, as a dad, as a mom, you are doing it for the glory of God. I want you to realize that our work is important. Our work has value. And because there's a gospel And because there's eternity and because there's a judgment seat of Christ, we should work hard for the glory of God. I want to encourage you, delight in what God has given you to take care of your duties. Such an important thing for us to do. There's a difference between living for what we can build and delighting in the good gifts of God. And I think Solomon's trying to express that here. You live for your work, you're going to find it empty. You do your work for God's glory, you'll find there's value in it. Our work actually has value when it's done for God's glory. This creation has a beauty that is meant to point us to Christ. It's meant to point us to the wonderful goodness of our Creator. And so I want to challenge you this evening. Let's work. Let's create. Let's manage. Let's enjoy what God has made in light of eternity. Let's have hearts that are motivated to passionately worship our Creator. I hope that you're not discouraged in your work. I hope that you realize it's something God has given you so that you can honor Him. So I want to encourage you to be faithful in it. Let's be all together for prayer and ask God to help us to really live in the light of the truths of this text of Scripture. Father, thank you for your many good gifts. Thank you for our families. Thank you for our work. Thank you for this land that we live in. Father, thank you for giving us opportunities. I pray that you'd help us to be diligent people. People who have a sense of how important it is to do our labors unto you. Father, help us not to work because of greed. Or to work because of pride, or to work simply out of duty, but help us to work as an expression of worshiping our Creator Who created us to do honorable work for his glory? I pray that you'd help us to find delight in the work that you've called us to do. Help us to delight in it because it's from your hand. I pray that you would bless and prosper your people this day. Father, help us not to be a Solomon who put all of his time and energy into things that at the end of his life vexed his soul and he saw as empty. But Father, help us to invest our lives in things that really matter forever. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, I would like to ask you to turn your handbooks to hymn 512. Redeemed, how I love to proclaim it. Redeemed how I love to proclaim it. And we're going to sing the first and the last verses. And the reality is it's because we're redeemed that our work has value. And so let's sing about it. Let's stand together. We're going to sing him 512 verses 1 and 4 together. See how I love to proclaim it, preaching by the blood of the Lamb , preaching to its infinite mercy. It's not wherever I am Beatin, redeem , beating by the blood of the land , beat me. His valid wherever I am at last I knew I should see in his beauty The king knows why he might be fine at my And give me some remote night Teaching with me, teaching for the word , maybe. And aren't you thankful that because of what Christ has done for us, we are forgiven and redeemed. That's a wonderful blessing. All right, well we're going to be having a business meeting this evening, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and close us in prayer and uh just give us a couple of minutes to kind of get settled. Kids that are in the nursery, make sure that you get around folks that are visiting, just encourage them. And then we'll we'll get started. It'll be a real short meeting. Basically, we're just passing out our financials from 2020 and then we are updating our membership role of those who've moved out of the area. So it'll be a pretty short and simple meeting, but Let's bow together for prayer, and then we will uh be dismissed and we'll get get back together for our meeting in a few minutes. Father, thank you for the opportunity to be together. Thank you for the gospel that gives us a reason to celebrate, a reason to glory. And we thank you for the forgiveness that we have through what Christ did for us. We thank you for how we have value in what we do because there is an eternity. Help us to be diligent this week. I know it's so easy to be discouraged and frustrated in the work that we do. Help us have a perspective that recognizes the value of what we're doing Encourage each person in their labors. I pray that you'll bless us as we head our separate ways. Give us a good week. Pray that you protect us, protect those around us. And I pray that we would be able to be back in the middle of the week to gather together for prayer and fellowship and study in your word. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.