Take your Bibles and turn to the eighth Psalm. The eighth Psalm. And I would like to say it's good to be back. We missed you guys. Hope you missed us. And uh we really did have a good time of vacation. We also uh got to spend some time with several members of our church who are in school. We got to uh visit with Nathan Peterson, we got to visit with his sister Morgan. We got to see uh Donna Chance. She's not in school. Just uh just saying. But we got to see them. We were able to uh spend a lot of time with family and friends and it was Really good to be able to do that. A lot of miles on the road, over 3,000 spent on the road, but we're thankful to be back. and uh excited about uh what the Lord will do today through his word. Eighth Psalm, I'm gonna go ahead and begin uh to read the psalm and then we will bow for a moment of prayer and then we will dig into this very important psalm, what I believe is one of the most wonderful Majestic Psalms in all of the Bible. Psalm 8, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. Who hath set thy glory above the heavens? Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest set the enemy and the avenger. When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained, what is man that thou art mindful of him, and the son of man that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him a little lowered than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor. Thou maidest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field, the fowls of the air, the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the sea. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent. Is thy name and all the earth. Let's bow together for a moment of prayer. Our Father, we thank you so much for this text before us. A wonderful hymn of praise and honor, a wonderful hymn that reminds us of the excellence of your name the glory and the power and the majesty that are associated with the name of our great God. Father, I pray that this morning we would see you magnified and exalted and that we would see our proper response and our proper place in your creation. I pray that as we see you high and lifted up and we see the incredible dignity and the value that you have placed on mankind. that we would be so grateful and so humbled and so much more passionate about the service that you have for us in your wonderful plan. for our lives. We ask that you'll bless this time, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. When we come to the eighth Psalm, one of the things that I think we should do is just pause and ask, what's the point of the psalm? This psalm is really all about directing our attention to a God-centered way of thinking. And one of the things that I that I've realized as I reflected on this psalm is how much The reason that we don't see the majesty and glory of God isn't because he's not there, and it's not because he hasn't left this incredible example of who he is, but it's because we don't pause and think about it. It's because we don't stop to see it. If you want to put it this way, it's like some people that are sitting on a beautiful beach at sunset. And as the sun is setting, and as it gets down to the horizon, and the sky lights up with these beautiful pictures, This beautiful picture of God's majesty, rather than them enjoying that beautiful sunset, they're texting their friends on their phone. And when they look up, it's all done. You know what I'm talking about? That's the way we live our lives many times. God has created this wonderful universe He's left his fingerprint there for us to examine, for us to see it, and for us to glory in him, and we are stuck looking down rather than looking up. And really what this Psalm does is it tells us we need to look up and we need to pause and we need to reflect. And when we do, this is what we're going to see. That we need to have our attention focused where God, not we, are the center of everything. In other words, he is the center of his creation, not me. The reason that we need to do that is because God expects to be the center of everything in our lives. And when our lives are properly ordered, we're in a position to experience God's greatest blessings. My question today though is this, how can we do that? How can we put God at the center of all of our lives? In other words, he belongs there. We know that, but how can we really keep him there in our thinking and in our minds? Well, let's look at the details of this psalm. First of all, several statements of truth that are expressed in this psalm. And then from these statements of facts, we're going to move to some practical implications to those truths. The first truth that we find in this text is this God, the God-centered worldview. begins and ends with God's majesty. Look down in verses 1 to 2, and then we're going to skip to verse number 9. It says this, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. Who has set thy glory above the heavens? Out of the mouths of babes and suckless hast thou ordained strength, because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger. We then move to the end of the Psalm, and here's what it says: O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! In other words, when we open the psalm, the very first thing that the psalmist desires to express is the greatness and the majesty of God. And the very last thing that the psalmist wants to express is the greatness and the majesty of God In other words, what David is writing, what he's communicating in this psalm, is that our lives should be entirely focused on our Creator God. Everything begins with him And it ends with him. I want you to notice the detail of the words that we found in this text, because each word and each phrase is communicating something That is very important and is very compelling to press us to say our lives should be focused entirely on God The first statement is this. He refers to him as the Lord. And if you'll notice, the Lord is capital L-O-R-D. All caps. In other words, that's communicating that when David is expressing his praise to God, he's referring to him in his covenant name of Jehovah or Yahweh. In other words, he's addressing God as the one who is self-existent, the one who is eternal. The one who doesn't need anyone or anything. The one who is high and lifted up. The one who exceeds time and space. He also is referring to him as the one who cares for his people. In fact, when we talk about a covenant, a covenant was a legally binding agreement between two individuals. One was in a position of strength, and the other was in a possession of dependence. And the one who was in a position of strength would establish a covenant with the one who is in a position of weakness and dependence. For the protection and the well-being and the good of the one in that position. In other words, when God established his covenant with Israel, And his covenant with his people, and referred to himself as the I am, he was saying this, we enter into an agreement where I take care of you. I protect you. And what was the basis of God's decision to care for his people? Was it their goodness and was it their valor? Was it their strength? Was it no? It was his love. It was his goodness. It was his tender compassion. In fact, as we read the book of Genesis, I was having a conversation with a friend. Or maybe I say a relative. We are friends too. We're having a conversation. They said, this year I'm going to read through the Bible cover to cover. I've never done that in my entire life. And they said, boy, there's some crazy stories in the Old Testament. Crazy stories. When I read some of these stories, I go, why in the world did God record that? And I said, because that's what happened And I said, you know what, that was the best God had to work with. The reality is what is recorded in the scriptures are the lives of real people who had real problems. And there's no reason for God to have worked in them except for one thing, his grace, his goodness and his love. We talk about Abraham. Abraham was a great man on his good days. But think about when he told his wife, why don't you lie so I don't get killed? Jacob was a great man, wasn't he, except when he sent his wives and children across the river in an order based on his love for them, so that if for some reason his brother wanted to kill his family He'd get to him last. Not a real nice guy, huh? The truth is even Isaac followed in his father's footsteps when he told his wife to lie for him. And the reality is when we read the Old Testament, we see the examples of people whose lives are very messy and very troubled and very complex. Probably more complex than most of your lives are. I'd be glad for that. But you know God used them. God worked in their lives. He entered into covenant with them out of grace and compassion. And so when the psalmist says, Oh Lord, he's referring to God by his covenant name. He then refers to him as our Lord. And you'll notice that that word is capital L with small O-R-D. In other words, he's using a different term as he describes God. And he's emphasizing the fact that God is his master. He's not just emphasizing that he's in this covenant relationship with God by God's design, not by Abraham or not by David's design, but he recognizes that God is his master. God is his Lord. He has the right to command David, and David has the responsibility to obey and to submit to God's wills and wishes and desires. In other words, he recognizes that God has absolute authority over him. He has the absolute right to command. He then makes this statement, how excellent is thy name in all of the earth. And then he repeats this again later on in the Psalm. He says, How excellent is thy name in all of the earth. You know what's interesting? In our culture, when we have a child that's born, we sit down and we talk with our spouse about what we want to name the child. In many circumstances, the name that is given to a child has nothing to do with its character. Has nothing to do with its dispositions. We name children when they're born. But it's not like that in all other cultures. It wasn't like that in the culture that we worked in when we were in Africa. In fact, the name was given after a period of time. And in some cultures, the name was given based on the personality and the disposition and the character of the person that was being named. Yes, even as a child that was already beginning to be seen. Why was Nabal called Nabal? It's because people realize that's what he was. He was a foolish chairlish man. And so he was named Nabal. When the Bible talks about God's name, it's talking about his reputation It's talking about the fact when God's covenant name is mentioned, the nations stop and they listen and they say, we know about Israel's gods. His name is excellent. It is marvelous. It is majestic. We know who he is. And David expresses that in the Psalm of Worship to God. He then says this, you have set thy glory above the heavens. He says, There's nothing higher, there's nothing greater, there's nothing more glorious in all creation than the one who made it. When you examine the beauty of this creation, it's simply the fingerprints of the Creator. And he expresses that. But then he comes to a final statement that's very interesting. He says, it's out of the mouths of babes and sucklings that thou hast ordained strength. You know, it's interesting, you read that and you go, why in the world does David say that? And this is basically what he's communicating. God is so powerful, he's so great. His majesty so exceeds anything in the creation. That he could take the most vulnerable, the most dependent ones in all of creation, a little baby that's completely dependent on its mother. And he says, out of that little child, so vulnerable, so weak, he can demonstrate his power. And he can demonstrate his glory and his strength. In other words, David begins and ends with this simple thought, God must be the center of all. He then comes to a second truth that the God-centered worldview is shaped by reflecting on inescapable facts about God. Look down in verse number three, he says, This when I consider thy heavens , The work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained, there's a response. And we'll pause there for a moment before we see the response. Notice that phrase when I consider. There's a reason that a lot of times we fail to think of the greatness of God. It's because we don't pause to drink in what is around us. It's really true. You know, one of the great tragedies of life is that there are people that are blessed beyond imagination They're blessed in their families. They're blessed in their jobs. They're blessed in their positions in society. They're blessed in the opportunities that they've received. They're blessed in So many ways And they don't enjoy it. You say, why is that? How could somebody that has so much be so unthankful? So unhappy, so frustrated. The blessings that are all about them, they don't appreciate it. Why is that? It's because they don't stop and reflect on the significance of those blessings. They look at their children, they look at their spouse, they look at their job, they look at all these things around them, and rather than saying, God, thank you, they go, look at that over there. And this is what David's saying. When I consider, there's a response. I ask the question: when you don't consider, what's the response? David worshiped because he stopped and reflected on what was around him. The problem we're seeing is not a lack of evidence, and we talked about that this morning. It's not that God hasn't left his fingerprint. of his greatness and his wisdom and his majesty. The problem is a lack of reflection and a willingness to respond correctly to what we're looking at. In other words, as we see it, we don't interpret it as we ought. We have a bias against it. And we will talk about that in our Sunday school class as a just something to keep in mind. He says, I consider. He says, I consider the work of your hands. He worships God for his wisdom, his skill, his power, his beauty. That's demonstrated in what he does. We know a lot about God's character by the reflection of what he is given. And then he uses this phrase, the work of your fingers, the moon, the stars. Which you've ordained. That word ordain has the idea of you've appointed them to a place. In fact, it was interesting this morning in Sunday school. There was a question. Are those stars just randomly thrown out there or is there order? Well the text tells us. God 's finger placed them exactly where he wanted them. He ordained them, he appointed them to a location for a purpose. It was so interesting in a church we have ordinations many times. So we have an individual who says, I believe God's put his hand on me to be a pastor. And so they go through this process, questioning, examination, and those things. After going through that process, what do we do? We formally appoint them to office, ordination. We say, we recognize it. We appoint you. In fact, I'm going to get to do that when we go uh when I'm going to Ghana here in just a few weeks. The opportunity to take place in an ordination, an official appointment. When we look at the stars in heaven, and we see the moon and the sun and how it moves and how it does what it does, it's all by God's design. So interesting. I love the fish. One of the things I do when I love to fish is I look at the tides. Why do I look at the tides? Because the fish bite based on the tides. You go during the right tide, you're wasting your time. At the wrong tide, you're just wasting your time. And what is it that causes that tide? God put the moon where he did for reason. In other words, the oceans have currents and movements and all those things because of the celestial bodies God put where He put them. And so what is the psalmist saying? He 's saying, I cannot escape these facts. They declare your glory They talk about your greatness. They talk about your wisdom. I cannot hide from them. I can stick my head in the sand and ignore them. But they're there as soon as I lift my head. When I consider, this is what I see. We come to a third truth that he expresses in the Psalm, and that's this. The God-centered worldview is humbled by our own insignificance. You know, many times in life when we re-experience blessings, we experience promotion, we begin to excel in our field, you know what we begin to do? We begin to think too highly of ourselves. This is one of the great problems that plagues us. One of the reasons that prosperity causes us to look at ourselves is because we fail to remember who allowed us to have that. And so in verse number four, he says, When I consider, I ask the question, what is man? In other words, David is sitting there in the wilderness and he's looking at the sunset and he asks the question: What am I? I am insignificant, I am small. God, do you even care about me? I I look at myself and I say, what am I? What is man that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man that thou visitest him. He says, what is man indicating that he says, I'm overwhelmed by the fact that I'm insignificant. In fact, we see this expressed all over the scriptures. Listen to what it says in Ecclesiastes 1, verses 2, and following. He says, Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. What profit hath a man in all the labor which he hath taken under the sun? One generation passeth away, another generation cometh, but the earth abideth forever Solomon, as he writes this, he says, you know, I sit here and I think about the fact that what I do eventually will be gone. That the period of time that I live on this earth is small and insignificant in light of the yons of history In light of the even the planet that I stand on today. He says, I feel so insignificant. My life seems to have no value and no worth. In Ecclesiastes twelve, verses one to three, he says this Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil day cometh not, nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. While the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain. In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble and the strongmen shall bow themselves, And the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened. You say, what in the world is this individual expressing? He says, the keepers of the house tremble, the strongmen bow, the grinders cease, the windows are darkened. He's talking about what happens as we age. He's saying the strongest and mightiest warrior. And by the way, when we talk about a warrior, you think about the ancient world, it was hand-to-hand combat. It was no pretty thing, let me tell you. And when somebody was a warrior and they survived combat for their entire military career, they were tough, strong people. Yet the greatest warriors came to a day when they couldn't see anymore. Their eyes began to dim That strong body that had gone into battle and had defended its homeland and its family is bowed down. Stumbling, being carried, just sitting because of weakness. That ability to hear is being lost. That ability to see is being lost The teeth begin to fall out. You say, why in the world does Solomon remind us of that? He reminds us because everybody will one day be there if they live to be that old. In other words, no matter what we attain in life, we come to a place where we recognize our frailty. We recognize our limits. We recognize that we are mortals. And the point that the man is saying, that Solomon is making is this: when you're young, before you come to that reality and you see your own frailties. Fear God. Keep his commandments. Honor Him. Give your life to His pursuits. In Psalm 90, verse 10, Moses writes, The days of our years Our threescore years and ten. If by reason of strength they be four score yet in their strength, labor, and sorrow, if it is soon cut off, we fly away. So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. I'll put it like this. Our lives are so short. Our strength is so inferior. Our influence is so limited. Our visibility is so isolated. You can be a hero and a very well-known person in this community You go to another state, they don't even know your name. They don't know anything about you. You have no clout. You have no influence. You're just another person in the community. And the point is this, one day the greatest men will die and they'll soon be forgotten. Think about places where great men are buried and great women are buried, people who had incredible influence in their generation. And now it's just a tombstone. There's moss growing on it, birds flying around. Children have no clue about the greatness of the individual that was placed in that location. The point that I'm trying to communicate, that the text is communicating, is that we truly are insignificant, folks. There's no place for us to be proud or arrogant, to look down our noses at others. We will die. We will meet our Creator. And we need to be reminded of our place in His creation. But there's a counterbalance to those statements. When I say a counterbalance, I mean that there is another truth that, when set beside this, brings balance in a correct view of ourselves And the fourth truth that we find is this, the God-centered worldview finds its value and identity in God's prescribed purposes. The fact is, it is true that our lives are insignificant in one sense, but it is true in another sense that our lives have unbelievable value to God. It is true in one sense that what we do is vain and empty and has no lasting influence. But when looked at on another side, it can have tremendous value. It can be something that God looks at and he has pleasure in the things we have done. In fact, it says in verse number 4: What is man that thou art mindful of him? But notice the next thing he says. Or the Son of Man that thou visitest him. In other words, yes, man has an insignificance, but God loves man. God comes alongside people and He cares about them and He knows them and He reveals Himself to them. He says, You have made him a little lower than the angels and crowned him with glory and honor. Thou madeest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, yea, the beasts of the field, the fowls of the air, the fish of the sea, whatsoever passeth through the paths of the sea In other words, he mentions this. He uses the phrase that we're mindful of him, and he says, In spite of our absolute insignificance, God thinks deeply of us. Psalm 139, verse 17. How precious also are thy thoughts unto me. O God, how great is the sum of them if I should count them. They are more in number than the sands. When I awake, I'm still with thee. In Psalm 113, he talks about how the Lord is high above all nations and his glory above the heavens, who 's like unto the Lord our God who dwelleth on high. Who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven and earth. And then he says this, he raiseth up the poor out of the dust. He lifteth up the needy out of the dung hill, that he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people. He maketh the barren woman to keep house and to be a joyful mother of children The fact is this, while we are insignificant, God loves us. God cares about us. He comes into our lives and he's involved in our lives. He actively works in our lives. He brought us to understand the gospel and to place our faith in Christ. He gave us a family. He gives us opportunity. God's hands are very much involved in the affairs of our lives. And so we see the truth, we're insignificant. And then we see the truth, God loves us. He cares about us. He's active in our lives. He reveals himself to us. And you know what this what these truths set side by side are meant to do? They're meant to humble us so that we worship him That's really what it's all about. In other words, God created us and we have purpose. He then makes this final statement, or he makes another statement. He says, Thou hast crowned him with glory and honor in spite of our absolute insignificance. God has created us in his image. He's given us dignity and value, but beyond that of any other creature in his creation. In Genesis 1. 26, he says, God said, Let us make man in our image. After our likeness. So God created man in his own image. The image of God created he him, male and female created he them. God created us to reflect his glory. God created us to use intelligence and have ingenuity. God created us with the ability to have rich, meaningful relationships with people at His creation. God created us to know Him and to love Him and to have a deep, meaningful relationship with Him. God gave us these rich emotions so that we can experience rich relationship with others and with God. In other words, not only has God made us And not only is God involved in our lives, but He made us with dignity. He made us with value. In other words, on one side we're insignificant, and on the other side, we have incredible value. Why? Because we're made in God's image. And then he says this, very interesting, he says, and thou hast made him to have dominion over the work of thy hands. I want you to think about this for a moment. Let's say that you've toiled your entire life. You had nothing, and you made something of yourself. You build a business from nothing. Maybe some in this room have experienced this. You come to the end of your life and you realize I cannot continue to do what I'm doing, to manage what I'm managing. I'm gonna have to give this over to somebody else. And you look around you and you see the person you want to turn that over to. And there comes a day when all that work that you did is under their control. And you step back and you let them manage what you've done. Folks, in some sense, that's what God has done with us. Not that God has released his hand and says, I'm no more involved in my creation. That is clearly not what it's saying. But he's saying, while I am sovereign, under my authority, you have responsibilities. That's what he means by he's given us dominion. God wants us to take care of everything that in his good hand he has put under our domination God wants us to manage our families well. God wants to manage our resources well. God wants us to take care of what He has made. And one day God is going to hold us accountable for what we did. That's what the judgment seat of Christ is all about. We have those parable of the talents where he gives a certain number of talents to one, a certain number to another, and a certain number to the other, and he says, Take it and manage it and bring it back. Invest what I've given you. That's what he's saying. And one who had just a small amount, he doubles it. He says, well done. Another who has a little more, there's inequality there, folks. God did that. He was faithful, what he had. What does God do? Well done. And he he gives him reward. And another says, I'm going to bear it in the sand and not mess with it. And you know what happens to him? God's not happy. Folks, that little parable is meant to teach us a simple lesson. God puts under our care something to manage. And it's not the same. Okay? What God gives me, and what God gives you, and what God gives the person, it's not going to be the same. God doesn't pretend that it will be What he does do is he say, What will you do with what I gave you? That's what this passage is all about. He made this creation the work of his hands, and he says, I put you in charge. of managing and taking care of what I have made. Folks, doesn't that change the way that you look at your job? Doesn't that change the way that you look at your family life? Doesn't that change the way that you look at your money? Doesn't that change the way that you look at the resources that you have available to you All of a sudden you begin to realize what I do has some purpose. God put it under my care. And he's going to hold me accountable for how I handle it. In Genesis 1, we see that it says, God blessed them, Adam and his wife, and God said unto them, Be fruitful. Multiply, replenish the earth, subdue it, and have dominion. The reality is that from the very beginning, God wanted us to be responsible with what he gave to us. In spite of our absolute insignificance, God made us the stewards of his creation. He's fitted us with functions that are unique roles. In other words, each person in this room has been created by God with certain strengths and weaknesses and positions and opportunities, and you're given those so that you'll function in the role that He's appointed for you. The value of what we do ultimately is rooted in our willingness to do faithfully what God has made us to do, to perform that task as He has appointed it for us. And so I want to remind you that your daily work, it actually matters. What you do day in and day out, it's important to God. We come to the final section, and that's this. We want to be practical about applying the truths that we've looked at this morning. And so let me give you a couple of very simple, practical applications that I think flow directly from the truths we've looked at. The first is this. This passage directs us to have lives that are entirely devoted to worshiping God. He must be preeminent in our lives. And when I say lives that are entirely devoted to worshiping God, I don't mean that we need to spend 24-7 in this room praying and reading the Bible. Okay? That's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is this: worship means bowing the knee and saying, you are worthy. In other words, what I'm doing, why I'm doing it, is connected to what I believe about God. In other words, I worship God in my work when I do it honorably, when I do it honestly, when I work hard, when I keep it in correct perspective. I'm worshiping God when I'm a good husband. When I take the word of God and I apply it to the way that I function as a husband in my house. For a wife, the way that you function as a wife. For a child, the way that you function as a child in your house. The way that I function as a dad, the way that I function as a pastor, the way that you function as an individual in this church where God has placed you with certain gifts and abilities. The way that you function in our society. God placed you where he placed you for a purpose. God created you how he created you for a purpose. God wants us to see that our lives need to be focused on Him. A second truth is this: this passage reminds us to humble ourselves, recognizing our insignificance. before the greatness of God. Folks, I hope you walk away from this passage thinking that way. I'm pretty small in the big scope of things. There's just one little old me. I'm only going to live on this earth for this period of time. Generations have gone before me. If Christ doesn't return in my lifetime, generations will likely pass beyond me. I will end up like everybody else. I'm a pretty insignificant person. But I hope you'll couple that with this fact. It reminds us to cherish God's goodness, recognizing His love for us in spite of our humble position. Folks, the truth is that a person that doesn't have God in their worldview, a person that has themselves at the center of it all, is going to one day come to a block A wall that they will hit and they will realize they're a mere mortal. And you know what that's gonna do? It's gonna shake them to their core. But a person who has a biblical worldview recognizes this, in the scope of big things, I'm nothing But he has given me value. He's given me value in the fact that he created me in his image. He's given me value in the fact that he's fitted me for specific tasks. What I do has value because it's appointed to me by Him. In other words, if you want to have a healthy thought life, you need to have a healthy view of God Himself. And lastly, we see this: this passage motivates us to see the value of faithfulness in our daily duties, knowing that He has uniquely fitted us to fulfill those roles. There are times in all of our lives that we look at what we're doing in a cubicle, in an office, wherever we are working, whatever we are doing, in our houses, and we say, is there value to what I'm doing? And I say this, if it's done for the glory of God, there's tremendous value in what you're doing. If you're doing it because that's where God puts you. And that's what he fitted you to do. There's incredible value. But it seems mundane today. But it's a part of God's plan. Those little things that you're doing that don't seem to be accomplishing much, God is using them to do things in the lives of others. This passage basically takes our thinking. Back to where it needs to be. And so as the psalmist has directed us to put God in the center of our thinking, I want to encourage you, by God's grace, let's purpose to live in the light of these truths. truths. This is an incredible, incredible psalm, and I hope that you will live in the light of it today. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father, it has been a wonderful blessing to be able to read this psalm and then to think about what it's saying. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be a group of people who are humbled and who glory in the Lord Jesus Who are so grateful that you choose to work in our lives and you care very deeply for us. Father, help us to see that our daily labors are not empty and worthless. But they have tremendous value when they are done according to your will. I pray that you'll bless each person that has heard this message. May you apply it specifically to their hearts in the most appropriate manner possible. We ask these things in Christ's name, Amen