Let's all turn together to the book of 2 Corinthians, and we are in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 this morning. We're looking at verses 17, and then we're going to move over into the first couple verses of chapter 6. And throughout our entire missions month, we have been looking at the story of several church plants in the ancient world. In fact, these are amazing stories because they show you the power of the gospel. They show you how the gospel went into places that were very dark, very spiritually needy, places where people were steeped in deep paganism. And God in his great power brought the word to those people, and through the preaching and teaching of the word of God, through the prayers of those who ministered in the word, God drew people to himself. And people were gloriously saved. They repented, they believed in the gospel. Well, this is a part of that story, and a part of that story that is actually very fascinating because this is several years after That amazing story of how God started a church through the Apostle Paul in the city of Corinth. A very dark, a very spiritually needy city. So let's go ahead and pick up in verse 17 and then read down to verse 2 of chapter 6. It says, if any man be in Christ, He's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new, and all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. and has given unto us the ministry of reconciliation. To wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself. Not imputing their trespasses unto them, and have committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now, then we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain For he saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted, and in the day of salvation have I succored thee. Behold, now is the accepted time Behold, now is the day of salvation. Let's bow together. Ask the Lord to really speak our hearts from his word today. Lord, we thank you for this text of Scripture in front of us. A passage that is so rich. A passage that has deep theology. A passage that has much passion that is built into it. A passion that is a part of a story where people were antagonistic to Paul, though he had ministered very lovingly and very patiently amongst them. A passage that reminds us of who we are in Christ And the position that we have and how that position is to flow into real life representation of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that this morning, as we dig into this text, you would speak richly to our hearts. Father, help us to understand the weight of these truths. I pray that the Spirit of God would move in our hearts. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. This morning the text we're looking at is a passage that is very personal to me. One of the reasons that it's a very personal text to me is because I can remember Many, many years ago when I was a college student sitting in a chapel service during a missions emphasis month. And during that month, there was a man, he was quite a bit I I viewed him as an old man. I don't know if I'd still view him as an old man today. But I remember this man that was uh probably the age of like my grandparents at the time, and he was a missionary in another part of the world And he was preaching from the text that's right in front of us here. Now I don't remember anything about the structure of the sermon I don't remember anything about even one illustration that he gave. And the truth is that probably almost no one in this room is going to remember the structure of the sermon that's given to you this morning. And that's good because I'll probably preach it again down the road at some point. Okay, I'm kidding. I never preach exactly what I had before. But this text of scripture, as I sat there and I listened to him preach, and I went back over and I read through this text. I remember going back to my dorm room and just reading through these verses again and again and again, and those truths that are in this text begin to really take root in my heart. And I began to really think about it in terms of I am to represent Christ to lost people. I don't know where that is. I don't know what my life is going to look like all the way down through the years. I don't know how long I'm going to live, but what I do know is this. That text is telling me I'm a new creature in Christ. I have been committed with the word of reconciliation, and I'm an ambassador for Christ. Well, guess what? That's not unique to me. That's true of every person in this room. Now, it may not have gripped you yet. Maybe it has gripped you and that that that weight in which it has gripped you has begun to wane a little bit. I can't tell you where you're supposed to do that through the seasons of life and all that. But what I can tell you is this, if you're a Christian, if you're born again, if you place your faith in Christ, these verses apply to you. My prayer is that that truth will grip you in such a way that it'll transform your life. That'll transform your life today, what you're doing today, and really for the rest of the time that the Lord gives you on this earth This is a really fascinating passage of scripture because it is written by a man who had a very challenging relationship with the church that he's writing to. In fact, when we talk about Paul, I would use the word tumultuous to describe the relationship that he had with the Corinthian church. And part of that tumultuous relationship was something that was very deeply personal. We know the story of the birth of the church because we've talked about it in past weeks. It's a remarkable story of God's providence And God brings this man, the Apostle Paul, and then he brings this couple, Aquila and Priscilla. They meet each other there at Corinth because they're making tents together. And over the course of the next year and a half, God is going to start a work in that city that's going to establish a church, and Paul's going to have a long relationship with that church, the church at Corinth. This relationship is actually fairly unique. We've read last week we looked at the book of Colossians, and so I preached out of Colossians. Paul did not personally plant the church at Colossae. He'd never visited that city and that region and that church before he wrote the letter. The same thing would be true about the Apostle Paul when he wrote to the Romans. He did not start the church at Rome. The people that went to those locations are people that he led to Christ, he discipled, he mentored, and they went to those places. But this church is different. He loves this church. He's invested deeply emotionally in the church. And just to kind of give you a sense of that, let me kind of give you a grocery list of ways that Paul has endeavored to maintain a relationship with them. For eighteen months after its founding, he labored in the word there. Acts 18, 11. He continued a year and six months teaching the word of God among them. We know that he visited them multiple times. And in 2 Corinthians chapter 2, it talks about how he visited them during a time of deep internal crisis and he says, I determined this with myself that I would not come to you again to you in heaviness like the last time I was there In chapter 7, verse 1 of 1 Corinthians, he talks about how he received letters with theological and practical questions. He says, now concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me it is good for a man not to touch a woman. And then he wrote books that are not scripture. We would call them non-canonical letters, but these were practical, they were theological, and sometimes Very personal, very intense. Maybe it's good that they were not given to us because we would have to see some really harsh things that were said by Paul. to this church. But in 1 Corinthians 5. 9 he says, I wrote unto you in an epistle not to keep company with fornicators. Or 2 Corinthians 2. 3, I wrote this same unto you lest when I come. I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice, that you might know the love which I have more abundantly unto you. And then we see that he wrote 1 and 2 Corinthians. The text we're looking at is in that second epistle. The reason that I go through all that information is to simply say this: Paul loved. Deeply the people in this church. He poured his life into them. He invested richly in them. It was a very personal type of investment. But Paul had enemies within that congregation. And it's sad. It shouldn't have been that way. It didn't have to be that way. But the fact is that Paul had to say some very hard things to these people and they didn't want to hear it. And so there was a movement within the church from false teachers to undermine the credibility of Paul's ministry. And it wasn't really about Paul as an individual, but it was really about the content of the message he was preaching. It was the way that he went about doing the work of ministry. It was the hard things that he was saying. So it really wasn't about Paul. It was about the way and the nature of what he taught. The text in front of us is an important part of Paul's ministry defense. It articulates the heart of his work. And this should be the heart of any gospel preaching minister's work. So I've summarized the text in the following way. Christians have been reconciled to God and called to embrace a ministry of representing Him to those who need reconciliation. And you say, who needs reconciliation? The answer is everybody. Every single person needs to be reconciled to God. And so we must faithfully represent him to the lost, and these verses are going to talk to us about how to do that. So let's go ahead and move piece by piece to the text. And notice the key themes that are developed by Paul in these verses. The first thing I want you to notice is his emphasis on our position. And if you've been listening carefully over the last several weeks, you will notice that this has been a key emphasis in our missions month. God always calls the believer to obedience out of his position. God always calls the believer to a distinct walk out of his position. God always reminds the believer that he can and he must because he is not the person he once was. And we see this in verse 17. He says it like this. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. It is impossible for you to be a Christian in the biblical sense and not be a new creature. Now, you don't make yourself a new creature. You simply respond to the gospel. You repent. and you believe God is the one that makes you a new creature in Christ. This is a miraculous work of God. This is giving life to someone who is spiritually dead and alienated from God. And we really hammered that out last week in the Colossians text. But even in the Old Testament, he talks about this miracle of regeneration. And what takes place in the heart of a person who is a new creature in Christ. Listen to what it says in Ezekiel 11. He says, I will give them a new heart. And I will put a new spirit within you. And I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and I will give them a heart of flesh. That's what God does when he saves people. It's not just that you have the Spirit of God, you do, but you're not the same person you were before you were saved. You are a new creature in Christ who now has the Holy Spirit indwelling you. And these three facts that he highlights in these verses are true of everybody in this room. We are all united to Christ. We all are new creatures in Christ. All of our lives have been fundamentally and forever reoriented toward God. He has changed who we are. He has changed the direction we're going. He has literally changed everything about us. If you want that to be developed more fully, look at last week, Colossians chapter 3. We really dug into that concept. And in fact, earlier in the book of 2 Corinthians, he highlights some ways in which that's happened. For instance. In chapter 5, verse 9, he says that we are laborers together with God. We labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of Him. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether good or bad. When a person becomes a Christian, guess what? All of a sudden something begins to concern him, and that is this. God saves me for a purpose, not just to give me eternal life, but to use me in this life. He's given me certain tools and equipment. He's planted me for a time in this world. He's given me certain gifts and abilities. I'm supposed to use them for his glory. And that begins to weigh on a person's soul. Why? Because we understand we're going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And the quality of our service will be evaluated on that day. We could spend an entire sermon on that concept. We're going to keep on moving. The second thing that he mentions in the immediate context is in verse 11 of chapter 5. And that is that we are motivated by the justice of God. He says, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. You say, hold on a second. Am I supposed to be terrified of God's judgment as a believer? The answer is no If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things have passed away, all things have become new. Romans chapter 8 says that there is now to that new believer no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. And so the question is, in what sense is the believer gripped by the justice of God? And the answer is he recognizes that every person who rejects the gospel is going to face the full justice of God for eternity. In other words, we shouldn't fear facing God's wrath. That has been dealt with at the cross. We should be deeply sobered by the future of the lost. And we should labor diligently to call people to repent and believe in Christ alone. But then there's a third thing in the immediate context preceding this text. push into this text that talks about a secondary source of motivation. And in fact, this is the one that he probably gives the most attention to because it's the one that should be the foremost in our minds. And that is God's love. In verses 13 through 15, he says that the love of Christ constrains us. If that one died for all, then we're all dead, and that he died for all, that he which liveth should not henceforth live unto himself, but unto him which died for them and rose again. You say, well, how is the believer supposed to be motivated in this issue of ministry and missions? Well, the answer is there's multiple dynamics to this. There is the sense in which we feel the weight of the judgment seat of Christ, and we are going to be held accountable for how we used and how we manage the resources given to us. And there's also a sense in which we feel the soberness of the condition of the lost, and then we are gripped by a love for God. And there is a warmth and there is a passion that drives the believer. We as Christians should serve God foremost because our hearts are filled to the brim with a love for Him. An affection for him and his glory, a desire for people who stumble in the darkness to know our Savior. And that's what he means when he says that the love of Christ constrains us. The more fully we understand God's love, the more deeply it will grip our hearts. One of the reasons many Christians do not care much about giving the gospel is because they think little of it. What I mean by that is they don't think often of it. They don't think deeply of it. They don't think personally of it. They think of it in a very abstract sense And the more personally we allow this message to grip our souls, the more deeply motivated we will be in this work. Second thing that he emphasizes is our calling. We see that in verses 18 through 20. He says this, and all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. and hath given unto us the ministry of reconciliation. God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself. not imputing their trespasses unto them, and have committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us We pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God. There is so much that we could mine out of those verses. But I just want to highlight a couple of things that I think are very, very important and they are keys to understanding what Paul's saying. The first thing is this, we are ambassadors. Now, it's not that we should be. It's that we are. You know, when the Bible talks about the Christian being salt and light, he doesn't say you should be salt, you should be light. He says you are salt, you are light. A city that's set on a hill, you can't hide it. So his point is if you're a Christian, you're different than the world around you. You are salt and light. So don't try to conceal and hide who you are. Don't be ashamed of that distinctiveness. Allow it to shine forth. Allow who you are and what has fundamentally changed you as a person. Allow that to shine forth in your life And so he's not saying you're supposed to be an ambassador. He says you are. He says now then, verse 20, we are ambassadors for Christ. That means we've received a formal commission. You don't need God to call you into ministry in that sense. You need to recognize you already are called. The question isn't are you called? The question is where are you planted? And are you effectively serving in the capacity that God has designed for you in this particular season of your life? The question isn't if, it's where. That's the question. And so all of us need to get out of this thinking, like, I don't know if I'm supposed to be called into ministry as a Christian. You are. You have been assigned. The question is, are you being faithful where you've been assigned? The question is, is he disrupting the place where you've been assigned because he's going to send you to a new location? That's the question. Not the if, but for how long, where, all those kinds of things. That's really an integral piece. So we've received a formal commission. He's entrusted us with a message that has inherent power, and he's going to develop that in just a moment. We represent him to the lost. When you tell someone you're a Christian, you better live like it. You know, I think about the Ten Commandments, and he talks about not taking the name of the Lord in vain. You know what that really means? He was telling these people , you are a part of God's covenant people. When people think of you, they think of the God of Israel. That association is no small thing. That's a big deal. Don't treat it cheaply. Don't treat it cheaply in how you use it. Don't treat it cheaply in how you live. Do not treat it cheaply in any way. The same is true for us as Christians. Wherever God has planted us, the moment that somebody recognizes that we profess to be Christians, they will watch how we respond. what we say, all kinds of different aspects about the way that we live, the way that we work, the way that we relate to people, all of those things are being factored into their view of Christians, the gospel, and ultimately God's. The way we live really does matter. Now that's not what has the power to change people, but it does have the power to hinder the work. It does have the power to draw people to consider. The gospel is what changes people, but God plants us in places for a reason. Not only are we ambassadors, but we've been given the word of reconciliation. And this is important. We don't represent him without a message. We represent him with a very distinctive message, and this is the message that God uses to draw people to himself. Verse 20, we pray you in Christ's stead, be reconciled to God. All people are born into this world at enmity with God. There is a division between God and man because God is holy and God is righteous, and we're sinners. And reconciliation comes through God's action for us and toward us. I mean, notice how many times in these verses He says all things are of God. He is the one who's reconciled us to himself. He's done it through Jesus Christ. So what does that tell you? God always does the work in our salvation. We simply receive it. We don't do any work in our salvation. We don't earn our way to God. We don't follow the law. We don't keep the commandments. We turn to the one who did it all for us. That's what salvation is. We are called to be peacemakers based on that action that He has given toward us. You know what a peacemaker is? It's someone who goes between two people that need to be reconciled to one another and they try to help them work it out. How is peace established between God and man? God does all the work and he puts you in the position to tell people what he did, to compel them to believe in it. To pray for them, to answer their questions. That's what we are all called to do. Third thing we see is the message. And you know, this is one of the greatest statements in all the New Testament that demonstrates the nature of the gospel. Here's what he says in verse 21. He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Let me read that again. He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Here's what's wonderful about this one little verse that tells us the gospel. It gives us three critical components to the message. One is talking about the Father and what He has done for us to be saved. The second emphasizes the work of the Son and what He has done for us to be saved. And the third emphasizes what we become when we're saved. So notice the details. The first thing we do is we preach the Father's work in our redemption. He hath made him to be sin for us. You say, what in the world does that mean? I'm glad you're asking that question because Isaiah 53 gives us thoroughly an answer to that question. Let me read to you some of the things that Isaiah 53 says. that answer that question, what Paul means when he says, He hath made him to be sin for us. What it means is that Isaiah 53, 6, the Lord laid on him that is Christ, the iniquity of us all. What it means is what's stated in verse 10 that it pleased the Lord to brood him. Or verse 10 that He put him to grief. Or again in verse 10, that thou, being the Father, will make his soul, Christ, an offering for sin. Or verse 10, that the pleasure of the Lord will prosper in his hand. Or verse 11, he will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. You say, what does this tell you? It tells you that salvation comes because the Father had a plan And that plan was to send the Son and to take your sin and my sin and to place them on the shoulders of Christ and Christ would be dealt with as the guilty party, though in fact he is innocent. He was our substitute. He died in our place. The Father sent the Son. You do not have the gospel if you don't have the Father sending the Son for such a purpose. But there's a second element, and that is, well what did he send him to do? And the answer is he sent him to die for our sins We preach the work of the Son on our behalf and redemption. He made him to be sin for, that word's so important, for us, though he is one who knew no sin. By the way, there's no one who's ever lived that could have done what Christ did. Why is that? Because he's the only sinless one He's God in flesh. I couldn't die on the cross for my children. I couldn't die on the cross for my wife. I couldn't die on the cross for you. And nobody in this room could die on the cross for anybody else. Why? Because we're all sinners When we die, it's because we are the guilty parties. But Christ is innocent. The one who knew no sin, the Bible says, was made, became sin for us. Christ wasn't just going to the cross to be an example. He was going to the cross to die for us And Isaiah 53 really lays this out. Verse number four. He has borne our griefs and he has carried our sorrows. Verse 5. He was wounded for our transgressions. Verse 5. He was bruised for our iniquities. Verse 5. The chastisement of our peace was on him. Verse 8, the transgression, for the transgression of my people he was stricken. Verse 11, my righteous servant will justify many. Why? Because he will bear their iniquities. Verse 12, he was numbered with transgressors, he bare the sins of many, and he made intercession for transgressors. You don't have a gospel if you don't have Christ dying on the cross for your sins. That substitution is a critical component to the message of the gospel. And so why does Paul mention that? Well, it's pretty clear. You might be an ambassador for Christ and you're in the position of reconciling people to God. But you have marching orders. You have a message to proclaim. If you don't proclaim that message, nobody's reconciled to God. Because that message is the critical piece that draws people to God. But then there's a third piece to it. And that is that we preach justification by faith alone. He says so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. It doesn't say that we might be made our own righteousness in him. The righteousness of God in him. You say what is that? That's called imputed righteousness. When a person places their faith in the finished work of Christ, the one who died for their sins, the one who was punished in their place, when they turn to him and they depend alone on his work, you know what God does? He places them in Christ and he says, not guilty, righteous in him. And there's so many scriptures that talk about this. Let me give you some key ones. Romans 3. 21. Oh, this is a good one. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested. Being witnessed by the law and the prophets, the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ, it's unto all and upon all them that believe. How does somebody get into the position of being declared righteous? There's only one way it's in Christ. Or Romans chapter 3 verse 24, we are justified freely by his grace to the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Or Philippians 3. 9, it says, that we might be found in him not having our own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. So how are people reconciled to God? It's very simple. God sent , the Father sent the Son. The Son went to the cross. Our sin was laid on his shoulders. He was punished in our place. And when we turn to him and we place our faith in Christ, God says, not guilty, righteous in him, you are my child. Nobody comes to the Father apart from that message. Nobody comes to the Father apart from that work. And you know what's amazing? We can even expand this just a little bit by looking at what he said in the chapter before, chapter four. Listen to this. God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness hath shined into our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. We have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Now, what is Paul saying in the verses leading up to this incredible text that we're looking at this morning? He's saying God wasn't passive when you were in your predicament. If God was passive, we all die lost. It's that simple. He took action. 1 Peter 1 18, you were not redeemed with corruptible things, but rather with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, manifest in these last times for you. God took action to secure your redemption. The Father sent the Son so you could be saved. And not only did he send the Son, but he issued a command, verse number six. He commanded the light to shine out of darkness. You say, well, what is that? It's the gospel. God sent the gospel to people who were in the darkness. And through the gospel being presented to people, the light pushes back the darkness. In other words, the way that people get saved is one, God takes action for them, and number two, he sends people to them so that they can be drawn through the preaching of the gospel. Romans 10, 14. How can they call on him whom they've not believed? And how shall they believe on him whom they've not heard? How shall they hear without a preacher? How shall they preach except they be sent? Ah, as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Verily their sound went into all the earth, and their word into the ends of the world. You know what Paul's saying? Nobody gets saved without faith. No one has faith without hearing. Nobody hears without a preacher. No preachers come unless they're sent. And God did all that. He sends people, they preach, people hear, they respond by faith alone. What does that show you? God's work. He worked personally in our hearts through the gospel, verse 6. He has shined in our hearts. Paul's basically saying this: You need to realize that you being saved. It's not just about you. It's about the people God wants to reach through you. If you're a Christian parent, God gave you kids to point them to Jesus. If you're working with kids in a Sunday school, if you're working in a difficult environment and you have lost people all around you, God planted you in that context to reach into the lives of those people. And that's what he means when he says that he shined in our hearts. He saved us to take the light to others. Verse 6, it was to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And he allows us to participate in his work, verse 7, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us One of the most amazing things about Christian ministry. This is true for a parent raising a child. This is true for a pastor that's pastoring a church. This is true about a church planter who's trying to start a church. This is true about missionaries going across other cultural barriers. This is about somebody who is planted in a work environment and not one person in that place is a Christian but you. God could very effectively reach those people without you if that was his plan. But his plan was to include you. And you're the weak link, and so am I. Because we get in the way a lot of what God's doing. But here's what's really neat about it. Even though we get in the link we we're the weak link and we get in the way of what God's doing, When we see what he does, we're humbled. And we're grateful. And his power is elevated in our minds because it overcame our brokenness. You might say, man, I can't do that. Oh, you can and you must. And you don't know what he will do. If there first be a willing heart. We see a fourth and final thing, and that is that God enables us to do it. I'm thankful that when God tells me to do something, he doesn't say, go do it. You're on your own, buddy. There's a song in this hymn book of ours that's So Sendaiu and I read that song. It's so mournful. So send Iu to labor unrewarded. And he goes through all these different things. I'm like, ooh, very challenging. Let me tell you that when you go, you don't go alone. He is always with you. And if you are going, you are going because he has made a way. And if you get there, it's because he has made it possible for you to be there. And so in verses 1 and 2, he puts it like this. He says, we then, as workers together with him Beseech you also that you do not receive the grace of God in vain. For he saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted, and the day of salvation have I succored thee. Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. A couple of things here that really stand out to me as I read those verses. One is that the work that he talks about is a pressing work. In verse 1 he says, that we beseech you. And that word beseech is actually the same word that is used to describe the Holy Spirit, who is our paraclete, our comforter. He is the one who comes alongside of us and he strengthens us in the work. He says, I come alongside you and I strengthen you in the work because it's a pressing work. And verse two he says, now is the accepted time. He said it's not about doing this someday down the road, it's about doing it now. Why now? Because you have a guarantee of tomorrow. We don't know what lies ahead of us. We don't know what opportunities are open at this moment that will be closed down the road. So we take the moment now and we do what God has called us to do. Verse 2 he says, now is the day of salvation. That means we're compelling people to respond to the message immediately. Why? Because they don't know how long they're going to have opportunity. And so you can see the pressing nature of this ministry. We also see that his calling always comes with empowerment. And there's a lot that he says here in these two little verses. He says, we're labors with God. The way he puts it is we're workers together with him. Or in the book before, or the epistle before, 1 Corinthians 3. 9, he says, we're labors together with God. So while I may see my failures and my limitations and my struggles, and by the way, we all should see them if we're going to be honest, we should see his empowerment. We should see his enabling. We could say, yes, I have these deficiencies, but he is greater than those things. Remember when God calls Moses? And Moses says, I'm not doing this. And there's a back and forth. And basically Moses says, I can't do this. He said, who m who made man's mouth? And he said, send somebody else. He's like, your brother's coming to meet you right now. He's going to be your mouthpiece, but you're going with him. And that's the way God has to work sometimes. Some of the greatest servants of God in the scriptures were very reluctant as they moved into those capacities. And I think that that reluctance is not entirely bad. It has to be overcome. It shouldn't be because of pride or fear. But if it's really someone being, I could say, they feel the weight of the task and the challenges of that task, that's not a bad thing. Secondly, we see that he has given us a special measure of grace to fulfill this ministry. He says, receive not the grace of God in vain. When the Bible talks about grace, he's talking about God's equipping in this particular context. We talk about our salvation. It's God's undeserved favor. He's giving me something I didn't earn, I don't deserve. He gives it all to me freely of his grace. But when it talks about the enabling to walk as a Christian, to serve Him faithfully, His graces, His enabling in the moment, I don't deserve that either. 1 Corinthians 3. 10 says, According to the grace of God given unto me as a wise master builder, I lay the foundation and other builds thereon. But every man take heed how he builds. And then he comes alongside to aid us. He says, I have succored thee. That word means I assist you. I strengthen you. I lift you up. If someone is going to purpose to be faithful in the ministry that God has planted them to have, they will have dark days. They will be discouraged. They will be weary. They will get knocked down. And in those moments, God comes alongside and he lifts them up, like he did to Elijah. When Elijah says, I'm ready to die, take me, and God says, ah, I got some other plans for you. God does that for us. He enables us, he equips us, he causes us to recognize the work can continue. But what's really interesting, you may not know this, Paul is literally quoting from an Old Testament text that gives us a lot of insight here And that's the text that we start our service in, Isaiah 49. Listen to what it says. It says, I will give thee for a light to the Gentiles. Oh, the light to the nations. Interesting. It's like it was planned or something. I'll give thee for a light to the Gentiles that thou mayest be the salvation unto the ends of the earth. Thus saith the Lord, in an acceptable time have I heard thee, in a day of salvation have I helped thee, that thou mayest say to the prisoner, Go forth. To them that are in darkness, show yourself. They shall feed in the ways, and their pastures shall be in all high places. They shall not hunger nor thirst, neither shall the heat nor the sun smite them. For he hath mercy on them, and he shall lead them, even by the springs of water shall he guide them. Behold, these things shall come from far, and lo, these from the north and from the west. It was really interesting. Paul is using this quotation from the Old Testament to help them to understand the nature of their function in this world. Like the Old Testament, Israel was given a critical function in the world, so is the church. Like Old Testament, Israel had a window of ministry that was limited, so does the church. We don't know the day or the hour when Christ returns. Between now and then, we have time. Each generation, we must embrace the time that God gives us. We must utilize the tools that He has given us. We must be faithful in this moment. Sadly, the nation of Israel in the Old Testament did not do that. He's saying don't do that. Each generation till Christ returns will face this task and must choose to do it faithfully. It's kind of interesting. It's a lot of darkness in our country right now. One of the things that's very intriguing to me is that people that are my age and younger are more dedicated to church and biblical values than their parents were. Did you know that? It's true. A lot of people in this church right now, your parents don't go to church. But you're here. Why is that? Christian values didn't shape the home you grew up in, but you're trying to make them shape yours. Why is that? Because the truth is every generation has an opportunity to step in and say, I'm going to be different. I'm not going to be like mom and dad. I'm not going to be like my grandparents. I'm not going to bend toward the cultural movements that were destructive at the times that they lived. I'm not going to be that normal, ordinary American living the American dream who's living for nothing more than a hedonistic life. I'm gonna live for Jesus. I care about getting the gospel. I care about making sure my kids are in church. I care about teaching them the word of God in my home. I'm going to make sure that scripture shapes my values. Believe it or not, even Gen Z, the one that everybody likes to like trash, you know, all the millennials and all the Gen X and Boomers like to trash Gen Z. You realize that Gen Z goes to church more than their parents and grandparents did? And I bet you that's going to change as people get older. And they start seeing how how broken life without Christ is, and how empty a society is that does not have moral framework built on the truths of Scripture. So I don't know what God's going to do with our younger generation, but I will say this: He may do far more than we realize. Every generation has a choice to make. What are you going to do? How do you apply a text like this? I'm going to break it into two components. One is the unbeliever. It could be that there's somebody here today that does not know the Lord as their Savior. And I talked about the gospel and that was like totally foreign to you. You never even heard this before. If that's the case, please do not leave this service without coming and talking to me and saying, hey Pastor, you talk about the gospel and The Father sending the Son and him dying for my sins. And man, I don't know anything about that, but I need to know about it. Well then come and talk to me. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you. How you could be saved. You say, well, what if it took an hour or two? That's fine. I'm in no rush. Pastors only work on Sundays anyway, right? Some do Your need is to be reconciled to God. He's calling you through a message like this to repent and believe. And so if you don't understand what's going on, then come and talk. I'll take a Bible and show you how to be saved. For the Christian, I want to remind you that we all are new creatures in Christ. We have been called to represent him in the sphere of influence that he has planted us. We've been entrusted with the gospel, and we have been fully equipped to function in that calling. We may not feel it. But he's given us what we need. And we are uniquely fitted to touch others' lives. And I want to be super specific about this. Your personality, your strengths, even your weaknesses, the background that you come from. The things that by God's grace you have overcome in life, the lessons hopefully you've learned, those might be things that Satan kind of hangs over your head, says you can't because of. But I tell you, God will use those things. If you are submitted to Him, He will use those things to reach into the lives of very specific people. That is not a mistake. God has a purpose and what he has permitted in your life. He has uniquely placed each of us to reach into the lives of other people. There are some people that there there are there are folks that you work with or you live near or you interact with and the truth is you could take a people over here and if you tried to get them to reach those people it would never happen. But you are different. And so God has put you in a location to reach in the lives of people. You have a unique opportunity in the raising of your children to pour into their lives. If you want your children to believe on Christ and live for Him, then show them what a real Christian lives like, thinks like, how their values are shaped. Because if you're the real deal, they're going to see it. And what you tell them won't be like, do as I say, but not as I do. It'll say, do as I say and notice how it works. There's a huge difference. Our workplace is not a mistake. Our season of life. You might say, well, I've uh I've I've lived through those years and that was when I served the Lord and when I ministered to people. Now I'm here and I don't need to worry about those things. Not true. Every season brings unique opportunities. Embrace them. The friends that God has placed into your life, your neighbors. All of these things are a part of His purpose. It's not a mistake. You are who you are, you are where you are, and the opportunities in front of you are there. We must open our eyes to the opportunity. Set aside time to pray for our missionaries. We got them up on the board back here. We have our prayer list. We do have them on the on the on our app. And their prayer sheets are updated regularly. Pray for them. Purpose to support missionaries through our local church. I want you to realize something. If every adult in this room decided to increase their missions giving by $5 a month, we could take on two new missionaries. Do you know that? Five bucks. That's it. Five dollars. It's basic math. So if you're doing nothing, then you just get five dollars. That's an improvement, right? If you're doing a hundred bucks, a hundred and five. Whatever. What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to help you realize that the cumulative effort of a church being involved in this is very powerful. We need to take the time to write our missionaries' notes of encouragement. When you read an update, read it. Think about it, pray for them, and then write them a note. I don't mean a long note. I'm just saying thank you for sending your update. I appreciate you sharing such and such I prayed for you this morning and I will continue. Is there anything that you'd like to share with me that I can continue to uphold you in prayer? Every missionary that I have had video calls with this over the last month shared with me lots of things they didn't put in prayer updates. Why is that? Well, because they don't want to put them out there. For security's sake, for whatever reason. But when you have those conversations, you have those interactions, you know more personally how to pray for and uphold these people. We should be viewing them as friends and co-laborers. Invest in the next generation. Do not complain about the people that are younger than you. Contribute to their good. Realize you might have created some of the problems yourself. That's just the truth. When we get frustrated with our kids, like they're doing what we taught them to do many times. Not always. Sometimes they choose their own path, and I know that. That's not always true. Sometimes the things that frustrate us is what we actually taught them, what we patterned in front of them. Let's not complain about those behind them. Let's lift them up. Let's encourage them in the work. They have the energy. They have life ahead of them. Let's pour into them. Let's invest in our peers. Let's invest in our personal growth. We should never reach a place where we feel like we've arrived. Keep growing, keep learning. Lastly, be willing to get involved in specific areas. Tuesday nights, we do Freedom That Lasts. It's a discipleship program. Come on out to it. Bring someone who could use the encouragement. On Friday, there are ladies that meet at our house every single Friday and my wife teaches a Bible study. It's a great time for ladies to connect, encourage one another, and get discipleship. Each month we go to the Baltimore Rescue Mission. We're going to make some changes. When the ladies have their service, the guys are going to stay on the guy's side and get to know the guys. And like the ladies, they stay on the ladies' side and we do our men's service. We're going to make some changes so that The people that go could actually get to know these individuals and invest in their lives. Something I'd love to do if I had the energy and the time is to do college ministry. The truth is that if there's anybody here that says, man, I'd like to be a part of something like that, you come and talk to me. We'll see what we can figure it out. There's a great need for us to reach in the lives of our young people. There are a lot of people with questions, a lot of people that they're looking for answers. The question is, do they find the right answers in those places that Look. There needs to be a presence on our campuses where we're reaching in the lives of people. Let's remember to represent him to the lost. Let's bow for prayer. Before I close, with every head bowed and every eye closed, if you do not know the Lord is your Savior, please don't leave this place without having a conversation. I'm going to give you an opportunity to let me know that. I'm not going to have you stand up. I'm not going to call your name out or anything like that. I just want to know if there's somebody that would like to speak with me. So if that's you, you've never trusted Christ, you have questions, you want to talk to me, can you just quietly lift up your hand so I can see that? Not going to call you out, not gonna embarrass you. I just want to take note of that so that I can speak with you. Anybody at all Might say there's no way in the world I'm raising my hand but I need to talk to you. Okay, well then come talk to me. I'd be very happy to do that. Do not leave this place if you don't know the Lord without talking to someone. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, thank you for the word. A lot to process this morning. A lot of truth that's been unpackaged. Help us not to miss the weight of these truths. Grip our souls with it. Help us to be practical in our response to the Word of God. Stir up a heart today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen