Hope this has been a really good day for you. I think uh you might be walking out of here at the end of the day here. Not uh walking out with a different thought than you would walk out when you thought you'd have walked out at the end of the day when you came in. Uh I think probably when you came in here uh you were thinking, okay, I think I'm gonna get uh some very uh practical stuff that tells me what I shouldn't, where I shouldn't be on social media and different things like that. And uh that wasn't necessarily the intent, okay? To be honest, uh Social media, all this stuff changes so vast, uh so so quickly that uh we couldn't tell you we couldn't give you a list of things of places you shouldn't be or ways you you know, different ways you shouldn't be a part of social media. It changes so quickly. Um, really. And so that's not that and that wouldn wasn't our goal, and I don't and that shouldn't have been intended to be our goal ever, and it wasn't. Our our goal in this day was to really Help you understand the base knowledge of what it takes to guide you as you are the decision maker. You know, sometimes right now You have people making decisions for you. Some of you might say, My parents don't even give me a phone. And that's fine. But as you get older, you're gonna be more and more the decision maker, and you better make these decisions based on the solid knowledge of the truth of God. That's where the decision should be made. That's why we started off at the very beginning of the day with understanding what we're talking about, really what what it looks like to make decisions and and then uh after that uh talking about our heart, okay, and dealing with our hearts in this decision because our heart is the decision maker, the place where these decisions make, but out of the heart proceed all these things. That's what we were talking about. And uh even this session, the last session we have here is really not necessarily talking about social media in and of itself, but really how God intends us for us to think over all. And that really is kind of the kind of the thought there. Psalm chapter 46, verse 46 46, verse 10 says this. This is really how God wants us to be. He tells us, and we can put it on the screen here, he says, be still and know that I am God. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. And we live in a pretty noisy world, do we not? There are a lot of things that clamor for our attention. There are a lot of things that say, hey, look at me. Social media is one of those things. And we as Christians are instructed to be still and know. Know who? Know God. Be still and know that He is God. That He is the one that should be instructing us in every decision we make. He is the one that should be guiding us in everything that we do. He should be the decision maker. Not just we shouldn't be just guided by principles. He should be the one that ultimately has that that decision in all in our lives to do anything that we do. Be still and know that I'm God. We're going to talk about for the next few minutes together. Really, what meditation is. Let's pray and ask God to help us as we look through these truths here a little bit this afternoon. Father, thank you again for your word. Lord, I thank you for giving us this opportunity again. I thank you for the Holy Spirit who guides us in your word. And Lord is uh this is the end of the day and and we are weary from a from a full day of of a lot of uh activity, a lot of thinking, uh, Lord, and I pray you would give us uh one last bit of energy. Uh To really think and dwell on what you would want for us in this session. Lord, help us to walk out of here with a renewed desire and an understanding of how your grace helps us. in our thinking process, Lord. We love you. Thank you again for loving us first. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Um There are a lot of people that we can look to in uh in the past that have been good examples of deep thinking. And I'm under the opinion that you you even as as as many of you how many 12-year-olds out there? Anybody 12? Okay, I've got a couple out there. Uh, you know, and anybody 18 , how many of you eighteen? Okay, a few of you out there. Um, anybody, not just in this age group, but but as we're talking about this age group, twelve, eight, you guys can absolutely think. You guys can really take God's word, allow the Holy Spirit to guide you in absolute truth. If you think, if you if you understand what it means to be renewed in the spirit of remind, we talked about this this morning, understanding the decision-making process. A key component in the decision-making process is As we are choosing not to be conformed to this world, but we are choosing to be transformed, completely different. The only way that happens is by the renewing of your mind. That means you have to think. You have to think. God intends for you to think. That's how He instructs us to live. He wants you to think. Over and over again in Scripture, we are instructed to think. Think about these things. If you walk through life not thinking, you are going to walk through life not successful. Okay? If you don't think just practically in your day-to-day actions , Some bad things could happen. If you're not thinking while you're out, how many of you drive? Okay? Alright. There are some times when I will Uh some of you have been up to the wilds and we have a windy road that goes up to the wilds, uh very windy, especially when you're coming uh from from the south. And uh And it's an extremely windy road for twenty-something miles. It's it's back and forth, it's switchbacks. And sometimes I will drive that road and I'll just be not thinking about anything. And girls are like, How do you do that? Trust me, guys can do it My wife will ask me all the time, what do you think about? I was like, nothing. And she's like, come on, I know you're thinking about something. I was like, no, really, I'm thinking about nothing. There is nothing going through my brain right now Um and sometimes I will drive up that road and I will start. I remember starting on the road and I don't remember anything until I get to the front gate of the wild. I'm like, that's probably not a good thing. Especially with all those switchbacks and different things. And guys, God gave us a brain for a reason. And even as we we talked earlier, as Pastor Joel was talking earlier, our our our our thinking has got to be motivated from our heart, okay? Um, and what we believe. That's where we are. God intends for you to think. So a key component in thinking biblically is meditation. Okay? Now, when we talk about meditation, some of you probably think, that's not what we're talking about, okay? I'm not gonna sit this hey everybody to come out here in the aisle and find a spot, cross your legs Hold up your fingers like this. I don't know exactly how they do it. I don't know. But and then and just go, um I'm sure that helps. I maybe. I don't know. That's not what we're talking about, okay? You guys understand uh when we're talking about meditation. There were a lot of people back at olden times that really um thought deeply. about about scripture. Um one illustration. It was not easy for Mr. Taylor in his candle uh in his changeful life to make time for prayer and Bible study. This is an illustration that I wrote down. But he knew that it was vital. And well do the writers remember travelling with him month after month in northern no child we'll talk about Hudson Taylor in northern China by cart and wheelbarrow with the poorest of ends at night. That's where they stayed. Often in only one large room to share, they would screen off a corner for Hudson Taylor and basically another corner for themselves and with with they would screen him off the curtains and then after sleep at last had brought a measure of quiet they would hear a match struck and see the flicker of a candlelight which told them that Hudson Taylor, Mr. Taylor, however weary he was was pouring over the little Bible that he had at hand. And from 2 o'clock to 4 a. m. that was his time he usually gave to prayer and just to meditation of the word. Um that's cause he knew he could be undisturbed uh at a time to be able to wait upon God Now, I am not here to say that you should, in a practical way, go out from two o'clock to four o'clock every morning and sit and meditate on scripture. Okay, that's not what I'm here to say. But these guys took the opportunities they had, and I can give you illustration after illustration of guys back then that thought so deeply about Scripture. Why is it they thought so deeply about Scripture? Well guys, it wasn't the fact that they were just necessarily spiritual giants. Therefore, they meditated on scripture. Guys , They meditated on scripture that made them spiritual giants. Guys, when I say guys, I'm talking about the girls as well. Okay. Guys, you can be a spiritual giant. And I want to even want to take it one step further. You should be pursuing that. But the only way you're going to do that Is to think. And the only way to think about Scripture is through meditation. One truth that really binds all these men together that I could give you illustrations of I'm not going to give you a lot of illustrations, but one thing that binds them together is that they were deep. In their spiritual thinking, because they and that led to depth in their spiritual lives. And the truth is that only happened because they were meditating on scripture What is meditation? It is really it's digesting mentally the Word of God. That's meditation. Process of meditation, we put this on the screen. Meditation brings illumination, which brings righteousness. Okay? If it's really enacted upon by the Holy Spirit, if we listen to the Holy Spirit and allow it to work in our lives, it makes us, it helps us become right in our daily lives. Meditation connects believers to God. Meditation is grasping a truth from God and not letting go of it. Meditation transforms mere truth that we would get, and it transforms it into righteous living by the use of the Holy Spirit. It takes what would be referred to as like the Bible trivia and turns it into a holy life before God. Sometimes we wonder why we aren't growing as Christians, and we wonder why the sins that we've always had or the sins we still battle today is because we don't dwell on God. And that's because meditation is a lost art. Why is it a lost art? I think, and I really believe this, we are being conditioned to not think. We are being conditioned to not sink. We live in an on-demand world We have been trained to want the immediate and the fastest thing. What are some of those things out there that uh as you guys are, I think it's up there that are writing. What are some of those things out there that are like on demand? We live in a Jetson world. I remember watching this when I was a kid. Remember the Jetsons? I I remember watching the Jetsons when I was a kid. I was like, boy, how cool would that be? So you could take a turkey and you could put it in something and then eight minutes later you have a cooked meal. We live there! I just bought my wife, because it was on deal, an Instapot. You can take you can go out, run over a turkey, put it in the Instapot, and you've got Thanksgiving meal like in eight minutes. It's amazing. Uh what are some of those other things? Yeah. Like there's a new phone every thirty seconds. Yeah, there is a new phone every thirty seconds, it seems. And I don't think he's exaggerating. I think we've had seventeen new phones come out just in the amount of time we've been here today. Okay. What else? Yeah. Amazon. How does that even happen? I can order something from Budapest and it's in my living room the next day. I don't understand. And it's it we are living in that type of a world. Fast food. That's not a great thing, okay, for us, but it's a wonderful thing. I mean, seriously, we could this is where we live New cars. You can really go out and get one if you have the money. Music, yeah. If you if you hear something you like, you can go and you can get it right away. There's all kinds of these illustrations, okay? We live In a world that is on demand. And social media is allowing us to go to this source right away. Guys. I remember I grew up in a time when when we actually used the word these words, I'm bored. I don't hear that anymore as well as much. Because there's nothing you can you can pull out your phone and not be bored anymore. I can literally I can pull out my phone, I can watch anything that I want at any time. And not be bored. I can kill two hours in a in a in a very easy amount of time. We are being conditioned To not think. Satan is very subtle in this. I don't like to give him credit, but I think he knows what he's doing. And if he can condition us to not think, guess what? We won't. And I think that is one of the major dangers with social media. Because you can scroll and scroll and scroll and scroll and talk and and and and and do all these things and it conditions us to not think. We live in an instant everything. Instant potatoes, instant grits, instant coffee. We can get things instantly with our phones. We can cook things instantly with microwaves. Instant things have their place, but I'm telling you this, not in Bible study. Because God is not about giving us the next, okay, you know, maybe meditation isn't working anymore. Now I'll just give it to you instantly. No. God wants us to think. And I really want to talk about this because it's God's intent for us to thank, and thanking comes through the meditation process. God's design for spiritual growth, okay? For you and and me to grow spiritually This is the process. Spiritual growth comes from being illumined by the Holy Spirit. Illumination comes from meditation, and meditation comes from thinking on scripture So there's the process. God intends for us to go to the Word of God. And that's why when I'm talking to teenagers. And I I I talk to uh teenagers a lot of times in in different areas of their spiritual growth. And a lot of times they're like, I have never done, I've never spent time in God's word. And I will tell you, listen, start with just 10 minutes. Just 10 minutes in the morning. I'm going to challenge you guys. If you're not accustomed to being in the Word, I want you to start tomorrow morning. I'm challenging you to start tomorrow morning. Just give it 10 minutes, okay? But I don't want you to go and just be like, okay, I'll just read a passage and I'll take 10 minutes and I'll be done. Guys, no. Ten minutes of deep thought. Okay? I'm not asking you to start off with an hour and a half like Hudson Taylor or these other guys for two hours and just think just ten minutes, but the but the the the condition here is it's got to be deep. And God will take that 10 minutes and he will teach you something of himself. Okay? If you think deeply. I'm confident in this. So just take 10 minutes and think deeply. Why is it that we don't meditate on God? There are a number of different reasons. Superficiality. It's really the curse of our modern times. We're very superficial in our conversation. We don't go deep anywhere. Um, we could talk a long time about that. And God intends for us to go deep. Instant satisfaction is a spiritual problem in Christians. One of the greatest needs in Christianity today is not for a greater number of intelligent people. Or gifted people. It's a greater number of deep people. Guys, my challenge to you is to go deep. Really think. I'm not necessarily asking you to go, okay, I've got to study the Greek nuances of all these words and exactly how it breaks down and works back together. I'm not talking about that. When I'm talking about depth, I'm challenging you to think. We are being conditioned not to think. And let me tell you this. If you take this challenge, you're like, okay, I'm going to try this If you take this challenge, be warned. Be warned. It's not gonna be easy. Why? Because you're conditioned to not think. And if 10 minutes is too long, okay, five minutes. Just start there. Take five minutes. Remove all distractions. Okay? And think. That's my challenge to you. And as you're thinking, write down a couple things that you thought about. Take a go to a passage of scripture. Maybe the one of the ones that we discussed. We went through a lot of passages of scripture. Maybe Romans 12, 1 and 2, or Proverbs 4 that Pastor Joel went to are different ones. Go there. Take five minutes or ten minutes and stop and say, okay, there's no distractions. I'm here. I'm focused. I want to challenge you. Don't do it laying on your bed. Because you will fall asleep. Okay? There's no way you can be focused, even if you're intent. Okay, Proverbs 1 That's where you're going to go. I promise you this. I challenge you to and don't sit on your couch. It's too comfy until you get conditioned for this, okay? Sit at a table. Just five minutes. Tomorrow morning. Five minutes. Get in the word and think. Don't be superficial. Don't be another another reason we don't we don't meditate is passivity. We think, oh, I'm not smart enough. So many people think I could never get that out of God's word. Absolutely, you can. Guys, okay, Romans 12, 1 and 2. This morning, you go back. That was a long time ago, right? Go back. Did you get that passage? Did you get it? For the most part? You know what? You could have gotten everything that we talked about this morning right out of that passage if you just thought. Go back to it, okay? Think about it. I beseech ye. What does that word mean? Beseech. Yeah. To strongly ask. Yes, to strongly ask. Good. How old are you? You're twelve? Okay, you're probably like an eighteen year old and a twelve-year-old body, but that's fine. Okay, I've I've learned that from you this this day. But he's twelve years old, okay? I'm not using that as a as a but he's young. But he just got that right, strongly asked. Paul is saying, I'm begging you, I'm strongly asking you to do what By the mercies of God. What are the mercies of God? Somebody else. What are the mercies of God? Okay, that's one. There's a lot of mercies of God, right? There's a lot of things you can do. Okay, just stop and think. What are the mercies of God? What has God given me in his mercy? Okay? By the mercy of God, that you do what? Yeah? Present our bodies a living sacrifice. What does that mean? Well, it means to basically put on the altar the things that we wanted and express Simplify it just a little bit. Okay. Instead of putting my desire to do the things that I used to, I changed my life, I changed my desire Desires to fit what God wants me to give. You're exactly right, but you can even simplify it even more. I'm yours. I'm yours. God, I'm yours. You're exactly right. And you were going you were going well. That was good. That was good thinking. I'm not taking that away at all. That was great. He's basically just treating it as an altar. This is what I I'm yours. That's what he was saying, basically. So there I present so and I'm I'm doing this little this illustration because I want you to know you can think. Okay? Because sometimes we think we can't. We're passive about it And so present your body as a living sacrifice. What else? What's the next thought there? I'm going to go with somebody, somebody who hasn't. Someone has broadened wealth here. You got you keep yeah. What is that referring to? But specifically in the passage, what is that whole and acceptable we're referring to? The type of what? This type of sacrifice. Yep. It's a holy and acceptable to God sacrifice. And then you start thinking, okay, which is your reasonable service? Whose reasonable service? Mine. Why is it my reasonable service? Why would it be your reasonable service? Okay? These are all things that you can think through. So I'm presenting myself. Guys, I all I did that for, and we could we could keep going, but we're on time. is to show that you absolutely can't think. And you must think. Because that's God's intent. Reasons we don't think, superficiality, passivity, laziness. Bottom line, I just don't feel like it. That right there is going to take a little bit of discipline. And if you know you're a lazy person in this, then get accountability. Go to your mom or your dad and say, Mom, dad, I want to spend solid five minutes in God's Word tomorrow morning. And I'm challenging you this. So go to your mom and dad. And they'll check it and make sure you don't have COVID. And then they will say then say this, can you get me out of bed? Oh man, I've tried that so many times. No, I really want to. I can't drag me out of bed. Do whatever it takes Okay, mom, dad, I really want to do this. Pull me out of bed. I I want. Yeah, laziness is something you have to overcome. Okay, and that takes discipline. But sometimes to help us get over to overcome that, we really need strong accountability in this, okay? So laziness. Another thing is distractions Amusements. John Owen said this. Many cannot meditate because their mind is so cluttered up with earthly things. The mind must be spiritual and holy, freed from all earthly clutter. It must be raised above things here below if we wish to meditate on the glory of Christ. So many are strangers to this earthly duty because they do not mortify their earthly desires and their concerns. That's pretty deep right there. Bottom line, he's saying this: we're so consumed and focused on earthly things, social media being one of those, that we don't condition ourselves to think. Visual entertainment. I've heard it said so many times, you know, sometimes I just want to go watch something because I just want to go veg. Vegging is basically the suspension of critical thinking. It's a very dangerous thing to do when you're on social media or any other kind of entertainment. There's so much psychology that goes into this as well. Actually, it's profitable for you to actually read the written word. We could talk about that as well. Guys. Really, the goal for these thoughts, and the thoughts we're going to finish up with here in just a couple minutes, is for us to have more of a thirst and a desire to meditate on God. God desires for us to think. No, let me back it up a little bit. God desires for us to grow, to be more like Him. That doesn't just happen by, hey, I'm going to make this decision. Spiritual growth doesn't just happen from making a decision. Okay? Spiritual growth happens. When the Holy Spirit uses God's word in our lives. God's word is used in our lives. when we stop and we think or when we meditate. The only way we meditate is when we stop and think. Okay? So walking through that process in the other direction. Stop, think. Meditate. The Holy Spirit takes that and illumines this truth to your heart, and then you start to change. And those are real changes. I have made many decisions in my life because I don't like the way I was. I didn't like the guilt of sin. I didn't like the thought of it. I just didn't like like that. But I didn't change. I didn't really start changing in my spiritual life until I started meditating on scripture. Because God took that and the Holy Spirit illumined it to my heart. You know what the word illumination means? It means to turn the light on. It's a pretty easy thing to be able to see in a dark room once you turn a light on, right? That's one thing about about uh technology that's good because everybody has a light flashlight on with them now. That's good. That's positive. Because you can see where you're going. That's what you if you're just reading this and not thinking, you're not seeing where you're going. It takes the Holy Spirit turning the light on to illumine this to your heart. Let me walk through some principles of meditation just real quickly. Okay. And matter of fact, I'm going to give these to you, but I'm going to actually turn these over to you. Maybe these can be your your points of Meditation going forward from here for the next few days. Let me challenge you in that. Okay? What are some of the principles of meditation? Principle number one: biblical meditation brings happiness. Where do we see this? Psalm chapter 1. You're probably thinking, wait a second, Willie, I don't think being happy should motivate me wanting to meditate on God's Word. Well, I think we need to understand happiness. It's not just a continual state of bliss because we are happy with our circumstances. That's how the world rates happiness. I'm happy with my circumstances. The happiness that we're talking about here is a satisfaction and the contentment in God. Psalm chapter 1. We see this, blessed, that word blessed means happy. Blessed is the man that doesn't do these things. That walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the sea of the scornful. Guys, you can try that all you want, and you're not going to be happy. Happy is the man that doesn't do these things. But what does the happy man do? Okay? But his delight, verse 2, is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he what? Day and night. And then it goes through the process of what that guy, what happens in that person's life who's meditating. When you were meditating on God's word, what we're already talking about, guess what? You were going to be like a tree. Not just a normal tree, but one that is planted by rivers of water. If you've ever flown before out west. And you look out the window, you can look down, you can see exactly where the rivers are, even though you're 30,000 feet in the air. Why? Because you see green strands. Why are they green? Because there's water there. Everything else is desert. There's water there. And whatever's right beside that river of living right beside that river is causing that thing to flourish. Guys, is how the word of God is. When you plant yourself by rivers of living water, what's going to happen? You shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. There's so much solid truth in there. I don't have time to dive into that. That's an incredible passage of scripture right there that teaches us how we live in this life. The only way you can really truly floor flourish in this life and prosper in this life, which we'll talk about in just a second, is by planting yourself by living rivers of living water. But this brings happiness, and what we're talking about is not just bliss in every situation, it is a solid contentment in every situation. Even though, guys, there will be hard things that come. But if we are planted by the rivers of living water, if we are meditating and solidly and drinking in the truth of Scripture, Guess what? When hard things come, which they will, you can be happy. And I'm not talking about bouncing off the walls happy. It's a solid, joyful contentment. Because the truth of God's word is living through you by the means of the Holy Spirit. That's what we're talking about, happiness in this Psalm chapter 1. So much more we could discuss. The principle number two, biblical meditation brings godly success. So what we see in this passage right here. Whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Joshua chapter one, verse eight. Let me just turn there. Joshua 1:8 says, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. Okay? And basically he's saying that the book of the Lord, the word of God, should not leave you, shall not depart out thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therewith, then, after you're doing all these things, what's going to happen? Then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Saying when you're really thriving in God's word, then you're going to prosper. Then you're going to have godly success. Now we have to understand what godly success is. It doesn't just mean you're going to have the best paying job, okay? It doesn't mean you're just gonna just go and you're gonna find uh the best thing. What does prospering really mean? Let me read what one commentator said about Psalm chapter 1. It means it's always healthy. When this tree is planted by rivers of living water, it is extending its roots. And increasing its woody fibers, circulating its nutrients and nutritive juices, its putting forth buds, its blossoming, its leaves and its fruits not withering. All of those type of operations go into a healthy tree in the proper season. So the godly man He is ever taking deeper root, growing stronger in the grace he has already received, increasing in heavenly desires, and under that continual influence of the divine Holy Spirit. forming those purposes which m which uh much fruits of the glory of God and praise of God should be produced. So what are we talking about here? Prospering is The fact that you are bringing godly fruit out by the Holy Spirit in your life. That's what it means to prosper. That's what it means to have good success. And when we understand God, understand who he is, that brings godly success. We see that over and over and over again in Scripture. So, and again, I am I am just touching the surface on all of these thoughts, okay? I want you to ch I want to challenge you to kind of go to these passages And find this yourself. So biblical meditation brings happiness. Biblical meditation brings godly success. Biblical meditation brings satisfaction in God. We see that in Psalm 63, verses 1 through 8. Write that down. Write that passage out for you to go to. Satisfaction comes through meditation on God's word. And let me say this. Your goal should not be, and I really want you to get this, okay? Your goal should not be that you are satisfied. Okay? That makes it hedonistic, which means man-centered When we're talking about satisfaction in God, we're not talking about so you will be satisfied, although that's what happens. It means that you realize that nothing else will, other than God. God is the only one that can satisfy everything. We're not looking at it so I'm satisfied, but we've got to come to the realization that I stop looking anywhere else. Only God satisfies, and that only happens. Again, this is in Psalm 63, 1 through 8. I want you to go there. We're not going to go there now because we've got to be done here. I love that passage because it's such a deep passage. You've got to go there. Principle, next principle: biblical meditation requires thinking on the right thing. Where do we see this? Philippians chapter 4, verse 8. Finally, brethren , He says this, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of Give it a fork If there be any virtuous things that are virtuous, if there be any praise, things that are praiseworthy, what do we do? Think on those things. Those are the things that we dwell on, not how many likes I have on Facebook. Those are the things I dwell on, not on other pursuits that this world tells me are important. These are the things. Again, I just read these. I want to challenge you. That's why the Word of God is so expansive. You'll never stop studying it. You could go to this passage and just take breakdown ever just think about every single one of those words in your time in the Word. And I'm going to challenge you again tomorrow morning. Maybe take Philippians chapter 4 verse 8. Okay, and just think about this thought. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, and just write down ten thoughts on what truth really is. Those are the things you think on. And you're going to find that five minutes is not going to be enough eventually. So biblical meditation requires thinking on the right thing. Those things that are listed in Philippians 4:8. Number five, biblical meditation requires concentration and continuation. I want you to, as we close, I want you to turn to James chapter 1. This is kind of the requirement of Of what it looks like to really dwell on Scripture. James chapter 1, verse 21 says this. Follow along. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness. Okay, so he's telling us what the lay apart and superfluity of naughtiness. What does that mean? Study it out. It's actually a really Really deep word there. So lay aside those things. Lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness. Okay? And basically it's kind of what we're talking about: these these things that really aren't important. Okay? And we're talking about social media today. Lay aside these things, okay? Lay apart all filthiness, lay apart superfluitive naughtiness, and what do we do? And we receive We could talk about what that word receive means. How do we receive it? With meekness. Think about what that word meekness means. What do we receive with meekness? The engrafted word, the word of God which is able to save your soul. And then he goes on, but be doers of the word. Okay, really, really focus here if we're almost done. Be doers of the word, not just hearers. When you do that, you're just deceiving your own self. For if anybody be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man beholding his natural face in a glass. For beholdeth himself and goeth away, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. So it's like a man that's looking into a mirror, and he looks okay, yeah, I'm all right, and he walks away and he forgets that he's got blemishes. Really think about this passage. And then he says this, and then we're talking about meditation. But verse 25, but whoso Looketh into the perfect law of liberty, God's word, and continueth therein. So there's two thoughts here. Number one is concentration. Whoso looketh, that word looketh, okay, means to lean over and to peer intently into. It has the idea of really looking looking deeply into something, not just a passive look. When somebody is looking deeply into something, really trying to understand it. Have you ever worked on anything with small parts You can't just hold it down here and think you got it. No. The best way to do it is looking closely, getting a flashlight, and really, really seeing clearly what's there. That's what this word means It's a deep concentration. Whoso looketh with deep concentration into the perfect law of liberty. And continueth therein. What does that continueth therein mean? How long is this? How long are we supposed to continue there? Well, until you get it. For whosoever looketh into the perfect law of liberty and continueth therein, till how long? Till you're not a forgetful hearer, but you're a doer of what you hear. That's how long you look. So you continue to study that until you actually get it. And how do we get it? The Holy Spirit illumines our hearts. You will be a doer of the word Without the illumination of the Holy Spirit, theological truth from what we see in Scripture is information, and nothing more. But if you will look, concentrate on Scripture, and you stay there. You will find yourself understanding the truth of the Word of God, and you won't be a forgetful hearer. You'll be a doer of what you hear. Why? Because the Holy Spirit is guiding you. The Holy Spirit is teaching you. Guys, do you desire to be a spiritual giant? Not because you want people to view you that way, but because you want to be close to God. The world knew its spiritual giants in the generations past. And in every case, They were men and women who took God seriously. They spent much time in his word. They spoke often with their Lord Himself. And as one man said, spiritual giants would once again walk the earth if we would do the same. You can be a spiritual giant. But what does it take? It takes setting this thing down. And getting into the Bible and continuing therein. And you will not be a forgetful hearer, but you will find yourself doing what you hear. That's change. I have not, I've hardly mentioned social media at all during this session. I don't need to, because there are principles that undergird how we use it. God is intending for us to grow. God is intending for you to change spiritually. It's not an overnight thing. It is a progressive thing. It happens through the course of time, through our life. You will continue to grow. But the only way you're going to grow is by meditating on the truth of Scripture. There is a direct correlation between how fast you grow and how much time you spend deeply concentrating on Scripture. The only way you're going to grow is to think. And when you think, the only way you can think, really, and you think. by meditating, not this, but stopping and just reading and paying attention to scripture. We're being conditioned not to think. That is the warning. The challenge is to go think. And as you get out there and you get in your vehicles to head home, some of you have a little bit of a drive. Guys, put your phones away. There are real life people sitting six feet away from you. Talk to them. Ask them some questions. Find out how they're doing. Find out what they what the Lord taught them today. Just do that type of thing and you will find yourself. It'll be such a profitable thing. It's refreshing, honestly I hope this day has been good for you. I hope you understand a little more of the truth of the undergirding, the foundation for how we as Christians make decisions and how we as Christians use Even some of the things that could be dangerous in this life. And God will cause you to grow. He intends for you too. All right, Pastor Joel?