Let's turn together to the book of First Corinthians, and we are in First Corinthians chapter eight. And if you remember last week, the way that we were handling Uh this topic we're as we're actually going to be dealing with some introductory thoughts before we actually work our way through the pieces of this text of scripture. And that is because of how sensitive and how important this topic of the conscience is. And so I'm going to go ahead and read the text for you. Just kind of remind you some of the basics of what we talked about last week. Then we're going to keep working our way through this passage and this concept. Here's what the scriptures say. 1 Corinthians chapter 8 verse 1. Now, as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth. If any man think that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing, yet as he ought to know. But if any man love God, the same is known of him. As concerning, therefore, the eating of these things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world. And that there is none other God but one. For though there be that those that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth As there be God's many and Lord's many, but to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in Him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by Him. How be it, there is not in every man that knowledge. For some with conscience of the idol unto this hour eat it as a thing offered unto an idol, and their conscience Being weak is defiled. But meat commendeth us not to God. For neither if we eat are we any better, neither if we eat not are we any worse. But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. For if any man sees thee, which hath knowledge, sit at meet at the idol temple, Shall not the conscience of him that is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols? And though and through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ died. But when ye sin so against the brethren and wound their conscience, ye sin against Christ. Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will not eat flesh. While the world standeth, lest I make my brother to be offended. So last week we talked about kind of the basic Focus of the text in front of us. And that is the issue of the conscience. And we see this in verses 1 and 7 and 8, 9, and 13. For instance, it says We all have knowledge, but knowledge puffeth up. This is how our conscience is informed. That's what he means by knowledge. Or verse 7, there is not in every man this knowledge, the knowledge that informs the conscience. Verse 7, their conscience, being weak, is defiled. Meat commendeth us not to God. This is talking about our conscience and how we think before God. Verse 9, take heed lest by any means you take this liberty of yours. becoming a stumbling block to them that are weak. And then in verse 13, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. And so this whole section is about conscience issues, a very specific conscience issue, but there are a lot of different principles that are going to be laid out in this passage of Scripture to help us to understand how to think about conscience. And so last week we addressed the first question of the ones that we're going to address in this introduction, and that is what is the conscience? And the definition that I gave you. was that the conscience is our internal moral sense that is a part of who we are because we are creating God's image. It accuses us and disrupts our internal peace when we have acted against what we believe to be morally right. We expanded a little bit further and said, as corrupt as our heart is, by the fall, we still have this sense. And this sense is something that we cannot escape without severely damaging uh that that conscience by repeatedly suppressing it. And so that's where we started last week. What is the conscience? I'd like to move on to question number two this evening and that is, how does the conscience work? This is a really interesting question for us to consider, and it's very important that we understand what's going on inside of us and why we have these internal struggles because it helps us to know how to relate properly to our conscience. The passage I want to ch want to ask you to turn to is Romans chapter 8. And in fact, if we want to look at this topic of conscience, we should really look at chapter 7 and a lot of the things that he says at the end of chapter 7. And then move our way into chapter 8. But I'm going to focus primarily on chapter 8 and kind of refer back to chapter 7 a little bit. How exactly does the conscience work? Notice what it says in Romans 8, verse 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Now that statement, no condemnation, means that when a person becomes a Christian, they are now in Christ and they are safe, they are secure, they are forgiven, they're no longer under God's wrath or judgment. Now that next little statement that says, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit, is actually mentioned twice in this text. And that statement is not meant to say, well, it's only true that those who are in Christ are not condemned if they do these things or don't do these things. That's not what he's saying. But what he's rather suggesting is that the one who is in Christ, the one who is not condemned, is a person who has a certain quality in the way that they relate to God and this issue of God's law and their conscience. And the reason that we know that's what he's saying is because as we work our way through chapter 8, he makes it extremely clear that all believers are secured in Christ. In fact, it's not just chapter 8, but really if we go all the way back to chapter 5, that entire section is meant to build that particular concept. But then when we get into chapter 8, particularly the verses that we're going to look at this evening, we're going to notice that what his focus is in, focus in Focus is in on is the fact that the believer's relationship to sin radically changes because he has a new disposition. That's very important for us to understand when it comes to this issue of conscience. So let's work our way through what he says here. He says, for, here's kind of the explanation as to why the one who is in Christ, who is not condemned, does not walk after the flesh, but rather walks after the spirit. Spirit, what is the reason for this change of walk? It's not that he's trying to keep his salvation. It's not that he's trying to earn his salvation. It's not that he's trying to impress God It's that there is something fundamental that has changed in the heart of this person when he became a believer. Here's what it says. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made us free from the law of sin and death. Don't miss what he's saying. The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made us free from the law of sin and death. Now when we think of the word law, we tend to think of something as a series of rules. That we are supposed to obey. And in fact, that is typically how it is used. And so sometimes in the book of Romans, he uses the term law in a general sense, and sometimes he uses it in a particular sense. For instance, the law could be referring to the Mosaic Law. But when he talks about law in general, we have to look at the context and figure out, is he talking about Mosaic law or is he talking about law in a general sense? Well, this is actually a different use or understanding of the word law. And if you want to see how we understand that, go back to chapter 7 and look down in these verses, verses 19. I'll actually start in verses 18 and moving down. He says, I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. Anybody ever been in this position? You know what is right You desire to do it, but then you fail. Okay? So that's what he's saying. He says, for the good that I would or I desire to do, that is there, but evil which I would not, that's what I actually do. Now, if I do that which I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. Why do people sin when they know it is right? And in fact, they desire to do right, but they follow a path of wrong. It's because of that fleshly nature inside of us. And so there's this battle, there's this struggle that's going on on the conscience level. He then goes on to say this, I delight in the law of God after the inner man, but I see another law in my members. warring against the law of my mind and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. And so when Paul uses the word law in this context, he's not talking about the Mosaic Law. He's not talking about the law in general, as in God's moral law. He's talking about a principle that governs the heart of a person. And so when he talks about this law of Sin, he's saying that the unbeliever is a person who has this principle that dominates them, that pushes them in a direction to do something that in fact God says is wrong. And then when a person becomes a Christian, there is a new nature that they receive. That's what we mean when we say a person is born again, they are regenerated. When we talk of salvation, we talk about it as new life in Christ. The person who is spiritually dead is now spiritually alive. The Holy Spirit indwells them. And now there is a new principle that is governing the heart. Now that doesn't mean that this person doesn't struggle with sin, but there's something that is fundamentally changed within them where it once was the law governing them, what was driving them, was the flesh. And now, as a new creature in Christ, they still struggle in the flesh. It's really going to be laid out in these verses, but now they have the Spirit of God and this new nature that is a new source of desire. And so there's an internal conflict between what is right and what is wrong in the heart of the believer. So when he uses this word, law of the spirit of life in Christ versus the law of sin and death. He's using it in that sense of principle, a governing principle. Two competing desires. He's saying you have been rescued from that domination of the flesh so that you can now be guided by a new principle, the law of the spirit of life in Christ. I don't know if that makes sense. And so when a person becomes a Christian now, there's a new path in front of them that they can walk in a way that they could not before. And he's going to lay this out even more. He goes on to say this, for what the law could not do, and that it was weak to the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemns sin in the flesh. I actually think this is one of the greatest verses in all of Scripture with helping us to understand why it is absolutely impossible for a person to become a Christian through the law. Okay? We go to Romans chapter 3, and Romans chapter 3 says we conclude that a man is justified by faith. Without the deeds of the law, we conclude that by the works of the law no flesh is justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. And here in Romans chapter 8 he says, the law can't do it because we are fleshly people. So when the law says don't do it, and I know I'm not supposed to do it, I don't have the power to not do it Because I am dominated by my flesh. And so he's saying it's impossible for someone who's not a Christian to obey God's laws. And that's why it was so important that Christ came and dealt with our sin on the cross. If he left us to ourselves, we would wallow in our sin for all of eternity. But what does Christ do? He comes, and it says, He came in the flesh, and he condemned sin in the flesh. That's what he did on the cross. He dealt with it once and for all. And then here's the part that's very, very pertinent to his discussion on this principle. So that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Did you catch that? So one of the reasons God saved us wasn't just to give us fire insurance. Okay? He saved us so that we'll actually walk in obedience to him. Okay? So when a person places their faith in Christ, it's by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. It is in no way the result of our works. But real life in Christ. produces a change in the life of the person. Why is that? Because of this new principle in the heart. And so it says that God saved us so that we will walk in conformity to his purposes. And he connects that to they walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Now, where did the change take place? It took place in the heart. It takes place on the conscience level. That's what we're talking about. He then goes on further to say, to be carnally minded is death, to be spiritually minded is life in peace. The carnal mind is enmity against God. not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You're not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, as to be that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. So these are very important truths for us to understand. When we talk about how the conscience works, what we need to recognize is that the conscience works By the Spirit of God working on us, or the law of God working on us, and God uses the law of God to open our eyes to our lost condition. And so let me kind of break it down this way. When we talk about the conscience, We need to understand that who we are as people on the inner man has three aspects. There is the thinking side of who we are. There is the emotional side of who we are, and there's the will. I'll put it like this: thinking is what you believe, your worldview. What a person believes affects everything. When what I believe is true and sound and consistent with what God has revealed , It changes everything. And when my thinking is completely upside down and contrary to God's purposes and his will, guess what? It turns everything upside down. But it's not just how we think. It's how what we think affects our emotions. In fact, the mind should drive our emotions, not the other way around. Many times our emotions do drive us, okay? But but there's this connection between the two of them, how we think and how we feel. They're connected to one another. And then there's the third side, and that is our will, what we choose to do. And so we make choices based on number one, what do I think is right? Number two, what do I feel I want to do? And number three, I'm just going to go ahead and make my decision to do that. This is where the conscience begins. In the inner man, these interconnected pieces of who we are, our minds, our emotions, our will, is all a part of this. And what we see in Romans chapter 8 is that in our natural state, while we do have this moral sense, we also have a conscience that is affected by the fall. Now, when I say affected by the fall, what I mean is this. We know there's moral right and wrong. And that moral right and wrong that we understand, in fact, there is a reflection of our Creator in that and what He has put into us. But what's also true is you see the rebellion against God there in our hearts. And you see this when it comes to how people relate to God. In our natural state, Our thinking affections are led by our fallen nature. And he talks about this in verses five and seven. They that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. Verse 7, the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be, so that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. What's that showing you? That the conscience of an unbeliever While it is there, it is contrary to God. And if you go back to the Romans 1 passage, the one we talked about last week, that when people have the truth, they hold the truth in unrighteousness. Literally Because of that bent against what God says is right and wrong, what do we do? We push it away. We don't want to think about it. By the way, let me add this. You know what God does? He brings the Word of God to us and he shows us his law and the Spirit of God convicts us of sin, righteousness, and judgment. So it's not as if a person in their natural state can't be convicted and drawn to the Lord, but what you do see is that there is this rebellion against God in the heart. And that's reflected here in these verses. But then we see the other side. This is the new creature in Christ. I pray everybody in here, right? We place our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We are new creatures in Christ. The Holy Spirit indwells us. What happens in the conscience of the believer? Our thinking can be renewed and our affections can flow from one of two sources. Either the old nature of the flesh or the work of the Spirit of God in our heart. Notice how he puts it in verses 1, 2, and 3 Them which are in Christ, they walk not after the flesh, but rather after the Spirit Verse 2, the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made us free from the law of sin and death. Chapter verses 3 and 4. God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh And for sin condemn sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Verse 6, to be carnally minded is death, spiritually minded is life and peace. And I love verse 9. Ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the spirit of God dwell in you. Now why is that last statement so important? If you're a Christian, you have the Spirit. I don't mean you always live like it. I don't always live like it. There is that struggle inside of us, but we have the Spirit of God inside of us, and He convicts us And he encourages us and he uplifts us and he directs us. And if we will take the word of God and put it into our hearts, we're going to talk about this uh later on in this discussion. We will be transformed through the renewing of our minds. And that is something that God does in our hearts. Transformation by the renewing of the mind. So how would I summarize all this? Let me give you these statements. What we see here is that everybody, whether you're lost or whether you're a Christian, you have a moral sense. Everybody has a conscience. When the choices we make are consistent with that moral sense of right and wrong, we experience peace. And the opposite is true when we desire something that we know is wrong. Or we choose to do what we know is wrong. All of a sudden that peace is broken and we have internal conflict and we feel the sense of condemnation and shame. Why is that? Well, because we have a conscience And so it kind of makes sense here, since this is true, not if it's true, it is true. Since it is true, it makes sense. That we would want to make sure number one, our conscience is thoroughly scriptural. And number two, we are not violating our conscience by the choices we make. Doesn't that totally make sense? I want my conscience to be thoroughly scriptural, and number two, I don't want to violate my conscience in the choices that I make. Now, if I'm not violating my conscience, but it's not scriptural, that's not really a good thing. Okay. If I have a scriptural conscience as been well informed, but I'm ignoring it, that's not okay too. And this passage is going to address that. Thirdly, the Holy Spirit works on our conscience by pressing the truth of Scripture into our minds, awaking us to the significance and the weight of these truths. And our affections, our emotions, they're going to flow out of what God is doing in our heart. I'll say it like this. When we talk about illumination of the Word of God, what we're basically saying is this. That when a Christian opens the Bible and they read the scriptures and they thoroughly study the scriptures and they understand Intellectually, what the Word of God is saying in its context. I'm not talking about some spooky mystical thing where somehow we get zapped with this, you know, private revelation about what a text is saying. We're not talking about that at all. What it says is what it means. The words have a context and the words have a meaning. But when we understand it intellectually, the Spirit of God takes the word of God and he presses it into our soul. And he moves us. It's like when I'm sitting in a service and I hear a sermon and all of a sudden I feel the weight of my conscience Or I feel the uplifting and a desire to express worship and praise to God. I'm going to experience those things as the Spirit of God takes his word impresses it into my heart and I understand thoroughly what exactly he means. And I'm thinking about it in very specific terms. Here's what I'm supposed to do, or here's what I'm not supposed to do. This is what God does. This is how He works in our conscience. Third question. I think we kind of already answered this, but I'm going to still pose it and I'm going to work through it. Is our conscience an infallible guide? Somebody goes, of course not. Well, Jimmy Cricket thinks it is. Always let your conscience be your guide. Is that scriptural? Absolutely not. How do we know that? Well, let's look at a couple of scriptures here. Romans chapter 2, verse number 11. He says the following. When the Gentiles which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law, or a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts. Their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another. Now when you see the statement there, what you see is that that that Paul is basically saying everybody has a moral sense. But that is a very general statement. Because if I was to go to a passage like Ephesians chapter 2, he's going to say this. He says, You at the quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, in times past you walked according to the course of this world. According to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now works in the children of disobedience. In times past we had uh we fulfilled the lusts of the flesh and of the mind, and we were by nature the children of wrath. So you see these two concepts side by side. You see there's a moral sense, but you also see that there's a brokenness. Those two things are side by side. You know what that tells you? In every culture, you can see the evidence that people are image bearers because they have a conscience. And in every culture, you can see where the conscience has been twisted and warped. By a common mentality that people ignore. And you know what's what's interesting, having lived overseas, is that there are things about American society that where I served overseas People look at Americans and go, I can't believe that you guys think that's okay. And then we look over there and we'd see things that were going, we're like, we can't believe you guys think this is okay. Why is that? Because everybody twists their conscience in different ways. Everybody does. No exceptions. We all do it. So the Bible talks about different kinds of consciences. It's there, but is it healthy? Is it vibrant? Is it biblical? Well we'll notice some of the things that are stated here. For instance, we have a description of the unbelieving conscience. Acts 28. Listen to what it says. The heart of this people is waxed gross. What does that mean? It's become very heavy. It doesn't listen. Their ears are dull of hearing. Their eyes have they closed. So it's almost like as you teach somebody, their heart's unmoved. They hear it, but they don't really seem to hear it They see it, but it doesn't really seem to be registering. He says, these people have a heart, their conscience, that is dull, that is heavy, that is blinded. And he says that this is true, lest they should see with their eyes, hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and be converted, and I should heal them. What's that telling you about the conscience of some people? It's really dull. Another example, 1 Timothy chapter 4, verse 2. He says, These are people who speak lies and hypocrisy, having their, here's the statement, conscience seared with a hot iron. Now, the other day I was I was making some uh chicken noodle soup. My chicken noodle soup, I mean it's like It's got like every vegetable that I've grown in my garden. If it's ripe, I'm cutting it up and I'm putting it in the seed. I mean this stuff is like really, really heavy stuff. And then I put some chicken in there. And so I'm out I'm out there grilling my chicken. I was trying to get it done early so I could get it done before I go to go to the church and that was where my lunch was gonna be, you know, that pot of stew. And so I'm I'm working really fast and I reach over the grill And I I I touched my arm right there. I don't know, you can't really see this. Because it's getting better. But when I touched that thing, whoo, it was not good. Did not feel good. Started bubbling up. Not good. Well, here's what's really interesting about when a person gets a burn. Sometimes a burn makes your arm or hand or whatever more sensitive. Sometimes it actually literally kills the nerves. And then you don't feel anything anymore. And that's what he says can happen to a person's conscience. It can become feared like a hot iron. It's like the nerve endings are dead and now you don't feel anything. And you say, well, how does that happen? Well, when somebody is given information and over and over again they say, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, suppress, suppress, suppress, guess what happens? At some point, they don't feel guilty anymore. It's like somebody says, I just have such peace in my heart. I feel so good about this decision. You're like, because you've told God no so many times that it doesn't even affect you anymore. We could do that And so when a person's conscience is not bothered by a thing, that's not an automatic, oh, they're okay, they're good. If they've been suppressing the truth. And ignoring the truth, it's possible to become literally desensitized to what is actually true. 1 Timothy 1, excuse me, Titus 1. 15 says this: unto the pure all things are pure. But unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure, their mind and conscience is defiled. And so what he's basically saying is we get to a place where what we believe to be wrong on our conscience is actually right, and what we believe to be right is actually wrong. Everything can get twisted upside down. So a person's conscience can become dull and heavy. It can become desensitized. It can literally become twisted so that it is now the exact opposite of what God says is right and wrong. They still have a moral sense, but it's upside down now. What does that tell you? Conscience is not automatically right. Second one I want to mention is the immature Christian's conscience. Now this is a person who's actually a believer. And I would say that actually Probably a lot of us at some point in our lives will live here and this is where a lot of Christians actually are. They're really not matured in the faith. In Romans chapter 14, he talks about this. He says, that the person who is weak in faith receive He says, one believeth that he may eat all things, another who is weak eateth only herbs. You say, well, what's that talking about? This is a person whose conscience is not well informed. So the reason that they have a sensitivity about an issue is not because God said no, or not because God said to do it But rather they're they have not come to a point of maturity where they understand their liberty in Christ, their responsibilities in Christ, how to navigate those issues. It's immaturity. This is something that we deal with with our children. And what's funny is when you're raising your kids, you don't even realize these things are happening sometimes. And so, you know, one of the neighbors does something or you're walking through a mall and something happens, and then you kind of hear how your kids like interpret what they just witnessed and you're like, okay, you're kind of right, but I think the perspective's a little bit warped here. We're gonna have to sit down, we're gonna have to walk through this issue and kind of talk through it a little bit, or they'll see something that a another Christian will do and they'll be like I can't believe they would do that. They must not be Christians. And you're like, no, no, they really are. But we have a difference of opinion on this issue. Or, you know, we're actually not as far off as it looks It's just that we don't do this in our house, but they do that in their house. But it's actually an issue of somewhat of a liberty, okay? And so what ends up happening is you sit down with your children when these things kind of come up And you talk through the issue with them. You say, this is what God says is right, and this is what God says is wrong. And there's no question about this and this. Now this particular issue, here's where it gets to be a little bit fuzzier. And this is how this family, or this is how this individual works this issue, this is how we do it. We're different in how we see this, but you know what We're both trying to do the right thing on on on this on this particular issue. And so you try to give them a fuller perspective of what's going on. And as as you work through that issue with your children and as they mature then hopefully what ends up happening is they have strong convictions about what is right and wrong, but they know how to get along with people that maybe do have some differences of opinion and on secondary issues. But that's a maturity issue. That's an issue where we have to learn what is right, learn what is wrong, have discernment, and then figure out how to navigate those things in a way that doesn't violate our conscience. Doesn't harm their conscience. We're able to navigate those issues properly. But this issue of immature conscience. Here's someone that says the only thing I can eat is herbs. It's like, well, you can eat meat. Oh, but I in my conscience I can't. Sorry. You have that liberty. But they have a weak conscience The third one mentioned is the complacent Christian's conscience. Now, this is a little bit different than immature. Immaturity is sort of like in the book of Proverbs, where he talks about someone who is wise, someone who is simple. someone who is a fool and someone who's a scorner. These when we talk about a person who's wise, they've got information, they have perspective, it's in the light of what is right and wrong before God. And they are moving in the right direction. We talk about a person who's simple. This is someone who doesn't have experience. They're naive. They don't understand all the dynamics. This is a young person. We talk about a fool, that's a little bit different. This is somebody who has the information and they're not responding properly to it. We have the scorner, this is someone who hates the truth. You see the differences between those things. So when we talk about the immature Christian, that's the simple Christian. Someone who's not yet understood the concepts. When we talk about the complacent Christian's conscience, this is someone who should know better. They've been a Christian for a while. They've been in the church, they've been under the ministry of the Word of God. They're old enough and they they've been a Christian long enough that they should be able to navigate these issues well. But they have, we could say, regressed. in where they are in their Christian walk. They're a Christian. They haven't lost anything as as far as position goes, because that is settled in Christ. But when we come to the health of their walk, that's the problem. And so in Hebrews 5. 11 he says, you are those who are dull of hearing. And he says, you've become that way. This is not how you have always been. This is how you've become over time. Then we have the conscientious Christian. He says in Hebrews 13, 18, pray for us, for we trust we have a good conscience in all things willing to live honestly. That's where we should all be. A good conscience. A conscience that is well informed scripturally, a conscience that we are not in conflict with through the decisions that we make. We are walking consistent with what we know is right and what we know is wrong, and we're relating properly to the Lord. But I want to give you one final thought about this issue of the types of conscience. A person who has a healthy conscience also has a realistic conscience. And here's what I mean. Listen to what Paul says in 1 Corinthians chapter 4. He says, I judge not mine own self. I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified. He that judges me is the Lord. Now, in this context, because we're looking at it, it's kind of hard to kind of understand what Paul is talking about in these verses. Paul is not talking about how a person is made right with God, justification in the sense of a legal declaration before God. That's not what he's talking about. What he's talking about is a situation where people are saying, you're not doing the work of ministry appropriately, saying, I am doing the work of ministry appropriately. He's saying, I'm doing the work of ministry with a clear conscience. As far as I know, there is no reason that I should feel condemned in my conscience about the way I'm acting. the motivations that I have, the way that I'm going about doing the work of the ministry. But even though I don't know of anything That is weighing on my conscience. That doesn't mean I'm not wrong. Does that make sense? You may have a clear conscience and you say, as far as I know, before God, I'm doing the right thing. That doesn't mean that you're somehow infallible. None of us are. What it means is you're walking in the light, but it could be that sometime down the road God reveals something to you and you're like, I didn't have an awareness of this, now I do. And so the idea is that a person who has a healthy conscience always walks with a humility with a healthy conscience. They don't believe, hey, I'm infallible. They're always in the Word of God recognizing that the scriptures have to be checking and balancing how I think and my emotions and the direction that I'm taking in my life. This issue of conscience is very important. We need to realize that only genuine Christians are the ones that have truly healthy consciences. The conscience is not infallible. It's got to be guided by Scripture. Be very careful that you do not abuse your conscience by the choices you make and realize that you need to have a renewed mind. Lord willing, next week we're going to talk about how we can have a healthy conscience with a renewed mind. But before we close in prayer, I just want to ask a simple question to you. What is the state of your conscience? I'm not asking that question because I want you to feel miserable right now. No, I want you to step back and think objectively. Do I have a healthy conscience? Is it well informed scripturally? Am I constantly resisting what I know to be right and doing something that is wrong and I'm feeling all internally conflicted and in turmoil all the time? If you find yourself in that place, that's not where you should live. You don't have to live there. And there is a way forward. It begins with repent, confess, and let God remind you that you are secured in Him. Think of 1 John 1 9. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. There will never be a time when our conscience is troubled that we can't turn to the Lord and say, God, I have Made some decisions. I have moved in directions that I know are wrong. And the reason I'm in such turmoil is because that's true. And I'm I'm going to confess it to you and remind myself again of why there's a cross. Why Christ died for my sins. And why I needed forgiveness. I'm going to remind myself again that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses every single sin. God help me to walk in a way that honors you. And then get back on track. Get back on track. That's what God wants us to do. Let's bow together for prayer. Lord, as we think about this topic of conscience, I pray that you would help us to understand how this conscience works. Every one of us can walk in a way that's consistent with your purposes If we've placed our faith in Christ, we are forgiven. We are cleansed. We are just in Christ. We are new creatures. We have the Spirit of God. I pray that we would walk in conformity to your purposes. As we work our way through the passages over the next couple of weeks, may you use it to help us. My great desire as a pastor is that all of us walk in a way that is healthy and vibrant, that truly honors you. And so we ask that you'd help us to that end. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.