Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church. And if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you and hope that you were able to receive a uh welcome packet inside of that there is a a little pamphlet uh that gives you some information about the church. There's a gospel tract that explains to you the gospel, what Christ has done for you. And it also gives you a way to connect with us. And so if you would like to connect with us, please fill out that little card and put it in the box in the back, and that'll be a way for us to reach out with you. And we have a couple of announcements and then Pastor Josh will open our scripture reading. Good morning. First announcement is about this evening. choir starting at 5 p. m. sharp is what I was told. 5 p. m. this evening. We have a teen since um sing spiration this evening. As well as following the morning service, there will be a True Tracker parent meeting in the Fellowship Hall. So if you just want to go straight from here over to Fellowship Hall. We'll get started shortly after the service. This Friday there is a College and Careers. Oh, Thursday, there is a books and bytes at Mary Fetters That will be at 6. 30. See the Bolton board. There should be a sign up there. So ladies that are interested, please sign up. As well as any mention about parking is also a mention on the Bolton board. So any kind of questions See the Bulletin board. We also have a teen parent meeting next Sunday following the morning service. And then August 26th, there is a men's grill out. Please sign up on the Bulletin board. Our scripture reading this morning is found in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, starting with verse 1. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not, but have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty not walking in craftiness, nor handling the Word of God deceitfully, but by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, and whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not. Lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, shine upon them. For we preach not ourselves. But Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants, for Jesus' sake. For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts to give light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. And our theme for worship today Let's worship Christ with passion to take the gospel to the nations. Please let's bow together and ask the Lord to bless our time and ask Him to help us to have focused hearts as the scriptures are opened that we would Think deeply about the truths that will be laid before us, that the Lord will empower a servant as he preaches, and that ultimately our hearts will respond to the word as God would have us to. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we are so very grateful. First of all, there's a reason to assemble. The reason is that Christ has paid in full our sin debt. Every sin that we've ever committed has been nailed to the cross. Christ has borne in full the payment for our sins so that we can be reconciled to you through the death of your Son. We thank you for the triumph of the resurrection, Christ's power over death and sin. We thank you that we gather this morning as a redeemed people We thank you for the righteousness of Christ that was imputed to us by your grace alone and through faith alone and the redemptive work of Christ. I pray that this morning as we sing these hymns of the faith that we would think about the truths that we express in song, as we think about this opening scripture, and we're reminded that the gospel comes. To those who are blinded, those who cannot see truth, with people who are earthen vessels. People who are fallible, they are flawed, we are weak. We recognize that it is you who brings the power of the gospel to the life. And we thank you so much that this morning we'll have an opportunity to celebrate that work, that we will have an opportunity to reflect on its implications. And ultimately, I pray that you be glorified. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you all so much for worshiping us with us here at Anchor Baptist Church. We hope that you will join us in song. Please stand with Stand and open your hymn books to hymn number 26. Praise to the Lord the Almighty will sing all four verses of hymn number twenty-six. Sing out this morning and worship to the Lord. Praise to the Lord, the Almighty, the King of Pressions. Oh my soul, praise him for me. I have an affair now to his temple. Join me. But other side Praise to the Lord who all things are. Self they under his legs yes up and sustainable I 'm in my pencil and was in your through and bottom. Pues tenemos visto , la gran. Great singing, let's turn over to hymn number thirty. In our hymn books, hymn number 30, all hail the power of Jesus' name. I want to get with Jason , don't I guess bearing the car? Okay. The rivers that Amen. Be seated as we turn to hymn number five. Oh four a thousand tongues to sing. Sing all five verses. So for a thousand comes she speaks, my great redeemer praise. Glory, love my God and pain but pray My grace is master when my God has sent me to play Never evil joy more joy. He breaks the power and afraid. Amen. Our scripture reading will be found in the Gospel of Luke. Luke chapter 10, verses 1 through 9. The Gospel of Luke chapter 10. Verses 1 through 9. The scriptures say, after these things the Lord appointed other seventy also. And sent them two and two before his face into every city and place, whither he himself would come. Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great. But the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. Go your ways. Behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves. Carry neither purse, nor script, nor shoes, and salute no man by the way, and into whatsoever house ye enter First say, Peace be to this house. And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it. If not, it shall turn to you again. And in the same house remain eating and drinking such things as they give, for the laborer is worthy of his hire. Go not from house to house And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you, eat such things as are set before you, and heal the sick that are therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Hey man, that was wonderful. Let's continue our singing this this morning as we open our hymn books to hymn number three hundred one. thirty-six. Three hundred thirty-six, my hope is in the Lord. We'll sing all four verses. But my hope is in the Lord. My hope is in the for me and pay the price. I love my for me. Nowhere whether I understand I only hope that I can for me. And now for me. And we bought the brother one , these those bed one , the brand, and they are me. And bring that off with my love for me when my good night is when I try. For me, he does for me, me and I Great singing. Let's stand once more before the preaching. We're gonna sing for the sake of his name. The words will be up on the screen. We're gonna sing the last verse. Acapella will have the instruments. drop off on the last verse and we'll sing out to the Lord this morning. But more about the blank survey for When the light, where old and dark and night, when they will lie to the wedding. We must have been prize to my own. Gather from every plane from the way. We have all that baby. Well I mean , As Christ comes Snatch them out of Jesus Side God 's rabbit was satisfied, burst them to flee To the true sweet energy Christ in the last course for me has all Gather from every place Trop is a sovereign grace Last life be wasted Jesus cross works to the cross for the Our his price girl is a story called. God shall be break and break off. Jesus wants to be the worst. And I creates Christ to the loss. For Jesus glory counts all us but Gather from every place , Trump 's sovereign grace. Amen. Please be seated The song will be singing this morning when I survey the wondrous cross by Isaac Waltz, considered the father of English enity on the great Songwriters of all time, known for our God, our help in ages past, or also Joy to the World. One of the reasons he was such a great hymn writer Because he had such a lofty view of Christ, and he was also a pastor, wasn't a professional hymn writer, he was a professional preacher. The Lord had called into his Ministry, please enjoy one of his great hymns when I survey the wondrous cross. God will thine rod for me in law Stay in thy God for my remote. Oh no , I bring them to his own. He ran to my life. Please turn your Bibles to 1 Thessalonians. 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. And it is a privilege to be with you here. This morning, greetings from Trinity Baptist Church, all the way from a little village called Bokota in Limpoko, South Africa. We have been missionaries. Among the Tsonga-speaking people for the past 17 years. And we are very grateful for the ministry that the Lord has provided for us. And we are grateful for churches like you that support us through prayer and through finances that we can give all of our efforts. to the most important task, which is preaching the Word of God to those who need it most. The title of my message this morning is The Missionary Cycle. And we're going to learn about the three steps that are necessary to go from the local church to to the foreign field. church You might be here this morning thinking I'm 50 and an accountant. Or I'm 17 and going off to college, or I'm a 30-year-old mother and I have no intent on going to the foreign mission field. This message is still for you. All of us must be on one of these three stepping stones We may not go to the mission field ourselves, the foreign mission field, but all of us must be within this cycle. We must be standing on at least one of these stepping stones that take us from the local church. To the foreign field. I'd like to begin reading with verse number one of 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, and I'll be reading through verse number 10. And this is what the word of the Lord says. Paul and Sylvanus. And Timothy, unto the Church of the Thessalonians, which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ, grace be unto you and peace From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers. Remembering without ceasing your work of faith and labor of love and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of God and our Father. Knowing, brethren, beloved, your election of God, for our gospel came not unto you in word only. But also in power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance As ye know what manner of men we were among you for your sake, and ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost. So that you were examples to all that believe in Macedonia and Achaea. For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but But also in every place your faith the God word is spread abroad, so that we need not to speak anything. For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you. And how ye turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus. Which delivered us from the wrath to come. Let's open with prayer. Father, who is sufficient for these things? No one. And yet how shall they hear without a preacher? Lord, we ask for the Holy Spirit this morning, knowing that the Holy Spirit indwells every believer, and yet without the work of the Holy Spirit, special anointing from the third person of the Trinity, what hope do we have that these words will entrench themselves into people's hearts? Father, help us this morning to take our eyes off of ourselves and to gaze upon the Lord Jesus Christ and our task. Of taking the gospel around the world to those who need it most. We ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ our Savior Amen. Robert Moffat was a great missionary in the 1800s from Scotland to southern Africa. He spent many years in that land with little fruit until one of the chiefs of the village named Afraconur came to Christ. Later on in the life of Afrakhanar, he said these words. We are not what we were. Savages, but men professing to be taught according to the Bible. My former life is stained with blood But Jesus has pardoned me, and I am going to heaven. Well, that's what every missionary wants to hear. Testimonies like that. Someone who is in darkness and was transferred to light Because of the gospel message. We're going to find an example of more people who gave a testimony just like this, and they were called the Thessalonians. But before we unpack our passage here this morning from 1 Thessalonians 1, could we just for a moment find out a little bit of the history of how this church was planted? Keep your finger in the text and go back to Acts chapter 17. Acts chapter 17, Paul has written the letter to the Thessalonians just a few months after planting the church in Acts 17. And he visits Thessalonica on his second missionary journey. Thessalonica was the capital city of Macedonia, perhaps had about 200,000 people. Paul comes to this place, and we're told in verse number two. And Paul, as his manner was, went unto them and three Sabbath days reasoned with them out of the scriptures. I love that term reasoned. It has the idea of a formal teaching of the people. Sometimes he would use an informal word to describe his preaching. Earlier in Acts 16, he went to the riverside in Philippi. And he met with some ladies because there was no synagogue. And it says he he spoke to them. Other places he went were told he proclaimed or preached. Whether he spoke Proclaimed or reasoned, his message was always the same. His goal was always the same to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to the lost. And of course Some people believed and some people didn't. Verse 4, and some of them believed. Verse 5, but the Jews which believed not We are not the cook. We're the server. Jesus is the cook. Our task is simply to pass on the message to sinners. We don't save anyone. Paul gave the message, some believed, some didn't, and of course persecution came. And when they couldn't find Paul, they took Jason He suffered for the gospel, and Paul escaped and left Thessalonica. Soon thereafter, because of his love for that new church plant Paul writes a letter to them. He writes a letter to the church he planted in Thessalonica, and the name of that letter is called. . 1 Thessalonians. And that's where we are today. So turn back to 1 Thessalonians, where we are. Paul was incessantly like with Paul and Sylvanus and Timothy, and so it's not surprising that he opens this letter with those names. Let's go down to verse number four. Knowing, brethren, beloved, your election of God. How does Paul know that they have been elected? Spurgeon said, it would be nice if we could lift up the coattails of sinners and see an E written on their back, but we don't have that. So how do we know who the elect are? Well, Paul is going to give some reasons of how he is so assured that these Thessalonians are true believers. And in the midst of doing this He is going to lay out for us the kind of cycle that is necessary for the gospel to move from the local church to the foreign field. So we're going to unpack three of these here this morning. But just before we do that, I have one announcement before we get to point number one. I love children. And I love when children are in the auditorium. I saw many of them leaving, and that made me very sad. I love it when children remain in the service and this preaching is for them too. In our church, back in the village, we have all of our children remain in the service. And we try to encourage them to take notes. And so I'd like to give a little challenge for the young people here today. If you are 15 years or younger, I want to encourage you to take notes. And when you're done with those notes, I want you to pass those on. To Pastor Joel at the end of the service, make sure you write your name on the top and the winner will get a prize. We do that every Sunday at our church to encourage the young people to take notes. Now, I said 15 and not 50. Please take notes, and I'm going to do my best. To preach in a simple way so that you can understand the message and follow the outline. Even if you're above 15, please take notes as well if it would help you. Here's our first point. It is this The evangelist. Here's the first item in the cycle. Maybe we could say the first stepping stone from the local church to the foreign field. We'll call it this. The evangelist preaching persuasively. All persuasive gospel preaching has three parts. The word, the Spirit's power behind that word And a godly messenger that proclaims the word. The old Greek philosophers Used to say that what makes a speech persuasive is three items, the logos, that is the word, the pathos, the passion behind it, and the ethos, that is the character. We've heard the word logos before. We think of biologos or biology, the study of light, or Christology, the study of Christ. Paul is going to Christianize those three items in a sense and lay those three items out for us to show us That every successful missionary, every successful preacher, every successful evangelist needs these three items in their message for it to be persuasive So let's look at those three. Let's look at the first one, the word, or we might call logos, for preaching to be effective. We must have the right content. Do you see that in verse number five? For our gospel came not unto you in word, logos, doctrine, teaching. Supposedly, Saint Francis of Assisi said these words. Always share the gospel If necessary, use words. I don't think he said that. And I hope he didn't say that because it's a terrible quote, though I've heard it many times I read an article recently about that quote, and the title of the article was about Saint Francis of Assisi was Was Saint Francis Assisi? In other words, was he so enamored with friendship evangelism that he never actually got around to sharing the message? Well, we ought to be friends with sinners. But without the word, without doctrine, without content, no one can understand the message. Now there is such a thing as general revelation. We can learn things about God through creation. We can look at Mount Kilimanjaro and see that we serve a great God. We can look at Victoria Falls and see the creativity of the Creator. But general revelation is not enough to save. We need special revelation. And that's the truth that comes from Scripture. Romans 10, 14. And how shall they hear without someone preaching? Answer, they can't. Now that brings up a very important question, which is, what is the destiny of the unevangelized? What happens to those who perhaps have been given general revelation, but never special revelation? We could say that God has written three autobiographies, books about himself. The first would be creation. We can learn things about God through creation. The second would be conscience. Or as the scripture puts it, the word of God written on our hearts. But there's a third book written about God, and it is the Bible. But if we need the Bible, what happens to those in the middle of fill-in-the-blank who has never heard the gospel? Well, there's various questions to this. And it's a question that is still asked today. Some of you perhaps have heard of John Chow. John Chow was killed a number of years ago. He graduated from a Christian college in the United States. And he wanted to go to the Sentinel Islands, which is a very uninhabited backwards island off the coast of India. Not only is it unreached with the gospel, but it's it's unreached by civilization. In fact, it's actually illegal to go to the island. There's, as I understand, just a few score people that live on the island. He found a way to pay off some fishermen to take his little kayak near the village, near the island. His first attempt to get to the island, they they attacked him. He was able to escape, lost all of his things, lost his possessions, lost his kayak, and had to swim a mile back to the boat. He wrote often in his journal, this was not simply an adventurous young man wanting to do something great. He wanted to reach them with the gospel of Christ. The next morning, jumped off the boat, swam to the island, and soon thereafter they found the islanders pulling his corpse Down the shore with a rope around his neck. There was immediate Twitter feeds and tweets and observations of this, most of them critical to John Chow, who would have wasted his life in such a foolish endeavor. But as I study the life of John Chow and his efforts to reach that island, I say, God bless John Chow. He may not have used every wise method, but as D. L. Moody said, when people criticized his supposedly faulty methods of evangelism, he said, I like my methods better than your no methods. John Cha was doing what he could to share the gospel with those who had never heard. Well, there are several views to the question: what is the destiny of the unevangelized? View number one, we might call pluralism. Pluralism teaches that there are many ways of reaching God and reaching salvation. It's like a mountain, and at the top is God, and there's many paths that get to the top. This is definitely the majority view. We might call this the Oprah Wimfri view. We might call this the Desmond Tutu who was the famous bishop in South Africa who wrote a book entitled, God is Not a Christian. The problem with this view is what Scripture says, specifically Jesus, who said, I am the door. If anyone enters by Me. John 14, 6. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. Acts 4, verse 12. There is salvation in no other name under heaven given among men, whereby you must be saved. It is the Lord Jesus Christ. A second view we might call after-death evangelism. This teaches that God will somehow give us a second chance. another opportunity after death. The Catholics call it purgatory. The problem with this is Hebrews 9. 27, which says, it is appointed for man to die once. After this, the judgment. The final view, really the only view left, the biblical view, we might call exclusivism. This teaches that those who do not trust in Jesus Christ alone for salvation are excluded from the kingdom. Acts 17, 30 through 31. Truly, these times of ignorance God overlooked, but now commands all men everywhere. To repent. We have a duty to share the gospel of Jesus Christ, to share the Lagos, the Word, the Doctrine, the special revelation. And without that message. We are damned. There are so many applications here for missions. Let me give a few. First, missionaries. Must labor to learn the foreign language that they are seeking to reach. The reason is because the gospel comes through words This is why many of the least-reached places with the gospel are not English-speaking. It's because missionaries who minister there They need to learn the foreign language. And learning a foreign language is is hard. It's difficult. It takes hard work. I remember I came to the mission field as a single man in 2006. I purchased a vehicle the second day I arrived in South Africa They could see an American coming from a mile away, and I bought a single cab Nissan hardbody, 4x4, and I found out later it was a stolen vehicle. And so there I was, excited, driving my stolen vehicle north. And soon thereafter I drove into a random Tonga speaking village. And I I'd lived with the chief. for two years. Actually, I didn't live with the chief because the chief had many wives. I lived with his second wife, who was old enough to be my mother and kind of in the group of houses there, I lived with the family. And they helped me learn the language. And I laid m made lots of mistakes. And she would cook for me in the village. Uh they eat the whole chicken. So that means they eat the the feet and the beak. They call them walkie -talkies And she would cook these for me. And I would sit there on the stoop. There's no Rosetta Stone to learn Tonga. And I'd have my flashcards. And John Payton, great missionary, said he learned the language by asking two questions. What's your name and how do I say this? And I used to say, How do I say this? And how do I say this? And how do I say this? Why do we do that? We do that because we want to communicate a message. Doctrine, teaching, truth, words. And along the way, you'll make plenty of mistakes, and lots of people will laugh at you, and you're willing to be laughed at because it's a small price to pay for the gospel of Christ. I recall my teammate Seth one afternoon preaching to the young people a message, and This illustrates what I'm talking about here. The tsonga word for sheep is nymphu, and the tsonga word for nose is numpfu. So you have nymfu and nomfu. And those are easy words to confuse, to switch. And on this one particular occasion, he was preaching on the parable of the lost sheep. And he was preaching passionately, and he reached the climax. And he thundered to them in Tonga and said to them, Some of you might be that lost nose. Jesus will leave those ninety-nine noses for that one nose like you. Of course they laughed at him And they didn't put him out of his misery, and he continued to make mistakes. And yet we do those kind of things, and missionaries by the thousands have hadn't made these mistakes. Why? We make these mistakes because we want to teach the word. And that's why missionaries must make their ministries word-based. There's some value in drilling wells. Yes, there's some value to social ministries, but missionaries ought to focus on evangelism and the word and teaching. When Martin Luther looked back upon the tremendous work that God had done through the Reformation, through him, he looked back and said, I did nothing. The word did everything. Well, second, not only is the word important. But also we might say the pathos or the spiritual power. Look again in verse 5. For our gospel came not unto you in word only. but also in power and in the Holy Ghost. You know, this sounds wrong for a moment, doesn't it? As though he's saying the word didn't come in word only. I thought the word of God was sufficient. I thought that's all we need is the word of God. Well, there is a sense in which all we need is God's Word. That is, our only rule for faith and practice is God's word. Sola scriptura. Scripture alone. And yet the Bible also teaches that if the Holy Spirit does not accompany that word, our words will fall flat. Why was Paul so successful? People say the secret to his success, perhaps, is that he made his gospel message attractive to a dying world. Or maybe it was the methods he used. No. Paul was successful because the Spirit of God had convinced the Thessalonians of the truth. Acts 1, verse 8, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And so therefore. We pray for our pastors and we pray for our preachers when they deliver the word of God that the Spirit's power would accompany the word. We pray that the Holy Spirit would take up the words of Scripture and cause them to convict, affirm, pull, offend. Soften, call, change, illumine, transform. We need the word and we need the Holy Spirit's power behind the word. And then third, the third item to make this message persuasive is not only the word and not only the spirit's power, but we might say the character. Behind that word. We might call it ethos. Let's look again at verse number five. For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in the power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance. as you know what manner of men we were among you for your sake. I've heard preachers sometimes pray from the pulpit, hide me behind the cross. Now, that's a good saying. If we mean I don't want the glory, Christ gets the glory. Good. But if we mean somehow I can become invisible while preaching, well that's not possible. the the preacher is so closely closely tied to his message that it actually affects the message, which is why the qualifications of a pastor in 1 Timothy 3 You have one which says he needs to be able to preach, but most of them are about his character. Because character matters in the one that is preaching. Makes me think of the story of Anthony Norris Groves. He's a missionary to the Muslims in the Middle East. He goes there in the 1800s. He suffers catastrophic suffering. Family dies, floods, fire, plague. It was as though this first missionary, full-time missionary to the Muslims. In the 1800s, it is though Satan unleashed his wrath to stop the gospel from flowing through Baghdad Iraq. And it changed him as a Christian and as a preacher. His biography writes this sometimes We hear a gifted speaker sound eloquent, brilliant, a master of his art, yet to our surprise his words leave our heart and soul untouched. We receive little help from him. It will take a comprehensive failure, a profound tragedy, a devastating loss before a clever man becomes a minister of life. Only then will he have the power to speak the words of God into the hearts of men. This is no natural ability, it is a divine gift, and it almost always comes through suffering. Norris Groves, after his months of suffering in Baghdad, was never the same again. That's it. That's ethos. That's character. That means he knew the message. He preached the message the same way. The Spirit of God was with him, but he was a changed man. And that influences Preaching. Do you notice in your text in verse number five that it says the preaching came in much assurance? We might say with much conviction. That is, when they preached, they really believed what they were preaching. It makes me think of the story of John Bunyan, famous author of Pilgrim 's Progress He lived in a time where preaching was illegal. He was called a non-conformist, which means he was not willing to conform to some of the unbiblical rules at that time. And so he was thrown in jail. And he was told, if you promise to stop preaching, we'll let you out of jail. He had a beautiful wife and little children at home. He said, the moss will sooner grow on my eyebrows before I stop preaching. And when they released him, twelve years later, he was released to a church that was packed with people. that wanted to hear him preach. You know why? Because he really believed what he said. So much so that he said, I'll go to jail because of this message. He preached the message in full assurance and with the Holy Spirit's power. They could see his life, not just the message, not just the talk, not just the words. But the life behind the words. It's not only talking the talk, but walking the walk. Lots of applications for missions. First, missionaries should live among the people. They should eat and walk and talk and suffer and rejoice among the people. We can't parachute in for a moment, preach a crusade, and then be on our way. No, Acts twenty, eighteen and nineteen, Paul says to those in Ephesus, You yourselves know how I lived among you the whole time from the first day I set foot in Asia. You saw me. You witnessed my life. Oh, what a life that Paul lived. So there's our first point. Our first stepping stone. We'll call the evangelist. And Paul said, I know that you are elect. I know you are true believers. Because the method by which you were given the message, there were no shortcuts. It came with word, it came with the Spirit's power. And it came with a godly life behind it. Let's move to our second point. We'll call it the emulator. The emulator. Began with the evangelist evangelizing, preaching the good news, preaches persuasively, and then come the emulators That is, they imitated what they had learned from Paul. Let's look at verse number six. And you became followers. Of us. Some translations say imitators of us. The word there for imitators is the word mimetase in Greek From which we get the word mimic or mime. It means to do what another person does. And notice who they imitate. They imitate us and the Lord. Now, ultimately, we need to imitate the Lord Jesus Christ. Ephesians 5:1, be imitators of God. But oftentimes, the easiest way to imitate God Is by imitating a human follower of Jesus Christ. Which is why Paul could say in 1 Corinthians 4, verse 16, I urge you then, be imitators of me. Or 1 Corinthians 11, 1, be imitators of me as I am of Christ. There's a great story told of one of my favorite preachers, a great Welsh preacher in the 1700s. His name was Christmas Evans. And he was known as the one-eyed preacher because he had been in a fight. Before he was converted and his eyeball got plucked out. So he was known as the one-eyed preacher. He grew up at a time when Preaching was powerful in Wales. Sometimes sermons would go for six hours at a time. He was not well educated, and he feared that he would never be able to become a preacher. On one particular occasion, When he was in his late teens, after the sermon in the little Welsh village, he left the country church and walked up to the mountain, and the elder and deacon of the church secretly followed him. They hid in the bushes and there they saw Christmas Evans constructing a pulpit out of twigs. And there in front of the cows and the geese and the livestock. He preached the exact same sermon that he had just heard that Sunday morning. That's imitation. The first sermon that he ever preached, which came later on, formally preached in front of people, he stole from another person. He preached it word for word. Well, someone in the audience had heard that sermon. And so he came to him afterwards and said, Christmas, I just want you to know you can't do that. I know that you stole that sermon, but I'm going to be easy on you because when I heard your prayer after that sermon, it was so powerful. Well, what he didn't realize is that Christmas Evans had stolen the prayer as well, word for word. But that's the idea. The idea of of mimicking, mimites. following. I spoke at a conference recently where there's many young people there and I received a An email from a young man who said, Hey, I don't wanna I don't wanna freak you out, but I'm wondering if during this conference I can just shadow you for the conference. I won't be in your way when you eat. I won't be in your way when you're speaking to people. I just I just want to watch what you do. I want to see what you do. I want to mimic the way you talk and interact with people and read your Bible. That's the idea. The Thessalonians had been given the gospel. Through the evangelists, and the next step from them was not immediately becoming a missionary. When people come to me and say, I want to be a missionary, what should I do? I'd say, well, if you've been given the gospel, the next step is not becoming an evangelist yourself, going to the other side of the world. The next step is you need to now be mimicking another Christian. You need to be following someone who is who is mature in their walk. An imitator. An emulator. I think of Timothy, who is an emulator of the Apostle Paul. It's interesting how many miles Paul must have walked in those missionary journeys. Thousands of kilometers. And all the while teaching his young protege how to be a follower of Christ. Well, there's many ways that we can do this. One of the ways we can do this is by following living people. Some of you should get a piece of paper and write down on it the three most godly people you know and consider asking them. If you can be discipled by them. Hey, you might even be in your fifties or sixties, but you've never been discipled. That's the next step from the local church to the foreign field. You hear the gospel, but now you need to be imitating someone. Watch how they do family worship. Watch how they share Christ. Watch how they interact with their children. Watch how they sing. Imitate living people. Not only living people, imitate dead people. Now I would say, outside of Scripture, the thing that has influenced me most in my Christian life has been good missionary biographies. Reading of the great lives of the heroes of the past and imitating that. Let me give you a few examples. John Payton's autobiography, Hudson Taylor's two-volume biography, or if that's too big, Hudson Taylor's Spiritual Secret. Some of you have heard of Jim Elliott. You can read Through Gates of Splendor, or To the Golden Shore, the story of Adonairam Judson, or the life of Anthony Norris Groves, the father of faith missions. Study and imitate the examples of David Brainerd, Henry Martin, William Borden. Amy Carmichael. Hey, missions isn't only for men, it's also for women. Probably my favorite biography on women missionaries is called The Three Mrs. Judsons. It's about the three wives of N. Narm Judson, not at all one time, but one after another because they had given their lives for Christ. In those days, there was no FaceTime. There were no jets to come back on Perlow. When you left for the mission field, you were never coming back. Annier Judson sought permission from the father of Anne Hasseltine With these words in a letter. Imagine this now. You want to marry a young lady who's 19 years old, take her to the other side of the world, and this is how you begin your letter. Sir, are you prepared never to see your daughter again in this world? And he gave permission, and she went, and she died on the field. Now that's dedication. That's going to change a person when you imitate that kind of Christianity. So what do we have? The evangelist moves next to the emulator. That is, we're imitating, we're following those around us. And finally, let's look at our third point, and we'll call it this. The example. Somewhere along the line, you need to stop being primarily an imitator. And now you need to become the imitated. Some of you are in a perpetual holding pattern. You've never discipled anyone. You're constantly being discipled. But there's a progression here with the Thessalonians. They don't remain where they are. They are followers, but then it moves on to the next step. Verse 6, and ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Ghost. Verse seven, so that you were examples To all that believe in Macedonia and Achaia. For from you sounded out the word of the Lord That word, by the way, sounded out. We get our word echo from that. It echoed out. It reverberated through this large area we would know as today as Greece. And through this entire region, a large region, the word of God was reverberating through them. They were examples. They were examples and proclamation. For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achaea, but also in every place. Your faith to God word is spread abroad, so that we need not speak anything That means Paul said, when I traveled, before I can get to them and tell them about you, they beat me to the punch and they're telling me about you. Everyone knows about Thessalonians. These people are amazing. They just heard the gospel. They imitated everything that they had been told by their pastors and leaders and elders and those more mature than them. And that was enough. They became examples themselves by preaching the Word of God far and wide. But it didn't stop there. No, it wasn't just words. Verse 9. For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. I love this. Because it was true conversion. In fact, we even get the word conversion to turn from right here. Turned to God. This wasn't I prayed a prayer. This was genuine conversion. They had genuinely come to Christ Like those in Ephesus when they took a financial hurt and burned all of their magic books. This was a genuine change in their life. There's a movement today in missions. Called the insider movement. It's popular in Muslim missions. And the idea is Since it's so difficult for a Muslim to come to Christ and forsake their old life, let's allow them to remain inside. They'll continue to go to the mosque as a Christian, and they'll continue to bow in the right direction. But when they pray, what people won't realize is they're not praying to Allah. They'll pray secretly to Christ. And this insider movement will therefore make it easier for people to kind of slowly drift into the Christian crowd. No, not so. Did Paul want to change people's culture and cultural habits? Well, in one sense No, he didn't demand that they forsake their language, some of their rituals. But if there was ungodliness or wickedness in their pagan background, they were to forsake it. They were to leave it. They were to count the cost. You cannot serve two masters. And that's why he says how they turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God. Oh, we've heard about the Thessalonians. We know about your example. It wasn't just proclaiming your trust in Christ. We actually saw from a distance how your life changed and what an example you were to us. Verse 10, and to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus Which delivered us from the wrath to come. Can I remind you, Jesus Christ did not come to earth to make your life more pleasurable. That's the false gospel of the prosperity gospel. That says Jesus Christ came to earth to make you healthy and wealthy. No, it's actually the opposite. Many times your life will become more difficult after coming to Christ. Was it not Paul who said in Acts 14, it is through many trials and tribulations that you must enter in the kingdom of God? We wrote a catechism and sangha for our people, and one of my favorite questions is this: Why did Jesus come to earth? Answer: Jesus Christ came to earth. To remove the father's wrath not to make us rich. That's the idea in verse 10 He delivered us from the wrath to come. Do you know why Jesus is so grand? By the way, Jesus is the Lagos. He's called the Lagos because he is the holy speech of God. And Jesus Christ came to earth and lived the perfect life. He did for us what we could not do for ourselves. We would call it the great exchange. Jesus came to earth. He lived a perfect life. He went to the cross. Jesus demands perfection from sinners. We're not perfect. We're full of sin. He is holy and will not change his standards. But on the cross, Jesus Christ carried the weight of sinners so that when God looked at his son, he saw sin. And that's why Isaiah 53. 10 says, it was the Father who bruised the Son. And at the same time, he grants his righteousness. He reckons his righteousness. to all those who trust in him. And when we do that, the wrath of the Father is removed from us. We have been adopted into his family. We were born on the broad road, and now we enter the narrow road. That's the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which must go to every creature in the world. So where are you on the missionary cycle? Has an evangelist ever declared to you a clear gospel message? Yes, even today, you've heard the gospel. We're dead in our trespasses and sins. No, it is not a good illustration to say That salvation is like drowning in a pool and someone throws us a life vest and we swim over to the life vest, which represents Jesus, and we were spared. Gives us way too much credit. The truth is, we were a dead corpse on the bottom of the ocean floor. Not looking for anything, rotting on the bottom, and God infused in us a desire to come to Him. And he saved us, and we love Christ, but we only love Christ because he loved us first. We are dead in our trespasses and sins, but all those who look to Christ and hope in him will be given Eternal life. That's the evangelist's message. From there, where do you go? What's the next step? Here's the next step. You become an emulator. You need to follow someone who's more mature than you in Christ. Follow their example until you get to the point where you become an example yourself. The disciple becomes the discipler. And you know what happens? It just starts all over again. Because the Thessalonians, after receiving the message of the evangelist, becoming an emulator, becoming an example, what did they start doing? They became the evangelist, and it just started all over. I close with this illustration. And again, this is a a nod to the young people. Did you know that many of the great missionary movements In church history began with teenagers. Began with young people. One story was in the 1800s at St. Andrew's in Scotland. The school was going down. It was cold spiritually until they made a great move and they decided to hire the brightest star in the evangelical universe. At that time, there was a man named Thomas Chelmers. And he comes to the school and he actually believed what the Bible said. And he preached it passionately. And the School was transformed. They had to knock out the windows in the rooms because there was no room for people to sit. It was packed to capacity. The students were sitting in the window window ledges. And they became infused with missionary zeal and they started their own society. And they started reading missionary biographies and they started prayer groups to pray about missions. There's a book about them. It's called St. Andrew's Seven. It's about the six students and their teacher, Thomas Chelmers. Well, as they became more and more excited, do you know who reigned on their parade? Who discouraged them from going to the mission field? Well, it was the same culprits that I found find so common today in churches. They're Christian parents. Oh, we love to sing the hymn. Give of thy sons to bear the message glorious. Give of thy wealth to speed them on their way. And then say underneath our breath, just as long as it's not my own son. And those parents discourage them from going to the foreign field. They would bash them with every imaginable kind of argument to keep them with them. And then, one day, eighteen-year-old John Urquhart One of the leaders of the society suddenly died. And the other five remaining thought to themselves, oh wait. If he can die here in comfortable Scotland, that means we could die anywhere. And if we could die anywhere, we might as well give our lives for Christ in the most dangerous of places. And they went. And there were actually hundreds of years combined that came out of the St. Andrews 7, and it all began with an evangelist who came to the school. That they imitated, and they ultimately became examples themselves. I close with this quote A man by the name of Mackay, one of the St. Andrew Seven, when speaking of the influence of Thomas Chelmers and really speaking to us today, wherever we may be on that cycle, he said this. It was not so much his words, but the virtue that went out of him that turned our hearts. To the heathen. Let's close in prayer. Father, we want missionaries coming out of our churches. How do we move from anchor to the foreign field? How do we get there? Lord, I pray that evangelism would thunder from this pulpit and forgive us when it does not Father, I pray that you would give us a host of imitators who would be happy and teachable to follow their betters. And give us a host of examples who will quickly bring underneath their wing those below them. Share with them what a godly life looks like, and may it begin all over again. Oh Father, send out evangelists from the Smiths. From the good of the nations, and for the glory of your precious Son Jesus Christ. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. We're going to have standing text of scripture for us to think about this morning as we think about the need for the gospel to go to the nations. And the fact is that the nations do not exclude this one right here. And the reality is that we need to take the gospel to our community here. and around the world. And so the text or the power the song I'd like us to close with is in our blue book. It's 105, For Me to Live is Christ Like us to stand together, please, and let's sing this song. And then uh when we have our closing prayer, I'm gonna ask if Paul you could stand in the back with your family and folks can come by and greet you. Also, I want to mention that they have their prayer cards. We do have prayer cards actually in the back as well, but I hope that you'll pick up one of those prayer cards. If you do not have one, so that you can stay in contact with Paul and his family and keep them in prayer 105 for me to live as Christ, let's sing it out. In light for death I'll not despair. I hope in him, I'll hold me. To live is Christ, to die his name, I seek to magnify his name, or need to live his price. Me to live is trying , came my eye and price, for me to live, we came to To earth in served and born, to hear the cross the shame thus born, to my love Christ are making my own preserved. Why it might for me to live To know I wanted him To know his mighty hard we save. For me to live with God , receiving him I am God, for me to live with God. Joy in Christ and ever sees and run to Him we do peace content in Him in everything For me to live in Christ, for me to live in God. Great song for us to close with. Please don't forget that tonight we start our choir rehearsals back at 5 o'clock. And the text that we read during our scripture reading this morning will be the text we're looking at this evening from Luke chapter 10. So I hope that you'll be able to come back tonight and join us as we examine that passage of Scripture. And uh Mr. Jenny, is Mr. Jenny back there? I'd like to ask you to come and uh close us in prayer. And if you're visiting with us today, I hope that you will stop by and greet us and for our church family I hope that you'll spend some time uh fellowshipping with the Schleyline family and being an encouragement to them. Mr. Jenny Let us pray. Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, so much for the blessings of this Lord's Day that you have allowed us to assemble ourselves together. Thank you first of all for the fellowship We had this morning, then I thank you, Lord, for the good music that we've been uh challenged to listen to, Lord, that has uh enlightened our heart and and stirred our soul, Lord, to uh I want to serve you more than Lord to be fed from your word on this morning, Lord, that you have uh uh increased our uh desire to want to be more um available for missions lord that we might uh be able to See more evidence of men and women, boys and girls coming to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for the missionaries that we've had with us today that we continue to encourage them and continue to support them both prayer-wise and financially. Pray Lord that you would just continue now to be with each one of us as we go to our homes and We think upon the scripture that we've been uh challenged with this morning, that we would be uh a better witness and testimony for you that we would have the desire to see more of our young people and middle-aged people and older people uh devote their life for the uh mission field Pray Lord now that you would just guide and direct us now throughout the remainder of the afternoon. Bring us back safely tonight. And we'll give you the praise for this in Jesus' name. Amen.