Okay, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn to Isaiah chapter 9. Isaiah chapter 9 verses 6 And 7. Isaiah 9, 6 and 7. I'm going to read the text, we'll pray, and then we'll get into this passage of scripture tonight. Isaiah 9:6. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder. And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth, even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts We'll perform this. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer as we look at a very interesting portion of God's Word. Let's pray. Father, help us to understand the context of this statement that was made. Many, many years ago, help us to understand tonight the people that were receiving this promise. To understand that the incredible gloom and the discouragement and the incredible debauchery that was going on in Israel at the time when these words were written. And help us to remember how great an encouragement it was meant to be to those people. And help us to understand the weight and the value and the glory that is here for us this evening as we look at this text. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I want to ask two questions tonight as we get into this passage. The first one is, what is the significance of the section in front of us from Isaiah's prophecy. And the second is what does God want us to do in the light of that particular statement? Well for us to understand the reason that this was given, and for us to understand the weight of this particular passage and the implications of that passage, we have to understand the context in which it was written. When we come to this verse, the first word that we find is the word for. In fact, when we come to a verse like this, really, if it starts with the word for, then probably we should start somewhere preceding that. We actually shouldn't start with that verse. Because that word for means that there is something that's an application based on something that was stated before. Before we get into that, I want you to just imagine for a moment what it would be like if we lived in a world with no death. No sickness, no poverty, no crying, no war , no sin. A world that had no curse at all. Could you imagine that kind of a world? Well, the older you get, probably the harder it is to imagine a world like that. Because that's not the world we live in at all. Maybe if you're a child and you live in a very sheltered environment, you think that's how the world is. But the older that you get, the more that you study history and you see the events that are going on and you get an understanding of what's going on in our country and our government and our culture. the more you realize that is an absolute impossibility. There is no such thing on this side of glory where we're going to find that kind of a world, is there? Imagine mankind in his ignorance believes that through reformation of society, moral instruction, education, treaties, we can bring about that kind of a world. I think it was at the end of World War I, it was Neville Chamberlain, I don't remember for sure, but I believe it was him that said, This is the war to end all wars. Was he correct on that? Not at all. Because there was another war that came that was just as vicious, if not more, in many ways. Just a few short decades after that statement was made, Europe was embroiled in a terrible conflict. One that involved not just Europe, but Asia, North America, South America, all over the world, embroiled in this conflict. Folks, it is ignorant to believe that we can make a world like that through reformation of society, through moral instruction, because the truth is those things don't change within the heart of mankind. All of us have a problem. And unless that problem is addressed, and not just with us, but every single person living on this planet, we won't see that kind of a world. Mankind in his best efforts has never and will never make this kind of a world. But I want you to understand something. That kind of a world is one day going to exist. Did you know that? When we read this passage of Scripture, what we see is that what we want and what everybody wants is the kind of world one day that is going to be here. And it's going to be because of Christ establishing his rule and his reign. And this passage of Scripture tells us about that kind of a time period. Well, before we get into this, we need to understand the condition of God's people when they were receiving this particular promise. To see that, you've got to go back a chapter to understand the kinds of things that are going on in Israel. Turn with me to Isaiah chapter 8. We'll start in verse 13. I'm not going to read every single word and every single verse in this section because I don't want us to get bogged down in all the details. I just want us to catch the highlights of what are being the things that are being stated here in Isaiah chapter 8. Look down in verse 13, it says this, Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself, and let him be your fear, and let him be your dread. Let me put it in simple terms. Isaiah is basically saying God needs to be number one in your life, and number two, you need to have a healthy respect and awe and reverence for God. Now, why would Isaiah have to state that? Because that was not the prevailing thought and the prevailing heart of God's people at the time that this was written. It was written to a group of people that were serving idols. It was written to a group of people that didn't fear God. They didn't have a healthy respect and awe and reverence for God. God's laws were not on their heart and on their mind. They were doing their own thing. You could say every man did what was right. in his own eyes. He says, He shall be for many a sanctuary, but for a stone of stumbling and for a rock of offense to both the house of Israel. He basically is stating that God's people, rather than seeing God as their delight and their joy and their satisfaction and the source of their fellowship, he's a rock of offense. He's someone they don't want. He's someone they don't love. Someone they don't glory in. He says many of them will stumble and fall and be broken and be snared. He's talking about God's people, Israel. He goes on in verse 19 and says this: when they shall say unto you, seek unto them that have familiar spirits. And unto wizards that mutter, should not a people seek after their God for the living to the dead? He says, It's because there's no light in them. They'll pass through it hardly, best and hungry. They shall be hungry, and they shall fret themselves and curse their kings and their god. They shall look unto the earth and behold trouble and darkness. Dimness and anguish, and they shall be driven to the darkness. What exactly is he talking about? He's basically saying, rather than God's people seeking God as their strength, and their comfort and their safety, they're going to the occults. They're going to idolatry. They're looking for wizards and soothsayers and people who can predict the future and can protect them with the occult. That's what they're doing. God's people. Imagine that. You might say, how would you summarize the nation of Israel at this time? Here's how I'd summarize it: spiritual blindness. Ignorance. Rebellion against God and His provision for salvation. Separated from God and the blessings that come in a walk with Him Troubled at every hand by their own people, their rulers, their religious leaders, the Babylonians. Imagine if you were living in Jerusalem at that time. It was a troubling time. There was a group of people that was to the north and to the east of the nation of Israel called the Babylonians. The land of Persia, as we call it, or Iran. These were a strong group of people. They were a group of people that wanted power. They wanted to rule the world. They wanted to dominate. They wanted to control. They were ruthless. They were vicious people. And they were going and they were beginning to move from their capital city of Babylon. And they were beginning piece by piece to take down the civilizations that were around them. Well, whether you realize it or not, there's still that mentality in a lot of people in that portion of the world. Not a lot's changed Except this, at that time, Babylon was well on its way to controlling all of the known world. And as one civilization sinks under the control of Babylon, as they hear the stories of the vicious attacks of those people , The Jews become fearful. And rather than them seeking the Lord, they go to the occult. They go to the idols of the nations around them. In fact, it eventually gets to a point. Where God's people in Jerusalem are looking over their walls, and you know what they see? A massive army laying siege on their city. And they realize it's just a matter of time, not if, but when the city comes down. Nothing can come in , no one can go out. It's like a snake that is squeezing its prey. And a little at a time, they're choking out that city. It's kind of grim and dim, isn't it? Not real nice. That's the kind of setting we're talking about. People that are stumbling in the darkness. separated from God without hope. But I want you to know that at the darkest time is when God brings this statement here. It's a wonderful statement. It's a glorious statement. Let me read it to you. Israel's future hope is stated in Isaiah 9, verses 2 to 7. The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. By the way, have you ever listened to Handel's Messiah? This particular statement is made in that wonderful A very long song, okay? But it talks about the people have who've walked in the darkness have seen a great light. In fact, in the Gospels, it mentions this particular passage. It's basically saying my people who were having no hope, separated from God, all of a sudden see hope and lights. They dwell in the land of the shadow of death, and upon them hath the light shined They joy before thee according to the joy in the harvest. Now, we don't really understand this because we don't live in an agrarian society. But there's a reason that during the fall they had festivals. They had festivals because during the rainy season, people planted their crops and they took care of their farms, and at the end of that time it gets to dry and they bring in all the all the produce. And of course, for the pagan nations, what did they say? Our gods gave us this. For God's people, they said, God in heaven gave us this. But it was a time of celebration. It was a time when they said we're not going to starve, we're going to thrive, we're going to prosper, and here is the demonstration of that. It was a time of joy and a time of merriment. It was a good time in Israel and in all the nations when a good harvest comes in. And he basically says, I'm going to take you as a nation, and you're going to experience that kind of joy. As men rejoice when they divide The spoils. Now, hopefully none of you experienced that one, alright? But the idea was that people go to war and they fought the fight and they come back and they've been victorious and they have their pay. That was what happened. Joy. Thou hast broken the yoke of his burden and the staff of his shoulder and the rod of his oppressors. He's talking about a people who were under a tremendous load, and they were discouraged, and now it's like the load has been removed. It's been lifted. But my question is this. Why? How is it that they went from darkness to light? How is it they went from this struggle and this fear to now they're in a time of joy and rejoicing? Well, here's our text. Four. Here's the reason. By the way, what he's talking about in this text is not something that they experienced when it was written, but they experienced it hundreds of years after the fact. And they only experience it to a degree, they're going to experience it in its entirety in the future. For unto us a child is born. Unto us the Son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulders, and his name will be Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon the kingdom to order and establish it with judgment and with justice, henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform it All of what he is stating hinges on a person. It hinges on Christ. There's a reason that they called him the Messiah, the anointed one. There's a reason that the Jews looked with tremendous anticipation for Christ. It's because they believed that though they walked in the darkness, there'd be a time of rejoicing. And they believed that that person was going to be the one who brought that in. Folks, they were right, yet many of them missed that person. And many people today miss that person. But I want you to notice the details because they're really interesting. First of all, he says this unto us A child is born. All of Israel's hope was bound up in a baby. Can you imagine that? Not a warrior, a child. Unto us a child is born. And how is this person described? He's described as one Who is perfect in his humanity? One who the government will be on his shoulders. He's going to be an absolute ruler. One who's called the wonderful counselor, one who has infinite wisdom. When we talk about someone being a counselor, we mean I've got a problem and I need to talk to somebody. I'm not going to talk to somebody that has the same level of experience as me I'm not going to talk to somebody who's burdened down with their own problems. I'm going to talk to somebody who has some wisdom, who knows the Bible, who understands, they have experience. I'm going to talk to somebody who can help me. When he says he's the wonderful counselor, he has infinite wisdom. There's no limit to God's wisdom. And then he says he's the mighty God. He's not just fully man, a child is born, a son is given, but he's called the mighty God. We then continue on. It says he's called the everlasting father. I want to make a comment here. When it says he's the everlasting father, it's not suggesting that Jesus, the Son of God, becomes the Father in the triune God. That's not what it's suggesting. He's talking about the relationship of a father to his children. We talk about a father, we're talking about someone who has a position of care, authority, provision. So I have my boys here. As a father, if I'm a good father, I take care of my boys. I make sure that they have clothes, make sure that they have food. If they have a difficulty. They come to me. I can help them work through that issue. I have authority over them, so that means I correct them when they're wrong. I encourage them when they're discouraged. We have a relationship that involves provision. Care, oversight, instruction, leading, that's the kind of relationship that we have. Is that how most kings are? Well, throughout most of human history, kings have been oppressors. Kings have been ruthless. They got to that position because they fought their way to the top. That's not the kind of king that Christ is going to be. He's going to be in that role of the Father. He's going to have that kind of relationship to his people. But it's not going to be a temporary relationship. He's the everlasting Father. In other words, when Christ comes to establish his kingdom and his rule and his reign, that position is going to have no end. We then come to another statement that's very interesting. He's called the Prince of Peace. His rule will be characterized by peace. You know, when someone rises to authority, a lot of times their rule is not reigned by peace. It's reigned by tyranny. There's a reason we exist as a nation today. It's because when we were established in our infancy, there is a tyrannical king over us. And this colony or these colonies decided we're going to overthrow that king. We want to break his tyranny and we want to rule ourselves. Let me tell you, Christ is not going to be that kind of a ruler. He's going to be a ruler of peace. Not just peace in the sense that he keeps everything together, but there's going to be peace even down to the interpersonal relationship. When we talk about Christ's reign. But I think this is the greatest statement of all. There will be no end to his kingdom. He's going to have an eternal kingdom. Let me go back and make a little comparison to see how the people of God are going to have a positional change. He describes them as the people who walks in the darkness, dwelling in the shadows of death. How does he describe them? Joy, like those in the harvest. People who the oppressor's rod is broken. All of that is bound up in this person, the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what's interesting, folks, when we come to a passage like this, there's actually two aspects of the fulfillment of this passage. Part of this passage has already been fulfilled. Part of it has a. Did you know that? It's almost as if when Isaiah writes these things, he's sitting in a context That context is he has a people around him who are walking in darkness. They're stumbling. They're discouraged. They're broken. They're living in their own ways. They're following their own heart and their own desires. And God's going to punish them. He's going to judge them. It's doom and gloom. It's darkness. That's the way they're living. And God says, Isaiah, give them this prophecy. I'm going to take this people and I'm going to change all of that. My people are not going to stumble in the darkness anymore. They're going to walk in the light They're not going to be under the bondage and the yoke and the tyranny. They're going to be in a place where that has been lifted. And it's all going to be rooted in a person. But let me tell you about this person. He's going to come and he's going to be God with us. And that was fulfilled during the Christmas season. That was fulfilled during the incarnation. That was fulfilled when Christ was conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary and was born into this world. And when those shepherds heard the announcement, that's when that was fulfilled. But that was only part. There's more to come. As Isaiah is looking at that, he not only sees when Christ is coming, but he's seeing when he's coming again. And that's the point that we really don't want to miss. Because not only is he going to come and he's going to pay the penalty for our sins, he's going to die on that cross, he's going to rise from the dead. But he's going to go back and when he comes at his second coming, he's going to establish a kingdom to which there will be no end. He's going to step into this role that's talked about here, where he is the government on his shoulders, where he is the wonderful counselor, where he is mighty God ruling as everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. The kingdom with no end. That's going to happen in the future, folks. And that's what we look forward to with great anticipation. I want to ask you a question. Are you going to be a part of that kingdom? You say, how can I be a part of that kingdom? Truth number four, our future hope. God's eternal kingdom. That's our hope. In Revelation 21:1, it says this. John writes, I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away. And there was no more sea. He said there was no more death, no more sorrow, no more crying, no more pain, for the former things are passed away. You know what John's talking about? The same thing that Isaiah is talking about. When God is going to establish his eternal kingdom. You might say, how can I be a part of that? If you want to know the answer, go to John chapter 3. Here's the story. There's a man named Nicodemus. He is a ruler amongst the Pharisees and the religious leaders. He's a very educated man. He's an older man. He's respected. And they're all discussing Jesus Who is Jesus? Why is he here? What's he doing? He's doing this miracles. We don't understand all this. So they take Zicodemus and they said, You're going to be our spokesman. You go meet Jesus. So one night Nicodemus goes and he meets Jesus. In fact, I whenever I think of Nicodemus, I think of this one man in Ghana, Mr. Biney. You've heard his name before, I know, at least once or twice. Mr. Biney always would talk about coming to someone nicodemously, meaning you came to them at night. When nobody else could see you, so that you could have this personal conversation, you wouldn't be known to anybody. I don't think that's actually what Nicodemus was doing, but it's possible. Maybe he didn't want people to know he was going to meet Jesus. But he goes to meet Jesus. And he says, we know your teacher comes from God. No one can do these miracles except God's with him. And Jesus looks at Nicodemus. He says, Nicodemus, unless a man is born again, he won't see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus goes, I'm not here to talk about that. Jesus says, You must be born again, or you cannot see the kingdom. He says, How in the world can that be? And they get into this conversation, and basically Jesus is saying to Nicodemus, look, Nicodemus, You're a religious man. You're a teacher. You're high up in all of Judaism. You study the Old Testament. You know the prophecies. But you know what you haven't done? You haven't trusted in the Messiah. And unless you trust in the Messiah, you won't see the kingdom of God. How in the world does someone get to be a part of God's eternal kingdom? It's through the new birth. You have to be born again. You have to place your faith in the finished work of Christ. You know, this morning we spent a pretty good amount of time talking about salvation, the gospel. I know this is pretty much our church family. But I gotta ask you this question. Do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? Have you placed your faith in Christ? Are you born again? What we read about in Isaiah chapter 9, this wonderful prophecy, you aren't going to see it if you reject the gospel. You know, there are some who will reject it. In fact, many in Israel did. And I want to read to you Peter's warning in Acts chapter 3. He says you denied the Holy One and the just, and you granted a murderer, you desired a murderer to be granted unto you. You killed the Prince of Life, whom God hath raised from the dead, and we are witnesses. And his name, through faith in his name, hath made this man strong, whom you see and know, yea, the faith which is by him. have given him this perfect soundness in the presence of you all. And now, brethren, I know you did it through ignorance. You know, as he preaches that message, he comes to a point and he says this folks, if you want to be a part of God's kingdom, You have to receive the Messiah that you just crucified. Now nobody here said crucify if nobody did that. That's 2,000 years ago. But there are a lot of people living today that could care less about what he did. It's not that they don't care less about it, but they don't think about it very much. Maybe it's become this trite story to them. I want to ask you: have you placed your faith in the finished work of Christ? You know, I think there are many people living today that when they see sickness, they say, I wish there was a world without cancer. I wish there was a world without heart disease. I wish there was a world without dementia. I wish there was a world without war. I wish there was a world without famines and terrible earthquakes and terrible hurricanes and all those things. And I say, I wish there was too. Let me tell you something. One day this world will be a different place. No more death, no more sorrow, no more pain. The curse will be removed. God will establish his eternal kingdom, and his people are going to be with them My question is, are you going to be a part of that? As we think about this text. Let's ask, have we responded correctly to the gospel? And if you are a Christian, I want to encourage you with this. That is where one day we will stand before God. We're going to die. We're going to receive a glorified body. Christ is going to come and establish his eternal kingdom. We're going to be a part of that. And that's going to be a wonderful day. We're going to enjoy God's creation the way he intended it. In its beauty, without the curse. We're going to know him and relate to him the way he intended it to be. What a wonderful day. Let's bear our hearts together and thank God for this incredible promise in his work that one day is going to be fulfilled. And if you're his child, you'll be a part of it. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for this message. That you're going to take this sin-cursed world and all those terrible effects of the fall, and you're going to reverse it and you're going to establish your eternal kingdom. And your children as redeemed people are gonna live with you forever. Or there'll be no more sickness and death and sorrow and pain, as you have promised. Father, I thank you for all those believers Who have gone before us, who today are with you, who are delighting in your presence, who one day we will be able to be reunited with And we will enjoy with them our great God. I thank you so much for this promise that's meant to give us hope. and encouragement in a broken world. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen