Okay, if you could take your Bibles, please, and turn to First Chronicles 29. 1 Chronicles 29. And as we're turning there, I'd like to ask our young people, ages four to seven, to feel free to free to be dismissed to the back. First Chronicles 29, verse eleven This morning and this evening, I'd like to preach on a topic that as a pastor sometimes it's hard to address a topic like this, and that's the topic of giving And what I'd like to do today is I'd like to in the morning talk a little bit about what a biblical view of giving it is. And I want to begin by understanding the Old Testament. And I want you to realize that in the Old Testament, we were under a different, not we, but they were under a different system. than what we have today. And what I'd like to do is kind of give this teaching because I want to explain what this faith promise purpose card is in addition to that. What I'd like to say about this card, first of all, is that this is not a pledge or a covenant or a solemn vow. I know sometimes I've heard people use that kind of terminology when they talk about a faith promise. I think it would actually be more appropriate to put it in this term. By faith I purpose to give such and such amount to missions over the coming year. You might say, why in the world would we as a church have a faith promise or a faith purpose? for missions. And I'm going to explain that as a church we give in two different ways. And some of you are aware of that, some of you are not. But the way that we give is all of our tithes and offerings, if you want to use those terms, go directly into our general fund. And so every year we we go through budgetary meetings. In fact, we've been dealing with those things over the last week or two, and what we're doing is we're getting our budget ready for the next year. And so that'll be our budget. And so all of the money that comes in in our tithes and offerings, so Sunday morning and Sunday night, go directly into the general fund. Our missions giving is not supported through the general fund in our church. We actually support it through something called faith promise. And basically what that is is that above and beyond our regular giving to our church, our tithes and our offerings, we set aside an amount of money that we give specifically to missions. And so every year we need to kind of look at where our giving is in missions and ask the question, can we take on a new missionary or two? Where are we? And you say, well, how do you make that kind of an assessment? Well one of the things that we do is we look at what our giving has been over the last quarter and get a projection. But what we also want to do, and we don't necessarily do this every year, but there are some years that we do this, we'd like to have these cards filled out The purpose of the card is simply to set it beside what our giving has been and ask the question, are we as a church purpose to do a little bit more? Is that where our heart is? Because if that's where our heart is, what we want to do is we want to increase who we're working with. And as a church, we are we are we We we take our commitment with our missionaries very seriously. You know, some churches uh give twenty-five, fifty. $75 a month to a missionary. I was a missionary for many years, and I was supported by a church or two that took that approach. If that's the approach that every church took. Some of our missionaries would have to go to 200 churches to actually be on the field. That was okay in the 1950s, but you know Our money ain't worth what it was worth back in the nineteen fifties. Times have changed. We cannot do much with twenty-five bucks. And so two hundred churches supporting one missionary That's very unreasonable. It really is. And I hope that more of our independent Baptist churches will take the approach that we as a church started taking many years ago And that is we want to be more focused that we legitimately are partnered with our missionaries. So Brother Bruce Tuttle, about 10% of his support comes from our church And that's the way that we support really all of our missionaries. There's a little bit of a give and take with that, but essentially we want to have a significant commitment with those individuals. And so we want to stay connected to them. We want to know what they're doing. We want to see them when they're back in the States. We want you to really view them as an extension of our church. And so what we do when we take up our faith promise cards is we simply look at that as a guide. to determine where are we in our missions giving and what can we do in the coming year. So please keep that in your minds. I wanted to kind of introduce this in the morning service Because I know some of our folks won't be here in the evening and I want you not to miss that. That is the purpose of the card. But with that in mind, I think it's important for us to take some time to understand Biblical giving. You know, there's a lot of different ways that people give, and some of it's good, and some of it's actually really bad. There are some churches that never talk about giving, and their churches are financially struggling tremendously. On the other side, we have churches that absolutely manipulate their people. and squeeze every single dollar and penny out of those people's lives that they can possibly get out of them. The question is, how should we give? Well, this passage that we're going to look at is a perfect example of how we should give. And I want us to take some time today in the morning and in the evening to look at a biblical view of giving. Some of the things that I'm going to say today, maybe you never thought about. Maybe some of them will resonate very well with you, but I hope that when we're done you'll say, you know what, this is a thoroughly biblical view of giving, and I need to make sure that the way that I approach this topic is thoroughly biblical. 1 Corinthians 29, verse 11, says this. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. All that is in heaven and earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come from thee And in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all. Now, therefore, O God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name. But who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thine own hand have we given thee We are strangers before thee and sojourners. As were all our fathers, our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is none abiding Well, Lord our God, all this store that we have prepared to build thee in a house for thine holy name cometh of thine hand, and is all thine own I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, hast pleasure and uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of my heart, I've willingly offered all these things And now have I seen with joy thy people, which are present here to offer willingly unto thee. I cannot think of a more glorious passage in all the Bible when it comes to giving and worship than the text that I just read to you this morning. It's a glorious passage because you need to know the setting and the context that led to this particular series of statements by David. You know, when David was up to a point in his life, he looked at his house that he had built and he said, God, it's not right for me to build this beautiful palace that I live in while you meet with your people in a tent. It's basically what he said. It's not right. I cannot allow this to happen. And he goes to the prophet and he says, I want to build God a beautiful house. Not that he lives in that house. But a place where he will meet with us. A place that when we walk into that temple, not a tabernacle, a tent, that temple, we will meet with God and he will commune with his people from a building not. A tense. And so the prophet said to him, if it's in your heart, David, go and do it. And David went to bed that night, probably thinking of all these wonderful things that he was going to do and give to God And the prophet went to bed that night, and God came to him and said, You need to go back to David, and you need to tell him, it's not for him to build this house. His life has been a bit on the problematic side in some ways. He's been a man of war. What's in his heart is wonderful, but he will not build the house. Instead, his son will build it. And so the prophet the next day had to go to David, and he said, David, I know that this was in your heart, but God said no. Now, how did David respond to that? You know what David did? He said, if I can't build it, I'm gonna fund it. That's what he did. And so for the rest of his life, he spent all his time and energy preparing his son to build the temple. What we're reading in this particular passage is all of those years and all of that preparation coming to a head. And there on that day, David, as an old man, expresses incredible delight and glory in God. God did not require David to do what he did here. In fact, God told David he couldn't build the temple, and he said, if I can't build it, I'll fund it. That's what he did The point is that David was a man whose heart was overflowing with worship to God. And because his heart was overflowing with worship to God , He wanted to give back to God from how God had blessed him. God had marvelously blessed David. David wasn't paying a tithe to God when he put those things together. David was presenting a free will offering of years For the building of a temple. I want you to understand how lavish a gift this was. And the only way to do that is to understand how much of people's funds And substance they gave to God under the Mosaic system. I'm sure everybody in here doesn't like paying taxes. You don't like paying 10%? You don't like paying 20%? You don't like paying 30%? Um, I'm sure cup of you might have to pay more than that. When when it gets into how much you make and they start taking everything out and we have Social Security and we have well, we have what we pay in our fuel and we have what we pay in the rain and all these taxes. Do you realize that under the old covenant, under the Mosaic system, the Jews paid close to 40% of their substance to God every day? single year. We talk about paying tithes. I want you to know something. Nobody in this church building pays tithes as they did in the old Covenant system. Nobody does. I don't think anybody here gives 35 or 40% of your income to this church. I doubt it. What was their responsibility? Well, let me go through a couple of things that we find here. What exactly was a tithe in the Old Testament A tithe was a little bit like a tax. A tithe was a little bit like something that someone would give to a God that they serve. And when I use the term God, please understand that most of the nations around the Jews. were worshiping idols. And so not only were the Jews paying tithes to God, but the people around them were paying tithes as well. They were paying tithes to their kings. They were paying tithes to their idols. Paying tithes in the Old Testament and the culture of the ancient Nerius was a very common thing. The tithe was based on 10%. Okay? But what we need to understand is that 10% was for this item and then another 10% was for this item. Let me give you an example of how this worked. Question three, I'm skipping through a little bit here. What was the giving like under the Mosaic system? I want to give you first of all the Levitical tithe. Go with me in your Bibles to Leviticus 27 and you'll see what he talks about here. In Leviticus 27, verse 30, it says this. Whatsoever passeth under the rod, the ten shall be holy unto the Lord. Now that's not money, that's animals, okay? It's substance. When we think of giving to our church and maybe we go off of a ten percent tithe, we tend to think of what is our income? That's not the way that they thought under that system. It was how much stuff has grown in my garden this year. How many animals have been birthed there in my farm? How much stuff did I get in bartering? It wasn't just money, it was things. We come to Numbers 18, verse 28. It says this: I've given the children of Levi all the tenths of Israel for an inheritance. for their service of the tabernacle of the congregation. When we tend to think of the tithe in the Old Testament, what we're thinking about is this tithe right here. That a tenth of all the substance that came from those people in a year was to go to support the Levites. Because the Levites did not have a portion in Israel. They did not have a section of land that was their inheritance that they farmed and that they built cities and all those things. The Levites lived amongst the people and their inheritance was the Lord. There was also a second kind of tithe that we find, and that's the festival tithe. Go with me to Deuteronomy chapter 14. In Deuteronomy 14, verse 22, it says this, Tithe all the increase of thy seed that the field bringeth forth year by year. And thou shalt eat before the Lord thy God in the place which he shall choose to place his name there, that thou mayest learn to fear the Lord thy God always Now in this particular passage, he's talking about a second tithe that they paid. So it's not just a 10%, but now it would be a 20%. that they're giving to God. And the purpose of that was to use during their festival times. Feast of week, feast of Passovers, uh Feast of Booths, all these different feasts that they would have. Kind of our idea of having a holiday, like we have Thanksgiving, we have Christmas, we have various times that we set aside as national holidays. Their national holidays were religious holidays. And there were times of lots of eating and times of lots of fellowshipping and times where they were not working. And all of those tithes would go towards funding their ability to have those festivals. So there is kind of a sense in which they were giving this to God, but they were going to kind of benefit from that because they were going to enjoy those things and they were to be put into a storehouse. So that they could enjoy those things later. We then come to another one, and that is every three years they had to give a tithe to the poor. Kind of like welfare, right? It was their version of social security. They had a system, and by the way, it wasn't it wasn't there to make people not work. We'll see this in just a minute, but the purpose was to help people that had tremendous need and they could not actually maintain their their their substance of living. Deuteronomy twenty-six verse twelve says this tithe of all the tithes of thine increase, the third year, which is the year of tithing. And hast given it unto the Levites and the strangers and the fatherless and the widows that they may eat within thy gates and be filled. So I just want to kind of like stop and let you think about this for a minute. There were three different 10% That these people were tithing to God. Every year they tithed 10% to the Levites. Every year they tithed 10%. That would go towards their festival times. And on the third year, they would set aside an additional 10%. This is 30%. They would be setting aside to help out fatherless, to help out widows. Strangers. When we say strangers, think of immigrants. People that are living there who are not from that nation. Think of somebody like uh Ruth. The Moabitus, this is the kind of person that we're talking about. If all we did was stop with that system, every third year you are paying 30% of your substance to God. And those other years you were paying twenty percent. But let me tell you, they also had their version of the gas tax and the rain tax, too, not to be too trite There were other things that the Jews were expected to do in giving to God and those living amongst them. We have the offering of firstfruits. They're required to give in the place where they were born. Let's say that you had a firstborn son. Well, he was dedicated to God. They had things called free will offerings. This is not something that was required. This is kind of what David is doing, a free will offering. They had sin offerings Think about how many animals you'd have if every time you sinned, you had to kill an animal at the tabernacle. Uh some people are kind of like, wow, I'd I go bankrupt. This was the system that they lived in. And this is not an evil system. This was normal life for these people. And then there's a final one. And I think this one is very interesting. They had to leave a section of their fields unharvested so that the poor could go and glean in those fields. In other words, this was their version of welfare. You have this huge field, you have to leave this section. So people like Ruth. And Naomi can go into the field and they can collect the scraps so that they don't starve, but they have to work so that they aren't just sitting around and being lazy. There's a reason that I'm drawing your attention to all those things. These people, their entire life was dedicated to God. They gave a huge portion of their money, their produce, their animals, their substance to God. Their system was more intensive, proportionate, than our system is in what we pay to our government, to be very frank with you. They paid a lot to God. If someone ever tells you you need the tithe as they did in the Old Testament, please understand they don't understand the implications of that kind of a statement. It was a huge financial burden, but it was one that God required. My fourth question is this: why did God require these tithes in the Old Testament? This is very interesting. And what I want to do is I want to state why, and then I want to kind of give you the New Testament parable parallel, because tonight we're going to look a good bit at the New Testament and how we should give in the New Testament. The first thing is this, it was to remind Israel that everything that they had both belonged to God and was from God. Go back to the text and notice what David says. He says, Of thine own hand have we given thee. Everything that we have comes from your hand. And so when we give it back to you, it was yours to begin with. That was the way that David looked at what he was giving to God. And so one of the reasons that God required the people to give to the extent that they did The fact that they have a strong back, the fact that they had the rain this year, the fact that they had a productive field All of that goes back to the fact that God is the one who blessed them materially and financially. And when we come to the New Testament, guess what? Nothing has changed at all when it comes to that. We live in the most prosperous nation perhaps that's ever existed. And I know that there are some, you know. you know, small little nation states in Europe that the the the people live at a higher standard than the entire United States. I know that that's true. But we're talking about 350 plus million people living in this nation at a very high standard compared to the rest of the world. We're a blessed people. And sometimes we forget that those blessings didn't just come because we had a strong back and a quick mind and a good work ethic. Because all that came from somewhere God has blessed us as individuals and as a nation. A second reason is this: it was to care for the Levites and those who had no physical inheritance like the rest of the tribes. You know, imagine if you're born into a Levite family and you know you hear about all these other kids and they're talking about their dad's land and you're like, Dad, where's our land? And he's like, you don't have any. I don't have any? Yeah, we're Levites. God is our inheritance. Really? It's very nice. Actually, it was a wonderful blessing to be a Levite. But because they did not have their own inheritance physically, they were dependent upon God to take care of them. You know, it's interesting. One of the things that that the prophets talked about in Isaiah and Jeremiah were either that the priests were getting fat. meaning that they were abusing the people, or the priests were getting lean, meaning that the people were abusing them. There needed to be a right balance there. But the point was one of the reasons that God initiated this tithe for the people was to say that there are folks that I have put in your midst, in the congregation. They don't have their own land inheritance. You need to take care of them. And that's basically what he's saying. Now, we do have this to an extent today, but not entirely, when it comes to a church and pastor. I mean, there was a time when pastors lived in parsonages. They had no land. They had no home. They basically just lived there and they were completely cared for by the church. And I'm sure in the New Testament time it wasn't quite like that, but it was like that for the Levites back in the Old Testament. We come to a third reason, that's this. It was to provide food and drink for the festive times in Israel. I guess if you want to put it into a parallel to our time, it's so that the church can do the things that it does when it functions on a regular basis. In those days they set aside food and drink and put it in a storehouse so that they could pull that out and they could enjoy the Passover together. That's what they did. Well, as a church, we pay for our lights. We pay for our heat, we pay for our cooling, we pay for the vans, we we keep all this facility running, we have lots of things going on. The truth is it takes money, it takes resources to manage That group that is going forward. And so that is the parallel that we see today. Fourthly, it was to help care for the needy and the strangers in Israel who are defenseless. You know, a lot of times when we think about people, we fail to realize that there are some people who have incredible need. They have no material resources. We don't see this in our society as much as other parts of the world see this. Probably not many of you have met a neighbor who was starving, who could not afford To do the most basic things that needed to be done. But let me tell you that in Israel, in those days, they were people, but that's where they were. They had no land. They had no way to make money. They had no way to care for themselves. They were completely destitute and on their own. And God understood that, and God cared about those people. God loved those people. There are a lot of texts in the New Test are in the Old Testament that talk about God's love for the fatherless and for the widows. And so God set up a system so that the people were giving to help meet the needs of those individuals. Do you realize that in the New Testament we do the same thing? There are passages in 1 Timothy that talk about widows indeed. A widow indeed was somebody that is dependent entirely financially on the church. We don't think about the system so much anymore because we have things like life insurance. People save for retirement. We have government programs. But the truth is this: part of New Testament giving is that the church takes care of those within its midst who are destitute. Or who have great need. We then come to a last point that I want to mention. That's this. It was an expression of concern for the poor, worship to God. And humble dependence upon him. All of those things mentioned have not changed today. I want you to understand, though, that we're under a different system. Now that doesn't mean that we just throw out the Old Testament, we ignore it, but we've got to ask the question, what today has replaced the old system? We're not under a Mosaic tithe. If we did, you'd be giving 30% of your income. Okay? We're under a different system. That doesn't mean that you have no responsibility to give. It doesn't mean that you should come to church and say, you know, that offering came by. I don't care. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna give it out. I don't have to pay a mosaic tithe anymore. I don't have to worry about that anymore. Folks, the reason that I gave all that information was so that you understood the background, the foundation of biblical giving. There were people that were obliged. Responsible to give in that kind of a way. Tithing is never commanded in the New Testament. Never And I've searched long and hard to make sure that that statement is true. But while it's never commanded in the New Testament, I want you to understand something. We have tremendous responsibility We really do. This church has needs, and we should give. What we call a tie, the 10%, really isn't a mosaic tie It's a good starting place. There are lots of people that they choose to give that, but please understand something. That is not a mosaic tithe. It's actually significantly less than what the Jews were responsible to give. How are Christians responsible to give? The word that I want to use is stewardship, Stewardship. God has entrusted to you financial resources, material resources, gifts. intelligence, spiritual gifts. He's given all those things to you and you're responsible to manage them for the glory of God and the advance of his kingdom. Go with me to Genesis 1. 28. I want you to notice what the most basic responsibility that God gave to man was. Genesis 1. 28 says this, be fruitful, multiply, replenish the earth, subdue it, and have dominion over it. That word subdue and have dominion, those two words have the idea of manage. Subdue means bring it under your control. Dominion means rule the creation. Later on in Genesis 2. 15 it says, God put man in the garden and he said, Dress it and keep it. The idea is take care of it, protect it, guard it. God created you and me with resources that are under our care. Your kids under your care. Your job. Everything that you have. It comes from the hand of God. You're responsible to manage it, to use it for the glory of God. Those four words, subdue, dominion, dress, and keep, those go all the way back to the garden, and all of them teach us this one truth. You are a steward of the resources God gives you. My question is this, how do you manage those resources? A lot of times we don't manage them very well at all. We make very poor financial decisions. A lot of times we make very, could I say, selfish financial decisions. It's not just about money, it's about the use of our time and our energies. You know, I mentioned this week we had a work day. You know, there are people that gave from 8 to 12 or 1 o'clock, they gave 4 or 5 hours of their weekend. Granted, a nasty weekend, but they gave four to five hours. That's time here. That's not time coming and going. That's just here working. We got a lot done. They gave time. There are people that spend six or eight hours in a week studying to teach kids in Sunday school That's a significant commitment of time and resources, not to mention the energy that goes into the classroom time. You got it, Jeff. There are people that serve in this church in many different capacities that you're completely unaware of. They don't do it because they want to be recognized. They don't do it because they're earning a paycheck. They do it because they love Christ. There are people who have the ability intellectually to go into very lucrative fields, and they choose to give their mind and their heart to the work of the ministry. And they do that because they love Christ. There are people who have watched their kids. Moved to other parts of the world, and they've allowed them to do that, and they've not resisted and hindered their willingness to do that. They've not tried to dampen that desire because they want to serve Jesus. When we talk about giving in the New Testament, I want you to realize something. Giving is not just about money. It wasn't just about money in the Old Testament. It's not just about money in the New Testament. It's not connected to a Levitical tithe system. The concept is stewardship. The question I want to encourage you to ask yourself is Am I a good steward of everything God has given me? Do I overflow in delight and a desire to pour my life, my energy, my resources into the work of God? I go back to David. In this eruption of worship, he says, of your own hand I give this back to you. He delighted In doing what he did for God. We read this text this morning during our scripture reading, and I want to mention a little bit of it. In 1 Peter 4:10, it says this: every man Hath received the gifts, so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. The gifts he's talking about could be material resources. It could be time. It could be teaching. It could be serving behind the scenes. It could be managing There are lots of different gifts that are mentioned in the 1 Peter passage and another passage is related to New Testament gifts But notice the word steward of the grace of God. First Corinthians 4, 1 to 5, what does Paul say? Let a man so account of us as the ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. It is required in stewards that a man be found faithful And with me it's a small thing that I should be judged of you or of man's judgment. Yeah, I judge not my own self. I know not anything by myself. Yet I'm not hereby justified. He that judgeth me is the Lord. He basically goes on to say this: God is gonna be the one who judges me someday. I want to be a good steward of what God has given me. Let me just kind of bring it down to a very simple concept. Tonight I'm going to deal with a lot of nuts and bolts. So I want to encourage you to come back I want to talk to you about some specific New Testament texts that talk about the church's responsibility and our responsibility as givers in that. But let me summarize it this way. Everything you have belongs to God. Use everything you have, including your money, wisely. Meet your responsibilities out of what God has given you. Use your money for the advancement of the kingdom of God, and use your money generously. I want to ask you this question. How do you view the things that you have? Your time, your money, your intelligence, your gifts, your energies. How do you view those things? Do you think about the needs of other people? Are you willing to use those resources that God has entrusted to you as a good steward? You know, as we come to this faith promise, this is not a purpose to support the church. This is above and beyond. This is kind of like David's overflowing of heart, saying, God, not only do I recognize I have a responsibility as a church member to make sure that I give consistently And responsibly to support the needs of this church. But out of love for you, I want to give above and beyond, and I want us as a church to be partnered with good, solid missionaries who are doing the work of ministry in other places. This is what I want to give. It's like a free will offering. So think of it in that way. I want to encourage you to come back tonight because I want to get into some very practical things as it relates to giving. Giving. Some of you might say, Well, Pastor Joel, you said we're not under the Mosaic tithe. I need to understand what I'm under, so I know what my responsibility is. Well, then you can come tonight. Okay I'm basically telling you you you're not responsible to give thirty-five percent of your income a year to the church. That's what I'm saying. But I do want you to realize that you do have tremendous responsibility. I have tremendous responsibility. We need to meet those, but we need to do it with a cheerful heart. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Ask the Lord to help us to think through these things throughout the day. Father in heaven, I pray that you'd help folks this this morning to realize the incredible sacrifices and responsibilities that people had under the old covenants. system. Help them to realize that just as you expected believers then to give, you expect us to give too. While the system has changed to some degree a lot of the things that are mentioned under the old system, they still have applications within the church. Help us to recognize that and help us to embrace those things. Help us to be good stewards. Father, help us to realize this is not just about money, but it's about our heart. It's about our hands. It's about our energy. It's about our mind. It's about the way that you've gifted us. I pray that you'd help us to be good stewards of the various graces that you give us. To us. Bless this church as we come to look at our mission's budget in the coming days and weeks. I pray that you'd help us as a church to be able to do more than we did last year. Help us to have a greater commitment. Help us to be able to encourage your people. And I pray this would be a wonderful year through which you bless this ministry and through which you use this ministry to reach Rich people throughout the world. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen