Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh today we are continuing our study in Luke chapter twenty-four. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's all turn together to chapter twenty-four and we'll look at the first couple verses And then we're going to dig into Christ's interaction with these two individuals who are traveling from Jerusalem to Emmaus. Here's what the scripture says Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared. And certain others with them, they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre, and they entered in and found not the body of the Lord Jesus And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold two men stood by them in shining garments, and they said, and they were afraid and bowed down their faces to the earth, and they said unto them, Why seek ye the living amongst the dead Now if you can remember, we talked about kind of the trauma that these disciples experienced that week of the crucifixion and then the resurrection, and uh just how they were perplexed and they weren't exactly sure how to make sense of all the things that they had gone through. Well yesterday we continued by by noticing that Jesus actually comes and talks to these two people on the road to Mayus. And initially, as the conversation gets going, he asks him a lot of questions and he asks acts as if he doesn't actually know what 's going on in Jerusalem. But now what we're going to do is we're going to move into the point or the heart of this passage of Scripture, and that is that Christ is going to Now confront these people with the truth. And so if you're looking down in your Bible, look at verse 25, and we're going to pick up with Christ's response. Notice what he says in verse 25. He says, O fools And slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and have entered into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. So how does Christ respond to these people after he's asked them, can you tell me what's going on? Well the answer is he rebukes them. And the reason that he rebukes them is because he is convinced, he believes, that there was plenty of information, plenty of information for them to know that Jesus had to go to the cross He had to rise from the dead, and that this was all the fulfillment of those things. That's what he's saying. And so he uses the phrase, he says O slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. He's saying your problem is that you don't believe. You are doubting. You're not believing or resting or relying and trusting in the things that have been presented already in the Old Testament. And then it says that Christ had to suffer, and he had to die, and he had to enter into his glory The reason he says that is because the scriptures predicted it. And it's also an absolutely necessary part of a person being able to enter into God's eternal kingdom. Wasn't for Jesus' work, then we wouldn't be able to enter into heaven. And so he he emphasizes that they 're doubting And he's emphasizing that the information is available, and he's emphasizing that Christ had to go to the cross, that he had to die. Well, the third thing that we're going to see is that he he emphasizes what actually the content of the message of the Old Testament was. And so he goes to Moses and he goes to all the prophets and he goes passage by passage by passage and he explains what the scripture said was going to happen. Essentially, Jesus is saying, I have fulfilled those things. Well, as we read through this text of Scripture, we're going to see that eventually they get to Emmaus, they sit down, they eat a meal, and then Jesus disappears. And once Jesus disappears, they recognize that the person that they were talking to was not just an ordinary visitor who was traveling from Jerusalem to Emmaus. It was the Lord Jesus Christ. And so they were all excited about this. And they run back to Jerusalem. Let's remember, it's a six-mile trek. So they run back to Jerusalem and they get there amongst the disciples, and this is what it says, picking up in verse 33. It says, they rose that same hour, they returned to Jerusalem, and they found the eleven gathered together, and there they were with them. And they said , The Lord is risen indeed. I love that statement. He's risen indeed. He has a pure assignment. And it says, as they spake, Jesus himself stood in their midst. And they were terrified, and they were affrighted, and they supposed that they had seen a spirit. He said, Why are you so troubled? Why do you what what why do these thoughts arise in your heart? He says, behold my hands and my side. And he said, I'm not a spirit. He said, Do you have food? And so they they bring him food and he eats it. And then he goes on to say this. He says, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you All these things must be fulfilled, which are written of in the law of Moses and in the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me. And he opened their understanding that they might understand the Scriptures, and he said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it beheweth Christ, to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day, that repentance and remission of sins would be preached in his name amongst all nations. And ye are witnesses of these things. What I'd like to do is I'd like to kind of summarize what we're reading in these verses The first thing that we're going to see is that Christ rebukes them because of their response. I mentioned this earlier, but he rebukes them because there's enough information for them to have faith. The second thing I want you to notice is that he emphasizes the importance of Scripture. Now, it is true that Jesus is physically standing before them, but what he starts with is the Scripture. And by the way, that's what you and I have. We go back to the scriptures and we have verification of what Jesus was going to do, what he did, and then the implications of those things. And so it says That he goes to the scriptures, he talks about Moses and the prophets, he expounds the things concerning himself. He also goes later on in verses 33 to 48, and it says He uh he he went to the the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning himself and he opened their understanding. And so Christ is emphasizing the authority of Scripture and We could say the veracity of Scripture or the validity of Scripture, and he's saying your faith needs to be rooted in the Scriptures. But then we see thirdly that he gives them a visible verification of these things. It says that he said, look at my hands and look at my feet. He says, give me something to eat, so that I can verify that I'm physically alive. You're not looking at a spirit. What that shows us is that Jesus not only said the scriptures give record of what I've done, but you have a visible record as well. So notice these things very, very well. What do they do and how do they help us? Well what they do is they remind us of the fact that indeed Christ is risen. And not only indeed is Christ risen, but they remind us of the fact that even though we've never physically seen him, we have more than enough evidence to understand what he did. why he needed to do it, and that in fact he fulfilled those things. And so you say, well, well, Joel, what what can we take away from this? Well what we can take away from this Is that just like Jesus rebuked these men who did not believe because of the scriptures, he will do the same to you and to me if we choose not to believe it. And on the other side, on the flip side, if there's a person that doesn't believe, what they ultimately need is what? It's the verification of Scripture. And so I want to remind you of that very simple fact that the scriptures are a sufficient foundation for us to believe in the gospel and to have everlasting life. That's the purpose And so that is the heart of this passage of Scripture. Christ is emphasizing that it is all about the fulfillment of Scripture so that we can have forgiveness of sins. Aren't you thankful? that Christ is alive today, that he was willing to go to the cross and die for our sins, and that we can go to the scriptures and we can see the record laid out in very simple and very clear detail and very compelling detail and we can rest on that record. I hope that you have a great rest of your morning And uh Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue in our st our series, and then as we move towards the end of the week on Friday, uh my plan is to do a bonus episode. So I hope that uh you'll join us for that as well. Have a blessed day, and Lord willing, we'll talk again tomorrow. Bye now.