Let's take our Bibles together and please turn to the book of Ephesians. We are in Ephesians chapter 4 this morning, and we are working our way verse by verse, chapter by chapter, through the book of Ephesians. And as we work our way through this book, there are so many very, very practical things that we will be talking about. And tonight or this morning is one of those very, very practical topics. And so as we work our way through this text, I hope that the Lord will really use this in our hearts. Let's go ahead and read the text together. We'll bow for prayer, and then after that, we will begin working our way through the things that we read in this passage of Scripture. Ephesians chapter 4, verse number 1. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. with all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith. One baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you all. Let's bow together for prayer as we look into this passage. Father, I pray that you would take your word as we've just read it and really take these truths and really stir up our hearts by them. Help us to see the totality of what Paul says in these verses. There is so much that is addressing our position as believers, how we are to think , how we are to respond to others and circumstances, and ultimately why this is so critically important for us as Christians. And so I pray that this morning we would understand how we are to walk as we grow as healthy Christians. And so we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. Before we start looking at the various parts of this passage, I want us to think for just a few moments. about what healthy Christianity actually looks like. And if you were to stop and think about it, healthy Christianity actually involves several different components. And if you look at the verses that we're going to dig into this morning, you'll find that Paul actually, he addresses all of them. And it's really important for us to recognize that Healthy Christianity is not just one of these things. It's actually all of these things that are working together in unity within us as people. One part of being, we could say, spiritually healthy and mature is that we think deeply about God. Sometimes we use the word theology, but the idea is that we are thinking correctly about Him. The Christian life is built on facts. It's built on truth. But we shouldn't just stop at knowledge. There's more to it than just growing continually in a knowledge of the Lord. There's a second component that is supposed to flow out of that first component, and that is what we would call godly affection. And by the way, godly affection is not just purely emotional, it is emotional. But the truth is that our emotions are things that are very flimsy. They're powerful, but they're easily manipulated. The truth is a person could go through a series of circumstances And they look at something that's just taken place and their immediate response is anger and they're furious. And then they have a conversation and they get a couple more details and all of a sudden they feel bad. Like the exact same circumstances, the emotion of anger, and then the emotion of feeling guilty. Or maybe they even feel compassion as they start working their way through those circumstances. So we're not just talking about someone who's emotional, but someone who has a godly affection. They truly love God and his people. They're stirred in their heart by the truth. The third aspect is one of service, a diligence. The Christian life isn't just do this, do this, do this, do this, do this. The Christian life starts with thinking properly And then loving properly, and then there's an overflow, and that is what we do as Christians. And then there's a fourth component, and that is engagement within the body itself. We are saved as individuals, but we don't grow only as individuals. We grow in community. And this passage of scripture is going to have a lot to say about that as we dig into it. And so I would say it like this. We desperately need to have a balance in our life of all four of these components working together, not just depth, because the truth is that some of us have this inclination to love to think deeply about theology and truth and study the Bible. But the truth is it really just stops with an intellectual exercise. And there are some churches, there are some pastors, there are some Christians that they are filled with knowledge, but there's very little affection for God. There's very little outflow of service. There is a disconnect from the body itself. That is not healthy Christianity It's not just passion. Some people are very passionate people. When they come into church, their heart is filled with so much energy and so much enthusiasm and so much intensity of emotion. But the truth is they're not thinking deeply about anything that they've just heard. Lacks depth. Some people are very hard workers. They serve and they serve and they serve, but the reality is they serve out of a very dry soul. They are literally on the edge of being burned out because while they are doing, they are not feeding, they are not enjoying, they are not delighting, they're not worshiping, they're simply going through the motions. And there are some people that in fact are extremely resilient. And for them, the Christian faith is only a personal matter. I don't need the church. I don't need the people of God. I don't need people to teach me the Bible. I don't need to read a commentary. All I need is me, my Bible, the Holy Spirit. I'm going to live my Christian life. in isolation and I will tell you that's the wrong way to look at it. Now every one of us, including me, we are pretty prone to probably one of those one of those extremes. You know, a lot of pastors, they are literally entertained by studying theology. The same way that people like to hunt and fish. Some guys like sports. Some guys just like talking about the Bible and how to interpret passages of scripture. And we could get in our minds, well that's just a really spiritual person. That's a person who is intellectually entertained a lot. And the topic they're entertained by is the Bible. And so the point that I want to make is this. We need all. The head, the heart, the hands, the community, we need it all in the Christian life. And by the way, that order really matters And it's going to come out in the text that we're looking at. The head is something that is to be engaged before we serve. It's to be engaged before our emotions become that the emotions are to follow the head. And the hands are supposed to follow the head and the heart. The heart is supposed to be pondering truth and be moved. The hands are to take what we've learned and put it into practice. And you don't serve in isolation. You do not grow in isolation. You shrivel. You become very self-absorbed. You do not have an outlet when you are all alone. And so let's see what the text has to say about all of these things. So the first thing we're going to look at, and uh I'm breaking the mold today and I'm going to alliterate. For the second time in my pastoral career, right? Alright, so first of all, we're gonna look at Paul's ministry. Paul's ministry. Verse number one, here's what it says. He says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. Now, when we talk about the ministry of the Apostle Paul, there was a foundation that was the, we could say, the stabilizing factor in how and why Paul did what he did. It was built on a very solid foundation. And we see that in the little statement, I therefore. The therefore is supposed to cause us to look back at what he's already stated. Where is he moving through the flow of this epistle to the Ephesians? And as we see what he has said, we go, oh, that's what he means when he says, therefore I'm going to tell you this because of all that I've just told you. So what are the things that Paul has already talked about? Well, there's a lot, but I want to just highlight a couple of them that I think are very, very significant to what he's saying when he talks about the foundation of his ministry. The first one is in verse number three. And he talks about the fact that the believer has been united to Christ. He says, these are people, as in we the church, have been blessed. with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places. And then there's a little phrase there. What is it? In Christ. The reason that Paul ministers the way that he does is because he knows the people that he is teaching and he is serving and he is challenging. They are united to Christ. In fact, that little concept of being united to Christ comes up over and over and over again in this portion of the book of Ephesians. Second thing we see is that he talks about the ultimate end that has been established for God's people. In verses four and five, he says that he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world for a purpose. What is that purpose? that we should be holy and without blame before him. And he did it in love. He has predestinated us unto the adoption of children. And so those verses are focusing primarily on the ultimate end of the believer. So he's saying, I know that you've been united to Christ. And I know where you're going to land in the end. I've got it all as a part of this foundation for ministry. That really shapes how he talks to the church. Third thing. Verse number one. In chapter two, he says, You hath he quickened who were dead. And that word quickened has the idea that you have been made alive. He's referring to the believer's regeneration. So before they were b un when they were an unbeliever, they were being called by the Spirit through the preaching of the gospel through to repent and believe, but spiritually they were separated from God. the Spiritually they were dead. They were walking according to a very distinct path. And the reason that they did is because, well, they were not new creatures in Christ yet. But because he knows they're in Christ, because he knows where this thing ends, because he knows that they are alive spiritually, it shapes how he teaches them. Fourthly, they are being worked on by somebody. Verse 10 of chapter 2. We are his God's workmanship. We are created in Christ Jesus. There is that little mention about our position again. We're created in Christ Jesus unto good works. And that again is looking forward to the ultimate end. And so he talks about the fact that we are being shaped by God. Lastly, chapter 3 verse 20, this is where he just was. He's praying for them He says, unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. What is he saying? I believe God answers prayer. So Paul is ministering in a very distinctive way because he believes they're united to Christ. He believes that they're spiritually alive. He knows the ultimate end. He knows that they are his workmanship. And he knows that God answers prayer. If you did not have those assurances, it'd be very hard to minister to people the way that Paul does. Second thing about his ministry that's very interesting is that it was extremely vulnerable. And we see this in the statement, I am the prisoner of the Lord. We remember that Jesus is Paul's complete identity. He is identified as one who is united to Christ. And guess what? That identification with Christ it costs him. That's why he's in prison. Not only did that identification with Christ caused him, but also his identification with the church at Ephesus. And I know that this is going back into the weeds a little bit, but many, many weeks ago when we talked about the beginning of this prayer. We saw that when he talked about himself as the prisoner of the Lord, he reminded these people that the reason he was imprisoned is because an Ephesian man who was associated with Paul when he went to Jerusalem was accused of going into a portion of the temple he was not permitted to go. And so Paul was actually arrested to protect him. from the people who wanted to kill him. He was actually protected by the Romans from the Jews who wanted to kill him for taking this Ephesian man into a portion of the temple. He was not permitted to go. So when he says, I'm the person of the Lord for you, Ike, there's a there's a literal aspect to this because of his association with that church. And it also reminds us that being committed to Christ can cost us a lot sometimes. Not always the same, not in every series of circumstances, but there is a vulnerability to being a Christian, and there is a vulnerability to serving the church as a minister of the gospel. Third detail here is that it was deeply pastoral. And he says, I beseech you. And we hear that word beseech. That is a very rich term. In fact, that word besieged is the exact same term that is used when it describes how the Holy Spirit is our comforter. He's the one who comes alongside of us. And he draws our attention to the truth. And as he draws our attention to the truth, he lifts us up and he strengthens us so that we are ready to do what we are called to do. That's the role that the Spirit of God plays in our hearts. Well, Paul had a ministry that had that kind of a nature to it. It had an instruction aspect to it where he's teaching the Bible to these people. It has an interceding aspect to it where he is praying for them. So it's not just teaching, but it's teaching on his knees. He loves them. He prays for them. He knows that God is the one who has to work through his word in these people's lives. There's an encouraging aspect, which I think is probably maybe the most significant part of this. But that is that he literally comes alongside of people who are hurting and grieving and troubled and discouraged and confused. And he comes right alongside of them and he says, do you remember when this was taught? Do you see what the scripture says? You can do this. I'm here beside you to help you through this. That is very, very pastoral. And then I think of the exhortation. Constructive confrontation. By the way, it's not just confrontation for the sake of confrontation. There are lots and lots of confrontations that don't end well, and it's not because of what we had to say, it's because of how we said it. Or why we said it, or the way in which we said it. And so what does Paul do? He does all of those things. He has a very, very pastoral ministry. Not a pastor, he's an apostle, but he has a pastoral ministry. Fourthly It's extremely practical. He connects the position of the believer to how they live. And we see that in the statement, walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. And by the way, that word vocation actually has the idea of a calling, okay? So you could say it like this, walk worthy of the calling wherewith you've been called. That's really what he's saying there. And by the way, when he uses that word call, he's going all the way back to things that he said earlier in the book in Ephesians chapter 1. We're going to come back to that in a few minutes. But the idea is that he connects how we think, who we are, with what we do. Second thing that I want you to notice is not just the ministry of Paul, but Paul's message. See, there's the end. I got it. Verses 2 and 3. He says that you're to do this with all loneliness and meekness. With long-suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving, or forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Now I want us to kind of break this down a little bit at a time so that we can understand the content of the message that Paul is giving to this church. And by the way, When we look at all the other epistles, he's going to give the exact same information. Sometimes he's going to fill it out a little bit more, sometimes he's going to give a little bit less information. But the idea is there's a consistency. What he says in Colossians What he says in Galatians, what he says here in Ephesians, what he says in Romans, there is a very consistent pattern of teaching, and we're going to see all of these details coming together in these verses very succinctly. So first of all, think about this statement, walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you're called. One word comes to mind, be consistent. You tell someone that you're a Christian, good. When they watch your life, do they have questions? Not just questions. Do they have accusations? I mean, that might even go beyond. Now there is no such thing as a perfect Christian. I'm not one, you're not one. Thank God we are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Through his sacrifice, not ours, his obedience, not ours, his resurrection, not our obedience to keep the law. But that does not negate the fact that as Christians, if we say we belong to Jesus, there is something that people should expect in what they see in our lives. That would be true with the people that we work with, the people that we hang out with when we are in our leisure, that would be our family, our children. We should live consistent with the position that we have in Christ. That's what he's saying. And so he uses words like walk. There is a pattern of life that happens day after day after day. The Christian life is not a five-second sprint or a ten -second sprint or even a two-minute run. The Christian life is a marathon. The Christian life is a journey. We are walking day in and day out. And by the way, some days on that journey we're going uphill and we feel it a lot. And some days we feel like we're getting beat by the sun in that walk. And sometimes it's very shaky and we feel very burdened. And sometimes that walk is very challenging. Sometimes the walk is kind of like walking on a beautiful day and we're enjoying the walk. We go through a lot of different things in our life. But here's the point. You're going somewhere when you're taking a walk. And it takes time when you're going on a walk. And you have to pace yourself when you're going on a walk. And so when Paul is talking about his message, he's saying, walk consistent. Where you're going, how you go, be consistent with who you are. That's what He's saying. We see the word worthy. We could say a life that conforms to the position. He's not suggesting that somehow we become worthy by what we do. I'll give you a similar situation when we think about the Lord's table. He talks about the fact that when we come to the table and when we partake, we are to partake in a worthy And the idea is that it's not that we are worthy, okay? It's that when we come to it, we recognize the significance of this moment of remembrance, and it's not flippant. It's not casual. It's very sober. It's actually very comforting. It's very encouraging. It's a time of great reflection. And so we could say that. The way, the attitude, the manner in which we come to the table, it's consistent with the gravity and the goodness of what is being pictured in those elements. That's the idea. And so he's saying the way that you walk, when people see it, they should go, you say you're a Christian. I see that. I see that. They may even say, well, oh, you're a Christian because you're a really good person. No, no, no, no, no. I'm not a good person. Anything that's good in me is a result of the grace of God. And anything that is a result of the grace of God that's good in me has no basis in my salvation has no basis in those things. I do them because I'm saved, not to become saved. I do them because. Because of his grace, because of his work, because of who I am. Not to become those things. And so that has to be there. We have the walk, and then we have the manner, the worthiness of that walk. And then the third thing is this life is pointing to an end. The calling wherewith you've been called. And what is that calling? You're going to heaven. You're going to be with Jesus. You're going to stand before him blameless on that day. And so he says: if that's the end, then let what people see between here and there be consistent with that end. That's what he's saying. And so Paul's message has that aspect. The second thing that we see is that he tells us to be properly motivated. So what it tells us is that the Christian's behavior isn't just about conforming to something external. It's not about a look. A pattern of behavior as much as something internal that is moving me to do something that is very distinct. So the reason that I don't do something or I do do something is not because I go, well here's the Christian box that I have to put myself into. I've identified with that box and so I've got to make sure I stay in that box. That's not what he's saying at all. What he's saying as you begin to understand who you are as a Christian, you begin to understand who he is. And the Spirit of God takes the word of God and begins to shape you in the way that you think. What you love. What you hate, what you're willing to do, what you're not willing to do, as the Spirit of God is shaping all those things into your life, you're going to have a certain kind of character that will be very consistent in your life. People will go, because of who you are, you don't do that. Because of how you think, that's not acceptable. They begin to actually understand that this is what we can expect with this person. That's the idea. So he's talking about the heart level, the motivation. What ultimately is going on internally? And I would say it like this: the Spirit of God who indwells the believer is influencing every aspect of the person's life. That's what we're talking about. And he uses three descriptions. With all loneliness, with all meekness, and with long-suffering, you say, what does that mean? The word lowliness has the idea of humility. He's saying, instead of you being proud in your dealings with other people, be humble. Humility is not a natural a natural way that we think about ourselves and our circumstances. And by the way, pride actually manifests itself in lots of different ways. Pride can manifest itself in somebody who wants to always put themselves in the forefront, always wants to dominate every aspect of what's going on. It could also be the person that is very much in the corner because they want to hold on to some kind of the way that people look at them and they will never put themselves forward because they're so concerned about how people think of them and see them. So pride actually manifests itself in a lot of different ways. He says, rather than being proud, be humble with all lowliness. Meekness. Have a calculated restraint rather than an impulsive reaction. I was reading this the other day in the Psalms, and it says, with the merciful, God shows himself merciful. He says with the froward and the ideas, those who are very, they're not straightforward. God meets them where they are, and he deals with them as that kind of a person. What's very interesting about the way that God deals with people is he meets us with the right proportion of force needed at the time. You know, there are times that we are like really broken and we are very wearied and we are very discouraged. And God doesn't come and just crush us a little bit more in those moments. You know what He does? He comes very gently to us. And he meets us right in that place, and he lifts us up very tenderly, and he's gentle with us. I mean, I get this picture in my mind You have a little a little child who's sleeping. I've you know had a couple of kids fall asleep on a pew on a Sunday night. And and there's there's my child sleeping on the pew and I don't just like go up there and pick him up and say, let's go. I'll just walk up there and I'm like kind of well actually probably mom will do this better than I will, but you know we'll we'll get we'll get our our son or our daughter and we'll just kind of lift them up and set them on our shoulder and just kinda pat 'em if they start to stir a little bit. You try to settle them down and just kind of walk out towards the car. Because you don't want to stir them. You say, well, why do you do it that way? Well I'm meeting them very gently because that's what they need in that moment. But then you may have a person who's very, very proud. And they think that they're in charge and nobody can cross them. And you know what God does? He comes at them gently. And then a little bit more forcefully, and a little bit more forcefully, and he he does it a little bit at a time, and then one day people go, what in the world just happened? It's like, well, God finally had to do this to get that person's attention. And some of you might say, I know that from experience. But what is the point? It's called meekness. It's not using your full strengths. It's using what is necessary to address the issue. And you know what? Wisdom and care is why people do that. They are wise, they know what needs to be done, they care deeply for this person, they have self-control control so that they can actually do that. And that's what we are supposed to be as Christians. Meekness isn't we're all supposed to be a bunch of weak people that get run over in life. It's that we only meet problems with necessary force because we have self-control and we value the people that are in those circumstances and we actually want a productive outcome. That's the idea. And then we have a third statement with long suffering. The idea is that we endure rather than we quit. One of the differences between maturity and immaturity is how quickly someone quits. It's really true. Now that's not the only difference. But that is one of the great differences between maturity and immaturity. A person who encounters a little bit of challenge and immediately, like, I can't handle the situation anymore. I'm going to go do this now. I'm gonna cut that person off. I want nothing to do with them. I'm gonna quit that job. I can't handle those people anymore. And and immediately they change direction very rapidly. Why? Because they do not have the maturity to recognize that life is complicated and people can be challenging and it takes time to resolve issues between individuals And maturity comes to recognize that I know where the end goal is. I know what I desire. God's glory. and a godly resolution. But to get to that place right there, it will not happen today. It will not happen in a week. It may not happen in a month. I'm willing to do whatever is necessary on my part. To contribute to a good end in that scenario. That's really what long-suffering is. It's being willing to disengage from a problem, but not say, I'm done with it I disengage, but I will re-engage if it's necessary, if there's an opportunity, because I genuinely care about this individual, this situation, those kinds of things. It is an enduring kind of equality. And so he says when we deal with people, we need to be humble. We need to be restrained. We need to be enduring. Those are Christian virtues. And it's the Spirit of God who works those into us. They are not there naturally. They are cultivated by the grace of God in our hearts. A third thing we see is this. We've got to be practical. And so he gives us, we could say, a visible picture of what it means to do what he's saying. He says we forbear one another in love and we endeavor to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. Now these two these two concepts They seem very similar. They are connected because it's the same kind of circumstances where we're going to have to forbear in love and we're going to have to endeavor to keep unity, but they're different concepts. So when he talks about forbearing in love, the idea is be willing to wait and restrain yourself in order to resolve the thing in the end. In other words, the word meekness, the word long-suffering, they really are bound up in that statement, forbear one another in love. I don't have to give you illustrations. You may have situations right now that you're living through that you go, well, that would be a situation where either I have, I haven't, or I need to. It's true. Could be a family member, could be a coworker, could be someone who has just not treated us right And the reality is we have to be forbearing because we love that person. We're willing to allow the situation to play out and work itself out. Why? Because we are putting into practice the scholar virtue. Endeavoring to keep unity has the idea of being willing to engage or re-engage when necessary. I think it's important to state this. It is not possible to resolve every conflict you deal with in life. Now, a younger version of you might have thought that that was possible. And there might be some people in life that that frankly you feel very weighed down in your heart because you believe somehow This person that you've not been able to resolve an issue with, it's all your fault. And you feel guilty because you haven't been able to resolve it. I don't want people to think in such a way. The idea is that I'm willing to take the action necessary that I'm responsible to to contribute to resolving the conflict that is there. But sometimes you just cannot resolve a conflict. You know why that is? You have to do it, and so do they. In order to resolve a conflict, there has to be a cooperation on both sides of the issue. But the point that he's making is this, as much as it depends on you, you do what's right. And this is a place that we have to learn to live when it comes to living practically in the light of our position in Christ. There are some situations that That you know a person gives us an opportunity, it something comes to a head, and it seems like maybe there's some movement we could resolve this issue, and in our heart we're like, you know what? I I have dealt with this person so many times, I do not want to do that. I'm just gonna leave it there And you know what God says? Don't do that. That's not godly. It's not Christ-like. That's very selfish. That's the way the world thinks Give it a try. Take that step. Do what is necessary on your part to resolve the issue Then you have a situation where you've taken as far as you can. And you realize that. Maybe you realize that because somebody tells you that. They say, you know what, you've taken this as far as you possibly can. And you know what you need to do? Give that person space. Let them work through their issues by themselves You can't change them. No confrontation is going to be productive. Nothing that you say is going to change the way they think. You cannot change the problem. But this is what you need to do in that situation. Don't get a coldness in your heart that says, I will never address that person again. The truth is, if there truly is an opportunity , Then you re-engage. And and and the fact is that in life sometimes we don't really know. Go to somebody who loves the Lord and is honest and ask them to help you to understand if this is something that I should re-engage. How do I go do this? Should I leave it alone? Let somebody who is not emotionally bound up in that problem let them advise you. But that's what he's saying. Position renders practice. Christians need to be practical in the way they live. the Christian life. Third thing we see here is the method, Paul's methodology. There's my M again. That one's probably the greatest stretch. And yes, when people alliterate, they generally stretch. That's just the honest truth. I'm not stretching the content, but maybe the the word used it. Methodology. Paul's methodology. Verses 4 through 6. And by the way, this is the part of this text that I think might be the most challenging for us to figure out. Why does he say these things? Here's what he says in verses four, five, and six. He says, There's one body, there's one spirit, even as you're all called into one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all. who is above all and through all and in you all. Now what does he say a lot in those verses? The word one. That would be the point of emphasis. Paul is saying the whole reason that you live the Christian life the way that you do is because of what every believer has in common. You say, what does he mean by that? Well his method and the foundation for his ministry, they are really inseparably linked. We talked about the beginning, his uh his foundation, he talked about position, I therefore the prisoner of the Lord. He talked about their calling, walking worthy of their vocation or their calling wherewith they're called. So he he he's looking back at their position in Christ. Well, he's kind of doing the same thing here. The Christian life is to be a distinct life. It's to be a practical life. It's to be a life that involves community, other believers. And so he breaks that down in these verses. The first thing I want you to notice here is he talks about the fact that we serve one Chaiyun God. There is one Spirit, there is one Lord, there is one Father. This is a very Trinitarian text of Scripture. In fact, we actually see the emphasis on each person of the Godhead's role in our salvation, how we grow as Christians, our security. That's emphasized a lot in these in these verses in this book. There's a lot of Trinitarian uh content here in these verses. And so he's emphasizing the fact that you serve one God, but there's a relationship you have to God through the Father's work, through the Son's work, and through the Spirit's work. And their work Is all inseparably linked in perfect unity to accomplish what needs to be accomplished for your salvation. He talks about how we are united to one another as we are united to him. He says there's one body. We've been placed into one body by the Spirit, the body of Christ. He talked about one hope of your calling. He calls all of us into one same eternal hope. We're going to stand before our Savior someday, forgiven, cleansed, righteous, sinless. It's all gonna happen. And by the way, those of us that lived a very strong Christian life and those who really did it. And some people say, well, that's just not fair. It's called grace. Okay? Not trying to encourage anybody to not live the Christian life the way they should. But here's the bottom line. We're not all equally gifted. We're not all equally strong. We're not all equally mature. Some of us will not get entirely where we need to be in certain areas of our lives. But on that day, we will be accepted entirely in him. And he reminds us of that. One faith. There is one object of faith, it is the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus left the throne rooms of heaven. He took on flesh in time. He went to the cross. He was nailed to that cross. He died for our sins. He rose from the dead. We are righteous and forgiven and cleansed and alive in him. One faith. There's not 14 different ways to heaven. There's one. It's Jesus. One baptism. This is the most controversial one here, actually, in these verses. And I think what he's talking about is not our water baptism, but he's talking about our union with Christ. We by the Spirit have been baptized into Christ. We belong to him. We are righteous in him, forgiven in him. We are accepted in him. He talks about our baptism into Christ There's one Father who is above all. He's in charge, not us. One Father who is through all. How does God work in the world? He works through people. I mean, one of the most stunning things that God does in this world is He He calls people to repent and to believe through people like us. He uses us to disciple young Christians. He accomplishes his good work through very flawed instruments. Grace again. That's how God works. And he's one Father who is in you all. I think he's talking about the communion that we enjoy as God's people. Where two or three are gathered, there he is in the midst. When we come together, God meets with us. He works in us. He works through us. He's over us Now, why does Paul take the time to talk about all those things? It's to simply say this. You guys have a lot of things that are different about you. But what's not different is what causes your life to be different from the world. That's what he's saying. In other words, the Christian is to live a very distinct life, one that is consistent with who they are in Christ. And the last thing I want to mention here is that he says we grow in community, not in isolation. We are saved as individuals. We stand before God as individuals. We are personally responsible for our own decisions. I cannot trust Christ as Savior for my sons or my daughters or my wife. I have to personally respond for myself. When I stand at the judgment seat of Christ, I will not answer for the choices my wife made or my sons. I will answer for the way that I related to them And how I fulfill my obligations, my responsibilities to God as husband, as father, as pastor, in all these areas of life, I do not answer for you, I answer for my responsibility toward you. And so salvation is a personal matter. Standing before God is going to be a personal matter. The choices we make are a personal matter. But it doesn't end there. There is also an aspect to the Christian life that is unquestionably to be in community. And one of the things that we love as Christians in America is our independence. We are the independent people, right? And by the way, sometimes that's a really good thing. When somebody's willing to stand against the grain and do the right thing when other people won't, you need somebody with an independent mind. But it also can be a great weakness because independence sometimes becomes very arrogant and very isolated and frankly doesn't touch the lives of many people. And one of the things that really stands out to me in these verses is how he says, you are united together to him. You are one body. We need the Church of God. We are called to walk in community. We are called to serve within a body, to grow within that body. To put it in the simplest terms that I can, you cannot be a healthy Christian if you neglect the church. And I know that that sounds very self-serving. But it's very biblical. We need each other. We need each other's strengths. We need to work through one another's weaknesses. We need the the encouragement that we get from one one another. The reality is you don't serve yourself, you serve others. This is why this is why marriage is so good for people. This is why children are so good for people. Because we think that we are very mature, very strong, very wise, we get along with people, and then all of a sudden we now have a spouse and we have to work through things we didn't have to work through before. And guess what? We have to kind of like swallow our pride sometimes. And we have to kind of lay aside some of the things that we want to do, and we've got to work together as a unit. And then God gives us children and then, whoo, that even changes it even more. Because all of a sudden we we have All these little people that we have to look out for, and all these little people that don't necessarily think and act the way that we know they should think and act, and sometimes they're very humbled by their actions, and we have to work through lots of different things. And it takes lots of time, it takes lots of energy. And that's exactly what God wants. He didn't create a world full of only men. Or only women. He created male and female and said, For this cause, a man leaves father and mother and cleaves to his wife, and the two are one flesh. He said, be fruitful and multiply. That's God's purpose. Why? Because we need to grow in community. He wants our life to be joined with another life to shape lives. For his glory. He wants all of these individual Christians to be united into body, a community, where they grow together and they strengthen one another. And they help each other be the people that they ought to be. The church is so very, very important. You cannot read the book of Ephesians carefully and honestly and not come to the conclusion. You can't review these epistles carefully and honestly without coming to the conclusion that the body is absolutely necessary. So that leaves us with a question. How do we apply what we've heard? Let me give you some final thoughts of application. First is this: we must recognize that the gospel and our union with Christ is the center of everything. God doesn't say do this without a little bit of explanation. He says do this because of this. Do this because of who you are. Do this because of how I've worked toward you and in you and through you. There is always a cause. Our command, God's commands to us to obey and to be are rooted in who we are. So very important. We can't do the right thing in the right way without a right relationship to God through the gospel. You just can't do it. The more we understand this, the better equipped we will be to live the Christian life as God intended it to be. Who we are in the gospel is everything. Second, we desperately need balance in our lives. I don't mean physical balance, though maybe we need that too. I don't know. We all have a natural tendency toward imbalance. And I kind of mentioned this at the beginning of our time together this morning But your personality and your background and the church background that you came from and the family that you grew up in, those things actually do impact the tendency you drift toward. And the truth is, we need all of it. We need to think deeply about God. But not just think deeply about him, we need to love him. With all of our soul and all of our heart and all of our strength and all of our mind, we need to be warned by truth We need to make sure that we're not just sitting there, but we're actually taking what we've absorbed, and there's an overflow, and we're doing something with it. We're actually investing in the lives of people. We desperately need to do that. We need to be careful that we don't isolate ourselves from the community that God has planted us in. And the truth is that this is why a healthy church is so important. An unhealthy church actually is very detrimental to people. One of the most painful things that I've observed as a pastor is how unhealthy churches damage people. And unhealthy ministries damage people. And unhealthy instruction damages people. And I'll tell you what it does. It makes me say, please, Lord, may we always be a healthy place. A place where people can come and crow and serve and know God as He is But the reality is sometimes with the great damages we've seen out there, we become a little hesitant in our own hearts to engage properly as we should. We have to be so very careful. We need to recognize the tendencies that we all have, and we need to address them by God's help. Thirdly, we need to walk consistent with our position. It seems like that's the whole sermon, right? But this is so critical. We need to think about who we are in Christ. Every time we come to this place. I hope that we walk away having been reminded again who we are every time. That we're reminded in some way of what that cost him. And that we're reminded in some way of how much it proclaims and shouts his love and grace toward us. The truth is that when we think right about Christ, it takes care of so much. Doesn't change circumstance, but it changes how we relate. We need to cooperate with what God is doing in our lives as he cultivates godly virtue in us. The truth is God is going to work in us. Sometimes we really fight him along the way a lot. Don't do that. That. Embrace what he's doing. His ways are good. Lastly, we need to engage practically in the lives of other people. You know, every single season of life comes with unique challenges. Youth has unique challenges. Middle years have unique challenges. The end of life has unique challenges And in this church, one of the things that's that's good is that every single one of those seasons is covered here. Or they're watching right now. And the truth is we need to engage and serve in every single one of those seasons. Either we've gone through them, we're going to go through them, or we're in them. And that's why God gave us this church, this body, so that we will take what we learn and we'll serve one another. May God help us to do that. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, we think about these verses. And I pray that more than anything, these verses would exhort us to think very deeply about who we are as your people. How great your grace and your love has been toward us. And that we would be stirred in our hearts to desire to live like the people we are. Wherever we have been touched by your spirit in our heart, through some area where we have drifted or some tendency that we have neglected to address, I pray that you would help us. to be honest before you, to seek your strength, to get the help of other believers who love us and can strengthen and help us. That we can move forward in a way that pleases you and honors you and really proclaims who we are because of you. And we ask this in Christ's name, amen.