Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a good Monday morning. And if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it, and let's turn together to Ecclesiastes 9. And we are looking at verses 13 through 18 together. Again, it's Ecclesiastes chapter 9, verses 13 through 18. Here's what the scriptures say. This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seemed great unto me. There was a little city, a few men within it. There came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city. Yet no man remembered that same poor man. Then said I, wisdom is better than strength. Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard. The words of wise men are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools. Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroyeth much good. You know, when we came to this passage of Scripture, I think we're reminded of really one very simple thought, that there is a significance to the little and to just one. And so let me give you a summary statement, and then we'll dig into the two examples that Solomon uses in Ecclesiastes 9. One person's actions have the power to save or to destroy. I want you to really think about that this morning. One person's actions have the power to destroy or to save. And so in this passage, in verses 13 through 18, he gives an example. And it's a really interesting example. He says, This wisdom have I seen. It seemed great unto me. There was a little city Few men within it. There came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built a great bulwark against it. He said, There was a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city Now I want us to focus in on some of the details of the example that he gives. He says it was a little city. He said it had few people He said it had a great king who came against it. He set up great bulwarks. And in this little city with few people there was this poor man. But the poor man was a man who had wisdom. And it says, by his wisdom he delivered the city. So in our minds we say, wow, this one man in a little city, a very obscure person was able to give advice to the city, and through his advice, they were able to somehow make peace with this powerful king who was ultimately going to destroy the city and kill all the people in it. And so you'd say this man must have become a hero immediately because of his wisdom and how he dealt with the city. Well the answer is no, he didn't. It says the man was not remembered. Nobody remembered what this guy did. He said the poor man's wisdom was despised. His words not heard. And you say, how is this possible? Well, he's trying to paint a picture of irony here And he's trying to say, look, this person who was obscure in an obscure city, a person who was forgotten, a person who was despised, a person whose words were really not listened to in most circumstances, at one moment, at a very important moment in the history of that city And the lives of the people in that city, this man spoke up, and because he spoke up and because he was heard in that moment The city was able to basically escape a terrible disaster. Why does Solomon give this kind of an example? Well, he gives the example to say this. One person who makes a right choice at the right time can have incredible impact for good. In other words, even a person who's very obscure and unknown, and then forgotten years later, is a person that may actually have a very significant moment in the lives of people. But then he gives us a second example, and this example is very interesting. He says the poor there's also a power not only for good, but also for evil. He says one sinner can destroy so much good. In verse 18 he says, but one sinner destroyeth much good. Why does he Give so much attention and so much time and so much detail to the good example, but then to the negative example, he just says, one sinner can ruin so much good. Well, the reason is because what he's really trying to emphasize is not the power of good, but the power of one person's decision to cause trouble. In other words, Solomon's saying, it's amazing to me that when a person steps in and makes the right decision, they're forgotten, but then one person can destroy a very good thing. He gives no context to this, and probably the reason, at least I'm presuming the reason, is because there are endless potential situations. where this proverbial statement, one sinner destroying much good, can be applied. It can be applied in our homes. It can be applied in the church. It can be applied in our work environments. It can be applied in the nation. It can be applied in a community The fact is, one person can make decisions or a decision in a moment that cause incredible harm. And so Solomon's saying, as I look at life, one of the things that I'm that I'm reminded of is that One obscure person can actually influence a group of people for good in a powerful way, but at the same time, one person making one decision can crease an can create incredible trouble for a group of people. In other words, he's saying people can abuse authority, people People can gossip, people can show discord, a person could bear false witness, one eruption of anger, one of these things that seems so small and so insignificant can can actually be extremely destructive. And so he wants us to think about that. So here's the question this morning. How do we practically apply an interesting passage that emphasizes the importance of one person? And the significance of that one person's decisions to incredibly hurt people or incredibly help people. How can we apply it? Well let me give you a couple things I've jotted down today. The first is this, don't underestimate the significance of the obscure. In his first example, he talks about A small city, a person who's poor, a person who's forgotten, yet that person's actions in the moment were able to actually save and preserve the city. The obscure. Don't underestimate The significance of the obscure. You may think that you yourself don't have a whole lot of influence on other people. And throughout most of your life, you may not. But the reality is there are moments that God can use you in a powerful way. And so I want to remind you of that today. The second thing I want to mention is this. Remember that your words and your actions actually matter. Let that sink in. How you use your words and the kinds of decisions you make can cause tremendous trouble or can be used in a powerful way for good. And you might say, well, how in the world can my actions or words actually be for good or bad? The fact is something as simple as writing a little note to somebody to encourage them, sending them a little gift. Writing a little text message, just giving a word of encouragement to someone can go a tremendously long way. You have no idea what a person is going through in the moment And when you feel compelled to just express to them encouragement, God may use that in a mighty way in their lives. So I want to encourage you today to think about that. On the other side, I want to remind you, when you speak up, it actually matters. God actually uses people in moments to accomplish great things. And the truth is leading up to those moments, we don't prepare for those moments. We don't anticipate those moments. We may not even realize at the time how significant that conversation or that note was. It may not be until later on that we look back and realize the significance of this It's so interesting when we study history, one of the things that we'll often see is that when we look back on events and moments in history that were key moments in history that really turned things in one direction or another, will often find out that it was an obscure conversation, it was an obscure moment in history. Something that at the time didn't seem like a big deal, but as we look back, we realize that was a turning point. That was an extremely significant moment. That decision That statement, those actions that seem so small at the moment are actually huge. We need to realize that we need to often speak up. And when we do It matters and God uses it. The last thing though I want to leave you with this morning to remind you of is on the other side, your words and actions matter and can accomplish a lot of trouble. The things that we say can really cut deeply to people. The things that we do can actually really tear down people and can be extremely destructive. And so while we can be used for good of by the Lord, we also can make decisions that are extremely destructive. And so I want to challenge you this morning. Don't underestimate the power of the little decisions that you make today. Don't underestimate the significance of things that at the moment don't seem like a big deal. But down the road we may look at and realize that was an important moment in my life or in the lives of the people around me. This morning, let's remember that there is a significance to even the little things. I hope this has been a challenge to you today. As I read it and thought about it, it was a challenge to me. Hope that you have a wonderful week and Lord willing we'll continue our study tomorrow. Let's bow together for a word of prayer Father, thank you for the opportunity that we've had this morning to just take a few minutes to look at a very simple passage that really drives home an important principle. Help us to live in the light of these truths. Help us to use our words and may our actions edify and bring glory to you so that you can use us to accomplish great good in people's lives. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well it's been a blessing to be able to chat with you this morning. Hope that you have a great rest of your day. Bye now