All right, First Corinthians chapter eleven, and we're going to begin reading in verse seventeen. And because we've been looking at this in several sections I'm just going to give you a couple of reminders of what we talked about and then dig into what is really the heart of this great warning. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 17. Now, in this I declare unto you that I praise you not, that you come together not for the better, but for the worse For, first of all, when you come together in the church, I hear that there be divisions among you, and I partly believe it. For there must also be heresies among you, that they which are approved may be made manifest among you. When you come together, therefore, into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's Supper. For in eating every one taketh before his his own supper, one is hungry, another is drunken. What have you not houses seen? eat and drink in, or despise you the church of God, and shame them that have not. What shall I say? Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not. For I have received of the Lord that which I also delivered unto you. At the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. When he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat, this is my body which is broken for you, this do, and remember After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do you as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death until he come. Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily Eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord That we should not be condemned with the world. Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, tarry one for another. If any man is hungry, let him eat at home, that you may come not together unto condemnation. and the rest will I set in order when I come. Now these verses are very sobering verses, and I know that I'm just gonna put my own personal experience in there. I remember when I was a teenager, maybe a preteen that time period, I had trusted Christ as my Savior. I'd been baptized. And um I remember that every time our church would publish that we were going to do the Lord's table, it was like the entire afternoon. was this time of agony of soul for me. And the reason for that is because I was so fearful that it would be possible that I might forget to Confess some sin and then I was gonna partake of the table and then I might get really sick or die, or something terrible would happen to me And you know, maybe for some people you're like, not my experience. I've never thought that way, and I'm sorry you felt that way. And okay, fine. But actually what I've learned is that there are a lot of Christians That kind of experience that kind of a mentality. Even to the extent that sometimes they just will not participate in the Lord's table because they are so fearful that in fact they might partake Unworthily. Okay? And I think that the reason that people think that is because this text has maybe not been explained to them in its context and really explained in a way that is consistent with with what's here. So I hope to kind of present the balance here, that we feel the soberness of the Lord's table, but we also understand what Paul is actually talking about. So the first time that we gathered together, we talked about Paul's critique of the church. And we find that in verses 17 through 22. Obviously, Paul is not happy with with the way that they are handling the Lord's table. He talks about this in great detail. And we see kind of his focus, his emphasis By the way that he repeats something over and over and over again in the text. And so in verse 17, he he uses a term, 18, 20, 33, 34, he says the same thing. So this gives us a little bit of an indication as to what Paul is not happy about. He says in verse 17, when you come together, it is not for the better, verse 18, when you come together in the church. I hear there are divisions. Verse 20. When you come together, this is not to eat the Lord's table. Verse 33. When you come together to eat, tarry from one another, verse 34. If a man is hungry, let him eat at home, that he come not together unto condemnation. What's he repeating there? Come together. Okay? So the problem is that when they're coming together, they're actually creating not just unnecessary divisions, but actually sinful divisions. in the church that are disrupting the beauty of what the Lord's table is supposed to be. So really the fundamental issue in Corinth is an issue of division in the church in a way that is contrary to Scripture. And so as people are allowing themselves to get involved in this mentality, Paul is going to address the issue. Now it is interesting that he mentions that there's a necessary kind of division in the church. We see that word heresy, and when we think of the word heresy, we tend to think of a division because of false doctrine. That's not actually what this term means here. It simply means a division, and he uses it in a positive way in verse 19. He says, there must be heresies among your divisions. Some translations would translate it division, not heresy, because some are approved and some are not. And so the idea is that there are some people that should not participate in the Lord's table. And you say, well who are those people? Well if someone's not a Christian they shouldn't participate in the Lord's table. table. That would be the most basic, simplest way to look at it. And then beyond that, someone who is a professing Christian but is not considering the warning of this passage, they should not participate And we could go into other discussions about what we call close communion, close communion, open communion. Our church practices what we call close communion. The idea is that if someone's from a church of like faith and practice, we're not going to tell them they can't come In some churches, it's practice what we call closed communion. The idea is only a church member, so if I was visiting in a church like that, uh even though it's a church of like faith, I I'm in good standing. I'm a pastor, okay? They say you can't participate, you're not a member of our local church. That's not our practice. But the point is this: we do need to consider that some people should not participate. And it's because they either one are not saved or two they don't understand the seriousness of this and they're not taking that seriously But what's also interesting about this passage is the emphasis is that it's on the individual to ponder and consider themselves. And so he brings this issue up. Then in verses 20 through 22, he talks about how there's been a mockery of the table. And some people are hungry, and some people are drunken, and I think that that actually has the idea of being intoxicated. And you go, how in the world is that going on in the church? Well, you've got to understand in their culture In Corinth, there was a lot of pagan debauchery, and the thinking of the people was brought into the church. And so this was part of the problem. And so obviously Paul says we've got to address this issue. And so we talked about the reminders and verses 23 through 26 where he talks about the ordinance. And then I spent a good bit of time talking about the background of the Lord's table. The Lord's table was instituted on the night that Christ was betrayed. What was Christ doing on that night? He was celebrating the Passover with his disciples. And so what we see is that there is a connection between the Passover and the Lord's table. The Passover was looking forward to something that was going to happen. Christ would come and he would die and he would be the fulfillment of the Passover Lamb. And now the Lord's table is us looking back at what Christ did. And so we could we could put it like this. The Passover on one side and the Lord's table on the other are looking at the same event, but from a different time period. One is looking back, one is looking forward. And so, interestingly, I did get into this a little bit, even when we talk about the practices of what would have had uh happened at a Passover celebration, even the Psalms that were written Show us that there's really two sides to the Passover. One would be looking back at what happened when the people were delivered out of Egypt, and then two, looking forward to someone who was coming to complete the picture. And that is Christ. And so I take all of that to bring us up to speed with where we are tonight. And that is let's actually dig into the warning itself and ask the question. What is Paul talking about here? Alright, so let's go ahead and look in our Bibles at verses 27 through 34. Here is Paul's correction. To the problem for how the church was celebrating, or should I say, not celebrating the Lord's table appropriately. Here's what he says. He says, wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily. That's an important word. Unworthily is describing the manner in which the people are coming to the table. It's not describing the people themselves. And you know how we know that? Because of the part of speech it is. It's an adverb. In other words, it's describing an action, not an adjective describing a noun. If it was describing the The people, it would be an adjective. So it's very important. And you can even see this come out in some of the various ways that it's translated. A lot of times it'll be translated in an unworthy manner, and that's exactly what it's talking about. So if he partakes unworthily, he shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But Let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, there's the word again, he eateth and drinketh damnation to himself. That word damnation is not talking about eternal destruction in this context. He's talking about a very particular kind of judgment. We know that because in the context he actually tells us what it is. For this cause, many are weak and sickly among you. Many even sleep. So he's talking about a very severe form of temporal chastening. He then goes on to say this: For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, many sleep. If we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. That's a very important statement. But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord. By the way, the word chasten is very important. Because this is the term that is used of fatherly discipline. Think of Hebrews chapter 12, whom the Lord loves, he chastens. And scourges every son whom he receiveth. So he's not not bringing to question whether or not these are true believers He's talking about something that they're going to experience if they do not look at this the right way. He then goes on and he says that we should not be condemned with the world. Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, tarry for one another. If any man is hungry, let him eat at home, that he may come not together into condemnation, and the rest will I set in order when I come So let's wait our wait our way through this passage. And I do understand that some of the things that we're going to talk about, they are challenging interpretively to be absolutely dogmatic about what Paul is saying. But what's helpful for us is if we get the big picture of what's going on and we see the flow of the passage and we know what Paul's really concerned about and where he's going to go, it's going to kind of help keep us You could say the guardrails keep us on track, even if we have some questions about the specific way to understand a specific statement. So first of all, the problem. What was the problem? Well, the people were partaking in an unworthy manner. Okay, let's go back in our minds and ask the question: like, in what ways were they partaking in an unworthy manner? Well, people got drunk. Doesn't seem like an appropriate way to go to the Lord's table, does it? Of course not. People are being gluttonous Does that sound like a good way to come to the Lord's table? It seems like a very sober way for us to think about this very sacred moment. No, it obviously doesn't. How about people that are being exclusive? Oh, you're wealthy. You brought a lot of food. You don't have a lot to bring to this church. Well why don't you go sit over there? We'll have our time and then if there's anything left, you'll have your time. You say, like why would people do that? Because they were thinking in a very carnal and fleshly manner. They were not thinking like Christians. They were not thinking consistent with Christian practice. And so these are the kinds of things that Paul is talking about. Instead of them coming to the table and realizing this is a time that I reflect on the fact that I'm a sinner before a holy God. And the Lord Jesus Christ gave his body, and my sin was placed on his shoulders, and he was punished in my place. And his blood was shed on Calvary's cross, and through his blood being shed, my sins are washed away. I am cleansed. I am forgiven. I'm declared righteous in Christ. I'm accepted in the beloved. Everything that I have is all rooted in his sacrifice on my behalf. Instead of that being the way people were thinking, they were like, I don't want to sit by you in this uh this time of sacred observance. You know, what a serious thing. Instead of people thinking about the seriousness of this moment, they were out of control. They were being divisive. And by the way, the truth is that there are some people that when they come to the church , They are coming to church with this mindset that I could do anything that I want, I could present myself any way that I want, I can treat anybody any way that I want, and guess what? Not true. Not true at all. And so he's describing this action, how they are coming to the table. And then he uses two statements that I think are very, very sobering. He says that when people do this, they are guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord, and they are not discerning the Lord's body. What amazing statements. Guilty of the body and blood of the Lord, not necessarily the Lord's body. And I think that these two things are actually focused on different issues. And I could be wrong about this. Okay, I'm not 100% dogmatic. The first one I think is emphasizing how they are treating the literal sacrifice of Christ as a cheap thing. They're treating it as it it they have the almost the same mindset, the same disregard as the people who were there on that day who had no they had no respect for the Messiah who had come to save them. He says that's the mindset. But the second side, not discerning the Lord's body, I don't think this is talking about Christ's body in the sense of his physical body that hung on the tree. But I think he's talking about the body as in the communion of believers. And the reason I say that is because of how many times he repeats in this passage You come together, you come together, you come together, you come together. And the primary concern is the attitude that these Christians are having toward one another as they come to celebrate the Lord's table. So you can see there's two problems. One is I'm not thinking properly about Christ, and also I'm not thinking properly about his church. So the Lord's table is not just like a me and God time. It's an us. We are gathered together. And so the Lord's table is a very sacred local church ordinance. That's the problem. Now, I do think it's important that we realize that when we come to this issue, he's not talking about I forgot to confess a sin. Or I didn't know that I did something, and God's just waiting for an opportunity to pounce on me. If that's our mindset, then we really need to step back and reevaluate how we look at God. Our God is a very patient God. He is super gracious and super merciful. Now I'm not saying that so that we disregard his holiness and his righteousness. It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of an angry God. There's no question about that. But what's also true is this is the same God that when he comes to speak to Abraham, he's going to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. Abraham's like, hey, if there's 50 people who are righteous in this city, would you spare it? He said, Sure. For fifty. Okay. And I'm not going to remember all, but from fifty he goes all the way down to ten. Maybe he should have asked about five. I don't know. He stopped at 10. I don't know why he stopped at 10. But here's what that tells me. I mean, you look at the severity of the punishment. that was mediated out on Sodom and Gomorrah and realized that for ten people, God would have spared that very wicked city. Isn't that amazing to think about? Or we think about the destruction of the Canaanites, and people go, oh man, that's that's some pretty awful stuff in the Bible to read about the destruction of the Canaanites. Yet We're reminded that for 400 years, God said, I'm their iniquity is not yet full. And I sit there and I go, Sodom and Gomorrah, that's during that time period. And then we could read all kinds of pretty awful things that took place in that chunk of history between the statement, the iniquity of the Amrites is not yet full to when God actually mediates justice against the Canaanites. And you know what that tells you? God is a very merciful God. Or think about Romans chapter 2. He he says That the forbearance of God holds back his judgment. And people don't realize that it's the mercy and the kindness and the grace of God that's calling them to repentance. And so what's interesting is that when we think about the character of God, we need to think about this correctly. He is holy, he is righteous, he is just, and his judgment is very severe. And he's also a very merciful God. And so when we look at this passage, we're not talking about some secret thing I didn't know about, or something that I'm wrestling with, or, you know, I I've come I've confessed this sin to God a hundred and fifty thousand times over the course of my life and I feel horrible about it and I wish I'd stopped doing this. That's what we're talking about. We're talking about people that are blatantly disregarding the sacredness of what's going on And so I think it's important for us to remind to remind ourselves of that. And it's also important to remember that the disposition of the believer at the table should actually be a very positive one. We should be thinking in terms of celebrating what Christ has done for us. And so this is not just to be a time of misery. No, it's to be a time of great comfort and encouragement. It should be a sweet and worshipful time. Third thing I want to notice is the solution that he brings. They need to personally examine themselves and consider the manner in which they're coming to the table. And this is something that I have I have seen so many times about God's ways with people. God has every right to confront you and to confront me in a very aggressive manner. And by the way, sometimes he's got to do it. But I'm going to tell you that when God confronts you or me in an aggressive manner, it's because we disregard a lot of opportunities for it not to get to that. It's the truth. We disregard a lot of opportunities. God is very gracious and methodical and measured in the way that he reaches out to us. And what's very interesting about this very severe tax of Scripture is he says, it's not your pastor who's going to tell you, oh, I don't think you're really ready to do that, so forget about it, you can't do it. He says, let a man examine himself, and so let him eat. Now, granted, if a person is under church discipline, they're not permitted to come to the table. And I think the church should actually enforce that. But we're not talking about that scenario. We're talking about the individual sitting in his place, considering what's in front of him. Paul says, you need to sit down and do a personal inventory of how you look at this issue. Let a man examine himself. So let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. Paul is desiring that people partake, not that they refrain. It's almost like someone says, well, man, if the Lord's table is such a serious issue, I'm just never going to ever participate because I just don't want to walk on that ground. That's the wrong way to look at this. It's entirely the wrong way to look at this. You are invited. Examine how you are coming to it and then eat. And let the Lord use that to bless and encourage and strengthen you and not just your remembrance of the gospel, but the community that we have as believers. And then we see the warning. People who were mocking the sacredness of this ordinance were in danger of severe temporal judgment. Notice the statement, guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. I'm going to tell you, I don't I don't know absolutely what that's saying. I'm just going to be frank about it. about it. But what I think it's saying is that they are guilty of a very public demeaning of this sacrifice. And by the way Just to put it in terms, you tell someone you're a Christian, and then you live contrary to that profession, guess what? People go, is that what Christians are? It's like these guys that they got on their business card, I'm a Christian business owner. And then they cheat people. You know, they do poor work, they come late, they leave early. They don't have a good work ethic. They don't do good quality work. They're constantly trying to get a little bit more money when they probably shouldn't. And they're they're constantly cutting corners. And it's like, look, if that's the way you're going to do business, then don't tell people you're a Christian. Okay. That's not helping the cause. Why don't you just do your work well? And somebody goes, you know, I've never worked with a person like you before. Excellent quality, good worksman workmanship, fair price. Why are you different than the other people? Well, I'm a Christian. Really? How does that impact your your work ethic? Well I can talk to you about it. Okay, that's the way it should be. Not here, let me lure some people into my poor my poor working ability because they think, oh, it's it's safe. He's a Christian. And so the warning is don't demean the sacred sacrifice. He eateth and drinketh damnation or judgment. He's in danger of facing a very severe temporal judgment. This judgment is incremental and visible. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. You know what that tells me? Not everybody who didn't do this the right way died. But some did. Some were weak. Some were sick. Some died. Well, why was there a difference between those three different things? It's because there's an incremental side to this. Sometimes God gets our attention by sending somebody to have a conversation with us. We don't listen to what they have to say. Then He sends another situation. He lets us go down a path and then we fall on our face and we have very difficult consequences. And he goes, trying to get your attention. And then sometimes that doesn't work and we see somebody around us that goes through a very, very severe situation. And he's like, that's going to be you if you keep walking down that road. And then finally, what does he do? He says, all right, those things didn't work. I'm going to get your attention in a more severe way. And that's what And so it's incremental, it's methodical. It's not God being harsh, he loves us. If God loves us, he's not going to just let us go down a road without having some form of restraint. If you can walk down a path and and just totally disregard what God is saying, and it's like there's no resistance, then this question ought to pop into your head. Am I God's truth? Because if I'm his child, he loves me and he's not going to let me do this. And so we we actually see that sense here in the text in front of us. That there is an incremental visible working of God in people's lives. Next, we see that this chastisement is an evidence of God's fatherly care. We are chastened. This is an interesting statement. When we are chastened of the Lord, it's done so that we should not be condemned with the world. Interestingly, when you go to Hebrews chapter 12, he says this, if you are not chastened, you are not a son. That's what he says. If you're not chastened, you're not a son. Why is that? Because God doesn't have illegitimate children. He's not a father who sits back and goes, I don't care what you do. Just go ahead. Do whatever you want. No, he's involved in our lives. It's because he loves us. And so he says, hey, the world just does what they want. God lets them. The Christian does these things and God says, no, no, you're my child. I'm not permitting that. And he deals with us. In other words, there's a clear distinction between those two positions in how God deals with us. And then he says, this chastisement is a confirmation that we should not be condemned with the world. That's very interesting, actually. And you know, I think that when a believer experiences something like this, sometimes the first place their mind goes is God doesn't love me, doesn't care. And we should actually go to the opposite position. God does love me. He does care. That's why I've experienced this. And interestingly, when we have sinned against God and we are in a very low position, if we will actually repent, And acknowledge our sin and come to the Lord and actually experience the restoration of like what David had in Psalm 51 or 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sin, he's faithful and just to forgive and to cleanse. What's interesting about it is when we come to those positions of brokenness and humility, those are actually some of the times that we experience the love of God and his compassion toward us more than any other time. Because that's when he gets to extend that kindness and that grace. I mean, when I'm resisting him, he's got to push. But when I come and I humble myself, what does he do? He comforts. And this is such an important principle, not just in our relationship to God, but really in our relationship to one another. This is how we need to relate to one another. So comfort. The final thing I'll say here is the exhortation. Treat one another as brothers in Christ, act like a body under the authority of Christ. And he says it three ways. My brethren, when you come together to eat, tarry one for another. Tarry one for another. Don't be exclusive. Don't push people away. Take time. Come together. Let it be a time where you really have that sense of local church community. 2. If a man is hungry, let him eat at home, that ye come not together unto condemnation. He's like, don't come to church because you want crackers. Don't come to church wanting to indulge yourself. Take care of that at home. Come to the table with the right heart attitude. That's what he's saying. The wrestle I set in order when I come in. I bet people are going, whoo, I wonder what's going to be said when he comes in person. I'm just going to set the rest in order when I show up. Okay We don't really know what he said in person. But what's the point? The point is that Paul he knows that he's going to have to make some clarifications. And this is something that happens a lot of times in sermons. You know, a sermon is like the most direct form of communication. You aren't asking questions. It's all one way. Okay? And sometimes a pastor will say something that is overstated. Or sometimes a pastor might need to clarify more than he's able to in that short time period. Or maybe there's something very specific and you go, does that principle apply over here? Or that really hit me right here and I know I need to talk to somebody and figure out how to work through this. And so there's a need for clarification. And I think that's really the sense of what Paul's getting at here. He's like, I'm going to come, I'm going to answer your questions, I'm going to do what needs to be done so that this is cleaned up in the church. Alright, so let's take this, let's put it all together. A lot of practical stuff to think about here. Not just, oh, we partook of the Lord's table. Good job, guys. We did it this month. Let's go out the door and let's go do our thing. No. This is a big deal. How do we put it together? Well, first of all, we need to understand the Lord's table. It's an ordinance. Not my idea, not a pastor before me who passed it down to me. It's Christ's institution. He says, I received of the Lord what I've given to you. So it's a big deal. We can't be flipping about it. It connects two covenants together. This is really interesting. We have an Old Testament, we have a New Testament. What's in the middle of it? The Gospels. Why is that? Because the Old Testament points to Jesus, the New Testament points to Jesus, and the Gospels tells us what he did. And guess what? The Lord's table is really the connection of two covenants. Thirdly, it is for the church, and it is meant to be a time of worship, fellowship, and reflection. I hope the next time we have the Lord's table. That when you come, you won't come with an attitude in a heart like, I'm terrified to do this. But you'll come and you really reflect on what Christ is is done. And as you sit there in your chair, you're reminded, I am a sinner, I am broken, but he's a great savior. And his grace is greater than my sin. And I just love this church. I love the people here. We are united by one thing, the gospel. And that's what you walk away with. And that is that is an awesome thing. That is such a sweet thing. Fourthly, it directs our attention to the body that bore our sin and the blood that was shed to remove that sin. And we constantly need this reminder. It's sacred and not to be treated with disdain in any way. Secondly, we need to understand the danger of mocking the sacred. Christ's sacrifice is sacred. He loves and he defends his church. You know, when you and I treat another Christian with disdain, I mean, God loves that person. And when we have an attitude that is callous and hardened toward that individual, the question is, how do you feel when somebody treats your kid with disdain? Do you feel good about that? Or do you feel like you want to step in and just kind of like set the record straight? You're not going to treat my kid like that. Well, you know what? The Lord loves his church. His judgment can be quite severe. And so we need to examine the way we approach this aspect of worship. And then thirdly, we need to delight in the gift of the Lord's table, and that's what it is. So let's not react to this text in an unhealthy manner. Let's not make this this taboo text. I I would never go to 1 Corinthians 11 because I don't want to think about the fact that I might drop dead if I forgot to confess the sin. That's not how to look at this passage. Let's get our eyes back onto purpose. Let the Lord's table be something that is positive, not negative. Focus on him, not on yourself, not on the people around you. Let it be sweet and comforting. Let's ask the Lord to help us with that. Lord, I thank you for the passage in front of us that we were able to examine over several weeks. I pray that the next time we have the Lord's table in our church. That it'll be one of the sweetest services we've ever had. That when we think about the greatness of our Savior, we will just be filled with love for Him. When we think about the incredible weight of that sacrifice, the pain, the shame, the agony, what Christ is willing to endure so that we could be redeemed. I pray that that would grip us in a very special way. When we think about our brothers and sisters in Christ who are here with us and we are partaking as a body. I pray that our affection for our brothers and sisters in Christ would grow stronger , that we would really love the church because you love us. And Father, I pray that when we walk out of this service, that our souls would be uplifted in praise to you, that we would be strengthened in the inner Man, that we would be ready to live like the people we are, and we would be comforted by what has been done for us. We ask all this in Christ's name, amen.