Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And this is our third episode this week as we're looking at 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's all turn together to this passage. I'm going to read the entirety of it again, but then we're going to focus in on the next little section And that is the connection between the resurrection in the Old Testament and the fulfilled prophecies that we see in the Old Testament. So let's look together in verses 1 through 11, and then we'll focus in on how the resurrection is the fulfillment of Scripture. It says, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel, which I preached unto you, which also you have received, and wherein ye stand by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I have preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the Scriptures. That he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. After that he was seen of about five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present time, but some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James, then of all the apostles. Last of all he was seen of me also, as one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, that am not me to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was in me Wherefore, whether it were I or they, so we preach and so ye believed. Now if you can remember back to our first episode, we asked some important questions. Why is someone a Christian? Why aren't they a Christian? Why should we be a Christian? Yesterday we got into some very important details about the nature of Paul's ministry and the transforming power of the gospel and how It is that message that Christ died for our sins, rose from the dead, that these Corinthian believers had placed their faith in And how it gave them a standing stability and it gave them um it had transformed them. It was something that was even visibly uh witnessed by people in Corinth. And so what I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to continue working our way through this passage and focus in on verses 3 and 4 and to see how the Apostle Paul makes this very important claim that the resurrection, which is fundamental to the gospel, the resurrection, is something that was predicted in the scriptures. So look down in verses 3 and 4. Here's what it says. He says, I delivered unto you first of all that which also I received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. Important statement. and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. That statement was made twice. And it's very important because when the Apostle Paul is going to address this question about the resurrection, the resurrection of the believer to to uh an eternity with a glorified body, he's going to connect that statement back to the literal bodily resurrection of Christ. But then he's going to take that historic event that was attested by the apostles, and he's going to say that was predicted by the scriptures. So let's kind of break this down a little bit. The first thing I'm gonna I'm gonna mention about this is that Paul makes the claim, this message that Christ died for our sins and he rose again the third day does not find its source in me, the Apostle Paul. Now let's remember that when the Apostle Paul became a Christian He was an antagonist to the Christian gospel. He was saying that that what Christians are saying to be true about Christ is not true This is a false message. In fact, the Apostle Paul was passionately against the gospel. He was passionately against the ministry of the apostles. He was dragging people back to Jerusalem from as far away as Damascus, where there was a group of believers, the Apostle Paul hated the gospel. So when he talks about Christ dying for our sins and rising from the dead the third day, that's not a message that started with him. That's a message that he was taught by someone else. And he's going to tell us, the next statement he says, I delivered to you first what I also received. He's saying I'm not the ultimate authority here. Now, by the way, later on in this text, he is going to mention that he is an eyewitness And he's going to mention that Peter's an eyewitness, and the other apostles are eyewitnesses, and there are some 500 other people that were eyewitnesses of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's going to make that claim But what he's going to say here is he's going to say the message that I'm preaching to you is one that I received. I'm not the authority here It's someone who gave me this message. But then the next statement is really the key point to this little episode today That is that it is according to the scriptures. And he mentions it twice to emphasize that the death of Christ is according to the scriptures. The resurrection is according to the scriptures. And so that leads us to a very important question When he says, according to the scriptures, what is he talking about? Well instantly we say, well, he's talking about Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, because Obviously those are the gospel accounts and we have the resurrection talked about in all of these gospel accounts. And so we we have the crucifixion mentioned, we have the resurrection mentioned, so when he says according to the scriptures, he must be talking about Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. But there's a problem to that thinking. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John were all written after 1 Corinthians 15 was penned And so when the Apostle Paul is talking about the Scriptures, he is not talking about Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John You might say, well, well, this kind of blows my mind. I never really thought about this before. Sometimes one of the reasons that it's helpful for us to know the timing of when the apostles wrote these different books is it helps us to understand what he might be talking about. When the Apostle Paul is talking about the Scriptures, it is possible that he could be talking about some of the earlier epistles that were written. That is possible. So it it appears that Galatians was written before 1 Corinthians was written. So he could be talking about that gospel, but what I think the Apostle Paul is ultimately referring back to is the scriptures in the Old Testament. And so one of the things that is important for us to recognize is that when it comes to the preaching of the gospel, we could have preached the gospel out of the the Gospels because they give the gospel accounts. We could preach the gospel out of the epistles, which is where we tend to go. We tend to go to places like Romans. and Galatians and Ephesians, and I have no problem with that. That's something that I do all the time. Because what it does is it it gives us the theological implications of the gospel. So if I'm trying to explain to somebody Well, you cannot be saved by the works of the law. Well the place I'm going to most likely go is going to be Romans three and Romans four. Or I'm going to go to the book of Galatians, or I might go to Ephesians two eight nine where it says it's by grace Through faith, not of ourselves, the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. But when the Apostle Paul preached the gospel, the question is where'd he go? He went to the Old Testament. He went to places like Isaiah 53. He went to Old Testament passages that talked about the need for the Messiah, the nature of the Messiah. Where he was going to be born, the nature of his redemptive work. And he says, the scriptures tell us he would die and he would rise from the dead. What that means is that the Apostle Paul believed very, very thoroughly that people like Moses were preaching the gospel in certain parts. of the Old Testament that they wrote. They predicted the death of Christ. They predicted the resurrection of Christ. Places like Job. The writings of David in in the Psalms were predicting the death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ. By the way David in the Psalms predicted the sufferings of Christ. He predicted uh the coming kingdom. He he he really gets into these details a lot. But probably the most messianic of all of the uh of all the prophets would be Isaiah. But we have we have Micah, we have Daniel, we have Moses, we have David. The prophets continually point us to The death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ. So before the Apostle Paul gets into these issues of eyewitnesses, He talks about the scriptures. That means that what he's ultimately saying is that when Jesus came and he preached, the kingdom of heaven is at hand, and he performed all those miracles, and he says, I'm going to go to the cross because I have to go to the cross, and I'm going to to rise on the third day because I have to rise on the third day. Ultimately the people who knew the Old Testament should have said, oh, this is predicted. We understand that this was supposed to happen. Okay, this is the fulfillment of those things. That's what he's saying. I think it also really helps us to appreciate why he put so much emphasis on the eyewitnesses who are still alive who can bear testimony to the resurrection because at this particular moment they didn't have Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John as gospel accounts, they were not yet written for them, and so they were relying on the Old Testament scriptures and the testimonies of those who witnessed the death and resurrection of Christ and witnessed his ministry, they're putting their confidence, they're being compelled to believe on the basis of those witnesses, those testimonies. So I kind of want to close it like this. There is a very distinct order that is meant to verify, to convince us, to believe, and then to become the established foundation of our faith. The first of those distinct order things would be promise. Moses, David, Isaiah, Micah. You name it, the Old Testament prophets who wrote messianic prophecies were promising, were predicting, were prophesying so that people would know what was going to happen. And so that when it happened, those things would be verified and validated that this was actually what God was doing. That was the connection. That was the purpose of prophecy. And then we move from promise slash prophecy to an anticipation. That's faith. There were people in the Old Testament who believed the Messiah was coming. Moses believed that, David believed that, Abraham believed that, Daniel believed that Isaiah believed that we can go through all these Old Testament saints. Zecharias believed that, okay? These people believe the Messiah is coming. He's going to pay the penalty for our sins, and he's going to accomplish a redemption that allows us to live eternally with God in his kingdom. That was what they were anticipating. And so the Old Testament saint believed in the coming of the Messiah and they anticipated and they were looking for it. They didn't know the timing of it. The third thing that I'll mention is the word fulfillment So you have promise, you have anticipation, and then there were people who actually lived through this whole event. Imagine someone who lived in the Old Testament era, witnessed the ministry of Christ. saw the death, saw the resurrection, and then lived in the New Testament era. There were people like that. The apostles were all like that. These people were able to see the end the not just the promise and the anticipation, but also the fulfillment of those things. And that's what the gospels ultimately are. They are taking promise, anticipation, and fulfillment, and they're blending them all together to convince us to believe in the Messiah. That's what John says. He says, These things are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life through his name. That's the whole point of it. And so that moves us to the last point, and that is proclamation. So those who witness these things, the people who live from promise, anticipation, fulfillment, they're now eyewitnesses who can proclaim that these things are true and they are fulfilled. And so that is what Paul is ultimately going to point us to. He's going to say. All of the apostles are eyewitnesses, and they are, we are, proclaiming that in fact these things are true. But leads us to the final statement. Not only is it promised, anticipated, fulfilled, proclaimed, but it's written in Scripture as a record. that we can go back to for all of time and we can read these things. The scriptures are in an errant record of these events. It's a record of the promises, those who anticipated them, the the fulfillment of those things, those who proclaimed them, the theological significance of these things. They leave us this sound and unchanging witness that we can go to every single week. Every time we come to church or we open the Word of God, what are we doing? We are reading the inerrant record. of these events, the theological significance of these events, the sound, unchanging witness that this in fact is true and we must believe in it. I don't know about you, but that that is really something that we should cherish and we should glory in. If this has been a challenge to you this morning, or if it's encouraged you, convicted you. If it's something that you think will be a help to somebody else, please share that. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. I would love to answer your questions. Ultimately, what I want us to do is be encouraged in the Word every single day, that our thinking will be shaped and challenged, and that we will be practically encouraged in our Christian experience. Have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will continue on with our fourth episode tomorrow. By now