Well let's turn in our Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 12 again this evening, and we are dealing with uh such a very important topic, and that is the topic of gifts within the body. And the importance of understanding that God takes each of us as unique individuals, unique strengths, unique weaknesses, unique Physical gifts, unique spiritual gifts, unique backgrounds. He takes all of us and he places us together into this body. And he takes us as a body and he uses us for his glory. And really to build one another up so that we are mutually edified. So we're in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, we're reading verses 5. all the way to verse 27, but for the sake of time, we're just going to read through some of the highlight portions. So the first section we'll look at is verses 4 through 7, and here's what it says. Now There are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. There are diversities or differences of administrations, but the same Lord. There are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit with all. Skip down to verse 11. He says, but all these worketh at one in the selfsame spirit, dividing to every man severally as he wills. For as the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. For by one spirit we are all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink into one spirit. For the body is not one member but many. Now skip down to verse 24. God has tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to that part which lacked. That there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care for one another. And whether one member suffers, all members suffer with it. Or one member be honored, all members rejoice with it. Now, ye are the body of Christ and members in particular. So this passage of Scripture is filled with a lot of content. There's a lot for us to wade through. And so what I would like to do is kind of go back to what we talked about last week. And just remind you of a couple of those highlights and then just kind of keep working our way through this topic of spiritual gifts. So I summarize the passage this way. God's design for the church is to be a body where people are growing in community as they display Christ's glory and take the gospel to the world. He wants us all to work together. He wants us to see each other as a part of the same body. And he wants us to grow. And he wants us to bring glory to him. And he wants us to display his character to the nations. And so God's plan involves three different aspects, as we talked about last week. One is the diverse side. What we mean by that is that there are diversities of gifts. There are differences of administrations. There are diversities of operations. God has created us all differently, and he's given us all different kinds of gifts. But then we see the second aspect, and that's the issue of interdependence. And we see this in verse 7. The manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit with all. Verse eleven, all these work, that one and self-same spirit, dividing to every man as he will. The body is one and has many members. All members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. And then verse 24. God has tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to that part which lacked, that there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the selfsame character. care for one another. So you see this interdependence. We're supposed to strengthen each other. We're supposed to work together. And then the last word is the word unity. Verse 27: You are the body of Christ. and members in particular. So we talked about God's plan having those three aspects. Diversity, interdependence, and unity. Second thing we talked about was the role and the nature of spiritual gifts. We saw this in verses 4 through 10. We saw that when we talk about the We're talking about a gracious enabling by God. Verse 4, diversities of gifts. The Greek term there has the idea of God in his grace giving us an ability we don't deserve to have. Second in verse 5, we saw that this involves opportunity. There are differences of administrations. And so God gives people opportunities that are coupled alongside of this enabling to do something. Third aspect is that there is work to be done. There are diversities of operations, and that word operation has the idea of a labor that is being done. And so those three words, grace Opportunity and labor are a part of this understanding of this issue. And then last week we kind of finished up by talking about several of the key passages that give us information about the Now, rather than giving you a grocery list and just walking through all those things, I'm going to read these verses so that we can kind of catch these pieces because what I want to do is kind of go back to it and say, all right, let's categorize these so we can understand what each of these gifts are used for. So first of all in these verses we saw That to one is given verse 8, a measure of wisdom, a word of wisdom, or a word of knowledge, to another faith. To another a gift of healing. To another, the working of miracles. To another prophecy. To another, the discerning of spirits. To others, diverse kinds of tongues. To others, the interpretation of tongues. So this is one passage that gives you all of these different gifts that are to be used in the body. Second one, verse 28. God sent set some in the church, first apostles, then prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps. governments, diversities of tongues. We come to a third. Romans twelve. Having gifts differing one from a from an uh according to the grace that is given to us, whether prophecy let us prophesy according to the proportion of grace. with cheerfulness. Let love be without dissimulation, abhor what is evil and cleave to what is good. You could see that there were several different gifts that were mentioned there. And then two more. Ephesians 4 11. He gave some apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers. By the way, sounds exactly like one of the verses we just read a few minutes ago. And the reason for that is because these two different epistles are revealing the exact same thing. And then the last one, 1 Peter 4, 10 to 11. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it with the ability which God giveth. Now if we were to go to these passages, we could probably I could preach a sermon on every one of those passages. Okay? So when I look at a topic like this one, I feel like there is just so much data, there is so much information for us to work through that. I'm trying to think what is the best way to do this. And so I want to do it like this. In each of these different passages where we have this whole list of different kinds of spiritual gifts in the church, we need to ask the question, what was the purpose of these gifts? What was the context in which these gifts were being used? Do some of them lump together or are they all of equal status? Okay? Are some of these gifts that are no longer in operation or some of these gifts are all these gifts gifts that are just we should regularly see them in the church all the time, no matter what's going on? These are some of the questions that we should ask ourselves. So I hope that this little section I'm going to talk about is a help to you. The first category of gifts that we find in this text in these texts. is gifts that I would say fall into the category of sign gifts. Sign gifts. You say, well, what is a sign gift? If you go into the Old Testament, you will see a pattern that develops when you had someone who was speaking prophetically. They would say something like this. Thus Saith the Lord. And then they would say something after that. What does that do, saith the Lord, tell you? This is God's word. Okay? He's speaking Prophetically. Now sometimes the prophet was writing prophetically, sometimes they were speaking prophetically, sometimes they had written something prophetically, and then they're preaching what they had written prophetically. And so what we see though is that there is this pattern to sort of verify this is God's word. He's going to say Thus saith the Lord. Or when I open up my Bible and I say, hey, turn your Bibles to James chapter 1, verse number 1, and I will say, This is the word of the Lord, or these are the scriptures. This is my way of saying This isn't my opinion. This isn't my word. This is God's word. Okay? So when we're talking about prophecy, there is that thus saith the Lord aspect to it. But there's a second element that accompanied many of the prophecies that we read about in the Old Testament. Many of the uh the the the prophetic words that were given, either spoken or written. And those things that would come would be, we could say, signs that verified that this message in fact is from God. In fact, if we go to the book of Deuteronomy, we see that there were there were prophets who were known to be prophets, and when they spoke, there were certain criteria that were to be met if somebody was to say this is the true prophet of God. For instance They had to say something that was consistent with what had already been given. So when a prophet spoke or a prophet wrote, they weren't giving new revelation that contradicted what had formerly been given. What they're doing is they're they're giving new revelation that expands, it fills out, it gives you more information about what has already been given. So if you were to look at what is being stated or look at what has been written, you ask the question Is there a consistency here with what has already been stated? Does that make sense? We have that side to it. Or there was a second side. This person would give some kind of prediction that would verify that in fact this is the word of the Lord. And so they would say The Lord says, such and such, and you will know that the Lord has spoken because, and then they would give a prediction. And when they gave that prediction, if the prediction fell short, in the slightest bit. They were rejected and called a false prophet. Not only that, in those days Because it was such a serious issue for someone to claim to be a prophet of God and to be lying, presenting themselves as somebody that they're not. If they were to give a prediction and in fact it did not come to pass, it actually could be potentially a capital offense. It's pretty pretty pretty staggering to consider. Now, why is that? Because it's no joke to say God says, and then you say something and it's not true. And by the way, let's just kind of put ourselves in our modern-day scenario where there are people who claim to be prophets. And they claim to be prophesying. The question is this: are their predictions consistent with what the Bible says has to take place in order for them to be a true prophet of the Lord? It's a question. Because if it falls short in any way, then that person is to be rejected as a true prophet. And uh we don't have the death penalty for people that prophesy falsely today. We're under a new dispensation. It's a different time period, but the whole point is this. We are to weigh what we hear and weigh what we see. In fact, I've been listening to a podcast recently. recently that's been uh highlighting and exposing certain individuals that are very well known in our modern circles. uh I say our modern circles in the modern American church who were presenting themselves as if they were prophesying and the way that they were getting this information was literally going on social media before they went to an event. And they would take the names of the people that were going to be at that event and they went on social media and they searched and got personal information off of social media pages about those individuals. so that when they came into the context they could they could give the impression that God had given them information that he had not. Actually he did give them the information. Through Facebook. Okay. Not prophecy, alright? Now the reason I bring this whole issue up is to say this God verified the people that he used to give his revelation There's a reason that Elijah and Elisha had the ability to perform miracles, but everybody else in Israel did not have such ability. It's because they were true prophets of the Lord. There's a reason that Isaiah had the ability in certain situations to do miraculous things. There's a reason that Moses had the ability to to do miraculous things. There's a reason that the Apostle Paul had the ability to do miraculous things. Peter had the ability to do miraculous things. Because those things were given to validate, to verify, to give an objective standard that said what they're saying comes from God. This is his word, not just their opinions. It's very, very important. And so there were certain signs that came to validate the message that was being communicated in these verses. We have several examples of what we would say are gifts associated with verifying that God has spoken through an individual. Okay? So we talk about these sign gifts. They're given to verify divine revelation. In the Old Testament, we have prophets. In the New Testament, we also have prophets. But when we think of the New Testament, we think primarily of prophets who were also apostles. But apostles were not the only people that spoke prophetically in the early church. We know that because we have examples of other people who are not called prophets. Are not called apostles, but they prophesy. So we know that there are people that did this. Okay? There's a whole reason I'm going into this. It helps us to understand why we see some of these gifts here in 1 Corinthians. So when we see statements like a word of wisdom, a word of knowledge, a gift of healing. Working of miracles, prophecy, the discerning of spirits, diverse kinds of tongues, the interpretation of tongues, in my opinion, all of those gifts fall into the category of being coupled with divine revelation. Even when we talk about something like speaking in tongues. Speaking in tongues was a person who did not have a knowledge of this language, communicating prophetically as God gives them a word. And they're speaking in a language that's a real human language. It's known to some people out there, but not everybody out there And we see this at Pentecost. And so what we see is not just somebody speaking in a language that they have never learned, but they're also communicating a message from God prophetically. that is a part of that. And so it's not just that God's speaking through them, but he's giving a sign that's supposed to teach them something or validate something or convince of something. When we come to this issue of tongues, we're going to talk about this quite a bit actually. What was the purpose of tongues? It wasn't so people could get high in church. Okay? It's just really not what it was. So that they'd have some emotional experience in their closet when they're praying. To prove that they're spiritual. That's not the purpose of speaking in tongues. The purpose of speaking in tongues was to communicate prophetically a word from God. And for that to be validated in a very specific way that tongues was unique for. And we'll, again, we'll talk about that not tonight, but another night. But we talk about gifts of healings. Did everybody in the church get healed in the first century? The answer is no, of course not. In fact, in most situations, people were not healed. The purpose of healing wasn't just so that we could eliminate hospitals. We have people today that say they have the gift of healing. If they truly do. They should go down to the hospital and just heal all the people there so they don't have to deal with all the difficulties of being there in a hospital bed. They don't have the ability to heal. But the purpose of the gift of healing was to come alongside a prophet or an apostle and to validate their ministry, to communicate to the people there that in fact this is the word of the Lord. Or the discerning of spirits. This is someone who has the ability to verify this person truly is a prophet, they're speaking for the Lord. Or this person truly is an apostle, they're speaking And we'll actually see passages in 1 Corinthians where those exact statements are made. Or when we talk about the interpretation of tongues. If I'm speaking a language that nobody knows there, well, it's wasting your time because it can't edify you. But if God gives another person in the congregation the ability to interpret what you've said, and I would use the word rather than interpret, probably translate, okay, because that's what I think is actually taking place. It's the translating of this message. Then if that person is able to interpret or translate what's been said, now everybody in the congregation can be benefited by it because they've explained what's actually been stated. But the whole point of this to me is this. When we talk about these gifts, these gifts are associated with being signs to validate a ministry. Signs to validate that a that a messenger is a genuine messenger of the Lord. They're not a fraud, they're legitimate. And when we come to the completion of Scripture, Then what we should assume is that the need for this has stopped. Because we don't have apostles that need to be validated anymore. We don't have prophets that need to be need to be validated anymore. validated Those people's ministries are done, and so the message has come through. Then we have what we would call ordinary gifts. Now when I say ordinary gifts, I don't mean that They're ordinary, like they don't have value. But what I mean is these aren't things that when people see them, they're like, wow, that just blows me away. Like seeing somebody who uh has been lame their whole life being able to walk is um I'd say Apparently a bigger deal than someone who has the gift of administration. Okay? They're very different. But guess what? The gift of administration is something the church needs. And so we talk about these ordinary gifts. These are gifts that are given to build up the body through the service of the body. And so when we talk about everybody in this room, everybody who's here on a Sunday morning This is really the category that we should be thinking in terms of. That first category is what verified those who wrote the scriptures, and this book has been preserved for us so we know what is true from God. But this is the people that take the Word of God, and now they're applying it within the body in a way that is helpful to people. So here are the ones that are mentioned here. Faith. You ever been really down and really discouraged? Feel like you can't get back up? And then God just brings somebody across your path and you you pour out your heart to them and you're troubled. And they hear what you have to say, and their confidence in the Lord is something that provides a support for you and lifts you up. You ever had that happen? Many times this happens to us. And you know what? God puts in the church people that have a strong confidence, a strong faith in him. And those who are weak, and those who are troubled, and those who are burdened, and those who are in a state that is not very good. He brings those people alongside to lift them up. Here's another one, helps. These are people who use their ability to serve And by the way, I'm just going to make this distinction. I think that there's a difference between what we would call a physical gift and a spiritual gift. Some people have strong backs. You don't have to be godly to shovel snow. You don't have to be godly to build a house. You don't have to be godly to do hard manual labor. But that is a gift from God And that is a gift that God wants you to use for his glory. By the way, some people are excellent communicators. They can speak very very well. And they're good communicators. That's not necessarily a spiritual gift. I'll even put music in this category. You could have somebody who is an incredible musician and plays a beautiful hymn, and they're not even a Christian. I remember going to uh uh to Handel's Messiah one time with my wife. We went down to the Naval Academy. And the music was amazing, it was beautiful. And this is the thing that really struck me when I walked out of there. And I don't maybe this was the wrong thing to to be struck by, but this is what it struck me. do. I was like, I wonder how many people in that choir and orchestra are actually Christians. I mean in a biblical sense. They know the Lord is their Savior. As they sing this amazing song, all this incredible music that just talks about the glories of the Messiah. I wonder how many of them don't believe it at all. Could care less about it. It's a total joke to them. But they're musicians and they're really good at what they do. And what they did was beautiful. And so for me as a Christian who understands the truths of the gospel, this minister is rich to my soul. But guess what? That musical ability is a gift from God. It's a physical gift, and it can be done in a spiritual way if we are godly people, in the same way that that the ability to teach and some of those other things you know, a a heart, a strong strong body that can do the work, those kinds of things. God can use those, but those aren't spiritual gifts. Spiritual is what we do with it. But helps. This is a person that when they see something that's going on, in their heart, there is a deep burden. And this is a God-given spiritual desire to minister and to serve and to bless. Not just I'm strong and I can do it, but I love that person. I care about that person. I want to minister to them. Helps. Governments. Don't think US government. Think administration And by the way, there is a side where some people are ministratively wired, and this has nothing to do with being a spiritual gift, okay? But this is a spiritual gift. Why? Because when it comes to the administration of the church, there is a spiritual side to this. Think about something like priorities. You sit down and you start asking the question, what kinds of things should we have on a church calendar? Well you know your what you value and and and what you believe is most important and all those things, like that's gonna come out in that stuff. Are we here to just, you know, do a carnival and bring a bunch of people from the community here to have a good time and give them ice cream and cotton candy? Or or are we existing to point people to the gospel in the Lord Jesus Christ? Are we community organizers? Or are we a church? Okay? So when we talk about administration, again, we could have a spiritual gift, or we could talk about somebody who's just they're wired administratively. I think that there's a difference between those things. Or then he talks about ministry. I think that helps in ministry would be very similar. Teaching. You know, you can have a person that writes a commentary. I have commentaries in my office that are written by people that it's questionable whether they were genuine believers. You say, well, you're a pastor. Why would you have such a commentary in your office? Well, because there's a lot of really interesting information that they're able to give me about backgrounds. And these people have a tremendous ability to analyze a text. Here's the problem. The problem isn't their ability to analyze the text, and the problem isn't their ability to talk about all the things going on in the background. The problem is they don't really believe the heart of what is there. But that doesn't mean that God can't use them to be a help to me, because I do believe those things. But when he uses the term teaching here, he's not just talking about the giving of data, like I'm a good math teacher, I'm a good science teacher, but this is someone who, when they read the text, it grips them. And they can communicate it, and the way that it's communicated, it grips you. Okay? There's a difference between those things. I don't think anybody walks out of a math class or a science class and they're just like, wow, I feel like very spiritually enriched after that. They're like, that's very interesting. That makes sense. I learned that concept. But I hope when you walk out of church, your heart's gripped by truth. And there's a side where God just gives some people the ability to communicate. And it's not just about information in the head, being able to figure out how to put it in a way that people understand, but there's a passion, there's a heart behind. behind it. And that's part of the communication of teaching. Exhortation. This has a bit of a confrontational side to it. Some people are just naturally very confrontational. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about people that know how to be firm in the right way. They know when to be firm, how far to go. Exhortation. In fact, actually, this word exhortation also has a side where you come alongside and you lift up and you strengthen and you encourage. So it's not just about confronting, but it's confronting and then coming alongside to support. It kind of has both of those elements to it. Giving. Some people are blessed materially. But when he talks about giving, he's talking about people that there is a spiritual love of giving. And they have the means to do it. You know, it's kind of interesting. Recently we had uh one of our church members passed away about a year ago. And they just finished settling their estate, the the boys. And they said, when my parents died, they wanted to give a certain amount to the church. And and you know what? That money that has been set aside, we're gonna be using that to fund church planners. And we're gonna be able to actually fund quite a few church planners with that money. money. And we're just incrementally doing this. These are church planners in the U. S. There's a great need for churches to be restarted or to be planted in the United States. And so, you know, we have some guys that are coming in over the next several months. We're we've scheduled. We have people that we've recently taken on. But but here's the here's the point here. It's not just that they had money. And they're going to give it, but they had a heart behind it that desired for it to be done in a certain way. God blesses certain people that way. Ruling. Again, that goes back into the administrative. Mercy. This has the idea of people who are truly compassionate. Love and speaking. Now, the reason I bring up all these different things is to say these are these are ordinary gifts. They're not just aptitudes and abilities. They're not just physical things, because the truth is, some of these things, there are people who are not Christians, they have ability But there's a spiritual dynamic to this. This is God giving those people that beyond just they're wired that way, and he's using it to serve and bless and support and encourage the church And so guess what? In this room, everybody here, there are areas that God has gifted you like this. And the question is, what do you do with that? Are you serving him? Are you serving him with your physical abilities? You know, it's kind of interesting. We had this snow creek storm. And the thing that really hit me, unfortunately, a little bit later than it should have was that boy we have a lot of seniors and a lot of people that they really could use help, you know, getting getting their I well I say shoveled, I guess maybe their driveways weren't gonna get shoveled. They were gonna get broken up with a pickaxe. So we you know we sent out an email. It's like and and it and it said, you know, i would anybody be available if this happens again? I mean it might. We're only in February, so we probably get another one. Might even happen this weekend. I don't know. But the truth is not everybody in the church should be going and shoveling driveways. Some of you, you go and shovel too many driveways, we might do your funeral. So be careful, okay? But there are some people that you can shovel driveways, you should shovel driveways. We should be shoveling driveways for those who probably shouldn't because we don't want to do their funeral, okay? That's the idea. But the idea is that God gifts us all with abilities and he puts in our heart desires, and then he couples those desires with opportunities, and it involves serving. God gives us these gifts. The third category is gifts of church office. Now, this is really important because there are several places in these verses where he talks about apostles and prophets and pastors. Okay? And so there are certain gifts that God gives to the church that aren't just a gift, but it's a gift that is coupled with an office. And so when we talk about an apostle, an apostle was a gift to the church, but it was also an office. We talked about prophets, these people were gifts to the church. We talk about a pastor or a deacon. These are gifts to the church, but they're also offices. And each of these offices come with qualification. What I mean by qualification is God says if someone's going to function in this role, I'm going to put it into their heart, but they're going to be the kind of person that should serve in that kind of a role. Okay? And by the way, these are things that sometimes we grow into. So if a person is a young Christian and they have a heart for ministry, maybe they shouldn't be a pastor today, but as they mature and as they grow spiritually There will be a day that they should go into that role. Okay? That's the idea. Or you may have a person that the truth is they should go into ministry and for a while Um it's not like they their their life goes shipwrecked, but the truth is they really get distracted and they get going down a path in life that it's not sinful, but it's It's not really what maybe God wants them to do down the road long term. And so what happens is at a point in time God uses circumstances to kind of pull them onto a path that He wants them, and so they end up there. And so you could say it kind of goes a little bit of a roundabout way, but they end up where they need to be. But if someone's going to go into these kinds of roles, they don't appoint themselves. They have to be called of God. And there has to be some level of validation from God for these things. And so here are those roles that we're talking about. The first one is the apostle. Now, when we talk about an apostle, there are several qualifications that were mentioned in Scripture to help us to understand that not just anybody could be an apostle. I am not an apostle. I can't be an apostle because I wasn't alive 2,000 years ago to see Jesus be resurrected. Among other things. Okay? But that would be one of them. For instance, let me give you an example of how we can see this. Acts chapter 1, verse 21. You know the story of Judas. He goes out and he hangs himself. And the other apostles go, we have a problem. There's supposed to be twelve of us. Now there's only eleven. What are we going to do? Well, what this does is this gives you insight into what they understood was absolutely necessary for someone to be considered an apostle. Acts 121. Of these men which have accompanied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John unto the same day that he was taken up from us. Must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection? Really important statement. So what that's showing you is they say not anybody can be an apostle They have to have been with us through this whole whole period, which meant that they were called by Jesus, and they are going to be witnesses of his resurrection. That means they saw that he died. They saw the empty tomb. They saw the risen Lord. They can testify as firsthand account. They can give a firsthand account of the resurrection of Christ. Nobody in this room can do that I can't do that. Nobody living today can do that. Some people think they can, but they can't. Okay? Second passage, Revelation 2, verse 2. And this is given to the church at Ephesus He says, Thou hast tried some which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars. That's a really interesting statement. When he says you've tried them, the idea is it's almost like a judicial process. So you have these claims. And you have these proofs, and then there's a final verdict. Does that make sense? Here's what I say is true. Here's the facts. Here's what we come up with. So you have people they say, I'm an apostle, and they say, okay, we're going to see if this is true. And they look at all the facts and they say, wrong, now I'm an apostle. What did that tell you? Well, they understood that there were certain criteria. that had to be met in order for someone to be considered an apostle. And so we see this in the New Testament. A third passage is 2 Corinthians 12, 12. He says, truly these signs of an apostle were wrought among us, are wrought among you in all patience and signs and wonders and mighty deeds. This gives us some insight into some of these gifts that I would say are sign gifts. These gifts were given to validate that these people indeed who claim to be apostles They said, I've been called by the Lord. I've witnessed his ministry. I've seen his death. I've seen his resurrection. I can testify firsthand account. I also have the validation of these sign gifts that God has miraculously given me to validate this call. And so that would be one of those offices/slash gifts of the church. A second one would be the pastor or the elder, the overseer. Now I put those three words together because they are speaking of the same office. So people call me Pastor Joel The truth is that in the New Testament, the word pastor, as you are a pastor, that's actually used the fewest times out of those three terms. The most common is the word elder. And sometimes we see the word overseer or bishop. But when we look in the New Testament, we see that an elder or an overseer or a pastor is referring to the same office. It's literally describing different aspects of that office. The pastor is, it's the shepherding side. And that's kind of the primary thing that I do as a pastor. I shepherd. But there's an administrative side, there's an oversight, there's a ruling side, and that would be the idea of the overseer or the bishop. And then the elder has the idea of someone who has spiritual maturity. And is recognized by the church to do what they're doing. But when we talk about someone who is a pastor/slash elder overseer There are clearly biblical expectations, qualifications. 1 Timothy 3. 1. If a man desires the office of bishop, he desires a good work. He must be, and then he gives all these things. You say, well, like who makes the decision about whether or not they meet the criteria? Well, the people that appoint them to the office, okay Does this person's life actually reflect what the Bible says they have to be? Or Titus chapter 1, a bishop must be. And he gives this information to those uh to Titus there in Crete because he's going to appoint elders in every single city. He's going to establish the church leadership. And so when we talk about a pastor, this is someone who is gifted but also someone who's appointed and someone who is, we could say, scrutinized. And then the final one is deacon. In the same way that pastors are appointed, so are deacons. 1 Timothy 3. 8. Likewise, or just like, we have these qualifications for those who are pastors. Likewise must the deacons be, and he gives these things. So my point is this: when we look at these gifts, we have to recognize that they're not all in the same category. An apostle is not a pastor. Apostle is not a deacon. A prophet's not a pastor. There are certain gifts that are associated with the giving of Scripture or the communicating of prophetic information when the scriptures were not completed yet. And so we we put those together because we recognize that they fit with those particular offices. And then there are other gifts that we would say are they're normative and they're practiced regularly in the church. And those gifts are gifts that everybody in this church has some of those gifts. And then I would say there are certain physical gifts that we might not call them spiritual gifts. But they do serve the church, and we should use those physical gifts in a godly, spirit-filled way so that it blesses people. And so the question is: in what way has God fitted you? What got way has God blessed you? Are you serving Him and we could say edifying the body? And those capacities that He's given us. May God help us to do that. Lord willing, the next time we come together, we will look at the analogy of the body, which is a big part of the heart of this text in front of us. And we're going to see how he talks about all this inner work and why it's so important. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, we thank you so much for the scriptures and the things that we've been able to talk about this evening. As we think about these spiritual gifts , may we stop and reflect on how you have blessed us. Some of us, it's a season of life. We have physical strength. We have opportunity. We have time to do things that we won't at other times that we haven't in the past. Help us to use the time and the strength and the energy and the wisdom, all those things for your glory. I thank you for those who you've blessed musically, those who you've blessed with the ability to teach and to communicate. And I pray that as people take those gifts that they are cultivating that you've given them, that they will use those gifts for your glory to bless the body, and that they would do it in a very spirit-filled way. And then we think about these very specifically mentioned spiritual gifts. As you bless us and as you give us opportunity, may we be willing to do the work for your honoring and glory. Help us to be a faithful church where Christ is exalted and people are being built up in the faith. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.