Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our morning edition of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we are looking at James chapter 3 and or excuse me, James chapter 2, verses 8 through 13. James chapter 2, verses 8 through 13. If you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with me to James chapter 2, and we're looking at verses 8 through 13. If ye fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself, ye do well. But if ye have respect of persons ye commit sin, and are convinced of the law as transgressors. For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all For he that said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill. Now if you commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law So speak ye, so do, as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. For ye shall have a judgment without mercy that hath showed no mercy, and mercy rejoiceth against judgment. Now when we read this passage of scripture, it's talking primarily about our relationship to the law. And really what he's doing is he's writing to a group of people. that are trying to obey God's law selectively. In other words, in some areas they're obeying and in other areas they're kind of saying, it's not necessary. I don't have to obey in those areas. And so let's begin with a simple summary statement of this passage, and then we'll dig into some of the details. The summary is this The following section of James emphasizes several important principles that should shape how we view our relationship to the law. There are some people that would indicate that once a person trusts Christ, And they're now under grace, God's law doesn't really matter. That's not exactly true. Now we can abuse or we can misrepresent our relationship to the law. But we need to understand that as Christians, we are still under obligation to obey God's law. And as we get into this passage, we're going to see that not only are we to obey most of God's law or some of God's law God wants us to obey his entire law. And as we understand the nature of the law, then we'll understand why that statement is so important. So let's begin with the first observation from our passage. The interpersonal side of the law is entirely the practical outworking of a genuine love for others. Look down in verse 80, he puts it this way. The royal law, according to the scriptures, is Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Now when he mentions the royal law, he's indicating the aspects of the law that deal with our relationship to other people. Some of the law indicates our relationship to God, and some of the law indicates our relationship to other people. That's when Jesus says Here's a summary of the law, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, mind, and love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments Hang all the law on the prophets. In other words, our relationship to God needs to be first, and when our relationship to God is correct, then it's going to influence our relationship to other people. And so if you want to summarize all of what the law has to say about how we are to relate to other people, you could summarize it with one statement. Love your neighbor as you love yourself. Let me put that in a real practical way. Let's take an example of the Ten Commandments. Five of the Ten Commandments talk about our relationship to God. Five of the Ten Commandments talk about our relationship to other people. So, based on what James has just stated and really what Christ stated in the Gospels, if you love your fellow man, you would never cause them physical harm. That's why the law says thou shalt not kill. If you love your spouse, therefore you would never be unfaithful to them. That's why the scripture says, thou shalt not commit adultery If you love your neighbor, you would respect their right to own their property. So that's why the scripture says thou shalt never steal. If you love your neighbor, you'd never bring a false report against them, ultimately distorting justice against your neighbor. That's why it says, thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. And then the final of the Ten Commandments, if you love your neighbor, you will appreciate you'll be okay with their prosperity. You won't become unsettled. You won't want what they have. And so that's why he says, thou shalt not covet. In other words, those five commandments are really five applications of one commandment, that is, you shall love your neighbor as you love yourself. If you love your neighbor as you love yourself, you will obey those commandments that express how we are to relate to our fellow man. A second observation we find is this. We can't be selective about which laws we want to follow Because really, each law is a specific application of one general law given by one righteous lawgiver. In other words, it's not just that each of those individual laws is ultimately an expression in a specific set of circumstances of one commandment It's all given by the same lawgiver. In other words, those laws weren't made by different administrations at different times in human history. I mean, we look at some of the laws. in the United States. We have one constitution and we have all these laws that are that are basically voted on and implicated through through Congress. Well, the laws of our land really reflect several hundred years of history. And some of those laws, we look at them today and we go, well, that doesn't make sense in our society today. Well, it doesn't, because the times have changed Well, the truth is that when we talk about the laws of our land, you're talking about lots of different administrations that have enacted laws There's really one constitution though. That's supposed to be the supreme ultimate law of our land. And that's why we have a Supreme Court, because when the Congress goes and establishes a law, the Supreme Court says that's either constitutional or not constitutional. In other words, That law has to fall under the ultimate law of our land. I think we can use that somehow as an illustration of the point that's being made. In other words, each of these individual laws falls under one statement of law. Love your neighbor as you love yourself. All those laws related to God, they fall under one statement. Love God with all your heart, soul, and mind. And so because all those laws are really a reflection of one law, and all those laws are written by one lawgiver. We can't pick and choose which ones we want. We can't say, I'll obey four out of the five. I'll obey nine out of the ten. We have to obey all in order to be obeying the law that's been given. And he puts it like this in verse 9. If you have respect of persons, then you commit sin and are convinced of the law as transgressors. In other words, he's saying, you're obeying the law in lots of ways, in lots of areas, but on this point, you fall short. On this point, you're in disobedience. That one point makes you guilty of the entirety of the law. In other words, God's not looking at all the places that you did the right thing. He's saying, have you obeyed me on every single point? He says, Whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one point, he's guilty of all. And then he gives an example. He says, he says, He that saith do not commit adultery also said do not kill. He said, you may not commit adultery, but you kill, guess what? You violated the law. Or it could go the other way. You've not killed anyone, but you've committed adultery. We could take any of those laws Basically, you can keep them all, but the one place that you fall short, then that's where you ultimately have broken the law in its general sense. A third observation. We need to proclaim the law, live it out, and remember that we'll be held to the same standard that we hold others to. Notice what he says in verse 12. So speak ye. In other words, Teach what I just said. And so do. In other words, don't just teach it, but do what I said. And then he goes on to say something very interesting. He says as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. He says you need to do it like they. I'm going to come back to that in just a moment. We then continue. He shall have judgment without mercy that showed no mercy. What in the world is James saying? James is saying what God says do, what God says proclaim, and when it comes to your interpersonal relationships with other people You need to be merciful in how you hold people accountable to your understanding of the law. In other words, James is encouraging us to extend mercy in our interpersonal interactions because this mercy is much more powerful of an influence than demanding justice in every circumstance. I think that we learned this just in our practical lives. So when it comes to our marriages, when it comes to our relationship to our kids, when it comes to our relationship to the people we work with, if we demand justice on every single point in every single circumstance, we will have broken relationships everywhere we go. But if we are a group of people that are willing to extend mercy, and willing to be patient and willing to be long-suffering with people, then what we will see is relationships that are strained don't have to become indefinitely broken And the reason for that is that rather than demanding justice, we extend mercy. And that's really the sense of what he's saying. You need to be a person who extends mercy in your interpersonal relationships. But then he also makes an interesting statement. You will be held to the same standard that you hold other people to. In fact, Jesus actually says the exact same thing in the Sermon on the Mount. He says, there will be no mercy for the person who's extended no mercy. And we will be held to the same standard of judgment that we meet out. In other words, when I hold people to a standard that's higher than God does, they will hold me accountable to the same standard. And we experience this in our lives. Times that we're very harsh in how we deal with another person. And there'll be a day that people come and they look at us and they say, you know, you did the exact same thing. And this is what we expect of you in that situation. And at that point you say, I think this is unfair, and they say, Well, that's how you handled other people. If it was good for you then it's good for you now, right? That's really the point of what he's saying. God expects us to be merciful people, and people will hold us to the same standard that we hold others to. Fourth observation While we are commanded and empowered to obey God's law in Christ, we will not be judged by this law because we have received, because Christ has paid for our penalty in full. I want you to notice a final little detail that to me it's very important and really this is a very powerful expression of the heart of the gospel. In verse 12 he says this, so speak ye, so do as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. Now it's interesting when he talks about the personal pronouns here, he changes from being focused on you to being focused on them. Why is he doing that? I believe the reason he's doing that is because he's saying, you won't be judged by the law. You're a Christian. You're in Christ. They will be judged by the law, but you should obey the law as if you would be judged like they will. That's ultimately what he's saying, I think. And in Romans chapter 8, it's very interesting. He says, there's no condemnation to those in Christ Jesus. But then the next statement is, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. In other words, he makes a statement of fact, if you're in Christ, you will not be condemned by the law If you're in Christ, you will express the law by how you live because of the Spirit's presence in you. In other words, the character and the conduct of Christians, people who are redeemed, is that they obey God. In other words, we don't obey God to become a Christian. But when we become a Christian, we want to obey God. And we're empowered to obey God. And he still expects us to obey him In Galatians chapter 8, verses 3 and 4, we see the exact same point. He says this, I through the law became dead to the law that I might live unto Christ. That's a very interesting verse. Basically what it's saying is through the law's work, bring me to repentance and faith. In other words, the law exposed my sin, it exposed my unrighteousness. It showed me I was guilty. It was through the law's work that I embraced the gospel. I placed my faith in Christ because the law left me with no hope. When the law did its work To show me my my my my brokenness and my unrighteousness before God. All of a sudden, the law's ability to condemn me was broken because the cross has borne the full weight of the consequence of my sin. And so he says, through the law I became dead to the law, so that I could live unto God. In other words, God doesn't save us so that we can abandon his expectations and we can just ignore his laws. God saved us so that we walk in righteousness and in holiness. In Romans 8, 3 to 4, the same thing is expressed. He says this, what the law could not do, and that it was weak in the flesh, God did. Sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, he condemns sin in the flesh so that the righteous requirements of the law can be fulfilled in us. We walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. In other words, we can walk in obedience to God because of the presence of the Holy Spirit. And we were unable to earn our way to God. That's why the cross is there. But because of the cross, the the law's power over us is canceled, but now we walk in obedience to the law because of the new nature we have in Christ. So how can we apply this very simple passage? Let me give you some simple thoughts that I hope will be a help to you. The first is this. Let's remember that the law is ultimately an expression of practical ways we are to love our neighbor more than we love ourselves. All of those laws could be boiled down to one statement, love your neighbor as you love yourself. Two, let's be careful that we don't hold people to a standard that God doesn't hold them to. If God says it, let's say it. If God's silent, let's be silent. Let's not put on people a greater burden. than God has put on their shoulders. Three, let's be ready to extend mercy to others in our interpersonal relationships. I think in a very practical way, when we extend mercy, we see how powerful it is. We see that that's how relationships that are strained can be preserved again, how they can be restored. It's through that extension of mercy. And so he's reminding us in this discussion about the law that we have to be a merciful people. And lastly, let's rejoice in the new relationship that the gospel has established between us and the law. While the law is no longer going to condemn me as a Christian, I have a desire and I have the enabling by the presence of the Holy Spirit to obey the law as God intended me to obey it. Let's be out together for a word of prayer, and I hope that this has been an encouragement to you today. Our Father, we thank you so much for the time we've spent together in your Word. May you give us the strength to take these words to heart. To live in the light of these wonderful truths. I'll thank you for that, and I ask that you'll bless those who have joined us this morning and who will join us later in the day. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well it's been good to see some of you out this morning. I hope that if you've appreciated this, you'll send a little note of encouragement, perhaps like it, share it, and I hope that it'll be a blessing to others. Good to see you, and we pray that you have a wonderful day. Bye now