Okay, well we are in 1 Corinthians chapter 14 again tonight, and uh we are going to really get into the text. Um the last two weeks we were dealing with some introductory thoughts and how we are going to actually approach this passage of scripture. And um what we're going to do tonight is we're going to begin looking at a very important topic and that is the proper function of corporate worship. And when I use the term corporate, what I mean is the gathering of the body together to worship the Lord. What is the proper function of corporate worship. And in these verses, we're going to see a tremendous amount of information that is going to help us to understand what that proper function is. And as we talked about last couple of weeks, we are looking at a case. And that case is that Paul is contrasting two different gifts that were going on in the first century church there at Corinth. One was the gift of tongues, the other was the gift of prophecy. And these two gifts are being compared and contrasted. And he's basically saying between those two, here is one that is far more beneficial to the church than And what's really, really helpful about the way that he lays this out is it's going to give us tremendous insight into how we're supposed to look at the gathering of the body. So setting aside, because we have spent so much time talking about this issue of the cessation of gifts and which gifts are sign gifts and normative gifts and all those things. What we're going to do is look at how we can actually apply this particular discussion that he's giving. And this was a big issue. From chapter 12 to chapter 14, he's dealing with basically the same topic. So there are three passages within 1 Corinthians 14, 1 through 19, three statements that I want to draw your attention to, and then we're going to work our way through all of the content. Over the probably a couple weeks. Alright, first of all, in verse number one, he says this: follow after charity. and desire spiritual gifts, but rather that you may prophesy. Verse number 12, for as much as you are zealous of spiritual gifts, Seek that you may excel to the edifying of the church. Verses 19 and 20. In the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding that by my voice I might teach others also than ten thousand words in an unknown tongue. Brethren. Be not children in understanding. Howbeit, in malice be ye children, but in understanding be men. Okay, so there is a lot that we're going to work through, and I hope we will digest it. And the way that we're going to basically do this is we're going to see how Paul breaks down basically two reasons or two tests for how we're supposed to look at the gathering of the church. And then from those two things, we're going to break down the various aspects of what he says, and we're going to see what the application directly to the church at Corinth was. They're in the first century, and then we're going to lay beside that what I think would be the appropriate way for us to look at it in our current situation. So, a couple of introductory thoughts before we get into this topic. First of all, this passage gets to the heart of why we are commanded to gather as a body. Why does God want us to not forsake the assembling of ourselves, but rather to come together and to commune with one another and sit under the ministry of the word and sing praise to God together. Why is the gathering of the church so important. Well these verses are going to give us a lot of insight into why the gathering of the body is so important. It addresses why we should exercise our spiritual gifts in the body. And there are several different gifts that we have highlighted in 1 Corinthians, but two are big points that he's discussing in great detail. So as we dig into what Paul says, how he addresses this issue, what we're going to see is how to view the church's function in our lives. Now, there's a key term that we're going to dig into here, and that is a term that is translated edify or edification. And the the Greek term doesn't really matter to you very much, but it's going to be up there on the screen. And this term, translated edification, is a very important term. In fact, we are having our teen class. just a little bit ago and I asked them the question what does the word edify mean? And we went around the room and everybody gave their different ideas And I was glad to know that my son, I don't know how he picked this up, but he knew what edification is or what edify. Maybe maybe he heard me talking to somebody about it, or maybe he saw my notes or something like that But the word edify is a term that's kind of used in the construction world. It has the idea of building something up. And so when we talk about it being a construction term, he's talking about taking a structure and raising it up from the ground and then filling it up from within. So if you are uh working on the outside structure, you know, you lay the foundation and you build the walls and then you get the house in the drive. But that house isn't finished. You see the structure there, but it needs to be filled out inside. And so when we use that term edify, we're saying this is being built up and it's being built within. In the context of people's lives, it describes how our lives are built up and through the furnished. In fact, maybe that little statement thruly furnished is something that kind of catches your attention because in 2 Corinthians chapter or sec 2 Timothy chapter 3 he talks about how the scriptures are sufficient to thoroughly equip us or thoroughly furnish us unto all good works. So God uses his word to build up our lives and to furnish them out thoroughly. And so this word is translated edify a lot. The reason that God tells us to gather together is because in this body we are uniquely edified. We are uniquely built up. We are uniquely strengthened. And so we don't want to neglect that in any way, but it's also true that not just that we don't want to neglect the gathering of the church, But we want the way that we gather to actually emphasize and help us to develop in that way. So our lives are built up and thoroughly furnished by the proper use of Scripture. Let me give you some scriptures to look at. The first one, turn in your Bibles to 2 Timothy chapter 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3. And this is such a familiar passage. Verses 16 and 17. He says, All scripture is given by inspiration of God Now, to put it in the most literal way possible, we would say every written word of Scripture is breathed out by God. That's not just the thoughts. That's not just the concepts. That's not just the ideas. That goes down to the very construction of the words. The construction of the language, the way that it's laid out. Every word of the scripture is breathed out by God. That's very important because what that tells you is, yes, it's true that Paul is writing these words in Timothy uh is is receiving Paul's letter, and it's true that Peter is writing these words and John and Moses and all these different individuals. God used them, but what they're writing isn't just their words. God is speaking through them, and that means that they carry the full authority of God. That means that they are perfect They are true, they are reliable. And so the word of God is what God uses to build us up. and to thoroughly furnish us as individuals. And so he says that the scriptures are given and profitable for doctrine. That's the teaching, reproof, that's Going and telling us where we're wrong. Correction, that's that's kind of like mending a wound that's broken. Instruction in righteousness. This is helping us to think correctly, very similar to doctrine, but this is the practical implications of doctrine. And so that's what the Word of God is used for. To do what? To thoroughly furnish us to every good work. So what God uses to edify us is Scripture. The authority of Scripture is huge. Everything else that goes on in the church has to facilitate the proper instruction of God's word. Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 and 12, he says that he gave apostles and prophets, and we talked about this on a Sunday a few weeks ago. And the idea is these are the gifts that God gave to the church. These are the individuals he used to give us the word, the prophets and the apostles. And then evangelists. These are those who herald the gospel And then pastors and teachers. These are those who are shepherding souls, and they're doing it through the instruction of the word of God. so that people are perfected or matured. They are brought along in spiritual maturity for the edifying of the body of Christ. You can see how this is all emphasizing the importance of God's word being central in how we are edified. So let me give you some logical inferences here before we jump into the actual content of these verses, which you will see what we're talking about in our introduction. You're going to see this come out. Because there's a consistency all throughout the New Testament to how we should look at these issues. So, implication one, truth must be accurately communicated. If you're going to be built up in the faith, You've got to hear what is true. That means when the word of God is opened, what is presented to you, in fact, it is accurate. It is read, it's expounded, it's applied in a way that is consistent with the original intent of the passage. God's word speaks clearly. Second implication. The truth has to be understood and embraced. So you could be sitting here And I could be telling you something that's accurate. It's true. In fact, it is what the Word of God says. There's a consistency there. But because you speak a different language, you don't understand what I'm saying. Or because uh maybe it's a kid and a kid it's just like it's going over their head. So what's being stated is true, but there's not an understanding on the part of the child. Or maybe the way that it's being packaged is so confusing you can't follow it. And so it might be true what's being stated, but it's not hitting your heart. It's not building you up. So there's got to be an accurate communication. There's got to be an understanding of what is being communicated. There's got to be an embracing from the heart of what's going on. And that's the point of preaching and teaching the Bible. It's not just reading the Bible, but it's taking it as it's read, and it's saying, here's what God is saying here. Because this is what he's saying here. This is what we're supposed to do. That is what biblical preaching and teaching are all about. And so this is a very important part of what Paul is going to say in these verses. So, I want to give you three different forms of communication that are talked about in this passage of Scripture. The first one is the genuine gift of prophecy. And I want to kind of give you a general explanation of that and then kind of break it down into individual parts. When we talk about genuine prophecy in the sense of how he is using it, this is direct revelation from God It is through an individual who has the gift of prophecy. They are understanding what God is saying, and they are communicating it in a way that the people who are listening can hear it and understand. That's what's going on. So, direct revelation, part number one. Through a person who understands what he is saying. So it's not somebody who's just in a mindless trance and they're just talking and they don't know what's going on, but they are actually communicating real information that's true. They understand what's going on. Now they may not understand the full implications of what's going on. For instance, when Daniel was writing his prophecies, I don't know that Daniel understood all of the implications of what was going on. He is writing accurately what God has communicated to him. He's understanding this to some level. His mind is engaged But when we talk about prophecy, both the one who's receiving and the one who's giving, they understand what's going on. Thirdly, understood by the ones receiving the message, and in principle. It is really no different than reading Scripture to the church with this one difference. Notice I said, in principle, no different. It's not the exact same thing, but it's very close. The only difference would be that the text was transmitted to someone else, it was written down, it was preserved for us, and it is being expounded to us. And so when we talk about prophecy versus preaching, prophecy was 100% authoritative. Preaching is 100% authoritative as much as it is consistent with the intent for which God was giving that particular message. And so that would be important for us to make that distinction. Okay? Second thing we're going to talk about is the genuine gift of tongues. This is a direct revelation from God that was unknown to the one giving the message. What I mean by that is that God is speaking through these people, but they don't necessarily understand what they're saying. It's a real language. It's real information. It's real content. But it's unknown to them. It's not been revealed to them. Now when we go to the Acts passage when They're preaching at Pentecost. I I don't really know if they understood fully what they're saying or if they're they're preaching and God allowed them to be able to communicate in all these other languages and they talk about those various languages But the idea is that the person, clearly in this passage, who is speaking, does not understand what they're saying. Because if they did understand what they're saying, they wouldn't need someone to interpret it for them. And so that's telling you that this speaking in tongues that's being talked about here is something that the person who is speaking does not understand. The person who's hearing doesn't understand. And so the question is, what's the real value of it? We're going to get into that uh a little bit later here. And so in principle, this is very similar to preaching in another culture where those hearing the message do not speak the language of the one preaching unless the message is translated. It will not build up the listener. Again, this is not an exact parallel, but the idea is if, you know, I was a missionary for uh many years, and when I would go into a missions context, of course I understand what I'm saying. But they don't understand what I'm saying unless somebody is translating it for them. There's some similarity here. There's a similarity of principle here. And then there's a third communication that's talked about here. And that would be an unknown experience that the truth is we aren't absolutely certain of what is being talked about here. And even some from church history who we can read about say, we are so far removed from this 200 years ago that we really don't know for sure what's being talked about here. But it seems that Paul is alluding to some kind of private speech unknown to the speaker, but directed toward God in private. And we will talk about this a little bit either tonight or next week, Lord. Now we don't know for certain what is being referenced in this example. He uses the exact same Greek term that he uses in other places. But the context seems to be slightly different. For instance, one context is public worship. The other seems to be private. Verse number two: He that speaketh in an untoned tongue speaketh not unto men. But unto God, but no man understandeth him, howbeit in the spirit he speaketh mysteries. Verse number four, he that speaketh in an unknown tongue edifies himself. We don't know exactly what he's talking about there. To put it into perspective, this third potential example seems to be kind of an empty exercise. Why don't you think about this? What Paul is addressing is people who are insisting on speaking a language that they do not know to them. To God. And so it's almost as if they're saying that God is speaking through me. I have no idea what I'm saying. But he knows. He's talking to himself. I'm the medium between the two. That's kind of what seems to be going on here. And so I would put it very simply. This is clearly a violation of what Paul is encouraging the church to do in at least three ways. One is he's going to tell them you need to pray when you speak to understand. When you speak too, you need to speak in a way that the church can understand. And he's going to explain why. And thirdly, you need to use the gift to build up the church, not to promote yourself. And so in this third scenario, which seems to be something that was going on at Corinth that we don't fully understand, you have people that are insisting I'm going to speak in a language I don't know. I'm speaking with passion. I'm speaking to God. And so God is speaking to himself through me. And what's he saying? You need to understand what you're doing. You need to speak in a way that others can actually be benefited. By the way, you yourself are not even benefited by it in an understanding way. You need to use the gift to build up the church, not to promote yourself. And in my view, what he's talking about is people's view of edification is they feel good about what they're doing. It's an emotional experience. So it seems to be an emotional experience similar to what was experienced in the pagan context that many of these people have been saved from. I mentioned this several weeks back. But there at Corinth there were some uh some we could say cult ritual type groups that would do something very similar to this. And so it is possible. that those practices were being brought into the church context and people are saying, I don't know what I'm saying, but I feel feel very emotionally charged. I'm talking to God. My heart's in it. I feel good when I'm done. And so I'm somehow communicating with God in a heavenly way, a mysterious way. I don't know what's going on, but it makes me feel good, and so I'm going to do it. I think that might be what Paul is addressing. But again, we really don't know this 100% for sure. So as we work our way through the text, I think those are the three different kinds of communication that are on the table. One is clearly prophecy in the biblical sense, one is clearly tongues in the biblical sense, and one is a questionable practice that we really don't know a lot about. So that moves us to our second part. There are two guiding principles that are supposed to shape how the church is supposed to function. One guiding principle is that everything that is done within the context of the body, within the corporate worship setting, all of it is to be done in genuine Christian love. Now we probably won't get to this tonight, but the second principle is it's all to be done in a way that demonstrates spiritual maturity. There is a reason that not anyone in the church is supposed to be in leadership For instance, there's a reason that there are pastoral qualifications. Someone shouldn't be a novelist. Someone should have the ability to accurately communicate the scriptures. They should be spiritually mature, not a brand new Christian. There are several different things that are stated about this person's life and their walk, and they've been tested, and they'll continue to be tested. And they'll need to be held accountable even by the church to those particular qualities. The reason for that is those who are organizing how the church gathers How the church is to preach and teach and worship and everything that's going on is supposed to be a person who has the maturity to understand how the church should be guided. That's the idea. So those two principles are supposed to be guiding and shaping the way that corporate worship is done. So let's work our way piece by piece through these two things. First of all, the guiding principle of Christian love. Look down in your Bible at verse 1 number 1. He says, follow after charity. Desire spiritual gifts, but Rather that you may prophesy. Now, remember that he's comparing two gifts, prophecy and tongues. He says, pursue love, and because that's the way you're going to shape the church worship setting, you're going to prioritize prophecy over tongues. Now the question is why is that? Well, first of all, because of the difference between these two gifts when it comes to this issue of understanding. Let's break down what he says. In verses 2 to 3, He talks about how we are supposed to engage in these gifts. He says, he that speaketh in an unknown tongue speaketh not unto men, but unto God. For no man understandeth him, howbeit in the Spirit he speaks mysteries. But ye that prophesieth speaketh unto men. And notice the next statement. To edification and exhortation and comfort. So the very first thing that he says is, you need to speak to the church In fact, one of the most central, one of the most significant things that we do in the gathering of the church service is that somebody opens up the Bible and they read the Bible so that we as a church hear it. And then as the Bible is read, then our attention is drawn to breaking down the various components of that passage, what it's saying, how it applies. in that context and then how it applies to us today. And then we are being exhorted to actually do it. You do not have this unless someone is communicating in a way that you can understand. And notice the words edify, that means be built up and be thoroughly furnished. Exhortation, you're being challenged to do something. Comfort. Somebody is coming alongside of you. You are weary. You are discouraged. You are anxious. And they draw your attention to the truths of Scripture. And through that, you have comfort and encouragement. That involves speaking. And that involves speaking so that you can understand. Now what is he saying in the most direct application for these people? He says, speak to the people. Speak to the people without understanding on the part of the speaker in the body is hollow. And unloving to the body. In other words, if you get up and you say something in the church context, but you don't understand what you're saying, And the people that are there don't understand what you're saying. You are wasting their time. That's what he's saying. It's hollow. It's empty. It doesn't have the ability to edify the church. It doesn't have the ability to exhort them. You cannot be exhorted out of words you don't understand. You cannot properly exhort people with words you don't understand. You cannot be comforted by words that you don't understand. You can't give comfort if you don't understand what you're saying. And so he says, you have to speak to the church with understanding so that they can understand, or you are wasting their time. It is hollow. It is empty. You might say, well, how could this apply in a secondary application? Let me give you some thoughts here. Everything that we do in the church should promote doctrinal clarity. So when somebody gets up and they're preaching and they're teaching, you should be able to follow what they're saying. I know this sometimes it might be a little more difficult than other times, depending on how complex the concept is how well this person's prepared and and and their ability to communicate. I know that those are all factors. But everything that is done should be given to promote doctrinal clarity so that people's lives are built up. so that they are more firmly rooted and built on Scripture. Understanding of communication, understanding of hearing, very, very important. The purpose of gathering the church is not to put on a show for God that He watches But rather to build up people by appealing directly to their minds so their hearts will be engaged and they will genuinely worship God. In other words, we're not putting on a show and God up in heaven is like, well, that's really cool, guys. Oh, that's really nice. I like seeing what I'm seeing there. That's not the point of gathered worship. We gather to hear from God. His word is laid before us. This is communicated so that he is speaking to us. Through his word. And as our minds process this information, it's going to strengthen us and build us And it's going to move our hearts. And our emotions should become engaged if it's really sinking into our heart. And then we're going to say, hey, I want to Do something about this. I want to obey God. I want to serve my brothers or my sisters in Christ. I want to engage in the body. I want to praise God with my mouth. In other words, understanding, engaging the mind comes first. This is a very, very important principle in Scripture. And so why does he say that tongues is inferior to prophecy in this context? It's very simple because Prophecy is hearing a direct revelation from God. The person saying it knows what's going on. The person that's hearing it knows what's going on. There is no hindrance to the communication. It's free. People can be edified by it. Speak to the church. Secondly, speak so they can understand God's word clearly. Verses four and five. He that speaketh in an unknown tongue edifies himself. He that by the way, when he says edifies himself, the question is, is he being built up in his mind? The answer is no. How do we know that? Well, because he doesn't understand what he's saying. So the way that he uses this term edify here means it's simply an emotional experience. Or it's giving him some sense that somehow he has this uh Special gift that God's given him. But when it comes to the building of his faith, the understanding in his mind, it's not there. Because he doesn't understand. He doesn't even know what he's saying. He that speaks in an unknown tongue edifies himself, but he that prophesies edifies the church. I would that you spoke with tongues, but rather That you prophesied. For greater is he that prophesieth than he that speaketh with tongues, except he interpret that the church may receive edifying. You see what he's saying? If tongues is spoken in the church context, but it's not interpreted, it's not explained, it's not translated for lack of a better term. And everybody in the church isn't benefited by it, including the person that's speaking, because they do not understand What is going on? There has to be a language spoken with understanding. And so the most direct way to apply this is that you are wasting the time of people. When the clear meaning of God's word is clouded by the means used to communicate it. That's what he's saying when he's elevating prophecy above tongues. Now, let me give you an application that I think kind of falls into the realm that we're in here. We should try to remove the distractions that hinder direct communication of God's word in the church. I was talking to the teens this afternoon, and I asked them the question, I said, what is a more appropriate way to handle Scripture? We have a group that sits down and we read a passage and then we all ask each other, what do you think about this? How does this speak to you? What's your sense? And I asked the question, I said, what's the authority in that context? The authority is everybody's impulsive response to that text. In that kind of setting, everybody's talking about the scripture to present their own viewpoint. Very dangerous. Second option. We read the scripture and somebody explains it, but then they stop there. Now that's what teaching is. We take a passage of scripture, we explain what it's saying so that your mind is engaged. But the question is, do we stop there? The answer is no. We explain, we apply, we exhort people to respond to it. And that's what preaching is. So we have having a conversation, we have talking about it and teaching it so that we understand this as authority. We know what it means because it's being explained, but you're never being compelled to respond to it. You're not being said, you're not being told, this is God's word, this is what he says, this is what you're supposed to do. So let's do it together. Let's submit ourselves to the authority of Scripture. You can see the difference between those three those things. Or we talked about preaching styles. We said, you know, let's say a person gets up and they tell all these stories. Stories from their life, maybe they're true, maybe they're not. Maybe they're a little embellished. I don't know. Sometimes preachers take license when they're telling stories about their life. And all you can remember by the end of that sermon is a joke, a story, an illustration, and then there's like this little sliver of truth that's just kind of like tucked in at the end. Is that preaching? That's wasting people's time. There is no authority in that. Your life and my life is no authority to other people. Now, if we are explaining a text of scripture and we draw from something that's happened in our life or life of another person and it's it's appropriately further explain that concept, but the authority is clear of the word of God. That's a positive thing. Maybe we should do that. But we have to be careful. Or do we just pick a topic and say, today I'd like to talk about such and such? And let me find all the passages of Scripture that support my particular view of that topic. Again, very dangerous. So one of the guys asked, they said, well, is topical preaching okay? And I said, well, sure, if it's done in a scriptural manner. The idea is take the most prominent text that you know that addresses that particular topic. And just thoroughly expound that particular passage of Scripture. And say, oh, by the way, as we look at this particular concept. This passage of scripture addresses that as well. And we bring that alongside. And we ther we more thoroughly fill out our understanding of that concept. And here's another passage that more thoroughly fills out that concept. And so you could call it a topical message, but Technically speaking, you're expounding one text of scripture and you're going to these cross-references in these other places and you're giving a more thorough understanding of that particular concept. Not just, here's what I want to say, here's what I think about it, let me find some places to prove my point. Very, very dangerous. So what is expositional preaching? It's taking a text that God wrote, understanding what he said, and then trying to present it so that people can understand what he said and how it applies. That's what exposition is. So we've got to remove the distractions that hinder that direct communication of God. It could be our personality, it could be that we didn't study the text well enough. It could be some illustration that that just totally loses people 's, uh takes them completely off topic, whatever the situation. We want to directly communicate the word of God. Our emotions should not drive our worship. Rather, they should flow out of a proper reflection on truth. This is very important. The goal of preaching should not be to go directly to the emotion or directly to the will. If somebody's just telling you you need to do this, but they haven't explained why you need to do it, then ignore what they're saying. Because how do you know that that's really what God's word is saying? Or if they're just trying to pull at your emotions and draw you out so that you feel compelled, but you really have no content in your mind for why you need to respond. That's a problem. So, what preaching needs to do is it appeals to the mind. God said this. Let me explain it to you. Here's how it applies. And as you ponder that, it begins to work on your heart. And you're moved in your heart. And then the exhortation is do what God says. Respond to his word humbly. Embrace it. Worship Him. And so preaching isn't just going at the emotions or going at the will. Got to get a decision. No, it's expounding truth so that people understand it. And know how to apply it and then feel moved by the Spirit of God to do that. So you can understand why when Paul is talking about tongues versus prophecy, it's pretty clear. Tongues, if you don't understand what's going on, then it's just pure emotion. There's no intellectual engagement because you don't know what's being said. Prophecy, well that's direct, clear, understood communication from God. The person speaking it knows what's being stated. The person who's receiving it understands what's being stated. I can do, I can take action on what God has said. Third example. Realize that there are real-life consequences when you do not follow this principle. Now this is interesting how he breaks this down, and we'll see this in verses 6 through 12. In verse number six, he says, What shall I profit you except I shall speak to you either by revelation or by knowledge or by prophesying or doctrine? That is a question. Why does he ask the question? I think the reason he asked the question is to simply say this. Do you not understand that if I'm speaking to you and you don't get it, I'm wasting your time? I hate to say this, but I've had I've had times where I've sat in messages. Um and I'm sitting there and I I I pull my Bible out and I Read the text and I'm ready to take notes. And about 20 minutes into that message, I just put my Bible away. I put my notebook away and I'm like, what's the point? I do not understand what this guy is saying. I don't know where he's going. I I I don't I don't see him explaining a text of scripture and telling me what it says, what I'm supposed to do. I I feel like I just had forty-five minutes of my life robbed from me. I know that's blunt. I hope you don't feel that way in our church. But here's the truth. If somebody gets up and does that, they are wasting your time. If someone says, hey, you're supposed to be here, you have a moral obligation to bring your family to this place, and then they do not teach you the word of God and they waste your time. They're going to answer to God for that. Second thing we see in verses 8 and 9. What should be communicated is not being communicated. And this is such a fascinating illustration they uses. He says, if the trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself for the battle? So likewise you, except you utter by the tongue words easy to be understood. How shall it be known what is spoken? For you shall speak into the air. I'm a trumpet player. I like the trumpet. And throughout a lot of history, a trumpet wasn't used just to play music. It was actually used to communicate on a battlefield. And so when that bugler or that person playing the trumpet, when they played a certain pitch, or they played a certain uh cadence or something like that, that was a lot easier than shouting and saying, everybody line up. Okay. Everybody go to this side. Everybody go to that side. When you have all this chaos in a battlefield, you can't have people screaming at the soldiers. And so that bugler would get up, and he had orders from the person who's in charge, and they would play the pitch. They would play the cadence. They would play something very distinct so that all those who were in the battlefields, all those who were there in the arena, in the theater of battle, They would know what they're supposed to do. And so here's what he's saying. We understand that even blowing a trumpet is meant to communicate something in a battlefield. And if the job of the bugler is to play a certain cadence so everybody knows what to do, and he doesn't do his job, guess what? Lives are at stake. It's dangerous. It's that simple. In other words, we need to make sure that what's being communicated actually benefits people because they need to hear from God. Have you ever come to church with a great burden on your heart? Nobody knew it but you? Pastor didn't know it? Person sitting next to you didn't know it? And the pastor opens up the text of scripture, which uh is a part of a series that was started six years ago, and when he reads that text, you're just like, oh. I'm about to hear something that I need to hear today. You ever been in that situation? I have. Many times. And then as that text of Scripture is laid in front of us and we hear it being expounded properly, the Spirit of God just takes the word and he begins to press it into our hearts. It begins to encourage us, challenge us, convict us, exhort us. Lots and lots of different things that could be going on in our heart. But that text that was laid in front of us is exactly what God wanted us to hear. That text that was laid in front of us is something that God in his providence wanted us to come in contact with at that moment in time. And here's the question. What happens When you decide not to go there and you probably should have been, you miss something. It's that simple. You miss something. But let me take it into another realm. What happens when the text is right? But the preacher gets up and just runs on and on and on about something that makes absolutely no sense. Thank God the scripture was read because God can use that. But the truth is that that was an opportunity wasted. Because what was presented was not consistent with what is true. And what God blesses and what God honors and what God uses. And so the point that he's making here is that we need to be careful about what we say in the church because it impacts lives. And people need to hear from God. And our job is to communicate truth because if you don't communicate truth, there will be some level of deficiency in the lives of people. If someone sits in a service week in and week out and they are not being taught God's word consistently, it's going to have a stunting impact on that Christian's life. It's going to have a negative impact on the shaping and the development of that person's worldview. Third thing he mentions here in these verses. Is that your zeal needs to be channeled in the right direction? This is very unique as well. Verse number 12: for as much as you are zealous of spiritual gifts, Seek that you may excel to the edifying of the church. Do you ever feel like you have limited energy in your life? So this week, uh I am uh Taking care of the kids. My wife is uh spending some time with her mom. And um so I'm doing like Mom, dad, duty, everything, right? It's actually remarkable that I have this text in front of you. Now we're we're making do. We're eating lots of hot dogs and burgers and stuff like that. But but the point that that we should all think about here is that you know you have limited energy. There's only so much you can do in a day. And so if you're gonna take The energy that God has given you and the resources that He has entrusted you, and you're going to channel them, you need to channel them in the most productive way possible. Why is that? Well, because you you you can't do everything. Don't be a shotgun blast. Be focused. Hit the target. That's the idea. And so what he's basically saying is it's great that you desire to be in, you know, to be serving with spiritual gifts. So choose the best ones And engage in that so that people can grow. Excel to the edifying of the church. That's what he's saying. So let's break this down and we'll stop on this point. What is the direct application of this little section? When people gather, that time is precious and should not be wasted. There are things that everyone needs to hear from God. And we who are teaching are responsible to communicate truth to them in a way that they can understand. You know, sometimes I've gone to people and asked them, hey, would you be willing to teach a Sunday school class? And um I've had people say I guess I'd be willing, but to be totally honest with you, I'm I'm kind of sobered by getting up and teaching God's word. Because it's a great responsibility. I actually like to hear that. Now, I'd also like to hear him say, I'll I'll take it on. If you th if you think I could do this and should do this and you're willing to help me, fine, I'll do that. Great. But I I appreciate that because what that's telling you is they understand that opening up God's word and continuing Communicating is a really big deal. And so we shouldn't waste people's time. There are things that people need to hear. We are responsible to communicate it in a way they understand. If they don't hear these truths, it's going to negatively affect their lives. Now, I believe that God's grace can overcome all kinds of things. We are not an absolute correlation to our context. There are some people that are given a lot in life and they throw it away. There are some people that are given very little in life and they rise above it. But the bottom line is as a general rule The context you are sitting in is going to have a huge impact on the development of your worldview and helping you grow into spiritual maturity. And so these individuals need to recognize that their lives would be affected if the church wasn't doing it the right way. There are limits to the channeling of the energy of those in leadership. So they need to prioritize what builds up people's lives. So put it simply, the direct correlation for these people is prioritize prophecy over tongues. But what about you and me? Well, there are similar applications to us. When people gather that their time is precious and it shouldn't be wasted, especially on a Wednesday night. I mean, you guys are w I remember when I was working with Frank on the roof and and you know, I'd I'd been baking in the sun or freezing in the winter, you know, one or one of those two things and then, you know, you get home, you take a quick shower and And you get in the car and you're like eating, you get here and you're just like exhausted. Or you've been sitting in traffic all day. So to make the effort to be here is like a pretty big deal. And the fact is, when you come, that that that time shouldn't be a waste to you. There are things that you need to hear from God. And we are responsible to communicate truth in a way you can understand. If you don't hear these truths, it will negatively affect your life. And there are limitations. To how much energy we have. So what is the key? The key is that we are to prioritize biblical preaching and teaching in the church. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to stop there because of our time, but you can see something that's going on here. If you love the church, you want it to be edified. You want it to be built up. You want it to be furnished out. And if you want it to be built up and furnished out because you love the church, then you will prioritize what God uses And what does God use? The authoritative instruction of Scripture so that you understand and the Spirit of God can take it and work in your heart on it and you can properly apply it. And so that is really the tone of this entire text of Scripture. Lord willing, next week we're going to come back and keep working our way through the various things that he says in the rest of this issue. And then look at the second part of maturity. And this is a very interesting part, which I'm looking forward to digging into that. Let's bow together for prayer, and we'll go to our prayer time. Our Father, I thank you so much for the time we spent in the Word. And as we think about this issue of preaching and teaching and the communication of Scripture and hearing from you, may we never get over the fact. That those who stand up in this pulpit, those who teach in a Sunday school class, whether it's children, teens, adults, doesn't matter. There's a great responsibility. We should never waste those opportunities. They are precious. And so I pray that you will take the things that we hear each time we come to this place and use it to build us And to thrillily furnish our lives, we ask this in Christ's name, Amen.