Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, More and Reflection. We are now in Ecclesiastes chapter 7, so if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. And let's turn together to Ecclesiastes seven, we're looking at verses one through six this morning. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading. A good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death than the day of one's birth It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting. For that is the end of all men, and the living will lay it to his heart. Sorrow is better than laughter, for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the songs of fools. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot so is the laughter of fools. This also is vanity. Now we come to the passage before us today We could we could give it this simple summary statement. The following section was a description of the tools that God uses to develop a person's perspective so that it'll be wise. And the ultimate result of wisdom, godly wisdom, is going to be a good reputation. In other words, a person that's godly, that walks in wisdom, is someone who lives in a very distinct way And if somebody's watching the way that that person lives, they can't help but recognize there's something commendable about that kind of a life. And so really that's what Solomon is emphasizing, the fact that if we will walk in a way that is godly wise, it's going to be commendable and people will recognize that, and the recognition of that will have a good reputation. So let's go ahead and look at a couple of the details that we find in this passage that really drive that point home. And we're also going to talk a little bit in this passage about how God actually develops this issue of godly wisdom. and really shapes the perspective of a person who has godly wisdom. So that in the in the end that person will have a reputation that is sound and that's good and someone will look and say that's a commendable life. So here's the first fact that we find. We need to live in a way that demonstrates godly wisdom. In verse 1, he puts it like this: a good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death than the day of birth. Now the question is, what is Solomon trying to emphasize in the passage? Well, there are three three phrases that really should stand out to us. The first is the phrase a good name. When he talks about a good name, he's talking about a person's reputation, the way that people think about them. And I want you to recognize that when Solomon talks about a person having a good reputation He's not encouraging us to be people who are who are, we could say, full of worry about how people think about us. We're very self-conscious. That's not what he's suggesting. He's not encouraging us to live that way. In fact, what we're going to see later on is he actually discourages that kind of self-consciousness where we only want to hear good from people. We want people to look at us in a way that's positive. He's actually going to emphasize that it's good when people actually come to us and they confront us in areas where there are negative qualities that need to be addressed. So he's not encouraging people to be hypocrites. He's not encouraging people to basically hide who they really are from others so that people have a false perception of them. But rather what he's emphasizing is that when a person walks in a commendable way, when they have good character, they'll also have a good reputation. In other words, good character is something that you don't see everywhere. You don't find people that have godly wisdom everywhere you go. And so when you find people that do have that, people notice it. The second phrase that should stand out is the phrase precious ointment. When he talks about precious ointment, he compares a person's reputation to something that is aromatic. And we don't know if this is an ointment that somebody used for medicinal purposes or if it's more like a perfume. I would kind of lean towards that second idea. It was probably some kind of perfume. But the idea that that this ointment was something that was expensive, it was very costly, it was something that you had to really sacrifice to be able to buy it And that ointment was something that filled the room with an aroma. And so the idea that he's trying to emphasize to us is that when a person has a good reputation then that's going to affect other people. There's something sweet, there's something pleasant about it. It's something that's expensive. You can't buy it. It's something that is really built over years of godly wisdom. The third thing I'm going to point out is how he emphasizes the difference between the day we die and the day someone's born. And in the context, he's probably not so much emphasizing when we die, but when a person dies. He says that the day of a person's death is better than the day of his birth. Now, from the perspective of the discussion that Solomon's having, his point is this. When a person is born, you don't know what they'll become. When a person dies, what they are is set. In other words, you know who they are. I know a pastor that that one time mentioned to me in in in passing, he said, I don't like reading and then recommending the works of people who are still alive. And I said, well, why is that? He said, because when somebody's still alive They could still be something really foolish that could actually bring into question some of the things that they've said in the past. And so once they've died and once they've gone to be with the Lord, then you don't have to worry about that And so I don't have to worry about somebody surprising me when they're, you know, sixty, seventy, eighty years old doing something really foolish that brings repute to the name of Christ. He says they've lived their life. I think that's the sense That Solomon's saying here. At the end of our lives, when people look back and a person passes away, they remember who that person really was and what they did or what they didn't do. The second fact we're going to see is this. We need to be sobered if we're going to walk with the Lord in godly wisdom. And he's actually going to give two different tools that God uses to kind of sober our perspective so that we'll walk in godly wisdom. And ultimately that will lead to a reputation that is pleasing to God, and one that that's that sweet ointment that he talks about. In verse 2 he says, it's better to go to the house of mourning than it is to go to the house of feasting. For that is the end of all men, and the living will lay it to his heart. Now you say, what is Solomon saying? He's saying that when we go to the party, we forget about what's going on in life. When we're laughing and we're having a good time, we kind of forget about reality and how things actually are. But he says when we go to a place where there is weeping and there is mourning and there's a difficulty He said, that's when we see the realities of life. And he said, in those moments, we actually learn more and we are actually benefited most through those moments of hardship, not through those moments of joy and mirth. He basically goes on to tell us that there are two profound teachers that God uses. And what's interesting is one of those teachers is kind of a teacher of circumstance, but the other is a is a teacher of the people that God brings into our lives. And so the third fact that we're going to find is that sorrow is a profound teacher to give us godly wisdom. When he talks about sorrow, he's talking about sorrow of circumstance. In verse three says, sorrow is better than laughter. For by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. Now when Solomon's talking about this, he's not suggesting that we should hope to go through hardship and misery. That's not what he's suggesting. But what he is suggesting is that when we go through hardship and we go through difficulty That's a profound teacher. It's one of the ways that God gives us wisdom. In fact, you might be here this morning listening to this message, and you are going through a very difficult and serious hardship. And the fact is that when you're going through that hardship, well, that thing is not a good thing in the sense that it's good in its substance, it can be used by God to accomplish tremendous good in our lives. through a hardship of circumstance, through a health crisis, to some kind of financial crisis. When we go through something that's very difficult, all of a sudden what it does is it it causes us to look at life as it actually is, not how we want it to be, not how we feel that it is, how it actually is. And in those moments we're able to kind of declutter and get back to the basics of what's most important. That's really the sense that Solomon is emphasizing here. He says sorrow is a profound teacher of wisdom. Wisdom is learned in the difficulties of life. But fools don't learn wisdom because they're constantly seeking to mask the pain and the consequences of the realities of living in a fallen world. He said some people go through hardship and they embrace the lessons that God wants to teach them in the midst of those hardships. In other words, they grow in depth and they grow in maturity, they grow in wisdom, they grow in strength. They have they develop character through those things. I say they God develops that character in them through those circumstances. Yet you'll have others who will go through the same kinds of things And rather than facing those realities with a heart to learn and with a humility before God and a willingness to let God shape them and mold them and develop their character That person instead tries to mask the pain and the consequences of reality. And when we do that, we end up not gleaning wisdom. We actually continue to wallow in our folly. In fact, there are many people that that actually create their own pain and sorrow, and they actually do it by repeatedly trying to mask the consequences of their poor decisions. They constantly seek for some kind of outs to mask and cover the pain that they deal with, rather than understanding that these are tools that God uses to shape us and mold us. We live in a fallen world. We're fallen creatures. There are areas where we need to grow and mature in depth and wisdom. Our perspective needs to be shaped. And we need to declutter at times. And this is how God does it. He allows us to go through sorrow. Sorrow is a profound teacher. of wisdom and Solomon emphasized that. And then the last thing going to mention here is that Rabuch is also a profound teacher of wisdom When we talk about sorrow, we're talking about the fact that God uses difficult circumstances to teach us and to mold us and to shape us and to refine us When we talk about the rebuke of others being a profound teacher, it's saying that God doesn't just use our circumstances, he uses the people around us. And I want to make this simple observation that we have to keep in mind. Some people don't rebuke us the right way, but that doesn't mean that we can't learn from the rebuke that they give. Now I'm not suggesting that it's okay for people to rebuke someone in an inappropriate way I'm not saying that it's going to help that person learn the lessons that they need to. But the simple fact is, rebuke is something that points out things that are true in us that need to be addressed, that they actually need to change. And that can that criticism, hopefully being constructive, but even when it's not really that constructive, it can still be something that God uses. to help us develop wisdom, to help to refine us and to mature us and to make us what God wants us to be. And so this is how he puts it in verses five and six. And it's very interesting how he describes it in verse six. He says, it's better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the songs of fools. Now don't miss what he's saying. He says, there are times that a wise person has to come alongside of us and say, what you did was wrong. The way that you handled that situation was inappropriate. The way that you responded was foolish. Your perspective is short-sighted. You're quitting too early. You need to press forward. That's a decision that's going to harm you in life. In other words, the wise come along and they don't want to rebuke, but they recognize they have to because the issue has risen to a level that's serious enough that needs to be addressed. He says, it's far better to hear a wise person rebuke you than to have a fool sing your praises. Someone who really doesn't recognize the problem and they ignore it and instead they mask it, they cover it. They don't even know that it's there. And instead of coming to you and helping to address the issue that's there, they sing your praises and what happens? In other words, an area where you should change, you need to change, it's important that you change. It remains unchanged, and in fact you're emboldened to think that the thing that needs to be changed is actually okay, and it's actually good. He says, don't listen to those who sing your praises as fools. Be thankful for those who rebuke you who have wisdom. And so wisdom is taught by the rebuke of those who are godly and are wise. But then he gives a second statement here. He says, the crackling of thorns under a pot, as the crackling of thorns under a pot, So is the laughter of fools. This is also vanity. Now someone might say, what in the world does he mean the crackling of thorns under a pot? Well in those days when people were cooking a lot of times they cooked over an open campfire. For lack of a better way to put it In other words, they put wood down, they got a very hot coal base, and then they would boil things in a large pot Well the truth is that if you get thorns, these little brambles out of the woods, and you pull a whole bunch of out of them and you throw them into a fire, you're gonna immediately have a roaring fire And that roaring fire is going to be crackling and it's going to look like it's really got substance to it. But the moment that you put that pot on there, within just a few minutes Those brambles are going to die down and you'll have nothing left to heat that pot up. But when you put wood in there And that wood just slowly begins to build that heat and eventually you get this strong coal base. That coal base that's burning quietly is hot and it can cook your food. And so he said the brambles crackle and the fire roars, but it doesn't have the ability to cook your food. Those coals that are quiet and are just smoldering out there are full of intense heat. And that intense heat is usable to actually cook over. And he says that's how a person is who has this singing of praises. The s the fool who sings your praises is someone who's gonna sound really good. He's gonna tell you a lot of things that you want to hear The person that says, let's have a good time and let's ignore our sorrows and our challenges and let's mask the pain. That person who says, let's have a good time. is a person that keeps you from understanding reality. And that understanding of reality is critical to developing wisdom And so he compares the fool who sings your praises and the fool who says, let's go out and party and have a good time and forget about all the sorrows of life. He says that's like throwing brambles under a pot and thinking you can actually cook over it. It's impossible. It doesn't work. In other words, there are times that we need reality checks. There are times that we need people not to build up our egos, but to actually address our glaring faults. Like the thorns have no power. to actually cook over. The person who's just going to tell you that you've got everything going for you and sing your praises, and the person who's going to cover over the things that need to be addressed is a person that doesn't help you gain wisdom. So the question is how do we practically apply what's in front of us this morning? Let me give you just three very simple thoughts that I've jotted down today. The first is this Live a life of godly wisdom. And this life of godly wisdom will result in a sweet fragrance, a noble, well-ordered life. If you will walk in wisdom, God will use you to bless people, to encourage people, and people will see that there is a wisdom there in the way that you walk So don't be worried about what people think of you. Be worried about what God thinks of you. Be worried about developing the kind of character that God wants you to have. And if you have that People will see that and you will have a good reputation. The second thing is this when sorrow comes into your life, don't run from the lessons that God wants to teach you through them. You may be in the midst of some very difficult circumstances right now. And the reality is every one of us does and will go through very hard times. In the midst of those hard times, what will we do? Will we ignore the lessons? Will we try to escape reality? Try to cover over the pain and ignore that it's actually there. Or will we let God use those circumstances as tools to refine us and reshape us and make us the godly people he wants us to be? And my third comment is this, we need to take correction from wise people. We will continue in immaturity if we're unwilling to listen to the rebukes of those who have wisdom. The fool says, sing my praises. The fool says, let's go have a good time so we ignore the sorrows of the difficulties of the circumstances we face The wise man says, here's something that you need to grow in, and let me help you, and let me come alongside of you because I want to see you become a better person. I want to see you become the person God wants you to be. I want to see you develop godly wisdom. And so they come alongside and the stinging rebuke can be uh something that God uses in a very powerful way. As we l as we look at this passage this morning, I hope it's been a challenge to you It really was to me as I looked at it. If this has been an encouragement to you, please share that in the notes section in the comment section. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet back again and continue our study in Ecclesiastes. Let's bow together for a word of prayer Father, thank you for this opportunity to study Ecclesiastes 7. Help us to recognize that you want us to be wise. You want us to have godly wisdom. So that as we walk in godly wisdom at the end of our lives, people will see that we have lived our lives well for the honor and glory of God. And our lives will be a sweet fragrance to people. It will be something that has blessed and challenged them. It has been an instrument in your hands. Help us to live those kinds of lives. Father, help us not to seek to escape reality, but help us to learn from the challenges of life. Father, help us not to become unsettled and upset when people come alongside of us and rebuke us when we've been wrong. But I pray that you'd help us to be a people who listen to the rebukes of a friend and who are willing to change so that we can grow. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to talk to you this morning. I hope that you have a wonderful rest of your day. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again. Bye now