Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our service tonight and hope that you had a good, restful afternoon, especially dad's hope you're able to get some Some good meat and a good nap. If you didn't, next year. Once a year. I want to remind you of a couple of uh events that are coming up because I tried to streamline our morning service uh as much as possible at Father's Day. But uh we have a business meeting after the service so please uh if you're planning to stay for that please uh just hang on. We'll take a little break between closing the service and when we start. And then on Wednesday night, we have a special meeting for all of our teen parents. If your children are going to the wilds, please do come to that meeting. It'll be during the prayer time. And we just want to make sure that we're caught up on everything. sent you out an email that has some documents. Please read through those. And if you haven't paid up, please make sure that you you do that. If you don't know what that amount is, please reach out to me and I'll let you know what that is. Also this Thursday we have our our teen Bible study at our house. That'll be at 7 p. m. So teens please come to that. And then also on the 24th, that's a Saturday, we have door-to-door visitation. So please mark that on your calendars. And if you're planning to come to that, please let me know so that we won't leave without you. But we we try to meet up at 9 o'clock and uh go for about an hour, hour and a half, two hours. It kind of depends on the area that we're in. But uh please keep us in prayer as we go out. Tori? Go ahead and uh let's open in prayer and then we'll get you started up here. All right. Our Father, thank you so much for the opportunity tonight to dig into the Word of God again. And I pray that you'll be with Pastor Chris as he opens the word. Help him to communicate your word clearly. And I pray that as we sing, we would sing with hearts that are passionate about truth. And I just pray that every aspect of our service tonight would bring glory to you. And we'll thank you for that. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, let's stand and open our hymn books to hymn number 162. Ferris Lord Jesus will sing all four verses of hymn number one hundred and sixty-two. two Great king, please be seated as we turn over to him 177, our great savior. 177, again we'll sing all five verses. ¿Qué le da el otro? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Pray proof. Bruno And back to hymn 160. 160, my Jesus, I love thee. We'll sing all four verses. Great singing. Okay, well on Sunday nights we'd like to give you an update Se on hommani. Ammoniin haun Do you mean how many moments are you going to be in the home? Vamiin Mahominen maailman mihin Moniana ja Suomen Tämä on nimi on Homeminen Homeminen ja Mama. Siinann Did break our streak, didn't we? Can we play through this once? Mmm. Let's give it a try. All right. Verse four, Jesus Pilate of my life. Here we go. Sorry. We tried. Amazing grace. All right, six twelve in the red book. God is so good. Oh wow, there are a lot of those. Let's just sing the first one and we'll repeat it a couple times. Just the first verse. Actually, can you just play it and then we'll just sing all the verses? We'll just sing it just like a yeah, just sing it just like a chorus. Alright, we'll sing all five. Six actually. y el día que no me dijeron , me dijeron, pero Oh I know it's tough for the musicians. It is fun with the keychains, but it's tough. Alright. 122 in the red book. 122 Let's all stand before we sing on. 122, we'll sing the first and the last. Do I know this one? Can you play through it once? I think I do. 122 in the red book, yes. I think I know it, but just play it through once. Oh Lord, we pray thy will be done for mine. We pray you do our mighty work and all the flesh we die. And when the answer comes to us in the form of triumph. We fail to see your morning head, we find it for its Doubly binding. Hey and Budge me now and make up me what you regard Oh my god. Thou and God and thou bet, Lord may my heart be purified. So great with my And I understand when you appear a piece of your return. Oh, praise the Lord perfectly that all the drop demand. Whether burn is a patient or on the building. Bring for the personal power enjoy by your refining God No, I believe I need! No, I dreaming. They admite me now and make up me while you require Oh no, I 've been linear. Thou as good as ever must be tried, Lord make my heart be your advice , Lord strange Numbers twenty one tonight. Numbers twenty one I'd like to start by reading what is probably a very familiar account for many of us. And if you don't recognize the chapter, you'll probably recognize the content for sure. We'll begin by reading in verse 4, Numbers chapter 21. And they that is Israel journeyed from Mount Hor by way of the Red Sea to compass the land of Edom, and the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way. And the people spake against God and against Moses. Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? For there is no bread, neither is there any water, and our soul loatheth as light bread. And the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, and much people of Israel died. Therefore the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against thee. Pray unto the Lord that he take away serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people. And the Lord said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent. And set it upon a pole. And it shall come to pass that every one that is bitten, when he looketh upon it, shall he live. And Moses made a serpent of brass and put it upon a pole. And it came to pass that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld a serpent of brass, he lived. Now, this familiar account is such because we've probably connected it very often to what Jesus states in John chapter 3. In fact, in John chapter 3, Christ directly alludes to this event by noting that it is a type of the ministry that he was to perform on the cross. It's an excellent point to make when that when it comes to titans in scripture, there are several things that we need to keep in mind. Now I'm beginning this with a lot of background information. But for us to look at types in Scripture, we need to recognize that a type is something that serves as an illustration for something else. For example, the sacrificial system of blood Served as a type of Christ's ultimate blood sacrifice for our sins. Should also note that in Scripture, types are almost exclusively limited. To illustrations of the person and work of Jesus Christ. And so it is wise really never to make a type of something that Scripture never explicitly states is a type. For example, many people make Joseph a type of Christ because of his betrayal, because of his exaltation, because of various things. But never once do you see in Scripture Joseph mentioned as a type of Christ, even though there are similarities between the two. I would say that it would be kind of careless to consider Joseph as a type of Christ. Now these are some things that we need to keep in mind with regard to types. And so when we see this bronze serpent as a clear type of Christ in John chapter 3, it should signify something very significant to us. Jesus said himself in John three, fourteen and fifteen, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so much must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have ever uh eternal life. So when Christ uses this historical event to signify the way in which his death would include his being raised upon the cross, he did so because much like the Israelites were to look upon the bronze serpent to live. We must look to Christ as our only hope for life in our doomed state as sinners. However, with every Old Testament type that is used in the New Testament, We cannot lose sight of the original context in which that type is found in. A simple example of this is Isaiah 7. 14. You can probably quote it, you know, from Christmas time. Where Isaiah prophesies a coming child by way of a virgin, which could also be translated young maiden. While the ultimate fulfillment of that prophecy is Christ, according to Matthew 123. We often forget that the immediate fulfillment of that prophecy is found in Isaiah 8, 1 through 4, where the prophet writes, The Lord said unto me, Take thee a great roll and write it, write in it a man's pen concerning Meher Shalal al Hashbaz. By the way, that's the longest name in the Bible. And I took unto me a faithful witness to record Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberekiah, and I went unto the prophetess, and she conceived and bare a son. And the said Lord said to me, Call his name. Meher Shalal al Hashbaz. For before the child shall have knowledge to cry, my father and my mother, the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria shall be taken away before the king of Assyria. So that's one example of a type that really has a more immediate context that we can't forget about. And that's the same thing that we find here in Numbers 21. With that in mind, I'm going to provide a little bit more context with where we're at now in our study going through the story of redemption. We have been going through the Exodus. And in Numbers 13 through 14, we find Israel refusing to trust God as they were about to go into the promised land. And so God says, you will not enter the promised land. And they didn't take kindly to that. A large number of Israelites were led by Korah. And they attempted and failed to overthrow Moses and Aaron's leadership in number 16. That cause was again discounted When God had Aaron's rod butting in number 17. It was a reiteration of the authority that God had vested in Aaron. And then the Israelites wandered for about thirty-seven and a half years. on top of the two and a half that they've already been out there. And some of that is recorded in numbers 33. Not much is really known about these years, but probably the purpose of that time, or that's probably because the purpose of that time was to allow that generation, that Exodus generation to die before the next, the conquest generation, could enter Canaan. And at the beginning of the fortieth year since the Exodus, Israel were dir Israel returns to Kadesh where they had originally Refuse to go into the land. And we find that recorded in Numbers 20. Pastor spoke on this a while ago when Among the many events that took place in that chapter, we find the death of Miriam, the denial of Moses from entering the promised land, the fact that Aaron dies on Mount Hor after passing the role of high priest to Eliezer. But there's also the fact that Israel in Numbers 20 was denied passage through the nation of Edom. and was forced to travel around the southern portion of Edom to come north to where they would have to be, or where they would end up being on the eastern side of the Jordan River. So with all that said, Israel has not had its way in a long, long time. He 's had it rough. It's not been a positive time for Israel. Mainly because of the Exodus generation's sins. But now we're in the conquest generation. And our lessons for them to learn that God is going to have to teach them the hard way, unfortunately. Before they even begin getting into the promised land, we find the conquest generation starting off on the wrong foot. And this is where Numbers 21 comes in. Including the account of the bronze serpent, where we're going to find Israel learning as we should, that God wants us to live in obedience according to his terms. Now, why would I say that? Well, we need to understand the difference between what it looks like to live the Christian life on our terms versus living according to God's terms. Now to kind of help us understand what it means to live on our terms. I actually went to uh Bing 's AI search. I don't know how many of you have ever used this. Don't worry, I didn't use it to write my sermon. But I asked it, how what does it look like to live on one's own terms? And this is what the AI gave me. Living life on your own terms means having the freedom and flexibility to do what matters most to you. It means being able to live a life that is meaningful and fulfilling to you. It is not about following other people's advice. But about carefully calculating and strategizing and then deciding on your own. It's about focusing on action that can change the future outcome. Very interesting definition there. And so as we get into our text, let's keep that in mind because we're going to see That living on our own terms can begin by looking like spiritual obedience. Verse 1 of Numbers 21, when King Erid the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south, heard tell that Israel came by the way of the spies Then he fought against Israel and took some of them prisoners. And Israel vowed a vow unto the Lord and said, If thou wilt indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities. And the Lord hearkened to the voice of Israel and delivered up the Canaanites, and they utterly destroyed them and their cities. And he called the name of the place Hormah. Now right off the bat you might be thinking, well, Israel's doing what they're supposed to. They're fighting Canaanites, they're defeating them, they're clearing out the land. But notice some of the details. We begin by looking at how Israel they vowed a vow. There were encamps there in Kadesh Barnia. The opportunity arose for them to begin their war against the Canaanites. This was really the beginning of the conquest generation's conquest. And the first battle that they were going to fight since the previous generation tried to do something and fell on their face. But they make an interesting decision. They vow a vow unto the Lord in verse 2. They vowed that if God gave them the victory over King Arad and his army, they would utterly destroy their cities. Now I hope that something kind of sounds funny about that to you. Because it's interesting for two reasons. One is that God obviously intended on destroying the Canaanites from the get-go. If we're to go back to Genesis 15, the promise that God made to Abraham is that his descendants would take the land. And he even named each one of the Canaanite groups. That his descendants would have power over. And second, the Israelites, at least from the J Exodus generation, understood that God would have them wage war against the Canaanites. That's why whenever God said you're not going to answer the promise, and he said, Well we we can do it. We can go ahead and do it. And they tried to go and fight the Canaanites and they were decimated. Did not go well for them. So we can conclude that what Israel was vowing really was unnecessary, as they already understood what God had commanded them to do. Now vowing a vow is interesting because we know in principle from other passages that it's not always the wisest thing to do that Ecclesiastes 5 forces, when thou vowest avow unto God, deferred not to pay it, for he hath no pleasure in fools. Pay that which thou hast vowed. Better is it that thou shouldest not vow than that thou shouldest vow and not pay. Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin, neither say thou before the angel that is that it was an error Wherefore should God be angry with thy voice and destroy the work of thine hands? For in the multitude of dreams and many words there are also diverse vanities. But fear thou God. Matthew 5, Jesus himself alluded to this very concept where he said, Again, ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but thou shalt perform unto the Lord thine oats. But I say unto you, swear not at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, neither by earth, for it is his footstool, neither by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black. But let your communication be yea, yea, nay, nay. For whatsoever is more than these commands. Now it's possible that that the conquest generation could have been cautious. As was mentioned, the last experience that that that the people of Israel had with battle did not go so great. And so in a going forward to battle, they were possibly thinking we need to have the Lord's blessing in this. But in vowing a vow, it seems to portray a mindset that really serves self. More than God. You might think of it as self-preservation over simple obedience. And that's mainly due to the context in which we find our passage. This happening just before the bronze serpent. Nevertheless, God's will was made known in verse 3. God is graciously condescending to Israel, giving them the victory over their enemies. That really he had already determined beforehand would be destroyed. Such was victory over the Canaanites in question that they named the place Hormah, which means utter destruction Wiped out. Now, whether the Israelites were requesting victory out of fearful self-interest or by genuine obedience, the fact is God's will was done. Right? So no harm, no foul. All's well that ends well. Well, the reality is there is a fine line between delighting ourselves in the Lord and he shall give us the desires of our heart. And really, our self-interests coincidentally lining up with God's purposes. You see this in a couple places in Scripture, as a matter of fact. We see it with Jacob. Where he's wrestling with God for the blessing when God has already given him the blessing. We see it with Gideon. Whom God said, Go and fight for me. And what does Gideon do? Well, here is my shawl. If you will have the ground wet and that dry. I'll believe you. Then he does the opposite the next time. What is he demonstrating? He's not demonstrating faith. He's demonstrating self-preservation. He's working on his own terms. Sometimes it's as clear as day, but most of the times this is very subtle. It's because the root issue lies in our motivation. Something that only we in God can know. I ask you, are you serving God because you love Him? Or because you love the idea of being someone who loves and serves God? The answer to that question will reveal that really we're all guilty of this very thing. It's true. We've all committed this act of serving God for ourselves rather than serving God because we love Him. It's very subtle, but something that we need to recognize. Living on our own terms. Can look like genuine obedience. But ultimately, what can happen there Is that living on our own terms, while it may coincide with God's purposes for a time, eventually it will lead to blatant disobedience. Mainly because living on our own terms, obviously, is disobedience in and of itself. But what we just read here in verses uh four through six Is that Israel, by living on its own terms, fell into disobedience? They desired to control the uncontrollable And that led to sinful complaining. Look again in verse four. And they journeyed from Mount Hor by the way of the Red Sea to compass the land of Edom, and the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way, and the people spake against God and against Moses. Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness, for there is no bread, neither is there any water, and our soul loatheth this light bread. See, the fact that they were traveling south toward the Red Sea to go south around Edom was a result of Edom and their stubborn hatred for Israel. But then, while Moses was as diplomatic as possible, as God was gracious and watched over them as they traveled. The discouragement of this was more than they could bear. And because of their frustration with things that were completely out of their control. They began to not only speak out against Moses, but directly against God Himself. And you you it's surprising to think that this generation That later we see obediently circling Jericho for a week would hear, in their time of frustration, blasphemously speak out against God. In fact, I repeat the statement of their parents. Wherefore have you brought us up out of Egypt? Some of them probably didn't even remember coming out of Egypt. That kind of attitude worked well for their forefathers, didn't it? Of course not. Yet here they are, displaying their frustration with things beyond their control. showing that in their heart, they weren't about obeying God. They were about obeying God as long as it worked out for them. Of course, we see Israel's demand for control led to swift judgment. In verse 6, the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, and much people of Israel died. Without any warning, God administers judgment through these fiery serpents. And we're not told exactly how many Israel outside this as many did. And so what's the takeaway here? Well, the fact that living on our own terms, while it should be considered disobedient itself, it will lead to furthered disobedience. In fact, you can be sure that the reality of whom you serve will ultimately be revealed at some point. Now you all know of this sort of person. The person who's lived the Christian life longer than most knows how to behave, knows how to speak, knows what to do, but they live the Christian life on their own terms They might do it maybe because it makes them feel like they're something part of something bigger than themselves. Or maybe they get a sense of purpose in life because they're doing this Christian thing. But as soon as they're offended by something that's out of control , That's when the gossip starts. That's when the disgruntledness starts. That's when the backbiting starts. It's when the passive-aggressive behavior begins. That's when slander becomes commonplace. They begin planting doubts and discords among the congregation. Eventually, that attempt to ensure that things are going this person's way is recognized by everyone around them. And while you can be sure that they're not going to drop dead like Ananias and Sapphira, there will be consequences. What sort of qu consequences? Well, generally speaking, I've I've seen that people that live on their own terms are viewed as a person that really is not all that dependable. They're not trustworthy in many ways. This is especially true in a church or ministry context. I mean, why would a pastor Ask such a person to help with a ministry if that person doesn't have a genuine self-sacrificing love and commitment to the body of Christ. Listen, that person may be exceptionally capable. They might get the job done. But the moment that a commitment fails to be in the best interest of that person, he'll be gone in an instant. The book of Proverbs gives us several insights into this. Better is a dinner of herbs where love is. Than a stall or fattened ox and hatred therewith. Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues without right. Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity. than he that is perverse in his lips and is a fool. In other words, love, righteousness, and integrity are to be more desired. Than simply having nice things or great wealth or a fleshly lifestyle. But so often those latter things are the driving force for living on our own terms It's harmful to our growth. It's harmful to others. But what's the alternative? Well, we see the alternative, even in our passage here, beginning in verse 7. It says, therefore the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against thee. Pray unto the Lord that He take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people. And the Lord said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole. And it shall come to pass that every one that is bitten, whom when he looketh upon it, shall live. And Moses made a serpent of brass. and put it upon a pole, and it came to pass that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived I think the application we should derive from not just these last few verses of our uh events But also in the remainder of the chapter is that living on God's terms will lead to inevitable growth. On the part of Israel here, I believe. As they saw the death and the judgment happening around them, they were moved to repentance. They distinctly pointed out what their sin was. They said, We have sinned. We have spoken against the Lord and against thee. Prance the Lord that he take away the serpents from us. Contrast this with King Saul in 1 Samuel 15. When he's confronted with his sin, what was his response? I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord in thy words because I fear feared the people, and I obeyed their voice. Said a king fearing the people caused him to sin. A king. He says, therefore I pray thee pardon my sin and turn again with me that I may worship the Lord. Honestly, with Saul, his statements vague and aloof betray of false repentance. But with Israel, we don't see that. We see, I believe, a genuine repentance of their discontent and their self-absorbed attitude. Which leads to some genuine growth. Now I believe that this growth happened because in the remainder of this chapter we see God giving military victories repeatedly over and over and over just a few chapters before their forefathers. were cowering on the other side of the hills where they were just where they were. And then getting slaughtered when they presumed upon the Lord. But even more than that is this very song found in the middle of the last half of the chapter. Notice in verse 16, there at Numbers 21. It says, From thence they went to Bear, and that that is the well whereof the Lord spake unto Moses, gather the people together, and I will give them water. Then Israel sang this song. Spring up, O well, sing ye unto it. The princess digged the well, the nobles of the people digged it by the direction of the lawgiver with their staves. A song is sung in the midst of their triumphs. And I believe, as Spurgeon said, a rejoicing heart soon makes a praising tongue. Of course, we know not all grew in their love and service to God, as we know in the chapters that follow, 24,000 Israelites die at Belpur. We'll talk about that at a later time. But this was the generation that followed Joshua around Jericho for a week. This was the generation that took the land. So I don't believe it's a stretch to say that this repentance led to some spiritual growth among those of the conquest generation. And I do believe that genuine repentance leads to spiritual growth, but so does genuine service. And I conclude now in Romans 12, because now that we've said all that we now that we've seen all that's been said, we may be wondering, well How do I know that I'm living on God's terms and not my own? Well, only you know your motives. Only you understand your reasonings. And if you're still unsure. Let's consider the words of the Spirit through Paul in Romans twelve. Romans chapter twelve. She needs to be more than a little bit more. Paul writes, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that she presents your bodies a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, and be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of you. God. So this is what living on God's terms Looks like verse three I say through the grace give it unto me to every man that is among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think But to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith. For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office, so we being many are one body in Christ. And every one members Or ministry, let us wait on our ministering. Or he that teacheth on teaching, or he that exhorteth on exhortation, he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity, he that ruleth with diligence, he that showeth mercy with cheerfulness, let love be without dissimulation Abhor that which is evil, cleave to that which is good, be kindly affectionate one to another with brotherly love, in honor preferring one another, not slothful in busyness. Fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer, distributing to the necessity of the saints, given to hospitality, blessing them that persecute you, blessing them And curse not. Rejoice with them that do rejoice. Weep with them that weep. Be of the same mind, one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits. Recompense to no man, evil for evil evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirsts, give him drink. For in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. That's how you live on God's terms. It's not about us. It's about seeing that genuine service is heart service It's not about how much we do or how nicely we do it. It's about behaving in light of the Spirit's work in us, both per personally and corporately as his body. It's about doing things God's way for God's sake. Not God's way for our sake. Not our way for God's sake. It's simple obedience on God's terms. If we do that, we should be able to say with Paul, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Let's pray and ask God to help us, Father. This is a hard truth. To come to terms with because in our flesh, as mankind, we want to be in control. We want things on our own terms. Even our service to you. I pray, Lord, that You would open our hearts, our minds, our eyes to see where we stand in light of this. Lord, it is no question that all of us have fallen short. We have all done things on our own terms. We've even served you on our own terms I pray, Lord, you would help us to recognize this. And with deeper awareness, with deeper gratitude for what your son has done in our lives, I pray you would help us Help us to simply live in obedience to you on your terms. Pray this in Christ's name. Amen I'm just glad that we serve a gracious God. Aren't you glad that in spite of our great failures as people, and all of us do, that he loves us dearly? And that the cross of Christ is there. He was nailed to that cross because we are great sinners and he is a great savior. And I'm very very thankful for that. The truth is that whenever we serve the Lord, there is the great danger. Even when we start with a pure motive. It there's a great danger that in the midst of that serving, when people notice it's good service, all of a sudden our motives can change. I've experienced that many times. And we have to really keep our hearts in check. More than anything, we need to be thankful for the cross of Christ. Good godly service. really flows out of a healthy fellowship. That's really what it is. If I'm fellowshipping with the Lord, I really love him, it's going to overflow into the way that we relate to other people. So I'd like us to close with hymn 157, Grace that is greater than our sin. If we want to serve the Lord well, we need to be overwhelmed by his grace. That is where we must be. Let's stand together, please, and let's sing this wonderful hymn. All three verses Grace that is greater than our sin. Praise the greater than all is not even All right, to me his place with his brain. So thankful for the grace of God. Have the Mitchell family now in Maryland and looking forward to having Braxton working with us. And uh like Braxton, if you could close us in prayer tonight. And don't forget that we're going to have a business meeting afterwards. So uh take a 10 minute break and uh then we will be back in here. I'll send somebody out there to make sure that everybody uh is back so we can start our meeting and I will uh have uh Billy if you could please pass out the Oh, well you're you're gonna be in the meeting though. I need you to to count uh to pass out the ballots when we start our meeting. So maybe you and one of the other uh guys guys. But all right, Braxton, please close us in prayer and then we'll take a 10-minute break. We won't call it a recess. We'll call it a break. Let us pray. Dear Father Lord, thanks today. Thank you for just what today is, that it is a day for fathers, but it's a time for us to reflect on how good you've been. to us over the last year that we can worship you not just once a year, but spend time with you every day and even each Sunday, Father. I just pray we just cherish our time we have with you. I pray that as we be from here and that a decision made for the Linder family that you be working and be and you be at the forefront. Praise for the Son's fresh only name. Amen.