Welcoming back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. We are back in Luke chapter 1, and we're looking at the second part of the section that we looked at yesterday. So if you have a Bible, Like to invite you to pick it up and let's look together at Luke 1 verses 67 down to verse 80. Again, that's Luke 1 verses 67 through verse 80. It says, And his father Zecharias was filled with the Holy Ghost. And prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed his people. He hath raised up an horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began, that we should be safe from our enemies, from the hand of them that hate us. to perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath which he swear to our father Abraham, that he would grant unto us that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear. That he would grant us that we in holiness and in righteousness before him all the days of our life. Thou child shalt be called the prophet of the highest, for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his way. to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins, through the tender mercies of our God, whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us to give light to them that sit in darkness in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. Now when we read these verses, I want to remind you again of the summary statement that we had from yesterday. and the three truths that we saw, and we'll kind of continue where we left off. First of all, the summary statement. The purpose of this section of Luke was to reveal through Zecharias the heart of the gospel. And so last time we talked about three facts or truths about the gospel that are being laid out in these verses. The first was that the gospel was about God coming to pay the price to redeem us unto himself. And we saw that that literally God is going to take upon himself the burden of restoring mankind to himself. That's what the cross is all about. The second truth we saw was that the gospel is about God being faithful to his word. And so God demonstrated that when he promised in the Old Testament that he would send a redeemer, he followed through with it 100%. The third fact we saw last time was that the gospel is about making us fit to be called God's children. And when we say making God fit or making us fit to be called God's children, It's not saying that God makes us holy so that we can be acceptable. It means God declares us to be holy and declares us to be righteous. on the basis of Christ's righteousness and our connection to Him. In other words, it's not that we become sinless magically when we become Christians. But we are declared forgiven and justified because we have accepted and are accepted in Christ. The fourth fact we're going to look at this morning, in a continuation of these details, is that the gospel is about the miracle of the incarnation. Now the incarnation might be a word you're not familiar with, but it literally means in flesh. So God is coming in flesh to dwell amongst his people. So when we talk about the Lord Jesus Christ or the Messiah, we're talking about a person who was fully God and fully man at the same time. When Christ entered into this world and he takes on human flesh, he doesn't stop being God. He doesn't stop having the power and the authority that he had as God as as God from the foundation of the world. He was still the creator. He was still the sustainer of all things. But what he did when he took on humanity was he laid aside some of those privileges, and we could say that he veiled his glory and his power. And so the Lord Jesus Christ We read Philippians chapter 2, though he was in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And so it's not that he stops being God, but we see that he takes on the humble position of being a man in Israel in those days. And so in these verses, we see that he talks about the fact that this is really focused on that the miracle of God in flesh. It says it this way. Thou child shalt be called the prophet of the highest, and thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways. Now to understand what Zecharias is saying about his child, John, we have to go to Malachi chapter 3, because that's the passage that he's referring to. What's interesting is when we talk about the ministry of John the Baptist and the announcing of his birth, actually the angel and Zecharias both refer to Malachi. Because this is the last set of prophecies that were made about the Messiah's ministry. And so here's what it says in Malachi 3. 1. Now I'm going to read it carefully, and I want to point out some of the details that are in these verses. It says, Behold, I will send my messenger. Now the question is, who is the one speaking in this verse Well at the end of the verse it says, He will come, saith the Lord of host. And that phrase Lord of host is a title meaning Lord of Sabaoth. We could put it this way, it's Jehovah or Yahweh of hosts. So it's clearly God speaking here. The covenant God of Israel, the one who entered into covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And so God is the one speaking in those verses. He then goes on to say this. He says, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me. Now that's a really interesting statement. In other words, God is saying, I'm going to be coming to Lithuali 12 amongst my people, and this child is going to prepare the way for me. And the Lord, and what's interesting is that word Lord is not all capitalized. Now that doesn't mean it's not a reference to God. It simply means that it's a reference to the Messiah. So it's a change of person, yet he's referring to the same being, God. He says, the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in. Behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of hosts. Now when we read this verse carefully, we have to recognize that God is clearly speaking, yet there are two distinct persons who are being referred to. the one who sends the messenger, the one who comes after the messenger has prepared the way for him. And we have to I we have to recognize that God clearly is saying that He's coming to be with His people. You say, well, how does this work? How do we have two persons talking talked about here, but we have one being, the one who is actually Speaking the prophecy. Well, the reason is because of the doctrine of the Trinity. We recognize the distinction between the Father and the Son and the Spirit. Three distinct persons in one God. And so when we talk about God, we can refer to him as God, and we could be talking to the Son, we could be talking to the Father, we could be referring to the Father, to the Son. And the reality is that we have to keep the distinction of person and the the essential essence of the Godhead in in view here. And so when we talk about these verses, clearly we're talking about God coming to dwell amongst his people. The only way that you can explain that is if we recognize that this is the miracle of the incarnation. The distinction of person, the sun is coming, and the sun is coming as God in flesh. And so we have this wonderful truth being laid out here. And John taught, or you see in the Zecharias is talking about this. The second truth that we're going to see here. That the gospel is about dealing with sin once and for all. He writes this. He says, it is to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. Now don't miss any word or any detail of this verse, because the statement that Zecharias makes is rich and full of tremendous truth. The first word knowledge is so important. The Messiah is coming to give knowledge of salvation. When he says knowledge, He's not simply saying we want to be aware that salvation is available, but that word knowledge has the idea of an intimate, experiential knowledge. In other words, I know the salvation personally. I have personally received this salvation. So he's saying when the Messiah comes, he's coming to give salvation to people, not just to announce it. But that they will actually experience it, they will know it, it will be theirs. That's really important The second word is obviously salvation. God is coming to deliver people from something. And the question is, what is he coming to deliver them from? Well, the people living at the time of Christ were primarily looking for deliverance from their physical enemies being the Romans, because The Romans had conquered and were ruling them and had been ruling them for 40 or 50 years at the time that the Lord Jesus Christ is born. So the question is, what kind of salvation is he talking about? Well, the answer is found in the next few words. It's the salvation of his people by the remission of their sins. The salvation primarily that's being talked about in these verses is about being saved from sin, the penalty of sin. the power of sin, the presence of sin. In other words, the gospel is all about people knowing and experiencing intimately God's salvation, deliverance. from sin. And when he talks about remission of sin, literally he's going to remove their sin. And he does it by the work of the cross. Then the last phrase that's so very interesting is that it says, it is through the tender mercies of God. You know, if you ask a person, why did God send his son into the world to die for mankind's sins? You'd have to say, well, there's actually quite a few different reasons why he did it. You could talk about the fact that God is holy and righteous. And he's going to display his glory. And so we could say that salvation is all about the glory of God. And it's about his good pleasure. And that's true. We could say it's about God's love. That's true as well. But the point that Zecharias is going to emphasize is that it was the tender mercies of God that motivated him to send redemption. And we talk about tender mercies, we're basically saying that God has this incredible compassion When he looks at people who are sinners and stumbling in the darkness and their rebels against them, they're set at enmity against him, God still has compassion on those people. He wants to save their souls. He wants to deliver them from the destruction to come, and he wants to deliver them from the misery of living under the dominion of their own flesh. And so when he talks about the Messiah coming, he refers to him as one who's coming to remove sin by the tender mercies of God. The last fact that we see in these verses is that the gospel is about restoring life to people who are dead. When the Bible talks about people who are separated from God, it talks about them being dead in trespasses and sins. Spiritually, there's no life. There's no ability to fellowship and commune with God. There's no ability to live life the way that God intended it to live. Because the person is spiritually dead and doesn't have the power and the enabling to live life the way that God wanted them to live Well, what's very interesting is that these verses refer to the fact that the gospel came to deliver us from the bondage of sin. Here's how he puts it in these verses. Verse 79. He says, it is to give light to them that sit in darkness. and in the shadow of death to guide our feet in the way of peace. Now let me kind of break this down so you can understand kind of the significance of what Zecharias is saying here. First of all, he talks about giving light to those who sit in the darkness. This morning I was reading in 1 John chapter 2, and he talked about a person that hates his brother walking in darkness. And basically when he talks about that, he's basically saying that, listen, I created people with dignity. I created people with value. And when you hate another human being, you're walking in darkness. You're not living life the way that I intended it to be lived. But when you love your brother, you're walking in the light And walking in the light means that you're living life with a vibrancy, the way that I intended for you to live it. So when he talks about these people walking and sitting in the darkness, He's referring to the fact that they're spiritually blind. While they're physically alive, they're spiritually dead. They don't have the ability to fellowship and commune with God. They don't have the ability to live life the way that He intended it. And so he said, I'm saving people who walk in darkness and sit in blindness spiritually. He says they sit in the shadow of death. This is a really interesting statement. The idea is not just that they're going to die, but as they live life, the shadow of death is lurking over them. It's as if the impending reality of death is something that presses on this person, and they're aware of what's ultimately going to happen to them. The corruption of sin and the effects of living in a fallen world, they hang over our heads as we live in this life. And so he said, I came to rescue people who walk in darkness and to rescue people who sit under the shadow of death. And this is such an interesting statement, he says, and it is to guide their feet into the way of peace To put it very simply, when God saves people, he not only delivers them from the penalty of sin that they justly deserve, He not only guarantees them the eternity that they will have with him forever, but what he also does is he guides their feet into the way of peace. Literally, God enables people to live a life the way he intended it, to walk in the light, to actually understand life in the way it's supposed to be lived. To know him and to relate to him in this fallen world, to experience his strength and to experience his power. The fact is that God wants to guide our feet into the way of peace. Peace with him, peace with our fellow man. And so when we talk about the passage in front of us, I want you to realize this is a rich passage. It emphasizes God's faithfulness to his promises. It emphasizes the miracle of the incarnation. It emphasizes redemption. It emphasizes forgiveness of sins. It emphasizes God giving people a life that they don't have. And so I want to encourage you this morning when you think about the gospel, when you think about the Christmas season, when you think about the birth of Christ. Don't forget that's really what this is all about. I hope that this has been a challenge to you and an encouragement. I have really loved this passage. This is one of my favorite Christmas passages And so I hope that it's also going to be one of yours as you think about it. If this has been a challenge and encouragement to you, please share that. Let's bow together for prayer, and then I hope you have a great rest of your day. Father, thank you so much for the privilege of being called your children because of Christ's work of redemption. I pray that you'd help us to live in the light of these truths, to cherish what was purchased for us when Christ went to the cross and to live life as you intended it, not in darkness, not in the shadow of death. but in the way of peace. I pray that you'll bless each person that's listened to this challenge. I pray that it would encourage and help them, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well hope that you have a great rest of your day and Lord willing we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now.