Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And uh today we're back in Luke chapter 8. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. And let's turn together to verses 1 through 4. Again, that's Luke chapter 8, verses 1 through 4. It says, It came to pass afterward that he went throughout every city and village, preaching, and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him. And certain women which had he which were healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils, Johanna the wife of Chesus, Herod's steward, and Susanna And many others which ministered unto him of their substance. When much people were gathered together and were come to him out of every city He spake by a parable. Now, if you remember, uh the last two days we've been meeting, we've been talking about how this passage is one of those passages that doesn't seem to have a lot of content for us to go through. But as we dig into it, we recognize there's some wonderful truths that are that are deep down under the surface of this passage. And I'd like us to continue with that theme. We looked at uh how the gospel was spread all throughout the regions of Judea, large cities, small cities, rich, poor. Uh the gospel was spreading all over the place because of the universal appeal of the gospel. Christ died for all and he desires them to be saved. And so this morning what I would like us to do is I'd like us to focus in on the content of what this passage says. Jesus was teaching. And so we find that in verse number one it says he was preaching and he was showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And so let's kind of break down those little pieces. The first is the good news was being preached He says he was preaching and showing the glad tidings. You could say that he was preaching the gospel. He was demonstrating the power of the gospel. That's exactly what he was saying. And when we talk about the gospel, the gospel is good news. Because it is coming to people who are in a terrible condition as they stand before God. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1. It says that we were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past we walked according to the course of this world, in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and we were by nature the children of wrath. Later on in Ephesians two, verse twelve, he says that we were without Christ Having no hope without God in the world. The gospel is good news because it comes to people who are spiritually bankrupt and have absolutely no way of coming into the presence of God and escaping the judgment that they deserve save the gospel. But then it's good news. The message is a glorious news of forgiveness. And in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 4, he says, but God, who is rich in mercy for his great love for which he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, had Quickened us, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you are saved, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. It says, it is by grace we are saved through faith, not of ourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Later on in verse 13 he says, But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were made are far off, are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. So the first piece of this passage that focuses on the content of Christ's message is that it was good news. It was good news because there was forgiveness and cleansing and new life in Christ to those who were spiritually blind. and destitute and incapable of coming to God through their own righteousness. The second thing I want to point out is that it was not just only a good news message, but it was also a message about the kingdom of God. And we see that phrase In this verse, it says, it was of the kingdom of God. I want to remind you that the world we live in is not a world that's the result of random chance. Psalm 19 says that the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Romans chapter 1 tells us that the invisible things of of the Creator are clearly seen being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that all men are without excuse. The point is that this is not a random chance world. This is God's world. I'm also going to mention this. It's not a world that's centered on us. We are simply a piece of what God is doing in the world. There are a lot of people that think that the world revolves around them, and that's not what the Bible teaches. We can also say that it's not Satan's world. It is true that Satan wreaks havoc in the world. It's true that there is tremendous spiritual opposition in the world. I think of what it says in Ephesians 6. It says we Wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers. But this is not Satan's world. Satan is on a leash. Satan is under God's authority. I love Martin Luther's hymn, A Mighty Fortress is Our God. And it's and it's a song that talks about the power and the authority. authority of God over this creation. And he talks about how terrible a foe Satan is, but Satan is under God's thought and he's under God's authority. I think about the story of Job and when Satan comes to God and he's speaking about Job, God tells him the limits of what he's able to accomplish. The idea is this isn't Satan's world. This isn't a world that revolves around you and me. This isn't a random chance world. This is God's world. And God's going to set everything straight. And that's what this message is all about. It's about God's redemption of his creation back to himself. Think about what it says in Revelation 21, verse 3. He says, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and shall be they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. There shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. And at the end of that passage he says, Behold, I make all things new, right, for these words are true and faithful. And so the message wasn't just good news, it was good news about the kingdom of God. The third thing I want to mention is that this was a message that was preached. And there are two words that he uses that talk about the way that the message was communicated. The first word is the word preach, which is is the idea of heralding, uh proclaiming a message with authority. And we talk about preaching, preaching is something that starts with authority, the authority of God's word. It's persuasive. It's pointed. There's an argumentative nature to preaching. Preaching calls us to a response. This message that was being proclaimed was being proclaimed with Authority, and that's what the word preaching is emphasizing. The authoritative nature of the message. I think about Uh the way that Peter preached in Acts chapter seven uh not Peter, but uh Paul, the Apostle Paul preached at Acts chapter seventeen at Mars Hill. He says, The time of this ignorance God winked at But he now commandeth all men everywhere to repent, because he hath appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. Think about what it says in John chapter 16, when the Holy Spirit comes, He will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. And he says, of sin, because they believe not on me. So That word repent means God is commanding people to turn to Christ, to place their faith in the finished work of Christ And the sin that keeps them out of the kingdom is the sin of rejecting this call to embrace the gospel and to place their faith alone in the finished work of Christ. So we see the authoritative nature of the content of Christ's preaching. We also see another word used, and that's the word showing. And so when he says he was showing the glad tidings of the kingdom, this is emphasizing the power of the good news. In fact, the first word is uh caruzo uh and the second word is yungolizo and so this one has the idea of the proclaiming of the gospel it's emphasizing not just the authority, but how it has impact on people's lives for their own good. The thing that I think about is when a person Trust Christ as their Savior. Not only are they saved from their sins, they're forgiven, but they're changed. They become new creatures in Christ, and old things pass away, and all things become new. Think about what Jesus says in Matthew five thirteen. He says, You are the salt of the earth. He's talking about the position that they have in the world, and it's connected back to the nature that they have as believers. Or in Matthew 5. 14 he says, you're the light of the world, a city that is set on a hill. cannot be hid. What do these verses emphasize? They emphasize the fact that when a person becomes a Christian, their life is transformed by the gospel. And their life proclaims the power of the gospel. So the authoritative side of the message is the preaching. And the persuasion that this is good news that powerfully impacts people, that's connected back to him showing the good news of the kingdom. One of the passages that really comes to mind as I think about that particular issue is first Peter three fifteen. He says, Peter writes, be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you of the hope that lieth within you in meekness and in fear. He says, Whereas they speak of you as of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. Here's the question we should ask when we read a verse like that. Why would they come to you and ask you a question about hope that lies within you? Well, it's because they can see that in your life there's something very different. We talk about the Christian and and the distinction of the Christian life. It's not like we have some mark on our forehead and go, oh, that person's a Christian. I can see it. There's something about the way that we dress or the way that our hair looks or something about the way that we uh have our our disposition. It's it's ultimately about the way that we think. It's about the character that has been shaped by the power of the gospel. And so when a person is living in a fallen world and they're experiencing hardship, guess what? As a Christian, their worldview comes out in those moments. When a person thinks about Ethics and morality and how they view marriage and some of the most uh hotly debated topics of our day today their worldview comes out. Why? Because it's shaped by the power of the gospel. And so as Jesus is preaching, he's not just calling people to repentance. But he is calling them to look at the power of the gospel that's been demonstrated in the lives that have placed their faith in Christ. As we think about these these verses, and just the little one that we looked at here for just a few moments this morning We see that in fact the astonishing power of the gospel is demonstrated in the content of the message. It's good news, it's about the kingdom of God, it's proclaimed with authority. And it powerfully affects the lives of the people who embrace it. Here's my question for you this morning. My question is, have you been changed by this gospel? Have you embraced it? Have you placed your faith in Christ? As you interact with unbelievers around you, is your worldview as a new creature in Christ, as someone who understands the gospels, place your faith in Christ alone? Is that something that has begun to come out in the way that you think about things in the world? I believe that the more that we grow into Christ's likeness, the more obvious it will become to the people around us that in fact there's something very different about the way we think, about the way we respond, about the way that we process things in the world, and ultimately where the root of our faith lies, it is in Christ And in Christ alone. That's what this is all about. And so this morning I want to encourage you, let's live like the believers that we are Let's allow that light to shine before men so that they can see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven. Let's function as the salt that we are. Let's live consistent with our position in Christ. Hope you have a great rest of your day and Lord willing we will continue our study tomorrow. Bye now.