Okay, well if you have your Bibles, I'd like to ask you to take them and turn to Matthew 26. This morning we were in Matthew 28 and we were looking at Looking at baptism and really the Great Commission. Tonight we're going to look at the second ordinance, and that's the ordinance of the Lord's table. Matthew 26, we're looking at verses 18 to 30 this evening as we reflect on the Lord's table. And he said, Go into the city to such a man and say unto him, The pastor saith , My time is at hand. I don't know what the deal is with the mic guys. Huh? It's up on my beard. All right. Well if you need to just turn that mic off, feel free to do that. Let's start out again. Matthew 26, looking at verses 18 to 30. And he said, Go into the city to such a man and say unto him, The Master saith , My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at thy house with my disciples. And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them And they made ready the Passover. Now when the evening was come, he sat with the twelve. And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I? He answered and said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. The Son of Man goeth as it is written of him, but woe unto that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It had been good for that man if he had not been born Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? He said unto him, Thou hast said, As they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to his disciples and said, Take, eat. This is my body. Which he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it. This is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my father's kingdom. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives This evening we're looking at the institution of the Lord's table. And I think for us to understand the institution of the Lord's table, we really need to understand some background as to what's going on this night. Jesus is about to be betrayed. He's about to be tried in a mock court in three different locations all through the night. And then the next day he's ultimately going to be uh taken by the Romans and he's going to be crucified. And that night Jesus is going to have with his disciples the Passover. And that's not an accident In fact, the timing of the event that's going on here, the timing of the death of Christ, his sacrifice for our sins, it's all a part of God's exact time when he wanted that to take place. The reality is as those people in Jerusalem were celebrating the Passover, whether they realized it or not, the Passover that they were celebrating was actually pointing to the very thing that was going to take place the next day So the purpose of this section is to establish a new ordinance, the Lord's Table or Communion, as a continual reminder to the local church. of the fulfillment of the Passover and the Old Testament prophecies that pointed to the redemption of Christ, the redemptive work of Christ. What God wants us to do this evening is very simple. We are to continually remember his redemptive work for our sins. This evening we're going to eat those elements. We're going to eat the bread. We're going to drink the juice. And what are we going to do? We're going to remember the Lord's death that has taken place so that we can be redeemed. So that we can gather together as a body and we can be united with the gospel. As we take those elements, there's something very special that's taking place in our midst. We're remembering The most precious truth that really makes you a Christian, the death of Christ. How can we properly Do this in remembrance of Christ. That's our question this evening. I'd like us to look at a couple of simple truths that I hope will help us to understand a little bit better the Lord's table. The first truth is this, we need to understand the Old Testament background for the Lord's table. And I would summarize it this way. The Passover anticipated the coming of the Messiah. When Jesus got his disciples together that night when they were getting ready to have the Lord's table, what would become the Lord's table, he was telling them to find a location where they could meet together and they could celebrate the Passover. The question that should immediately pop into our heads is, why the Passover? What was the significance of the Passover? What was the storyline behind the Passover? And I know a lot of us understand that story, but I think to help us, to refresh us, to help this drive deep into our minds, let's go to Exodus chapter 12. Now this is not going to be a deep exposition of the Passover. It's going to be very surface. It's going to be very quick, but it's going to be very important. In Exodus chapter 12, verse 3, basically what's going on in the context is that the nation of Israel has been in bondage in Egypt for several generations, in fact, several hundred years. The nation of Israel as a people group has been in slavery to the Egyptians. And now they've come to the point where God is going to deliver his people. out of slavery in Egypt, and he's going to take them through the wilderness and he's going to give them the promised land that he has ultimately promised to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob, and to their descendants. God is going to give them the land, and Moses is the one who's going to lead them out of bondage in Egypt, and he's going to take them to the promised land. But we need to remember something about this scenario. When Moses came and told the Pharaoh, you need to let God's people go, he said, Who is your God? These are my people, they're working for me, and I'm not going to let them go. And so what does God do? God sends a series of plagues In secession, one at a time, and the purpose of those plagues was to testify to the Pharaoh, to his family, to the people in Egypt, and to the Jewish people. That in fact God was superior to the gods of Egypt. He is the one true God, he is the creator of heaven and earth, and you better not mess with what he says to do. You need to obey him. You need to do exactly what he says And so all of those plagues were directed against deities there in Egypt. It was to demonstrate the superiority of God, the creator of all things. So we come to that final night. The night that God is going to deliver his people out of Egypt. And in verse 3 of chapter 12, it says this. Speak ye unto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth day of this month they shall take of them every man a lamb, according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for every house Verse 5 says, Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year. You shall take it out from the sheep, or you shall not you shall take it out from the sheep or from the goats. Ye shall keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month. The whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening And they shall take the blood and strike it on the two side posts, on the upper door posts of the house, and wherein they shall eat it, and they shall eat the flesh in that night, and roasted with fire, and unleavened bread, and with bitter herbs they shall eat it. Verse 11 says, And thus shall ye eat it, with your loins girded, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand, and ye shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Passover. And I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, and I will smite all the firstborn of the land of Egypt, both of man and of beast, and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. I am the Lord, and the blood shall be unto you for a token upon the house where ye are. When I see the blood I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. And this day shall be unto you for a memorial, and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations. You shall keep it a feast by an ordinance. Forever. Now I'm going to pause there, and I want to kind of break down a couple of the details in just a moment. But there's a second Old Testament passage that really should be on our minds. As we think about the Lord's table and as we think about the significance of Passover, that ultimately God takes the Passover and He uses it to institute a new ordinance, what we're going to celebrate this evening. And that's Isaiah 53. In Exodus chapter 12, on a yearly basis, there was an established tradition, practice, that the families would always celebrate Passover. They'd kill a lamb, they'd put the blood out on the doorpost. It would remind them that God had preserved the firstborn in every household that believed the promise that God had given of a A substitute. We'll call it that, because that's what it was. And that was something they remembered. But there's another passage that's very important in the Old Testament, Isaiah 53. This is going to describe the nature of what was pictured in the Passover and ultimately what was going to be fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ. Here's what it says in verse 5. He , referring to the Messiah, was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement, and that word chastisement means like a beating, a discipline. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted. Yet he opened not his mouth, he brought was brought as a lamb to the slaughter. And as a sheep before shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. He then goes on to say this, he was cut off out of the land of the living, for the transgression of my people was he stricken. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath made his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seed. He shall prolong his days The pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail or the agony of his soul, and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many. He shall bear their iniquities. These two passages are extremely important to understanding how in the Old Testament the Bible was pointing to the Messiah. It was pictured in the Passover, where a lamb was killed in the place of a firstborn. Blood was shed so that the firstborn could live. God made a provision so that the firstborn could live, but the family was responsible to kill the lamb. to put the blood on the doorpost because it was their way of saying we believe what God is saying is true. And when the death angel passed through the land, Every household that had that blood on the doorpost, he passed over it and he spared them ultimately because a lamb died in the place of the firstborn. That was a picture of the coming Savior. We come to Isaiah 53, it talks about the fact that the Messiah was discovered. despised and he was rejected, yet he bore the sins as the righteous one for the unrighteous. When God the Father looked on the agony of Christ Suffering on that Christ. He was satisfied. What that means is God was able to hold back his wrath and say, It's finished I don't have to do anything else to pay for the or to punish sin. Sin has been taken care of by Christ. That's what these passages are all talking about. In fact, let me kind of condense it in this way The Passover basically gave us these things. A death sentence was predictive. Firstborn will die. There's an impending execution of judgment. The death angel is going to pass through the land. There was a provision of a substitute, a lamb, a lamb without blemish of the first year. And I'm going to pass over when I see the blood on the doorpost. The shedding of blood to remove the impending judgment. He says, When I see the blood, I will pass over you. In other words, it's because blood was shed by a substitute that the firstborn lives. We see that there's a corporate and a personal observation. He says, ye shall kill it. In other words, the whole nation together is going to do this, but in the eyes of of God, there was one Passover lamb that was being represented. We see this personal responsibility. If you don't do this, I will execute judgment. And we see the word memorial. This will be a memorial to you. And he goes on to say it's going to be from generation to generation to generation. In other words, every time they were to celebrate this Passover, it reminded them of this concept of justice and substitution and the shedding of blood and God letting a person who was under his wrath or under his judgment who was under the death sentence be passed over because someone died in this place. All of this is pictured. And so that night when Jesus sits down with his disciples and they break the bread and they have the Passover, they are celebrating not, in their mind, the death of Christ to come. They're celebrating the Passover where God delivered his people out of Egypt. Yet that Passover was a picture of the coming of the Messiah. What's very interesting is what Jesus does is he takes that Passover observation, and at that moment in time, he basically makes it clear to them, this is what the Passover is all about. The Passover isn't just about a lamb dying all those many years ago said the firstborn lives. It's about prefiguring the Lamb of God who will take away the sins of the world. In other words, his blood is shed so that you can be redeemed, and I can pass over judgment on you. He dies in your place. That is what's going on here. So we move to the second truth. We need to understand the New Testament background. And I'll summarize it this way. The Lord's Supper looked back. at the fulfillment of the coming of the Messiah. And that's what we see here in Matthew 26, verses 26 through 30. This is what is being demonstrated in the passage. We talked about there being a death sentence. The first one would die in the Passover. There's a death sentence in the New Testament as well. Romans 6. 23. The wages of sin is what? It's death. Just like the firstborn was under a death sentence And if they didn't put the blood on the doorpost and they didn't kill that lamb, he would die that night. In the same way, every single person, doesn't matter who you are, doesn't matter your background, you deserve to die because of your sins Wages of sin is death. Death sentence predicted. We saw the concept of an impending execution of judgment. The death angel is going to pass through the land in the Passover story. And in Hebrews 9:27 it says this: it's appointed unto man once to die, after this the judgment. The reality is we all have an appointment one day. We don't know the time. We don't know how old we'll be. We don't know the circumstances. We don't know if we'll have a prolonged sickness. If it'll happen in an accident, we have no idea the timing or the nature of how we will die, but we know it's guaranteed. It's an appointment. The third was the provision of a substitute. In this passage, we saw that a lamb without blemish of the firstborn was set aside and was killed so that the firstborn could live. And in first or in John chapter 1, verses 29 and 36, this is what the scripture says about Jesus. Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the world. That's exactly what was being pictured in the Passover. We saw the concept of the shedding of blood to remove the impending judgment. And he says, when I see the blood, I'm going to pass over you. And in 1 Peter 1. 19, it says that we are redeemed with the precious blood of Christ. As of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Don't you see how Peter is clearly referring back to the concept of Passover lamb? Don't you see how John the Baptist is clearly talking about Passover lamb? These men understood that the Passover prefigured the coming of the Messiah. We see the corporate and the personal aspects of this. When Jesus came and preached the kingdom, When John came and preached the kingdom, when Jesus' disciples went all around and preached the gospel of the kingdom, this is what they said. Repent, believe the gospel. In other words, you're responsible. We see in John chapter 3, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And then we again see this concept of memorial. We saw the word memorial used in the passage in Exodus chapter 12, and we see it also mentioned in Luke 22. And in 1 Corinthians 11, Jesus makes this statement: do this in remembrance of me. In other words, as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you are to remember the death of the Lord Jesus Christ on your behalf. There 's a third truth I want to mention tonight as well. And that's that when we think about this issue of the Lord's table, we need to approach it. With a combination of two very interesting dispositions. One is reverence, and the other is delight. Now you might be sitting here going, how is it possible to have reverence and delight at the same time. Frankly speaking, that's exactly what we need every time we come to the Lord's table. The fact is that we should never come to the Lord's table in a careless and carefree and superficial mentality. If we do that, we are in danger of doing exactly what Paul tells the church at Corinth not to do. On the other side, we should never approach the Lord's table. The most sacred observance we have as Christians. The thing that causes us to remember about the glories of the gospel and what Christ has done on our behalf, we should never come to this time. In a downcast spirit? We shouldn't come as if there's no joy and no delight. The reality is we should come in a delightful manner We should come with the spirit of humble praise and glory in the work of Christ. When we come to this Lord's table, we need the balance of reverence. And delight. And we see in 1 Corinthians chapter 11 that Paul addresses that very issue, and I want to mention it briefly tonight. In 1 Corinthians 11, verse 18, this is what Paul writes. When ye come together in the church, I hear that there are divisions among you. And I partly believe it, for there must also be heresies. And that word heresies. in this context means that there needs to be a distinction between people that can participate and people that cannot participate. That's what he means by there must be heresies among you. But there's a kind of division going on inside the church that Paul was not just concerned about. In fact, it really caused him to be very angry and frustrated. The reality is people that should not have been divided, people that were a part of the same body, people that embraced the same gospel, people that had the right and the privilege and the responsibility to come to the Lord's table. We're not coming together. Those who had money separated themselves from those who didn't. Those who had position and power and prestige were separating themselves from those who did not. And the reality is that when Paul saw that, he said, this is not the purpose of the Lord's table. This is about a statement of unity. This is about us coming together and remembering what unites us and bonds us. Not something that should divide us and separate us. That was a major problem. He then goes on to say this. When ye come together, therefore, into one place. It's not to eat the Lord's supper, for in eating everyone taketh before other his own supper, and one is hungry and another is drunken. And when he says drunken, I think he means Intoxicated. And you might say, how in the world could the church celebrating the Lord's table be intoxicated? And the reality is, one of the things that we often forget is the baggage and the background of the people that were a part of the church. So the people that got saved at Corinth didn't grow up in Christian families. They grew up in a pagan society. And I'm going to talk a little bit about this in just a moment. But the reality is when they thought about a religious celebration, what came to their mind was a time of drunkenness. A time of debauchery, a time of excess, a time of gluttony. It was a time where people indulged themselves. And what's sad is they had taken that practice and tried to blend it into the church. They'd actually taken the corruptions of their worldly pagan society and they'd brought it into the church. where they cause divisions amongst people, drunkenness and gluttony. That's what he's talking about when he says one is full and another is going hungry. And eating everyone taketh before his own. What? Have ye not houses to eat and to drink in, or despise ye the church of God, and shame them that have not? He's saying, look, you are making the church a sacred body that is to be united and focused on the gospel. You have made it a place. a disgrace. You've made it a place where what should be is compromising the message and the power of the gospel. In verse 23, he says, I've received of the Lord that which I also delivered unto you. He reminds his church that the Lord's table wasn't his own idea, it was given by the authority of Christ. He goes all the way back to what we talked about in Matthew 26. He says, on that night that Jesus was to be betrayed and he was going to die for our sins. He instituted this thing called the Lord's table, and I'm teaching it to you because Jesus told me to teach it to you. The Lord, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he gave thanks, he broke it and said, Take ye, this is my body, which is broken for you. Now, when Jesus said, take and eat, this is my body, he wasn't literally saying you're eating a piece of my flesh. Because he states very clearly, you do this in remembrance of me. He says, as often as you eat this bread, he identifies what's going in their body. As often as you drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death until he comes. The reality is that what was pictured was the body and the blood of Christ, but what was actually being digested was, well, bread and juice. He then goes on to say this. After the same manner, he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as often as ye drink it in remembrance of me, as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death until he comes. In other words, what Paul is saying is when you come to the Lord's table, The purpose of this whole observation is to really give a testimony of one thing. And that testimony is: here's what Jesus did for you. You're showing the Lord's death till he comes. You're giving a visible, a visible reminder, a picture of what Jesus did for you. And he basically says when the church is divided and when people are coming in an irreverent manner to this very important observation, when there's division of rich and poor. And there's excess and gluttony and drunkenness and folly. What do you see? You see the wonderful message of the gospel being crushed and maligned. He then goes on to say this. Whoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily , Shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. Now I want to ask you a question. When he says Whoever eats and drinks unworthily, what exactly does he mean? I want you to notice the part of speech that the word unworthily is. Remember when I was a kid, we learned. L Y is a what? An adverb. Adverbs don't describe nouns, they describe verbs Alright, very simple English. I hope I got that right. If anybody, if I'm wrong, you can tell me afterwards. This is a really important point actually. An adverb is describing an action or a state of being, not the person themselves. In other words He's not talking about whether or not you as a person are worthy or not. Nobody's worthy of the gospel. That's why it's by grace alone. By grace, you're safe through faith. He's not describing whether or not you're a worthy person or I'm a worthy person. And I'll tell you, as a child, as a teenager, I remember I used to really struggle with this. I would go, I know who I am and I know what I've done. I have no right to come to the Lord's table. Of course I have no right to come to the Lord's table. Nobody does. This passage is not addressing whether or not you're worthy or not. It's talking about the way that you come. In other words, what's your attitude? What's your approach? What was the problem here? There was division. There was irreverence. There was excess. There was debauchery. There was folly. There was destruction of this beautiful picture. Rather than people coming in reverence and joy and focusing on unity in Christ and the gospel. They're looking at how rich they are. They're causing these divisions. And Paul says, if you come In a manner that is unworthy. In other words, the way you approach the Lord's table is reckless and irreverent, and you don't care about what you're doing. That's dangerous. It's not just that it's wrong. It's dangerous. And let me explain what he means by that. He says, whoever does that Is guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. In other words, you are identifying with the very people that mocked the Lord Jesus Christ on that day and said, away with him. Crucify him. In other words, the kind of irreverence that was characteristic of those people in Jerusalem that day, that is the very spirit in which you're coming to this observation Believe it or not, there were people at that time in history that came to the Lord's table in such a manner. And so he says this. He that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. In fact, when we talk about the Lord's body, he really could be referring to it in two ways. One he could be referring to the Lord's body in the sense that his body was broken and his blood was shed, but it's very likely in the context he's talking to. them about the body of Christ. In other words, it's not just your attitude towards Christ himself, but his people. If you come to the Lord's table in an irreverent manner, you are doing something that in God's eyes is very serious. That is very destructive, and God does not take lightly. He explains to them exactly what takes place, or what I say was taking place, and what very well could take place in scenarios like this. He says it's for this cause that many are weak and sickly among you and many sleep. In other words, there were people that had crossed the line to such a degree that God dealt with them like he did with Ananias and Sapphira. Now that's a very stern warning. It's a very stern warning. But I want you to keep it in perspective. Is Paul talking about the fact that you forgot to apologize to someone that you wronged three months ago? Do you think that's what he's thinking about in the context? Drunkenness, excess, divisions amongst yourselves. What Paul is talking about is not some unknown secretive confession that you forgot to deal with. He's talking about serious matters about the attitude that you take to the Lord's table itself. In fact, I think that understanding that is something that can be very transformative to us as we come to the Lord's table. I know many Christians. Do not partake because they're afraid there is something in their life that they've forgotten or that they're not aware of, and because of that issue, if they partake, God will judge them. Folks, that is not how God deals with people. If you can't remember it, I guarantee you that's not how God will deal with you at the Lord's table. He's talking about issues that are specifically laid out in this text. The kinds of things that are going on there. And he goes on to say this. If we would judge ourselves, it would not be, we will not be judged. It's not my job as a pastor. To decide who can and can't partake. It's my job to warn you. It's my job to teach you. It's my job to emphasize the beauty and the glory and the blessing of what Jesus has done for you It's my responsibility to set a tone and a focus so that there is reverence and joy. It is not my job to tell you you can or can't. It is your responsibility. You need to examine yourself and ask yourself, how am I coming to the Lord's table? I want to give you a couple of simple practical implications in closing. The Lord's Table is not a Baptist version of confessional. I remember when I was a teenager, when it was the Lord's table, I'd see that on the calendar, and I would spend two hours of my afternoon on my knees trying to remember anything that I could possibly have done that I did not confess. Has anybody ever been there before? Okay? I really don't believe that that is what the purpose of the Lord's table is. You know, it's great that I had that kind of a desire. I think we should always have a desire to have a pure and right heart before the Lord. But the purpose of the Lord's table is not about this confessional once a month. Let's get the slate clean so we can start over again. The purpose of the Lord's table is to remember what Jesus did for us. This is primarily a joyful time of remembrance and reflection. I hope that when we come away from the Lord's table, we are encouraged. We are strengthened. We have worshiped. We have praised. We feel encouraged and we are ready to go out and serve the Lord faithfully because we have remembered freshly what He did for us. We've been reminded of the bond that we have as Christians. If that's not the sense that you have when you leave, either one, I haven't done right, or two, you haven't approached it the right way. We need to have that sense. This observation is symbolic of the nature of the gospel, our unity in Christ, the nature of Christian growth. This is a very important observation. The burden of examination is on the individual, not the church. I think this is heavily emphasized in this passage. Paul never says the pastors, the deacons, they have to go around and they've got to figure out who can and can't participate. He says, here's the warning. You're responsible. Make your decision based on what you've read and heard. A sacrilegious attitude towards the Lord table is not only wrong, but it's dangerous. I want to encourage you, don't approach this in a casual manner. And lastly, it's a local church ordinance, so it shouldn't be observed in isolation. I hope somebody doesn't say, oh man, I missed the Lord's table this month. I guess I better go get some juice and crackers and have this at home by myself. Folks, that's not the purpose of the Lord's table. I'm not saying that you can't eat juice and crackers and remember what Jesus has done for you. But the reality is you've not partaken of the Lord's table when you have juice and crackers in your house. The purpose of the Lord's table is that as a church, as a body of believers, together united, we remember the death and the resurrection of Christ. This is a local church ordinance. It's not something to be observed in isolation. In fact, the whole point of this passage Is that it was the division within the church that most troubled Paul? It was the lack of unity. I conclude with this statement. As we come together this evening to celebrate the Lord's table, let's do it humbly, with unity, and great joy in the precious work of Christ that unites us together as one body. Let's bow together for prayer, and then I'd ask our men who are going to help with the elements to come forward so that we can distribute them Father in heaven, we are so grateful that in your wisdom, in your mercy , In your love and grace, you provided for us one substitute, the Lord Jesus Christ. God in flesh, He came and dwelt among His people. He lived a perfect and righteous life. And he willingly and humbly laid down His life for the redemption of our souls He shed his blood so that we could be forgiven and redeemed. He paid the price in full for our sins. And Father, this evening we reflect on this and we rejoice in this. And I pray that as we take these elements, this bread that represents the body of Christ broken for us and his blood that was shed on our behalf. That our hearts will be warmed, that our hearts and our affections would be stirred up, and that we would be challenged, and that we would be joyful and reflective. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.