Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our Palm Sunday service, and I am so excited about the focus of our service this morning. If you are visiting with us today for the first time or for the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you. And uh hope that you'll take a moment to uh pick up one of those welcome packets. Inside that welcome packet there's uh a little a little piece of paper that is a way for us to connect with you. And so if you would like us to connect with you, please fill that out and put that in a little box in the back. And what that'll do is be a way that we can reach out to you. We'd really love to do that, be an encouragement to you I also wanted to mention several things that are going on over the next several weeks. First of all, tonight we have the Lord's table, and so please do come for that. We are in 1 Corinthians 15 during our Easter season. And so we will be continuing in that uh study this evening as well as having the Lord's table. There's also a sing spiration after the evening service, so for our teenagers. Please do make sure that you uh stick around after that, and uh the vans will take you to, I believe, the Taylor's house tonight, and then um you guys will be back by nine o'clock, and that's always a really good time, fellowship. Also, the ladies have a ladies' meeting on the 6th, so please mark that on your calendars. And then we have a Good Friday service. We're not the ones hosting it. It's at Calvary Baptist Church in Westminster. And so if you'd like to join us for that, please do sign up so that we can make sure that there's room for you on the vans. We do have several folks already signed up And you may say, well, I'd love to go, but I'm not going to take the van up. Then just let me know and I'll make sure that you have the address to the right place. It's at 7 o'clock. And last year we went. It was a great time of fellowship. The preaching was very good. And uh really, really enjoyed that. So I hope you can make it to that. And um then also next week is Easter Sunday, and I hope that we'll be able to have a lot of visitors. It's going to be really a great time. The choir is going to have several specials. We're going to have a lot of scripture reading. And of course, the message will be very focused on the gospel. So it'll be a great time to invite family and friends, neighbors, maybe folks that don't normally attend church, but this is a time of the year that they like to do that. So please make a note of that on your calendars. And then also our men's breakfast, the next one is the 15th. And guys, this is the last one, I believe, before we transition over to our summer, where we do a grill night. And uh so please make a note of that, um, sign up for that so we'll know how much food to prepare for, and we'll really look forward to that. I also wanted to mention that we have invitations for Easter Sunday. And uh we printed up a good number of these. A lot have already been distributed, but I'd encourage you to take these and invite folks out. And then also we have our new preaching focus for the next several months. We've planned out the preaching calendar up through August. And uh so if you want to know what we will be discussing each Sunday, the Sunday morning text is there, the focus of our worship is there, and uh I think that that'll be an encouragement to you as you prepare your heart for each of the passages of scripture we'll be looking at. Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 for opening scripture, and then we'll open up with prayer. First Corinthians chapter fifteen, verse number nineteen says the following If in this life only we have hope in Christ We are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. But every man in his own order, Christ the first fruits, after that they that are Christ that is coming. Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom of God, even the Father, when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and all power. For he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. For he shall put all things under his feet. But when he saith all things are under his feet, it is manifested that he is expected, which did put all things under him. When all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself Be subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all. This morning the focus of our service will be rejoicing in the reality of God's eternal kingdom. And you will see a very distinct focus on all the songs we will sing and the focus of the sermon, even the special that we will have with our choir. And so let's ask the Lord to help us. To have calm hearts, to focus our attention on Him, and that the Word of God will speak to our hearts and really stir up our affections, that our worship will be truly genuine from the heart. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we bow before you as a congregation. And first of all, we want to rejoice in the fact that we are gathered as believers in Christ. We have a secured position because of his death on the cross that canceled our sin debt. We have a secured position because his righteousness has been imputed to us. We have been declared righteous, not by our own merits, not by our own works, but by the work of our Savior alone. His sacrifice, his righteousness. And Father, we rejoice in the absolute sure guarantee of eternal glory. One day we shall see you as you are. One day we shall enjoy your eternal kingdom. with all your people forever, and we look forward with tremendous anticipation to that day. Father, I pray that as we are gathered, our hearts would be fed richly from the Word of God. I pray that our affections would be overwhelmed with joy and gratitude and humility as we reflect on the rich truths that we will sing and will be expounded before us today. Father, as we hear others direct our attention and song to glory in these things, I pray that our hearts would be overwhelmed with thanks. We pray for those in our congregation who are carrying heavy burdens. We know that there are many. There are some who, even as we speak, are in the midst of very difficult situations. And I pray that In each of those situations, you might provide physical strength and emotional energy, and most importantly, I pray that you would Demonstrate your nearness to them in a very precious way, and I pray that you would uphold and sustain and strengthen them in these moments Father, I pray our attention would be turned to you fully this morning and that we would exalt you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good morning, Anchor Bat Church, esteemed guests, both with us in person and joining us on streaming. It's a good Good morning, a beautiful day. Thank you, Lord, for such wonderful weather that we've got. Thank you that the wind has settled down a little bit. So So we're going to start off our song service this morning. We're going to turn to page 6 in the hymnal or follow along with me on the screen. Please stand with me, we're going to sing all three verses of I Sing the Mighty Power of God. Sing it out Amen. Good singing. We're gonna turn to page twelve. Page 12, and all hail the power of Jesus' name, all four verses. Okay, I'm not a beat and pain but it's a little bit. Amen. Please have a seat. Now we're going to turn all the way back to page one. Very first song in our book and sang all four verses of rejoice, the Lord is King. Amen and amen. Good singing this morning. And as we turn back to the scriptures, we're going to go to the book of John and read a couple passages out of the scriptures. Starting in John, make sure, yes, I'm in the right chapter. Chapter 12. We'll read the first three verses and then we'll skip down to verse 10 and read through 19. And the scriptures say, Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany, where Jesus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. There they made him a supper, and Martha served. But Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spicenard very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. Now to verse ten. But the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death, because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus On the next day, much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees. and went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon, as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. The people, therefore, that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead bear record. For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? Behold, the world is gone after him. And may the Lord add his blessing on reading of his word. Amen. He leadeth me, especially if I let myself make myself get out of the way, huh? You know, God doesn't deserve to be your co-pilot. He deserves to be your pilot. So you take the second seat. You take the right seat. Amen. He leadeth me. All right. Now we're going to go to our blue book. Or you can Look at the screen behind us. We're going to go to page 31 in the little blue book, The One Who Lives Again. I hope you all know this. It's very apropos for this time of the year. Verses 1 through 4 of The One Who Lives Again As the water with the voices and will leave the change of God. We are dead and standing there listen to our loudest will be no we 're Today, with the water, with the water lives again , the water lives again, cancel our destroy. The world of my stay are good in me to night to break I didn't play. The one who is a kid for breaking every day still rose to It is pretty heavy. Well ready to do it. I was well thinking it. The honor of his name, like the wine who man , like the water is again , the wine with the game only. Amen. Amen. Alright. Now we're going to go to a book, a song that's not in your books on the in the pews, but please follow along on the screen, page 599, for those of you with the Rejoice hymnal. Before the throne of God above. All three verses. Please stand with me on this. Before the throne. Oh no God have a strong and perfect free. Would I make an week? Would my love Because the day and I was all in free for other judging and Let's leave that instrument out on the last Behold and headmarken man, my birthday are less bright as the greatest angel I am. But he of the grace What is my Christ always birth, my blood, my life is with Christ my With Christ my Savior and my God. Amen. Please. So praise I give to you a long time free. Alpha Anigo Reneur. For your sin, the kingdom, your sins that were We have grace to bring in that wondrous your love for me. I will find you and you live For your sister, your sister and the foreign. As I come before you I would give you praise, I would have you won me. And walk in your way, or ignorance is the kingdom , nor is the power. And the glory for every blood all the good. Aren't you thankful that his kingdom is forever and ever? Amen. I am so very, very thankful for that truth. that we will unpackage, Lord willing, this morning. Our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back. And the rest of you, I want to invite you to turn with me to the book of John. We're in John chapter twelve this morning and we will be looking at The vast majority of verses 1 through 19, but not the entirety of that passage. John chapter 12, we're going to begin in verse number 1. Here's what the scripture says. Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. There they made him a supper, and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. Then took Mary a pound of ointment of Spikenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. We skip down to verse number ten, it says, But the chief priest consulted How they might take Lazarus, uh uh to chief priest consoled how they might take Lazarus also to death, because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus. On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him and cried, Hosannah, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon, and it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, thy king come and sitting on an ass's colt. These things understood not his disciples up the first. But when Jesus was glorified then, remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. The people, therefore, that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead, bear record. For this cause, the people also met him For that they heard that he had done this miracle, and the Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Perceive ye how he prevaileth, how ye prevail nothing, behold, the world has gone after him. Let's bow together for a moment and ask the Lord to really open our understanding to these truths that are very impactful and are very important for us to understand in light of this topic of the kingdom of God. Our Father, I pray that you would open our understanding this morning. As we read the Scriptures, I pray that we would understand that powerful intent for which John, being moved by the Holy Spirit, wrote these details. As he was one of the eyewitnesses of this glorious event. Father, as we dig into this text and as we think about the way that these people processed what they were living through, I pray that we would be able to step back and we'd be able to take note of how we may very well be in a similar position. And I pray that you'd help us to understand the full weight that was necessary in the cross so that your kingdom could be established forever. And that we as sinners who are redeemed can be a part of this glorious kingdom. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. The passage before us is a fascinating passage. In fact, I'm going to try to kind of give you some things to help you appreciate what was going on in these verses. But before we do that, I want to give you kind of a summary of what we're looking at. Christ's triumphant entry into Jerusalem reminds us that while many desire the blessings that his rule will one day produce , They don't have a clear understanding of what it what he must do in them and for them to establish that kingdom. To put it very simply, people want what God will one day bring, but they want it through their own means. They do not understand the incredible cost that was absolutely necessary in order for Christ to establish himself as king over an eternal kingdom. They don't understand it because they don't understand God's holiness. They don't understand God's righteousness. They don't understand human depravity. They don't understand what it is that ultimately degrades and destroys a society and what is necessary for a society to be a society of righteousness. They don't understand those things. And so in these verses, we're going to see how people responded when they saw Christ with a partial understanding of what was about to take place, but not a full understanding. As we read these verses, I think what the Lord would have us to see is that we need to be a discerning people. We need to anticipate the future glory of that kingdom, and we need to come to this topic. with a clear mind that understands what is necessary, what has been done, and then how we ourselves can be a part of this wonderful kingdom. I want to break it down by looking at it in several parts. And so the first part we're going to look at is this unmistakable momentum that was building as we read these events Now I know that several of you enjoy sports. I know my kids love football. And so when we get into the college season, it's not so much NFL, it's college. We're big college fans. One of the things that's fun about watching sports, and sometimes it's not just fun, sometimes it's it kind of tears up inside as well, is that there are all kinds of different momentum shifts that take place when you're watching a competition Maybe the team that comes out with the most momentum at the beginning of the game ends up being on the losing end, and it could just be one moment in that game. that completely turns the tide and all of a sudden the pendulum swings in a different direction and then the team that you didn't think was going to win ends up winning. Well, that's also something we experience in life sometimes. Sometimes the momentum is turning against us. And as we look at life, we say It seems like if I have one more bad news come on me, there's no way that I can bear this. And we feel weighed down by circumstances. In fact, this morning you might feel that way It's just been one thing after another thing after another thing, and it's building and it's wearing you down. But there's other seasons in life where the momentum turns. And all of a sudden things seem to be moving in the right direction. Everything's falling into place. And as you go through those seasons, it's almost as if that pride begins to well up within us and we feel as if we're invincible. I want you to realize that we have those kinds of dynamics, not just on the individual level in this passage of Scripture, but we have masses of people who are experiencing this building momentum. Let me talk to you for a moment about some of the events that are all coming together as Jesus is entering into Jerusalem for what is the most significant moment in all of human history. But it was not the moment that they thought it was going to be. First of all, it's the preparation for the Passover. We see this in verse number one, it says, then Jesus, six days before the Passover. came to Bethany. Now the Passover was the beginning of the Jewish calendar essentially. It was a commemoration of how God had triumphantly brought the nation of Israel who had been enslaved for hundreds of years In Egypt, he triumphantly leads them out of Egypt. And by the way, the crowning moment is what takes place on that Passover night When the death angel travels throughout all of Egypt and every single family that doesn't have Lord's doorpost sprinkled with the blood Of the Passover lamp. Every one of those households, including the Pharaoh himself, experienced the trauma of their firstborn dying. Now, when you think about this, we read it and we don't think about what it would have been like to live through these things. But whenever the nation of Israel comes to a moment of Passover , Especially when you have this Roman occupation that was oppressive and frustrating to them and they didn't like it at all. Every single time they would come to the Passover, they were reminded again and again and again But there was a time that God redeemed his people out of slavery. This one was even more significant. Because just a short time before that, we see that Jesus performed what is probably the crowning miracle of his pre-cross ministry. In verse number one, it says that they came to the place where Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. So here they are coming to the Passover. One of his close friends has died. He lays in the tomb and he's raised to life. And there's all kinds of discussion about this moment leading into the Passover. So you can only imagine how the momentum would have been building at such a moment. In fact, on the other side, we can see the adversaries of Christ were also beginning to see this momentum. In verse number 10, it says The chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to dead, because that by him many of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus. Just for a moment, put yourself in the shoes of his disciples. You're sitting there going, it's the Passover. He's raised Lazarus to life. Everybody's talking about this miracle. The Sadducees and the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin, they all want to kill Lazarus because they know they can't touch Jesus. And in their minds they're saying, maybe this is the moment. The kingdom that we have laid everything aside for, it's going to be established right here and right now. That's the way they're thinking. But to add to this, I want you to notice the next little detail we read in verse number twelve. It says, On the next day, much people that were come to the feast when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him. Now, you and I, when we get a picture of this in our minds, We think about some of you you think about a flannel graph, okay? And you see about five people on each side of a road and they're holding these palm branches. And you see Jesus riding on this donkey, and all these people are crying out to him. But let me tell you, there weren't ten people there, folks. Do you understand what Jerusalem became like at the Passover? I want to put this into perspective in modern terms so that we can understand this. If we were to take the most powerful city in all of the Roman world, it was Rome. Rome was close to a million people at the time. That's a huge number of people in the ancient world. Jerusalem, under normal circumstances, was not as large as Rome. It would have been more like six , seven hundred thousand people. Lots and lots of different historians, both Roman and Jewish, talk about the size of Jerusalem, but it would have been somewhere in that area. For us to appreciate the size of the city, I tried to think of a modern comparison and say, how many of you have been to the National Mall down in DC? Put your hands up All right, yeah, that's a lot of people. That's a pretty large area, isn't it? Could you imagine what it was like if there were six hundred thousand people walking around on the mall at the same time? time. That was a normal day in Jerusalem. Jerusalem was comparable in size to the whole area of the National Mall area. But during a presidential inauguration, your typical presidential inauguration, there'll be several hundred thousand people in a place like that. And that would be pretty comparable to what it was like in Jerusalem on a normal day. The largest presidential inauguration in U. S. history was estimated at 1. 8 million people on the National Mall. That was almost half the number of people that would have been in Jerusalem on this day. Did you catch that? 1. 8 million people on the largest presidential inauguration in U. S. history is about half of how many people were jammed into this city on that day. There are people from all over the Roman world, Jews and Gentiles, people from North Africa, people from the extents into Asia, people that were from up into southern parts of Europe. They were all flocked together there in Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. And as Jesus walks in, massive groups of people gather along that way. And they start yelling, Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. What they are literally doing is they are appealing to a passage of Scripture. In Psalm 118. And if we look at the 118th Psalm, I'm not going to ask you to do that. You look at that Psalm, he talks about God being the Savior. And it actually predicts this very moment. And it says the people are going to say, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel. They're saying, save us, save us, save us. They understood it. But they didn't understand everything in the psalm around that statement. There was a sacrificial system, and there was a talk about Messiah. There's a missing component in their understanding. And so that leads us into this question of what was their perspective really like? Well the fact is that their perspective was a tangled perspective. And when I say they, I'm talking about the disciples. I'm talking about the Sanhedrin. I'm talking about your average person that was there celebrating the Passover in Jerusalem. There were certain things that they affirmed that were true. There were certain things that they were not yet convinced of, and there were certain things they didn't understand that they needed to understand that were a part of the story. And so we see this in John chapter 6, verses 67 and 69. Here's what it says. Jesus asked the twelve, Will you go away? And Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. We believe and are sure that thou art the Christ. The Son of the Living God. Sometime before this event, there was a time when Jesus' disciples were watching people walk away. This is before Lazarus' resurrection. And Jesus says, are you going to follow them? And Peter says, no. There's no other place to go. You're the Messiah. You're the fulfillment of all these messianic prophecies. We are convinced of who you are. And so in that statement, you see the positive side, what they affirmed that was true. They believed Jesus was the Messiah. We believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Secondly, we see that they anticipated his messianic role of establishing a kingdom. And we see this sprinkled all throughout the Gospels. Many, many times they would come to Jesus and they would say, Who's going to sit on your right hand in the kingdom? Why do they ask questions like that? Well, it's because they believed he was going to establish a kingdom. And you say, why did they believe he was going to establish a kingdom? Well, it's because it was prophesied that he would establish a kingdom. Even after the death and the resurrection, right before the ascension in Acts chapter 1, verse 6, Luke writes, When they were come together, they asked him, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom of Israel? The Jews understood he's the king, he's going to establish a kingdom. And the third thing I'm going to mention is that they were convinced. That in fact they were willing to lay everything aside to follow the Messiah establishing this kingdom. In Luke 18, verse 28, Peter said, Lo, we have left everything. And followed thee. And you know what? It was true. They had. But there's another side to this story. Not only was there a lot they got right, there was a lot they got wrong. And what they understood and what they didn't understand, it was all put together in this tangled mess. And they were going to have to live through the events that we're reading about in these verses so that on the other side they could untangle this mess and they could see things clearly. And that is what we're going to do this morning. Notice where they got it wrong. In Luke chapter 18, verses 31 to 34. This is right after the statement that Peter has made. We've left everything to follow you. This is what Jesus says. Then he took them, the twelve, aside and said, behold, we go up to Jerusalem. Listen carefully, the next statement. And all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. Now don't miss this. Have you ever been reading through the Psalms and as you're reading through the Psalms, all of a sudden, in the middle of this Psalm you start going, that sounds a lot like something I read in the Gospels that Jesus said. Have you ever done that before? Many, many times. Okay, when the disciples read those things or had them read to them in the synagogue, I don't know if they understood that that was the Messiah talking. Most certainly, when they went to places like Isaiah 53, they would go, the Messiah dying and crucified all. Let's just keep moving on to this kingdom stuff. Let's not worry, let's not get bogged down and all those suffering kind of details. He says, All that was written by the prophets, man shall be accomplished, for he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles And shall be mocked and spitefully entreated and spit on, and they shall scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again. And listen to what it says, they did not understand. They understood none of these things. The saying was hid from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken. You say, why was it hid from them? It's because they didn't want to see it. Now, when they come on the other side, it's all going to make sense. But they didn't get it. In other words, they didn't understand that they were unfit to enter the kingdom of God. That's why when Jesus talks to Nicodemus, he says, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Marvel not that I say unto you, you must be born again. It's because you have to be born again to be able to enter this kingdom. They didn't understand that Or John 13 verse 8, did it understand? There needs to be a redemption that takes place. Peter says unto Jesus, you know the stories in the upper room? He kneels down, he's washing the disciples' feet, and he's doing it for a reason. He's using it as an object lesson. And he comes to Peter and Peter says, no, you can't do this to me. You're my master. You can't wash my feet. Listen to what Jesus said. Interesting. He says, thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, if I wash thee not , thou hast no part with me. You know what he's talking about? Not a physical water on his feet. He's talking about what's going to take place the next day. Peter doesn't understand. Now he does, on the other side of the cross in the empty tomb. So they had to understand we're not fit to enter this kingdom. There's got to be a cost, a price to to pay for the redemption of our souls. And most certainly they didn't understand the timetable. We see that back in Acts chapter one. So that leads us to another important detail. What was that missing component that completes the picture? That puts it all together. And I'm going to turn with you to Daniel chapter 9, because I want you to see, in Daniel chapter 9, God revealed this in the Old Testament. In fact, he revealed it in several ways. One is he revealed it was going to happen. He revealed how long it was going to take between a certain key event in the Jewish history And that moment where the Messiah would be cut off, he predicted what was going to happen. He predicted why it was going to happen. He put it all together. Fascinating statement. Daniel chapter 9, verse 24. Listen to what it says. Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon the holy city. And don't miss the next statement. To finish the transgression. to make an end of sins and to make reconciliation for iniquity and to bring in everlasting righteousness. and to seal up the vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy. You say, well, I thought it was one thing It's lots of different components to one big theme. You know what the theme is? God wins in the end. That's the theme. God wins. But how he does it is all these things. Finish transgression, make an end of sin, make reconciliation of iniquity, bring an everlasting righteousness, seal up the vision. Anoint the most holy. Every single one of those details has to take place in order for God to win. And you to be a part of it. That's the missing piece. They didn't understand how transgression is finished, how sin is ended, how reconciliation for iniquity is accomplished, how an everlasting righteousness is brought in. They didn't understand those things. And that is what Jesus was going to Jerusalem to do. He wasn't going in to establish the kingdom. He was going in to establish the basis for the kingdom. If he didn't take that step, then everything else falls apart. Everything else unravels. In other words, God's redemptive plan was laid out in careful detail. The Old Testament was full of examples pointing us to these things. Jesus' teaching had been full of these things, and they needed to embrace not just part of the message, but the whole message. Not just the kingdom like in Isaiah 9, where he says that the government will be on his shoulders and his name will be wonderful, counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, and there's going to be no end to his rule. They need to look at that, and they need to look at the cross in Isaiah 53 and the resurrection that was talked about in other passages. They needed all those pieces to come together. For instance, listen to what it says in Isaiah 53. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. He was laid on and laid on it was laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was cut off out of the land of the living for the transgressions of my people. His you will make his soul an offering for sin. He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. He shall bear their iniquities. My righteous servant shall justify many. He will divide a portion with the great, and divide the spoil with the strong. He bare the sins of many and made intercession for transgressors. How does God get to sit down and invite people into his kingdom and give them the spoils of victory? It's through the cross. The cross has to happen. And the cross has to happen for us. And he's got to triumph over the cross. He has to rise from the dead. He needs to take death and crush it in that act of the resurrection. And that's the piece that the people didn't understand. They didn't understand, oh, the kingdom comes through the cross and the resurrection. They just say, the kingdom comes when he shows up. He says, I've come to establish the basis for such a kingdom. And so that moves us to a fourth part. And that is that there is a theological basis. That is the foundation for this being the reason. And so turn with me for just a moment to 1 Corinthians 15. I'm not going to deal with this in great detail Somebody asked me this morning, they said, Pastor, are we going to be in 1 Corinthians 15? I said it we will for a little bit. Because whether you realize this or not, this is the next section that we are going to cover in our 1 Corinthians 15 passage. We'll pick up in verse 29 tonight, and I'm looking forward to that. But this passage answers the question for why this was necessary. Let me read it to you. 1 Corinthians 15, 19. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. Since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Every man of his own order. Christ the first fruits after they that are Christ that is coming. Then cometh the end, and he shall have delivered up the kingdom of God, even the Father, when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and all power, he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. Do you understand why the cross was necessary? It's because without the cross, you and I cannot be a part of this kingdom Without the cross and the resurrection, you and I cannot be a part of this kingdom. We can be excluded from this kingdom. He can establish a kingdom without us, but we can't be a part of it. And you say, well, can you break that down? Let me just break it down very simply. In verse 21 he says, Since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. Since dead came through a man, death has to be conquered by a man. The man came Christ Jesus. Verse 22, he says, In Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Our relationship to one of these two men, either to Adam or to Christ, determines everything. If you're in Adam, you're excluded from the kingdom. If you're in Christ, you're a citizen with full standing in the kingdom. You say, what determines in Adam versus in Christ? You are by nature in Adam, you are by new birth in Christ, through trust alone in the gospel. That transfer of faith takes you from in Adam to in Christ. There's no other way It's not like you can say, well, I'm glad that there's that way, but there's you know there's fifteen other ways. Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No other way. There's no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. This way is available to all of us. Thirdly, in verse 23, we read, every man after his own order, Christ the first fruits, after that they that are Christ that is coming. Christ's resurrection not only established the basis for our resurrection, it gives us a foretaste of that future glory. Every single one of those disciples who saw Jesus nailed on the cross, taken down from the cross, put in the tomb, and then they saw him resurrected with their eyes. They touched his body. They ate meals with him. They communed with him from the time of resurrection till the time of ascension. They got a foretaste of glory. They were able to see the kind of body that they're going to have for eternity. When we spend time in eternity with Jesus, we're going to be like him. We will see him as he is in the sense of this glorified body. And the disciples were able to see with their own eyes the nature of such a glorious bite. Tonight we were we were going to dig into that topic quite a bit. So please, this is a foretaste of tonight. Next, verse 24. Then cometh the end when he shall have delivered up the kingdom of God, even the Father, when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and all power. The most significant event, aspect of that future glory, is that God will establish an unresisted rule in which he puts everything right forever. I know that living in a fallen world is frustrating. It's frustrating when our bodies physically decline. It's frustrating when we see injustice. It's frustrating when we deal with temptation and sin. There are endless ways that living in a fallen world frustrates us But I have good news for you. He puts it all right. He puts it all right. He is going to establish a kingdom where you and I will enjoy perfect communion with God. Again, tonight we're going to talk a good bit about this. That is a wonderful, wonderful reality, but it's rooted in the cross and the resurrection. Verse 5 of chapter 15, he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. Literally, God governs this broken creation toward a secured end, and he preserves the people unto himself. You say, when's Jesus going to come? When the last person that needs to be redeemed is redeemed. We have no idea when that is. But God preserves this world. He sustains his people. He moves mysteriously in circumstances that are far beyond our ability to fully wrap our minds around it. And in the end, what's he going to do? He's going to crush that last enemy, death. That's what he's going to do. And lastly, verse 28. When all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all. Some of you might go, what in the world is that talking about? There is not a perfect equality in one sense within the Godhead. There's an equality of nature, but there are positional differences. The Father sent the Son. The Son submits to the Father. The Son sends the Spirit. I want you to realize that there is a distinctive order even within the Godhead. And so as Christ goes to the cross, and as he conquers death, and as he establishes his kingdom, the Father and the Son and the Spirit, they fall into their perfect order. God's kingdom is established forever in such an order. This glorious future will emphasize each person of the Godhead's unique role in a completed redemption. There's a whole lot more to this than just, let's go into this kingdom, isn't there? You cannot experience such a kingdom. You can't be a part of such a kingdom. This kind of a kingdom cannot be established without the cross. And the resurrection. And so these people needed to go through all these events so that what was wrong could be separated out. And what was right could be firmly established, and the truth could be made to bear on what they did not understand to be correct. By the way, this actually happens a lot of times with people when they are getting evangelized. There are lots and lots of people. I experienced this when we lived in West Africa as missionaries. The vast majority of the people that we dealt with, they claimed to be Christians. If I opened the Bible and I went to a passage of Scripture and I asked them, do you believe this is God's word? They'd say, Yeah, I do believe that. That's not going to be your experience with the average person you talk to here at all. If you ask them, is Jesus God in flesh? Some will go yes and some will go no. If you ask them, did Jesus physically die on the cross? They say, of course he did. How could anybody not believe such a thing Did he rise from the dead? They would say, of course he did. How could you believe anything otherwise? If I asked them why did he die and why did he rise from the dead, they'd say, so we could be saved. All those things are true. If I asked them, so how do you become a Christian? They would say, well, do the best that you can and God will make up the shortfall. I say, oh, we've got a problem all of a sudden. That's not grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. And have to go to passages like Ephesians 2. For by grace are you saved through faith. Not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should die. Have to go to places like Romans chapter 3. By the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in the sight. For by the no by the law is the knowledge of sin. And we go to Romans chapter 3 and Romans chapter 4 and Ephesians chapter 2 and we go to Philippians where Paul would talk about all of his religious credentials and then he would say, There came a point when I realized this is dung. All my righteousness, everything that I've built up, it has no value to God. It has no ability to take me into the presence of a holy and righteous God. And I turn from those things, and I trust in Christ alone, and his righteousness is imputed to me, and I'm found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is through the works of the law, but by faith of Jesus Christ. Do you see how there's a need to sometimes untangle this stuff? And so now a person goes, okay, Jesus is God in flesh. I affirm that Okay, Jesus went to the cross. I affirm that. Jesus rose from the dead. I affirm that. He died for my sins. I affirm that. I used to think that I got to God through my own merits and my own righteousness, and he does his part and I do my own part. And I said, that's abomination. That's not true. I reject it. I replace it with faith alone in Christ. Reliance entirely on his sacrifice and work. And all of a sudden, the entangling is removed, everything is set in order, and a person is standing on the solid ground of the gospel. And that's the way it works in life. That's the way it works when we come to biblical truth. Many times we have an element of truth. And we have an element of error and we need the word of God to confront us. And when the Bible talks about repentance, you know what repentance is? It's the entangling of our wrong thinking. And it's setting it in order so we can see the truth clearly and we accept it, we embrace it, and we respond to it. That's what it's all about. And so that leads me to the practical implications. How do we take this text and all these truths and how do we lay them to bear in a very personal and practical way? Let me give you this first thought. By nature, we are very selective with what we hear. It's true All of a sudden, things that we should be be attentive to become background noise to us. Okay? There are certain things we pick them up immediately. Other things we don't. It 's like a new mother. A new mother hears the slightest whimper of her child. The father, it's hard to say. Some they do and some they don't. After you've had a couple of kids, guess what? The background noise starts getting a lot louder and you start hearing these things less and less. You still hear it. But you have to be more attentive to those details. We are by nature very selective in what we hear, not just in our natural setting, but when it comes to this issue of the gospel, when it comes to this issue of truth. Humans are by nature selective. Many people want morality. How they define it, that's questionable. They want a morality without regeneration. There is no true and sound morality without the source of truth that is firmly built on God Himself. That ultimately becomes the guiding factor in a new life in Christ, desiring to do what is right. You cannot replace Morality without regeneration, with a morality that is just morality for the sake of morality. People want justice But they want it without a supreme lawgiver who will say, Thou shalt not. This morning in Sunday school, we were talking about this. We're going through the book of Hosea, and what he says is, he says, There's no truth. There's no mercy. There's no knowledge of God. And we really flush this out in great detail. And what it ultimately comes down to is If you do not have an objective standard, then you don't know what is right and you don't know what is wrong. And if you don't know what is right. And you don't know what is wrong, you have no ability to extend mercy because mercy is connected to the standard of what is right versus what is wrong. So if you don't have an objective standard, you don't have mercy and grace and kindness because that's all connected back to something that's foundational. And it needs to be contacted back to God Himself, the Creator, the lawgiver. People want justice, but they don't want God. I'm sorry, but you don't get justice without God. You don't have mercy without God. You don't have love without God. Because you have no basis to demonstrate what love is or what mercy is or what is justice. People want a utopia where they can get what they want, they can have relative harmony, and they can feel good about themselves. Well, guess what? If everyone does what is right in their own eyes, harmony is impossible It's absolutely impossible. And human nature is full of exam our human history is full of examples of this What ultimately happens is an evil authoritarian tries to establish themselves in the place of God and force everybody to submit to their own rules and regulations. If we reject God, we have no peace. It's that simple. These desires are natural desires. But they're incompatible with reality. The reason that people want justice and the reason that people want mercy and the reason that people want love and the reason that people want harmony is because we're all created in the image of God. And that's part of what's stamped into our very person as humans. But we are flawed humans. And it needs to be set right through the gospel itself. Every time people have tried throughout history, they have failed miserably because we've been created with a God-oriented existence. You cannot have internal peace without redemption. We cannot have relational harmony without being a redeemed people We can't escape condemnation without Christ's death and imputed righteousness and the resurrection. We cannot flourish and have the comfort that we need in suffering without a gospel-oriented basis. We don't have human dignity without a creator who ascribes it to us. What's amazing is every single one of those little pieces that I've mentioned, there are biblical texts that drive to every single one of those points. When the Apostle Paul talks about how to get along with other people, you know what he does? He says, as the elect of God who are holy and beloved, you are to put on. He lays out all these things. As Christ forgave you, so also forgive them. What's he saying? Because you're a redeemed person And because you are redeemed persons, you need to live in the light of the gospel that you're enjoying. That's what he's saying. The gospel is the center of all these things. And so that leads me to my final point. Let's walk with discernment. Let's anticipate the future glory of this kingdom. You say, Joe, how can I do that? Be pessimistic about the fads that lure the church and our culture. There's nothing new under the sun. Packaged a little different from one generation to another. But don't get sucked into these things. The sound truth is found in the scriptures. Be optimistic, because the flow of events and their ultimate end is firmly established. God is in control. He allows people to do what they want to do, but there are limits to that. He's preserving, he's redeeming. He is working in events. We don't know the timing of what he is doing, but he has guaranteed one day all these things will be the reality that we enjoy. Be focused on the only message that provides a sure footing on every single level. The answer is in one place. It is in the gospel. You say that's too easy, Pastor. That's actually not easy. It's not easy to convince people that that's where the real answer is. It's not easy to stay by the stuff and keep from getting distracted by all the little lights and shiny things around us. But we need to be serious about the main thing. Be motivated because he has given us a duty that has eternal significance. The most significant thing you could do, Dad, is be a godly father. The most significant thing you can do, mother, is be a godly mother. The best thing that you could do, faithful Christian, is be a faithful Christian in your work context. Whether you are under people, whether you are over people, you have been placed there by God's design. Be faithful. Be motivated to be faithful in those duties. Be watchful because no man knows the day or the hour that our Lord will return. He can come at any moment. We talk about the imminent return of Christ. What that simply means is we do not know the day or the hour. Don't let somebody on TV tell you here's the day. Because they're lying to you. They do not know. They may tell you they know. They may try to convince you that they know. They may tell you look at all these events unfolding. Guess what? They're not a whole lot different than the people. That were right here. Is he coming? Sure. Has he told us when? No. He says, be watchful. And lastly, be continually rejoicing in the abundance of this grace. This kingdom that we will enjoy has nothing to do with anything good in us. It has nothing to do with anything we have done for God. It's all rooted in what He did for us. Let's be thankful for that. Let's bow together for prayer. Father in heaven, we are so grateful. That in fact, the kingdom that has been purchased by our Savior Christ is an absolute solid guarantee May we live with discernment in this period between now and the day that we enjoy this and taste it forever. I pray that you'll take the word and use it to accomplish its intended purpose in each heart. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could, let's all turn together to our closing hymn. Hymn number 14, worthy of praise. And as you're turning there in your hymn book, I want to encourage you. If there's anybody here that says, you know what, Pastor, I do not understand the gospel. Please do not hesitate to speak with me about that. I'm going to be standing in the back, shake my hand, say, Pastor, I need to talk to you this week. Or I need to talk to you this afternoon. We'll sit down, we'll take a Bible, we'll work through all these things, we'll unravel the right and the wrong, and bring it back to the truth You might say, you know, Pastor, it's not about the gospel. I'm saved, but I got a whole bunch of questions about some other areas. No problem. Reach out. Let's talk. Let's go through the word. Let's find biblical answers. Let's have lives that are built solidly on the truth. Let's stand together and let's sing hymn number 14, worthy of praise. Sing it out with passion. My heart. I was to God gave me all me , God , God is here, and God 's sake. I am high to the road, and I wrote you all , for you know. Why is three? Why we use alone? It is worth the great forever and God World being all my women. You are worthy of all my women I 'm alone and I hope that you'll be able to join us uh this evening as we continue our look at first Corinthians chapter 15 And uh there's going to be a lot of uh continuation of what we talked about this morning, and we are going to look at uh the reality of the blessed hope. We're gonna talk about what the scripture says about glorification and so So I really hope that you will take the time to come. And we also will be celebrating the Lord's table at the end of that time. Don't forget that for our teens, you guys have your sing inspiration. Will you be going to the Taylor's house? Um I also want to mention I don't I don't care my phone on me uh during services, but um I stopped through the office between Sunday school and the service and I saw that there was a message about Hannah Lewis at some Like she's in labor. And I don't have uh details, but this is an extremely delicate situation, and I really want to encourage you to please be in In prayer for the Lewis family. Be in prayer for little Zach. Uh be in prayer for Hannah. Be in prayer for Sean. Um there's uh a lot of uncertainty. I I don't some of you if you have phones right now Now you might know more than I do, but I do know that they need prayer right now. And so let's uh take time at the end of this service to pray for them. And as we find out information, we will pass it along as it is appropriate to do so. So Scott Moore, can you please close us in prayer? And if you're visiting with us today, I hope to stop by and greet me Lord God, we are so grateful to you for your mercy and grace. Your love is uh amazing and we um are blessed by it and uh the way you work in our lives and we pray that we can look forward uh with great anticipation of what you are going to do. Lord we're um And um we just lift up the Lewis family now as we uh uh go about our day that we would uh know that they're their lives are in your hand and whatever you are to teach And bring about that you will have them close to you and will hold them in your hand in Jesus' name. Amen.