Well, good evening. Good to see each of you. Hope that you had a restful afternoon and uh looking forward to a wonderful service this evening. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we will get started with our service tonight. Father, again, we thank you for this Lord's Day. Thank you for the lovely weather. Thank you so much for the fellowship, the communion of other believers, the opportunity. That we have to encourage one another in Christ, to be blessed, and to be a blessing, to be channels that demonstrate your love to others. I pray this evening as we sit under the ministry of the Word, you would, in a very special way, work in our hearts. I pray that the things that are said would point honor to you. You as we remember the Lord's table at the end of the service, I pray that our hearts would be knit together as we remember what unites us, what bonds us as brothers and sisters in Christ. body of Christ that was broken on our behalf, his blood that was shed, so that we could be reconciled to you through the death of your Son. I pray that you'll bless every aspect of this service. May you be glorified in it in Christ Christ's name. Amen. We'll take our hymnals and stand to your feet. We'll start off with page 12. Page 12, we'll sing the first, second, and the fourth of All Hail the Power of Jesus' name. Sing it out. All hail the power of Jesus' name. Let angels prostrate off. Bring forth the royal diadim and crown him wardables Bring forth the royal diadem and crown him Lord of all He chosen speed up Israel traced me ransom Help him to save you by his break and crown him Help him to save you by his friend. Oh hard on all All that with under sacred bump we at his feet make on Will join me at that last winter and crown him wild Will join the everlasting and crown him. Now we'll turn back to page 143. Gotta remain standing on I Stand Amazed in the Presence. First, second, and the fourth. Page one forty three I stand placed in the presence of Jesus the Nazarene. And wonder how he could love me a spinner condemnantly Oh marvelous, oh wonderful, and my son shall ever be. How marvelous, how wonderful is my Savior's love for me? Or leader was in the garden, he prayed up by El He had no excuse for his holding, but sweat drops of blood for my How wonderful, how wonderful and my son shall ever be. How marvelous, how wonderful is my Savior's love for me on the last. When we're something wrong, his place I and my shalty Twelve I joined to the age to sing up his love for me How marvelous, how wonderful and my song shall ever be. How marvelous, how wonderful, give my faith your love for me. Okay, go ahead and have a seat and turn back Back to page 26. Page 26, and we'll sing praise to the Lord the Almighty. First, third, and fourth. Praise to the Lord the Almighty The King of creation, all my so praise him for his salvation. All year now do his table draw me Joy and bad adoration on the third, praise to the Lord With moral as wisdom have may be checked with help and with loving and guided and stay. How of the entry have he not brought me with me? Spreading his wings for to share praise to the Lord Oh that all that does in me, I'd all that in Oh white paper come now with praise that people Let me all men sound for his people again My paper, I will adore. Amen. Now turn back to page two hundred and fifty-two. Page one five two. Two five two. Two five two. All right. Alright, my dyslexia is catching up with me tonight, but that's okay. I think I can still make it Page 252, nothing but the blood. One, two, and four. Keep singing out. What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. All precious is the club. That makes me white as no, no other cloud I know, nothing but the blood of Jesus For my pardon, this I see nothing but the blood of Jesus For my cleansing this I flee, nothing but the blood of Jesus. All precious is the flow That makes me white as no. No other fountain. No. Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Watch me on the chorus now. This is all my hope and peace, nothing but the blood of Jesus. This is all my righteousness, nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh, precious is the flow that makes the white as snow No water know nothing but the blood of Jesus. Amen. Way to be awake. Okay, well on Sunday nights we'd like to take a couple of moments to give you opportunity to share testimonies of how the Page one fifty-five, why does that number sound so familiar? That's it. Okay, wonderful grace of Jesus. Alright, we sang that and then the okay And then the first one Wonderful grace of Jesus, greater than all I said How shall I come down? Try it. Where shall his praise begin? Taking away my burden, setting my spirit free for the wonderful grace that Jesus Wonderful the mattress grace of Jesus than the mighty rolling sea Diel and the market, hang like a button, all the fishy brace for even me God of that the scope for my confession Come to Bord and all my villages Oh magnify the precious name of Jesus. I'm not mistaken, I may have got that Gee. So anyway, that was a s that one was a struggle given the Everybody else anybody else having allergy issues this spring? Oh my goodness. I tell You what? The allergies are not a lot of fun. Alright, let's go to page 39 now in the blue book. And let's see. Alright. First verse, page 39. One day. One day heaven was filled with his praises. One day Santa was a black aspass Jesus before to be born of a virgin Well the mind in my example is me. Let me love me, dying. For me, he glory, I sent for a fine rising justify me. Okay, I'm getting that one. Down. Now we're going to go to page 93. Page 93 in the blue book. And stand with me. We'll sing these two. Two verses. Bow the knee. What a privilege to come to God. Just to linger with the one who set me free As I lift my eyes and see his awesome glory. Bow the knee of all the energy God alone on the stone, see him high and lift it up and down the knee. Before him , all adored him, as you better love him more about me. And his man beholds the power of relation. His voice he spoke and all things came to be Yet he here 's each layful pair I bring for him. Will I always take his face and die? Bow the knee, bow the knee, yes , King of all the edges, bow benef God is so many I'll be bored, all of course, as you better be more about a day Please this is a little bit of a little bit of a little Many now are watching the footsteps that we take Many soon will follow in the choices that we make, so manifesting me faithful to give what we should keep and Been more than still already all in. Let us stay watching thou wheeling day by day, looking to encourage and to lead them in no way. To run a grace with patience on Jesus Christ the rise And challenge them with explorers. And make us a blessing where it's the cross. Thank you so much for that. If you could, let's take our Bibles together, please, and let's turn to the book of Ecclesiastes. We're in Ecclesiastes chapter three tonight. And the passage that we're looking at is going to be really it's going to dovetail very well with the things that we've talked about in Sunday school today. Our morning worship service, and then uh this text. They're all going to dovetail very well together. Tonight we're looking at the frustration that we experience in this life in the face of injustice. Seems like it's a topic that comes up over and over and over again in the Word of God. Seems to be coming up a lot in the text of Scripture that we're dealing with, and that's not by my design. But that really is what God has chosen to have as a very consistent theme that we're looking at in the passages that we're dealing with. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, we'll read verses 15 through 17, and then we're going to dig into a very important topic tonight as we prepare hearts to take the Lord's table together. Ecclesiastes 3. 15 says, that which hath been is now, and that which is to be hath already been. It's a really interesting thing. Interesting statement. That which hath been is now. That which is to be hath already been. And God requireth that which is past. Very interesting. Moreover, I saw under the sun the place of judgment that wickedness was there, and the place of righteousness, that iniquity was there. And I said in mine heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked, for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work. Now when we read this passage of Scripture, I want you to remember that Solomon is giving us wisdom, biblical wisdom, sound judgment, based on the observations of Now, when we read these verses, we are reading from Solomon's observation, but I want to remind you this is not just Solomon's instruction or Solomon's wisdom. This is the word of God. This is God 's breathed word. So when we read these words, we're not just getting the opinion of a wise man. We're getting the inspiration of Scripture. We're getting the Holy Spirit speaking And what's very interesting about the way that Solomon is talking about his experience is he's talking about what life is like without a view of God in the picture. Now it's not that Solomon doesn't believe that God is there. It's not that it for some reason he He's kind of living life as if God is not there. He's simply saying, if God's not a part of the picture, this is how tragic life is. The reason I tell you that is because I want to draw your attention to the fact that that's not actually how it is. God is there. God is just, God is righteous, God sees everything, God has purpose and God has order. And so when you look at life and it appears that God is not in charge, And it appears that God is not working, you experience frustration. But let me draw you back to the reality that God is in charge. He is just. He is righteous. He is holy. He is going to accomplish his purposes. And so part of this discussion, one of the things that Solomon really spends a lot of time talking about, is how frustrating it is to watch people suffer injustice. Or to be the recipient of injustice. It is a truly frustrating thing. Yet here's what he's going to show us in this passage. That is not an unusual human experience. Experience. That's life. That is the way it works in a broken and fallen world. That's not to say that injustice is okay. Or that we should ignore it, or we should act like it isn't there. It is to say, however, that that is a part of living in a broken and fallen world. And we have to learn how to relate to people and circumstance when we are not treated correctly. The purpose of the text in front of us is to give us, is to help us to see that our sense of right and wrong reminds us we are made in God's image and our frustration with injustice is a reminder that mankind is universally corrupted by the fall, yet he will one day face God's justice or God's vindication. When we say vindication, what we mean is that when you have been wronged and you were in the position of right, there's going to be a day that God will deal with those who have done wrong and he will vindicate you because you have been mistreated. On the other side, when you're on the side that has committed injustice, God is going to deal with your sin, your injustice. That's really what he's saying in this text. God wants us to be a people Who respond godly and responsibly to the frustrations that we see in life in this area. And so the question we can ask this evening is, how do we do that? How can we respond in a godly way when frustrations come, when we see things that are not right, that are very difficult, that are very harsh? How are we to respond to those kinds of things? The first thing we're going to find in this passage is that we have to realize injustice is a universal human experience. Notice how he puts it in verse 15. That which hath been is now. What is he saying? What we're dealing with right now, it is something that people have dealt with for all of human history. We are not the first generation in human history that has dealt with the difficulties of living in a fallen world. In fact, I will be very frank with you, if there was ever a generation that had it better than most behind us, we are that generation. We look at the time we live in, and there are people that get upset and they think, we live in this horrible country, folks. Do you realize how horrible it has been to live in this world in past generations? Do you not realize how oppressive communist regimes are? Do you not realize that tens of millions of people in communist China in the 1950s sixties, seventies were murdered? Do you not realize that? Do you not not re do you not realize that Joseph Stalin, who was in league with the United States to fight the Nazis and to destroy Nazi Germany Joseph Stalin killed tens of millions of people. He starved them to death as they worked on fields in a communist oppressive regime. Once you realize something, we have it a lot better, a lot better, than nearly every generation that has ever lived in human history. We can read the stories of past generations, and I tell you, we are an entitled people. We're a people that have no concept of how truly Richly blessed we are. The reason that I live in this country, if you want to go all the way back, is because my forefathers were Huguenots who were persecuted in France. Murdered, oppressed. They fled for their lives to this country because it was where they could survive. I want you to realize that injustice is an experience that has that has plagued every generation since the fall. And as he puts it, that which has been is now But then this is very interesting. It also says, and that which is to be hath already been. Another way of putting this is Not only is the way it is now the way it's always been, but the way that it is now is the way it's always going to be. Do you realize there is nothing that will happen in this society that's going to eliminate this thing called sin? This thing called injustice, this thing called evil and oppressive behavior, nothing is going to change that because you cannot by legislation change what's within the hearts of people. You can't do it. Folks, if you could do that, guess it? We wouldn't have broken marriages. Wouldn't have parents that don't treat their kids Right. Wouldn't have kids that rage in anger and rebellion against their parents. We wouldn't have the need for police. We wouldn't have the need for military. If you could by legislation And eliminate evil, guess what? It would have been done thousands of years ago. You can't do it. Because the human heart is broken. It is deceitful. It is wicked. It is oppressive. We have laws to try to limit the level of evil that goes on in society But the reality is you cannot, you cannot, you cannot eliminate injustice and evil until we live in a world where God has glorified his people. He says, You can't change that which has taken place. This is a universal human experience. We have all been treated unjustly in some way. Our homes, within our communities, within our nation, even within our justice system, even within the international level. The reality is there is no group of people that is immune To these problems. No culture, no time period has escaped the plague of injustice and sin. None The second truth we're going to find is that we can find comfort in the fact that God will settle all wrongs. Now that's really important. One of the reasons that some people cannot cope in a broken world is because they are living in a broken world with the viewpoint that there's no God. There is no final judgment. There is no eternity. There is no cross. There is no such thing as salvation and redemption. Because their worldview does not accept those realities. Guess what? The best they get is what they get now. And I want you to realize that is a horrific, horrific way to live life. I want you to realize that we can find comfort in the fact that there is a God in heaven who is one day going to settle every wrong and every injustice and every evil, he's going to deal with sin once and for all. Notice what he says in verse 15 God requireth that which is past. I want you to realize it's not our place to go and to settle every former injustice. That's an impossibility. You can't even do it with your kids. You can't even do it with your spouse. You can't even do it with the people that you rub shoulders with on a day-by-day basis. You and I sin against one another so much it is impossible. And I mean 100% impossible for us to clear every single matter. You can't do it. It's foolish for us to live with a constant frustration and a constant anger of past injustices. God calls us as his people to be a people who are filled with grace, filled with humility. In fact, we talked extensively about this in Sunday school. Because we are called out, because we are holy, because God has set his affection on us, we are to be a peculiar people A people that are zealous unto good works, a people that are forbearing, a people that are merciful, a people that are meek, a people that are forgiving, a people that are willing to work and show love and graciousness to the Do you know why the world is so angry? Because it doesn't believe in God. And it's so angry because it does not have a way to deal with sin and oppression apart from what they can do. themselves in this world. God is one day going to address every issue. And that should bring us comfort. That should remove this incredible burden from our shoulders. I don't have to settle every matter with people. There are people that can do me wrong, and guess what? I'm gonna just let God deal with it. He's big enough. He's wise enough. He's just enough. He's holy enough. I can let him do it. I can remove that burden from my shoulders and I can let God be God and I can walk humbly before him. That's what The text is really telling us. In 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 5, Paul writes the following: He says, Judge nothing before the time until the Lord come, who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness. And will make manifest the counsel of the hearts, then shall every man have praise of God. That's an incredible passage of Scripture. Because what it basically says is this: refrain from judging other people because there are factors that you can never know. That are absolutely critical to perfect justice. You don't have the ability to answer all those questions I mean sometimes a person will come to you and they'll say, Hey, this person did this and this and this and I know why they did it. They did it for this reason and this reason and this reason and you're sitting there going, but I know that they didn't do it for those reasons Reasons. I had a conversation with them. They shared with me their heart on why they did what they did. This person doesn't understand, but they are fully convinced that they're right. You ever been in a situation like that? that. I've been in a situation like that. My motives were not being judged fairly. Or I didn't judge another person's motives fairly. Listen, God knows motive. God knows the secrets of the heart. God knows why people do what they do, and He will measure out justice perfectly because He not only knows what happened. What could have happened, what you wanted to happen, but why you did it. So very important. Psalm 89, verses 14 through 18 says, Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne. Mercy and truth shall go before thy face. Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound. They shall walk, O Lord, in the light of thy countenance. In thy name shall they rejoice all the day. In thy righteousness shall they be exalted. For thou art the glory of their strength. In thy favor our horns shall be exalted. Exalted, for the Lord is our defense, and the Holy One of Israel is our king. I love that statement. Justice and judgment are thy habitation. In thy name shall they rejoice, in thy righteousness shall they exalt. Folks, God is just And because God is just, you and I can let God do what is right. The third truth we find is this. We need to realize that human justice will always fall short. It will always fall short. If someone is murdered and you sit in a courtroom, and it was your brother, your sister. Your son, your grandchild that was murdered, and you sit in that courtroom and that judge gavels in the jury. And meets out justice, I have a question. Will you ever be satisfied with a verdict? Can it bring back your child? No. Can it reverse what's been done? The answer is no. You know that there are times there are people that get away with crimes? Vicious crimes, evil crimes , terrible, oppressive things. There are people that get away with it. They get away with it because you can't prove it. They get away with it because they have a really slick lawyer. They get away with it because of the pressures that come on that particular case. There are lots and lots of reasons that people get away with it. In some societies, people get away with it because the judge is corrupt. Because the jury is corrupt. There's enough money paid behind the scenes that the judge lets the guilty go. Or the judge punishes the innocent Because he does not care about justice. I want you to listen to what Solomon says, and let's remember who he is. He's a king So he sees a lot of cases. He writes, moreover, I saw under the sun the place of judgment That wickedness was there. And the place of righteousness, that iniquity was there. He said, I'm looking at the justice of mankind. You know what I see? I see perversion. I see evil. I see injustice. You say, well, that's a good thing, it's not like that anymore. Really? It's not. It's not. The fact is human justice, even at its best, falls short He probably regrets certain cases that he personally saw. He saw people that did terrible things The reality is if you were a judge in this country and you saw lots and lots of cases, I guarantee you you would have people that stood before you. That when the jury made their final decision, you said, you know what? I'm not sure if that was the right decision. I guarantee I can't I can't imagine how conflicting it would be to be in a position like that to go that person's gonna get away with it. I'm not sure That that person's really guilty. There are people in our court system right now that get away with evil and people that are punished unjustly. And I'm not here to to bash that. I'm talking this is the way it is in the world everywhere. That's what Solomon's saying He says, I've witnessed hypocrisy, I've witnessed abuses of authority, I've witnessed corruption, I've witnessed partiality. And these are things that frustrate me, they enrage me, but I want you to realize something. That is the way a broken world. works. Every time we see these things, or we think that we see these things, you know what we should say? It's a good thing there's a God in heaven who one day is going to settle that matter. I can rest in the fact that even if I have not been treated fairly or justly, I know there's a God in heaven that's going to answer on my behalf. Think about all the Christians during very oppressive times in church history who lost their buildings, who were thrown in prison and treated unjustly. Who had to hide in the catacombs to worship during the time period when the Roman uh uh Caesars were very, very powerful and very very oppressive. Think about people even today that are meeting in underground churches. Why? Because of injustice. Because of evil. I want you to realize that there is an incredible comfort I want to read to you from Ezekiel chapter 34, because I want you to realize that when we talk about this issue of injustice in high places, it was something that happened even amongst God's people during the time of Ezekiel. Ezekiel chapter 34, verse 2, here's what he says. God says, Prophesy against the shepherds in Israel. The shepherds are the people who are supposed to care for others. They're supposed to be the people that are just. They're supposed to be the people that look out for the weak and the feeble and the herding. He says, Prophesy against those shepherds, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God unto the shepherds. Woe be to the shepherds of Israel that do feed themselves. The ideas, rather than taking care of those who are at a very weak and vulnerable place, they take advantage of them. In other words, they take a bribe and they're unjust so they can feed their own bellies. Not the shepherds feed the flocks, ye eat the fat and ye clothe yourselves with wool, ye kill that which art fed. But ye feed not the flock. The diseased have ye not strengthened, neither have ye healed that which was sick, neither have ye bound up that which was broken, neither have ye brought again that which was driven away, neither have ye sought that which was lost. With force, with cruelty have ye ruled them. They were scattered. Because there is no shepherd, they became meat to all the beasts of the field when they were scattered. My sheep wandered through the mountains. Upon every high hill, yea, my flock was scattered upon the face of the earth, and none did search to seek after them. Therefore, ye shepherds, hear the words of the Lord. As I live, saith the Lord God, surely, because my flock became became a prey, and my flock became meat to every beast of the field. Because there was no shepherd, neither did my shepherd search for my flock, but the shepherds and fed not my flock. Therefore, O ye she shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. I am against the shepherds. I will require my flock at their hand and cause them to cease from From feeding the flock, neither shall the shepherds feed themselves any more. For I will deliver my flock from their mouth, that they may not be meat for For thus saith the Lord, Behold, I even I will search my sheep, and seek them out, as a shepherd seeketh out his flock in the day that he is among the sheep that are scattered. So will I seek out my sheep, and I will deliver them out of all places where they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day. You might say, Well, what's so interesting about those verses? Let me tell you something. When Jesus Jesus came and he said, I am the good shepherd. Do you know what he was saying? And I lay down my sheep. Do you know what he was saying? Do you know what he was saying? He was saying, do you remember in Ezekiel 34 when I rebuked all of those shepherds? Who fed their own bellies and they allowed my people to be abused? And I rebuked them. And I said that those are my sheep that you're not taking care of, and I'm going to require this at your hand. And I'm going to step in your place, and I'm going to feed them, and I'm going to shepherd them, and I'm even going to lay down my life for them. Do you know what Jesus was saying? Jesus was saying, I'm the fulfillment of this text of Scripture. And when he's saying that, you know what he's really saying? He's saying, I see injustice. I see evil. I see oppression. I see people that abuse authority. I see people that don't take care of those who are in genuine need. And you know what? When I see it, I'm not happy with it. I'm not happy with what I see. I'm not happy with those who are using a power the wrong way. And those people, I'm going to look out for them. And that's really what this text is all about. In the midst of all the hardships of life, the frustrations of injustice, there's a God in heaven Who is looking and sees and is going to care for those who are in these very difficult places. It could be that this evening you are like that I don't mean you're like the shepherd who's abusing the sheep. You're like the person who is being crushed. Could be at work, could be through circumstances that you're dealing with. And the reality is people that have authority are abusing their authority and they're taking advantage of you. And they're hurting you, and you are feeling the weight and the pressure of that. Why don't you realize something? God sees it. And God cares. And you can roll onto the Lord that burden and let him deal with it in his time. And you can recognize that God genuinely loves you and cares for you in those times. Circumstances. The final fact I want us to see here this evening, and this one is extremely important, is where to take comfort in the fact that God is able to do right in his time. And verse 17 it says, I said in mine heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked. There is a time there for every purpose and for every work. God watches And God says, I'm not telling you when and I'm not telling you how, but I give you my word. I am just and I will vindicate the right. Righteous, and I will judge the wicked. He's saying this isn't simply something that you can hope for, it's something that's guaranteed. One of the reasons that people despair is because they don't actually believe God really means what he says. But I want to remind you of a text of Scripture that should comfort you no matter the circumstances you encounter. It's in 2 Thessalonians chapter 4, and it's in verses 4 through 10. Listen to to what it says. We ourselves glory in you and the churches of God for your patience. That's an important word. Patience. And your faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure Now listen carefully to what he says next. He says, which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God That ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God for which ye also suffer, seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation on them that trouble you And to you who are troubled, rest with us. When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angel. in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall punish with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power when he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe. Because our testimony among you was believed in that day. Do you see what he's saying? There are times in life that we are in a position where we have to have patience. We have to be willing to trust God. We are really facing legitimate persecution and tribulation, and we are under possession where we have to endure. And what God says is, as you endure, I am demonstrating through your patience, through your endurance through your faith, I am demonstrating that in fact you belong to me. You are worthy to enter the kingdom, not because you're righteous in an of yourself, but because of the position that you hold in Christ. In other words, it is your endurance that demonstrates your position. And as I am patiently, as I am allowing you to work through this time, you know what I'm also doing? I am reminding you that I'm going to To step in, and I'm going to take vengeance on those who reject the gospel and who hate my ways and who persecute my people. And who persecute my church. And as he puts it this way, he will punish with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. And he will be glorified in his saints. You know, when we come to this passage of Scripture, we are reminded that injustice is hard to watch. It's hard to sit under. But it's the way it is in the fallen world. And not only is it that the way it's that it is in a fallen world, it's always been this way, it's always going to be this way until King Jesus comes. Yet, we can find incredible comfort in the fact that there's a God in heaven who one day will settle those wrongs and will vindicate his deeds. I want to encourage you do not despair in the face of injustice. You turn on the news, I guess we don't turn it on like that. You turn on the news by by touching a screen and you you listen to what's going on in the world. And you listen to what goes on in our nation, and you listen to the legislation that's being discussed, and you go easily So come Lord Jesus. You know what I'm saying? That's how we feel. That's how we feel. And you know what he says? Endure until I come. Trust me. Trust me to do what is right. When somebody wrongs us, folks, I'm not here to tell you I know persecution will be here on a certain date. But I I'm telling you, I see within our culture a vicious hatred for the gospel. I see it. I see it on nearly every level of government. You really see it on social media And I want you to realize that there may be a day that we, because of the gospel, face harsh in Justice. And we may be incredibly we may be entirely powerless to write those matters. You know, do we have a Bill of Rights today? Of course we have a Bill of Rights today. But will we in ten years I don't know. The reason people came to this country hundreds of years ago was because they were fleeing persecution. Human nature has New generations, new people come on the scene, and guess what? They don't learn from the history of the past. They don't realize what it took for this nation to have what we have. And I want to remind you that if we face injustice, we have to trust God. We need to be a people who purpose to do what is right when it comes to how we relate to other people. We are quick to be angry when people treat us wrong, and we fail to realize that we might be doing the exact same thing When we are bearing under a load of injustice, sometimes we lash out with equal injustice. You don't fate you don't fight hate with hate and injustice with injustice. And the bottom line is that a lot of times in our interpersonal relationship We fight evil with evil. This isn't just a national problem or a local problem. This is an interpersonal problem. We need to be so careful that we're not selective. And we can call out the sins of others and we can hide our own. And we can excuse Our own. We need to be thankful that in the end there's a God in heaven who's going to do what's right. He's going to do it in his own time. And we need to be thankful Patient as we wait for Him. And folks, the thing that we need to be thankful for more than anything else is that there is a gospel. Because the bottom line is if there wasn't a gospel. There'd be zero vindication on that day. Do you understand what I'm saying? If it wasn't that Jesus had gone to that cross And been nailed to that cross and shed his blood on that cross. And his body had been broken for us. If it wasn't for the redemptive work of Christ, there would be zero vindication on that day, it would all be eternal justice. You know, when this verse says that that God is going to to punish with eternal destruction the wicked, and he's going to be admired by the righteous. There would be zero righteous to admire him on that day if there wasn't a gospel. And so when we come together this evening to remember what Christ has done for us, I think that a text like this is a very, very important text for us. us to remember because there is no justice that vindicates sinners. None. If it wasn't for the cross, we would all be eternally Condemns. I want us to take a few moments this evening as we prepare our hearts for the Lord's table to just reflect on the fact that you know what, there's a God in heaven who's just. And there's a God in heaven who is going to settle every wrong. But what I'm really thankful for is that there's a God in heaven. Who has extended his grace because Christ was nailed to a cross for me. Let's bow together for just a moment and let's prepare our hearts to take the Lord's table this evening. Father in heaven, I'm so thankful. That there is a cross, that Jesus was nailed to two thousand years ago, and that there is now no condemnation To us because we are in Christ Jesus. I'm thankful that He Himself bare our own sin Sins in his own body on the tree, that he became sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Father, I pray that we would this evening with incredible Humbled and grateful hearts, glory, and I mean truly glory in the work of Christ that gives us A right standing with you. Father, help us this evening to remember your body that was broken, your blood that was shed, and to be so very grateful that on the On that day, we will be accepted by you, not because we are righteous in and of ourselves, but because we stand righteous in Christ's righteousness. We ask that this time of reflection would be very sweet, that you would be glorified in it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. First of all, I'd like to ask if Charlie, you could Common It's a wonderful song. It's very reflective. I love to sing this. When we have the Lord's table, I do want to remind you as well that in the back we have an offering to plate there and uh if you'd like to participate in our Deacons Fund, that's how we do that. The Deacons Fund is is a fund that we use to help those in our congregation who come through financial need and have uh issues that um we can help them out with in our church. So please do not forget about that. We do that Each time we have the Lord's table. Let's stand together. We're going to sing Hymn 156. How can it be? We're going to sing all three verses together tonight. Oh, Savior has my eyes need no wonders, thy mind Until the heavens and glorious light a rain, the vast creation thou hast made And yet to think thou loveest me, my heart cries out, how can it be? How can it be? How can it be that God should love us all like me? Oh how can it be? As at the cross I come kee them and keeps upon thy Lord. Crown brow and view, the precious bleeding for standard. To know thy suffering thoughts for me. In the five tried, how can it be? How can it be? How can it be that God should love us so much Oh how can it be? How can it be? How can it be? Was ever graceful Oh full and we are high to bless you to be kindness that is rule From sin and shame to rescue me, full of divine, how can it be? How can it be Thou can it be that was me Amen. Great, great song Brother Bruce Hutchison, can you please close us in prayer tonight? And uh hope that you all have a wonderful week. I hope that on Wednesday night you'll be able to join us as we We continue our study in the pastoral epistles, and the section that we're looking at is understanding what it's going to be like in the last days. And uh we're gonna talk about the perilous times. Uh if you want a real encouragement, that's a great time to come to. Now, you know, it's it's it's just just speaks b uh the truth, yet the text is also gonna point us to the sufficiency of the scriptures and how that is where we have to go in these days. So hope that you can make it out for that. Go ahead, Bruce, and close it up Lord, we thank you for another day that you have blessed us with. Thank you so much for the sunshine that we've been able to enjoy this week. I do pray to Heavenly Father for uh upcoming things that our church would be involved in and uh many of the uh members I pray for um Morgan's upcoming graduation and the Petersons as they travel down to see that and uh travel for myself and as a go pick up Kimberly uh this upcoming weekend and uh do pray for um families represented here and the different task and uh responsibilities we have throughout the week. Uh let us be lights. In a dark world. I do pray for our neighbors that we might have opportunity to invite them to our Memorial Day. I get together with the heritage singers and just use that as an outreach. Uh continue to pray for those that have uh health needs as well as uh uh still grieving and sorrow for uh things that happened uh to loved ones. So we pray for your guiding hand upon them. Thank you for uh this verse here and just the how can it be uh that thou hast died for me and uh that each of us would reflect on And that ask your guidance upon our week in Jesus' name, amen