I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church this morning. And if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you. And uh really looking forward to our service this morning. Pastor Chris has a couple of announcements and then Uh we will open our service up with our scripture reading. As you can see if you have a bulletin, uh you'll make notes that we have a few things come. That uh all of it is is is going to be pointed toward that and we're encouraged by uh Everything that's going on. Particularly tomorrow we got our mother of littles going on. So mothers of littles, be sure to uh look in your chat group for more details as to that. That'll be at ten And we also have our team sing coming up on the second. So we're looking forward to that after the evening service. Next week. Followed by our ladies' Bible study on the 6th at 7 p. m. And then we have a Good Friday service on the 7th. That's a week from Friday. And if you have not signed up and you would like to go, please be sure to stop by the bulletin boards to sign up so we know exactly how many people are going and we can plan uh the vans that way when we go. Then we got our ladies brunch and paint at eleven AM, April 8th. There's also a sign up for that. Ladies, if you'd like to participate in a Paint expo, I guess is what it is. Uh please be sure to check out that sign up and of course our Easter service is on the 9th. So please be sure to be grabbing those invitation cards that are out there, share them with friends and family. And if they're able to make it out that day, we uh we look forward to them being here. I also wanted to Our April birthdays in here. And then on the back we have our sacrificial Sunday. There's a QR code to a video that gives you more information about our sacrificial Sunday offering that we will be taking up on Easter Sunday, so please uh make a note of that. Also, I want to mention that today is Carrie Teague's birthday. I believe she's 94 today. So if you know Miss Carrie Teague, please do reach out to her. You can't do it by email. You'd have to give her a phone call or write her a note. But I think that she would really appreciate hearing from many of you. you today. If you have your Bibles, let's turn together please to Romans five. Romans chapter five. Our opening scripture reading is verses six. through 10. Again, that is Romans chapter 5, verses 6 through 10. Here's what the scriptures say. When we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die. But God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. Over the next several weeks, the focus of our services Sunday morning are going to be on the resurrection, why the resurrection matters, why it is so essential. And so this morning, we're going to look at our first message from 1 Corinthians Chapter 15. We're actually going to go through the entire chapter and we're going to look at why the resurrection is so very, very important. And uh, if you're a Christian, you're a Christian because Christ rose from the dead. It's not just his death on the cross, it's his death on the cross for your sins and his triumphant resurrection from the dead. And so I look forward to this morning focusing in on that. And why that matters and why that is so very, very important. So let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless this service today. Father, we come before you with hearts that are both humbled by our sin, and we are so grateful for the redemptive work of Christ. We recognize that the reason that we can come into your presence through Christ is because he shed his blood on the cross and he rose triumphant from the dead. If it wasn't for his righteousness, his death for our sins, his triumphant resurrection from the dead, we would be of all men most miserable. We would have no life in Christ, we would have no forgiveness of sins. We would have no future hope of redemption and glorification. We'd have none of those things. And so this morning we are so very, very grateful that we serve a risen Savior. Father, I pray for those in our congregation who carry heavy burdens. You know every single burden. Some of these burdens are indeed very personal and very heavy. And I pray that this morning you would take the Word of God and press it upon our hearts and be with those who are carrying burdens. May they be encouraged and comforted. And strengthened in their dependence on you as they hear these scriptures unfolded. As these hymns are sung, I pray that our hearts will be filled with praise and the triumph of the cross and the resurrection. Father, as we express to you joy and gratitude, I pray that we would do it from our hearts with an intensity and a fervency. And excitement. Father, I pray that everything that is done today would bring glory to you and would truly encourage and uplift your saints. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good morning. Thanks so much for joining us for worship. Please open your blue books to number 163 We're going to sing It's Still the Cross, all four verses. Please stand as we sing 167 in the blue book. It's Still the Cross. The lonely night the agony The crying and gas family, the Lord of God would be with us. Maybe let's just turn in our hymn books to hymn number one hundred fifty-seven. Him number one hundred and fifty seven grace greater than our sin. We'll sing all four ver all three verses. Go and I 'll go to the city. Please do. Let's come back to the problem. How can it be? One fifty six will sing all three verses. Relays to a relaxation. Amen. Our scripture readings is what it will come from the epistle of First Corinthians. First Corinthians chapter 15. We'll be reading verses 1 through 11. 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 1 through 11. The scriptures say, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye have received. And wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved. If ye keep in memory what I've preached unto you Unless ye have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. and that he was brute buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures, and that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. After that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present. But some are fallen asleep After that, he was seen of James, then of all the apostles, and last of all, he was seen of me also, as one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace, which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain But I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me Therefore, whether it were I or they, so we preached, and so ye believed. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. No, no. Oh tough Continue our singing this morning. We're going to turn to hymn number two hundred and seventy-eight. One day, we'll sing all four verses of hymn number two hundred and seventy-eight. One day when heaven wasn't wet spray. One day when What as black as could be Jesus came for to be born of a bunch of Well come on many people with me, live in my feel Married in carry my sense far away, rising in just by freely forever One name is Brother. My name is Maya , my prayer, one name is the one. And our last song before preaching, number 15, and our hymn push number 15, worthy of praise. Please stand with me as we sing both verses. Of worthy of praise My heart over full quick. I only Here we go. My testing is great, my wife is not in his word, my brain. You are worthy of all my brain Amen. Please excuse me. Yeah, we're going to go. I start all the main feelings that got me for sad friends. From his hand is me, sorrow and love long in a such thought. All the angels all meeting, more doors come for it , Brabant. I got my courtesy, not so people. He has my home. No, no, no, no, no, no. Oh no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. While they're doing that, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And we will be spending quite a bit of time over the next several weeks in 1 Corinthians 15. In fact, out of all of the chapters in the Scriptures, it's one of the most thorough addressings of this issue of the resurrection. In fact, there's a reason behind why this passage of Scripture was written. Obviously, within the church at Corinth, there were some who were teaching a false doctrine in relationship to the resurrection. We don't really know all the details about that. There's some things we can pick up from it based on the way that the Apostle Paul addresses the issue. But within this passage of Scripture, Paul is going to make some very, very important, foundational arguments that are important for us to think about as we enter into this season. Where we reflect on the death of Christ, the reason why he went to the cross, and then his triumph over the death, over his death uh on three days later on the resurrection. So let's turn together to this passage. We're going to read verses 1 through 11 together. And then we're going to dig into a very important topic. And that is how we can know that in fact the resurrection is a reality, not simply a myth or a tradition that we as Christians remember every single year, frankly, every single Sunday. This is what the scripture says. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel, which I preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand. By which also ye are saved. If you keep in memory that I preach unto you, unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you, first of all, that which I also received How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. That he was buried, that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. That he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve, after that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James, then of all the apostles, and of last of all he was seen of me also, as of one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, that I am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain But I labored more abundantly than they all, yea, not I, but the grace of God which was with me. Therefore, whether it were I or they, so we preach And so ye believed. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to really open our eyes to understand these very important truths that we find in these verses. Father in heaven, we are so grateful for the reality of the resurrection of Christ. We know that our Savior was born. He lived a perfect, righteous, sinless life because he is God in flesh. We know that he went to the cross and he was nailed there, and he died burying our sin-dead upon that cross. As his blood was shed, our sin debt was paid in full on that cross. And Father, we're reminded that when he died, he did not stay dead. But he triumphed over death. He rose triumphantly, bodily, physically, literally, from the dead. And he is seated right now at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for us. And one day coming to bring us to be with him forever. I pray that this morning we would recognize that that is not a myth, that is not simply a tradition , that is an historic fact. That is something that our faith must rest upon, if indeed we will spend eternity with our Savior. We ask that you would take the word and use it for your honor and glory, and we ask it in Christ's name. The passage before us reminded the church that the resurrection was a historic reality. And he also reminds them of the way that they had been personally impacted by this historic reality. In fact, there's absolutely no way that you can read these verses and take them at face value, leave them, read them literally. and come away saying, well, you know, the resurrection's kind of a myth. It's something that, oh, Christians like to talk about. It's something that they they ro they remember. It's a wonderful tradition. It's a beautiful warm tradition, but it's not a fact. The way that the Apostle Paul writes about this is in uncertain terms It is a historically reliable account that was attested by many, many eyewitnesses. But before we get into all those details as to why we should believe that the resurrection is in fact true. I want to ask you a very important question. Why are you a Christian? Why do you call yourself a child of God? Now, I'm not going to go into this because I want to make anybody doubt that they're a Christian today. But I do want to ask the question because I believe that many times the answers that we give show that there is a very deficient view of why we should be a Christian. In fact, it'd be very common in our popular culture, a lot of times, athletes who are Christians. I remember when I was a kid, I used to read Sports Spectrum. people that read sports spectrum. I did that when I was a kid. I always read the comics, I always read the box scores, and I always read Sports Spectrum. And you would see different reasons why someone would say, I am a Christian. Some people would say, well, I was I was born into a Christian family, and so that's all that I ever knew. I've never actually questioned my upbringing. I've always taken at face value that You know, I came to church from the time I was a little kid. I enjoyed going to church. I had a great experience. Here I am as an adult. I want my children to experience the same thing that I experienced. A lot of people would say, that's why I'm a Christian. A lot of people might be able to say something like this. I had a totally different experience. I didn't grow up in church. I never experienced what some people would have experienced in our culture, say 50 or 70 or 100 years ago. I was living a life that was very empty and it was very painful. And I felt like my life was spiraling out of control. And if I didn't do something really fast, I was either going to end up in jail or dead. And so I decide I'm going to try Christianity and see if it can help me. Others might say, well, you know, I have had all kinds of relational problems. I've had problems in my marriage. I've had problems with my kids. I've had problems with my parents. I've had problems with my in-laws. I've had problems with my extended family. have problems with the people that I work with And I know that there's got to be something wrong. There's got to be something to help me. So I turned to God and he saved my marriage. A lot of people would say Many, many people would say I had an emotional experience when I was in vacation Bible school, when I was at camp, when I was in a college setting, I had this emotional experience And I can't describe all the details, but I know I just felt close to God when it was all done. I'm going to submit to you today that if that's the answer that you gave, I'm not saying you aren't a Christian. But I'm going to say none of those are good reasons to be a Christian. Not one of them. Now, they could be accompanying in your life story how God brought you to faith in Christ. He may have used your home life. He may have used the emptiness of what you're experiencing. He may have used the challenges in your marriage. He may have used an emotional experience at a camp or in some other setting. But that's not why a person should be a Christian. None of those things have anything to do with the doctrines of the faith. They have nothing to do with the cross. They have nothing to do with sin. They have nothing to do with the resurrection. They're all connected to emotion. On the other side, someone might say, I'll tell you why I'm not a Christian. I don't feel empty. I've got a great job. I have a stable marriage. I didn't grow up in church. I've never needed it and I don't need it. Christianity is a faith system for the weak, for needy people who can't cope with life. I don't need a crutch like those people need a crutch Lots and lots of people today would say that that's their life. That's why they're not a Christian. They would say it's purely emotionalism, it's anti-science, it goes against reason. Christians are condescending people. They're not kind. They're not loving. Christianity is not inclusive enough. And they would give you all these reasons why they're not a Christian. And I would submit to you, not one of those reasons is a good reason not to be a Christian. Not one of them. You say, well, Pastor, why should I be a Christian? It's because it's true. It's because it's true. You may not like it You may not like what God says about how you should live your life. You may not like the fact that the cross is the way it's described in Scripture. You may not like the fact that you have to trust in what a book says that was written over thousands of years and was no longer being written 2,000 years ago. You may not like those things, but it's true. And I want you to understand that the way the apostles preached was not, do you feel like you need Jesus? That's not the way that they preached. They preached in a risen Savior who they could attest to with their own eyes. They appealed to a storyline that began thousands of years before the Lord Jesus Christ Was born and died and rose from the dead. They said, We believe that these are facts and they are true. And they taught and they preached to compel people to examine the evidence and to say How in the world can you write can you reject such a compelling and strong case for the validity of these things? We should not become a Christian because it helps us cope with life, gives us stability or a sense of purpose. We should be Christians because it's true. Now please don't misunderstand I'm in no way suggesting that being a Christian does not affect those other things. Absolutely, I believe that they do I believe that if you'll take the Word of God and you will actually live it out, it will strengthen your relationships with your spouse, with your children, with your parents. I believe that it will give you a sense of purpose and it'll motivate you and it is going to change your life forever. But that's not why you become a Christian. You become a Christian because in fact it is true. And you've been convinced that it is true, and you're willing to stake all of eternity on those facts. There is a compelling case to be made that testifies that unbelief is folly. In fact, the Bible calls unbelief rebellion Not just you know you can pick and choose what you want. He calls it rebellion. He says God commands all men everywhere to repent. The way that they think about Jesus has got a radical They need to turn to him, place their faith alone in what he's done for them. I could go on and on and on about this, but I'm really convinced that one of the reasons we have so much departure from the faith in our culture today is because that is not the way that people teach their kids. And that is not the way that our churches preach and teach the Word of God. That is not the way that our popular Christian Christian culture is appealing to people to believe in the gospel. They're doing all the things that I mentioned in the front side, and as long as nobody comes to a point where they start wondering, do I really like the culture that I'm in? They just continue in it. But that's not the way these people preach. They preach in a pagan world. They preach to people who didn't affirm any of those things, or people who affirm something completely contrary, and they appealed to them through the scriptures. And so this morning, what I'd like us to look at is three compelling reasons to believe the resurrection is true. And they're right here in the text. And the Apostle Paul gave them to this church because he wanted them to understand the resurrection is true. And because the resurrection is true, you need to believe in the resurrection. And because it's true and you need to believe in it, there are all kinds of things that are byproducts that flow out from not believing in the resurrection or believing in the resurrection. He's going to deal with all those things. In very, very careful detail. So the first thing I want us to do this morning is I want us to look at reason number one. It's true because the resurrection fundamentally changed the people in the church. Look down in verses one and two, and notice what it says. He says, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received, wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved. If you keep in memory that which I preached unto you unless you have believed in vain. Now there are really two primary arguments that the Apostle Paul is going to present. To compel them to believe in the resurrection and the way that it relates to how it's changed them. The first thing that he's going to point out to is the way that he handled his ministry He talks about how it is today, and he talks about how it was when he first met them. And he links those two things together. So in the present, he says, I declare unto you the gospel. Now, some of you this morning might be going, well, hold on a second. Why in the world is Paul declaring the gospel to Christians? It's because Christians need to hear the gospel all the time. In fact, the gospel is not just compelling us to be evangelized, but it's compelling us to remember and to live in the light of the position that we have in Christ. And so when he says, I declare unto you the gospel, he's not saying, I declared it, though that is true, and you'll see this in just a moment, but he's saying this is something that I'm continually reminding you of. And I'm continually bringing you back to, and I'm continually pressing before you because you cannot be a healthy Christian if you don't live in the light of the gospel every single day. It's impossible. And then he mentions the past. He says, I preached unto you. And that word preach has the idea of I've evangelized you. It's the heralding of the gospel in an evangelistic sense. And so he says, the reason I preach to you today is because I preached to you then. And he connects those two things together because there is a need for us to be evangelized to trust in the gospel, and then there's a need for us to live in the light of the gospel and be reminded of it over and over and over and over again. To put it very simply, Paul's ministry was all about the gospel. In fact, in Romans chapter 1, this is what he says, verse 14. He says, I'm a debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians. Both to the wise and to the unwise. So that as much as in me is, I'm ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. He's called them believers already, okay? He's writing this to a church. He wants to preach the gospel to them. And by the way, the rest of the book is him expounding the gospel to them. And then implying why it matters. He says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. To the Jew first and also to the Greek, for therein the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. So what's Paul saying? His ministry was entirely about not himself, it was about the gospel. Because everything that he preached was rooted in the gospel. Every blessing that they enjoyed was rooted in the gospel. Every command that flowed in the Christian life was connected back to their position in Christ. It was always logically connected back to the gospel. The second thing he's going to emphasize is that their Christian experience was rooted in the gospel. It's funny how he puts it. He says, you have received this message. That means that there was a time when they received it and they're continuing to stand in it. And then he says, wherein you stand, by which also you are saved. So the Apostle Paul is saying, there was a day when I preached the gospel to you and you were evangelized. You trusted in the finished work of Christ. And that trust is something that is continuing to be there And it's something that you're continuing to live in the light of. It's something that's transforming you. And he doesn't say it's going to save you. It says you are saved by it. That's the really fascinating saying. And then later on he's going to say, if you keep in memory, what I've preached since you unless you believe in vain. He's saying, I'm assuming that you still stand in this message. It wasn't just this casual, oh yeah, I believe in that, and then you moved on and you forgot about it. But you really are convinced of this and you stand in it and you're living in the light of it. That's the sense that we find here. We talk about these Christians. They were standing in this reality. They were saved by this reality. The moment that I trust Christ as my Savior, there are several blessings that in that very moment they become mine. I am forgiven. It's not like I'm forgiven of those things, but then, you know, we'll see what happens with the rest. I am forgiven. Of sins I haven't even yet I have not even yet done. They are dealt with by the cross. I'm declared righteous. I'm in Christ declared righteous Before God. That's a position that doesn't change. It's not like it's kind of flexible, like sometimes I'm declared righteous and sometimes I'm not. That's not what it is. I'm a saint. I'm set apart to God. He says, you belong to me. Now, there are a few aspects of our salvation that though they are guaranteed fully, I have not yet tasted them And that is what glorification is. That is what our inheritance is. When he talks about the adoption, he's talking about the time where we experience all the blessings that are in Christ. But whenever the scripture talks about our position as saved, either talks of it as a present reality or a guaranteed future experience. Let me put it to you in very personal terms. There was both a positional, theological side to this, and there was a very practical, rich side to this, and I want you to see both of them. Because these were compelling reasons for these people to say, I believe in the resurrection. The first, Romans 8. He says, Whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he called, whom he called, these he justified, and them he justified, them he also glorified. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? That's a fascinating question. There's nobody bigger than God, stronger than God, more holy than God. Well, if God's okay with you because he accepts you through Christ, well then who's going to lay a charge against you? There isn't anybody. Well, there might be some that say they have a claim, but God says it's taken care of in Christ. And that's his point. He says, if God is for us, who's against us? Who is he that condemneth? There's no judge higher than God. There's no supreme court that God answers to. He is the supreme judge. He says, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? And he makes the argument there's nothing that can separate us from the love of Christ. So when he says they were standing in this position, that's what he meant. But then there's a practical side to it. Not that those things are not practical. They're very practical. But you don't see them You don't see justification. You don't see your positional change. You don't see those things. The realities that God tells you are true, and we can see the effects of them, but we don't see them themselves. But there was also something very true about this church. It was filled with people who were pagans but didn't live like that anymore. Well, to some extent. But they were transformed people. It is important for us to recognize that when someone becomes a Christian, they always come with some baggage. They always come with a history. They always come with a background. They always come with certain sins that beset them in their past. And I want you to notice the way he speaks to the church in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Earlier in the same Epistle he wrote. He says, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators. Nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, By the way, that's uh several different forms of sexual sin. If you need an explanation, we can talk after it. I'll explain what he's saying. He's very specific. He then goes on to say this: nor covetous, nor thieves, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And we're all sitting in the going, whoo, it's a good thing the church according to have anybody like that. But that's not what it says. Such were some of the You know, there are people who say I could never become a Christian because, and you know what? They list off these very specific sins that were mentioned here. They say, I'm guilty of this. I'm guilty of this. I'm guilty of this. God cannot, He can't forgive me, He can't cleanse me, He can't save me. And the Apostle Paul says, that's not true. He says, it's not true. Such were some of you. You say, Well well what changed? Their identity changed. They went from being known as an adulterer, a fornicator, a drunkard, or a violer, effeminate, abuser of themselves of mankind, those kinds of things. That was their identity and now they're in Christ. Christ. Forgiven, cleansed. And he goes on to say it this way. He says, Such were some of you, but you are washed, and you are sanctified, and you are justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of God. Wash means he cleansed you. Sanctified means he set you apart. You belong to him. You're his child. You're holy. The word saint is what we get from that. Justified means that God's declared you righteous. You say, but but look at your past. He says, forgiven. Forgiven. Transformed. Changed. What's the point? You can't argue with that. Someone whose life was completely full of these things, dominated by them, a slave to them, when their life is transformed, you can't argue with that. And that's his point. He says, you know what? The reason that that's changed is because of the resurrection. It's true. Simply put, there's nothing so fundamentally transformative as someone coming to faith. And so the question is: did they genuinely embrace it? The answer is, of course, they did. And so he says, think about it. What you rest in, what has changed you, that is true. The second thing we're going to see is that it's true because the resurrection is the fulfillment of Old Testament Scripture. Now look carefully at verses 3 to 4. And I want you to read these verses and then ask yourself the question: what is Paul saying should convince us this is true? He says, I have delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. Now, some of you are sitting there going, Well, the script Scriptures. That's why we should believe that. And someone says, well what Joel, how can you believe this book? It was written two thousand years ago, and what does this have to do with us today and how do I know this is true? How do I know that that what I'm reading today is actually what was written thousands of years ago? We can get into a whole lot lengthy discussion about that, okay? God has given us his word, he has preserved his word and we're reading it. today. But listen carefully to what Paul says. He says, I was not the source of this message. I was a tool, I was like conduit, but I was not the source of the message. So when he says Christ died for our sins and he rose from the dead the third day, he doesn't say according to Paul, he says, according to the what? The scriptures. And somebody goes, oh, I know Matthew talks about it, and Mark talks about it, and Luke talks about it, and John talks about it, but there's a problem. They weren't yet written. So when he says according to the scriptures, he's not talking about the Gospels. He's not talking about Romans and all these epistles. He's talking about the Old Testament scriptures. That's a very important detail for us to recognize. The Apostle Paul was saying that this is something we can know is true because it was foretold thousands of years before it actually took place. And there are people that testify to the fact that it that it took place, but it's its connection back to the Old Testament and all those prophecies over thousands of years. That's what should compel us to believe that it is true. Not just somebody says, Well, I saw Jesus, he really rose from the dead. He says, There's a link between the Old Testament and the New Testament. So when Paul talks about the scriptures, he's not talking about, and I'm not saying that Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John aren't scripture. They are scripture. But what I'm saying is, when this book was written, they were not yet written. And the vast majority of the New Testament epistles were not written. Just a few of the New Testament books are written by this point And so it's important for us to recognize also why he draws so much to the eyewitness accounts. He's saying, oh, there are people living today who They can tell you they saw Jesus. They actually sat down with him. They had a meal with him. They know that he literally physically rose from the dead. He has a body, and they saw that and they spent time with him. That's what he's saying. I want you to notice there's a very distinct order here. And whenever we read the scriptures, God's just calling us to close our eyes and jump into the darkness and say, Oh, I hope it lands somewhere. Good. That's not what faith in Christ is. The scriptures are written so that we will be compelled, we will be convinced, even to the point that if somebody is willing to dig into the scripture and look at it at face value, they'll come to a point where they recognize they are resisting the compelling case to believe. That's really what we're talking about. That's the way that the scriptures are written. So it begins with promise. And we said we read in Moses' writings and David's writings and Isaiah and Micah. What do we read? We read in those Old Testament passages Things that God says are going to happen. And he explains why they had to happen. And then what do we see? There were people that anticipated The Old Testament is full of examples of Old Testament saints who believed that those things were true. Moses and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, David, and Daniel, even people like Zecharias , the people that that met Jesus in the temple when he was a small baby We think of Simeon and Anna. These were people who, when they read the Old Testament, they believed that God was going to do what he said he was going to going to do. do. They died anticipating, trusting in a coming Redeemer who had not yet come. What does that tell us? That means it was clear enough people could understand. Who was coming, what he would do, all those things. It was something they could understand. And then we see fulfillment The Gospels record the fulfillment. The people that spent time with Jesus day in and day out, those twelve, guess what? They saw the fulfillment of those things. And guess what they did? They proclaimed it. That word apostle has the idea of someone who is sent with a message. The apostles were sent with a message. Jesus rose. And they always went back to the Old Testament. They say, here's what it said he needed to do, here's what it said who he would be, here's what he did, and we can testify this is true. That's what they did. When Paul goes into the synagogues, what's he doing? He's going back to the Old Testament. He's reasoning from the Old Testament scriptures. He didn't need Romans to give the gospel to somebody. He had the whole Old Testament. And so a proclamation. And then lastly, we see that God gives us His word, the inerrant record of these events, the theological significance, they leave us a sound and unchanging witness. That's what the Bible is. And so when Peter at the end of his life says, We've not fun followed cunningly devised fables, and we want to give you a record so that you can go back to it after we're dead, that's what we're talking about. about. When Jesus says when the Holy Spirit comes, he's going to speak through you and He's going to remind you of the things that you've seen and He's going to tell you things to come. And He's saying, you're going to write scripture. That's what it's all about. And so we see that there is a promise, an anticipation, a fulfillment, a proclamation, and then there's scripture. God says, believe it, or you're rejecting the evidence to say before you. That's what he says. So that moves us to a third truth. We should believe it's true because the resurrection is historically attested. Now, it's easy for us to read these and to not think about what Paul is saying. Listen carefully. He was seen of Cephas, that's Peter. Then of the twelve, that's the apostles. After that, he was seen of above 500 brethren at once. And this next statement is fascinating. Of whom the greater part remain unto this presence, but some are fallen asleep. Now I can remember when I was a kid and I started reading the Bible for the first time, and I can actually remember processing the Bible. And I came to certain passages like this one, I'd go, are they still alive? Have you ever thought this way? Or you know, I was reading in Joshua and Judges and they say, Well they they laid these stones in the middle of the river and they're there unto this day, and I'm like, like we could go there right now, we could see these stones in the river. At least I was understanding this literally. When Paul wrote these words, there were people that they could literally sit down with and say, Okay, Peter, tell me what you saw. And he says, Oh I'll tell you what I saw. And he just gives them this whole story. Hey Jams, tell me what you saw. And he gives them this whole story. And they and they could call people that we don't even know their names. Their name wasn't even important to the biblical account because they were not an apostle, they were not an associate of the apostles, but they saw the resurrected Christ. He said, You can talk to these people. The vast majority of them are still alive. This is probably 20 or so years after the resurrection. So these are people that were still able to talk about what they saw. And then he continues on. He says, after that he was seen of James and then of all the apostles. Last of all, he was seen also of me As of one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, that I'm not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God But by the grace of God I am what I am. His grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain. I labored more abundantly than they all. Yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. Therefore, whether it were I or they, so ye preached, and so ye believed. So let me make it real simple to you. There are basically two things that Paul is saying here He's saying, number one, there are a lot of witnesses. You know, if you're to go into a court of law and somebody was charged with a crime and they're sitting there in the uh in their seat and their lawyer standing there And they and you know the defendant has uh said what they're gonna say and then they they bring the accusation and and and all all the evidence and they say, Well, we've only got five hundred witnesses, I'm sorry, it's gonna take us a while to go through all these witnesses. And they go through one by one by one by one by one. Do you think anybody in that jury is gonna go, oh, not guilty? Would they do that No. Now if you had one person who says, I saw this and it's their best friend, and you start in the cross-examining, you start to see that there's a lot of possibility that there was a little collision here, right? You start going, I don't believe that this is true Oh, two, three, four, five, six, ten, twenty. Eventually you go, I don't think we need to call the rest of these people. I think we get it But for some reason, when people come to the Bible, they go, 500 witnesses aren't enough for me. Please realize something. There were people 2,000 years ago that didn't believe in the resurrection. Resurrection just like there are today. And many of them believed when they heard these accounts. There are people that heard these accounts and still rejected it. And once you realize human nature is not somehow mysteriously different today than it was then. But this sheer volume of witnesses, it's compelling. But I don't even know if that's the most compelling thing he mentions. We need to consider the nature of these people For instance, he says in verse 6, of whom the greater part remain into this present, he's saying, We're not just reading their memoirs and some stories that they wrote. You can sit down, you could talk with them. You could observe their body language, you could ask them very pointed questions. and see how they respond. You understand what it's like to, you know, somebody can write a statement down and it looks really good, but when you sit down, you start asking them some questions, all of a sudden you notice they tense up and you go, oh, but that guy Lion. They can say something that if if you read it, it wouldn't sound that bad, but when you see them say it, you go, Oh, I can see something's not right here. He says, Go talk to these people. That's compelling. But that's not the most compelling thing. The most compelling thing is the kinds of people That gave this testimony. Think about Peter. Peter tells Jesus before he goes to the cross, he says, I will never deny you. And Jesus says, not true. I don't think he said it like that. Three times you will deny me. And the scriptures tell us that on the third time, Jesus and Peter caught Each other's eye. And Peter went out and he wept. He wept. And the next thing we know about Peter is that Peter says, Let's go fishing. Because I think that Jesus doesn't have anything for me to do now. That's that's the man who preached at Pentecost. Just think about that. That stuff He was broken, he was grieving, he thought God was done with him. He gets up at Peter at Pentecost and he says, You crucified the Lord of glory. And I mean it's just so pointed and so straightforward. And you go, what happened to Peter? He saw the resurrected resurrected Christ. He's not lying. Look at Thomas. All the disciples come to Thomas and say, Thomas, you won't believe this. We saw Jesus. He said, Whatever. I don't believe this. Until I can take my hands and put them through those holes in his hands and take my hands and put it in his side, I'm not gonna believe that. True. A couple days later, guess what happened? Jesus said, Hey Thomas, would you like to would you like to go ahead and put your hands through the holes of my hands? Would you like to Put your hand in my side. Thomas started weeping. He fell on his face. He said, My Lord and my God. Aw. I believe this is true. You realize that guy died as a martyr? For a lie, right? There's no way. Simeon and Levi, they were good friends. One worked for the Romans and one said, let's overthrow them. And Jesus calls these two people. And let me tell you, their history didn't go away. Okay. When if Jesus was gone and that was the end of it, I don't think that these two men become good buddies who go out and they preach the gospel together. It didn't happen. No way. There's absolutely no way that would happen. I think about the way that the disciples responded after the crucifixion. They're hiding in an upper room. Their doors are locked. They're terrified. And they're hiding because they think they're next. And a short time later, they're preaching with boldness. And you know what? You know what the Pharisees said? When they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant. They took note of them that they had been with Jesus. You know what that's saying? They said, these people, they're preaching what they saw. They're not afraid. It's not just the volume, it's the nature of these witnesses. You take somebody who hates the gospel and then they testify to it. There's a reason for that. And so you know what Paul does? He mentions himself. In verses 8 through 10, he says, last of all he was seen of me. Also, as one born out of due time. I am the least of the apostles, and not me to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. By the grace of God I am what I am. His grace, which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain. Do you really believe that the Apostle Paul Who hated Christianity and was willing to drag people out of their homes a very long distance away in Damascus? Do you really think that he was willing to die for a lie? If you do, you have a lot greater faith than what you need to become a Christian. The problem is your faith is misplaced. There is no way in the world that a man like Paul Would have been so passionate for a message he so despised. There is no way. There's a lot of people that say, I don't have enough faith to be a Christian. And I say it's because Because you've never looked at the facts. Because you don't want to look at the facts. Because you don't want to consider the implications of the facts. But the implications of the facts are not just on the negative side, folks. There's eternal glory. Every single one of us has dealt with a stubborn person at some point in our life. Or maybe someone's dealt with us because we are a stubborn person. What keeps a stubborn person from changing their viewpoint? All kinds of things. Pride. You ever argued a point that you knew was wrong simply because you didn't want to admit that you were wrong? There's definitely a person who knew it done, I'm sure. What about hatred? When somebody hates something, have you ever noticed that it clouds their judgment? Have you ever noticed how it clouds their judgment? They have an inability to see clearly because hatred so dominates their viewpoint That they can't see the facts right in front of them. We've dealt with people like this. Personal investment. Somebody says, I've given too much to this. I will not forsake this because of how much I have poured into it. It's a very common saying. You might even be able to reason with somebody and they say, Yeah, I know what you're saying is true, but you don't understand how much I put into this, I can't, I can't, I can't leave this, I can't forsake this, I can't turn away from this. And think of fear. How does fear cripple people? It cripples people unmercifully. Do you realize every single one of those things that I just mentioned was a compelling reason to believe that the apostles would never Go and preach this message. Fear, investment, the Apostle Paul, hatred, the Apostle Paul. Pride. Yet what do we see? Without any question, they they laid aside everything. They didn't care what it cost them, and they proclaimed the message with passion. Literally, not just in their local community, but throughout the entire expanse of the Roman world. World. Why? Because it's true. I hope this morning, as you think about these truths, you'll come to one very simple thought. The reason I need to be a Christian is because it's true. Not because I had a warm fuzzy feeling at one moment in my life, but it's because it's true How can I reject so much evidence? How can I, thinking rationally, looking at the facts in front of me, say, I don't believe this? I don't understand it. There's a reason to believe. You might say, well, Joe, how do we respond to this? Let me give you a couple thoughts in closing. One is we didn't we need to understand why there is an epidemic of deconstruction. our broader evangelical world. It's because people don't preach like this. Instead there's a lot of emotion , a lot of coercion, there's a lack of teaching. They're encouraging people to just jump into the dark. And you know what? When you jump into the dark, you don't know what you're hitting. We need to say this is what God's Word says. Let's believe it. It's compelling us through reasoned arguments. A lot of us don't teach and preach like the apostles did. We need to We don't have a culture that's being shaped by this method of instruction that needs to change. But there's another side to this. There might be someone here this morning. that you realize for the first time maybe that you know what you're not a Christian because in your mind you're a Christian because you grew up in the church And you say, I don't even know. Like, my faith is not rooted in the gospel at all. My faith is in the fact that I was raised in this family. Trust in the gospel. You might say, I remember I had some emotional experience, but I have absolutely no idea what it was connected to. Well, turn to Christ. Trust in the gospel. There might be somebody sitting here saying, I won't be a Christian because I don't need him. I haven't had those experiences. I think it's too demeaning and this and that. And they go through all these things and I say, Are you evaluating the facts? Are you rejecting because you don't like where it leads? There are lots of things in life we don't like where they lead, but we have to accept they're true. And we have to come to terms with the fact that they're true. And the fact is, after you come to faith in Christ, you'll recognize that not only are they true, but in fact they're glorious. As Christians, we should be strengthened in our faith. If you're trusting in the gospel, this gives you a reason to be stronger in your conviction. We need to rejoice in the fact that because these things are true, we can live the Christian life the way the Bible says we can. We need to be compelled to live Like we actually believe this is true. That is the focus of the message this morning. I pray that that's what God will do in our hearts. Let's bow together. Before we close in prayer, I'm just going to ask a simple question. Is there anyone in the room today? And I'm the only one that's looking, and I will not call you out. I would say, Pastor, I'm not sure that I'm a Christian. And I'm actually very bothered by that. And I need to talk to you. Is there anyone that would raise your hand quietly in this moment and say, I'm not sure that I'm a Christian and I need to talk to you? You might say, I made a profession of faith when I was four or six. eight. I got baptized when I was ten, but I'm not sure. The fact that you're doubting doesn't mean you're not a Christian. But it does mean that you need to be talked to and taken to the script Scriptures and helped. Is there anyone that would raise your hand and say that's me, Pastor? I need I need to have a conversation. You may not have felt comfortable to raise your hand. That's fine. But please don't hesitate to reach out. I want to be an encouragement, a help to you. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father in heaven, take the word, use it to press our soul. To convict us and to convince us and to challenge us and to cause us to rejoice in you. I'm so thankful that we serve a risen Savior who has redeemed us from the curse of the law by being a curse for us. Take the word and use it today in Christ's name. Amen. Okay , let's all turn to our closing hymn four hundred and sixteen. I love this song. My faith has found a resting place. Now you know where that resting place should be. And uh I want to encourage you that tonight we are going to continue in the first Corinthians theme. Um we're going to talk about why the resurrection matters. But today we talked about why it's true in the morning. Tonight we're going to talk about why it matters. And so I really hope that you will come and join us for that. Let's stand together. 416. My faith has found a resting place. Let's really sing this hymn out to the Lord. I think that's not the rest of the thing I can be by so I see you for me , shall I? I need to follow the market again, but I need a Great singing to one Wonderful to be in the Lord's house and uh looking forward to us continuing our series. Ralph, can you close us in prayer please? And uh if you're visiting by and uh greet me and my wife Let's pray. Our Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for bringing us here together to learn the truth from your word. We ask that you would dismiss us with your blessing. Send us out in the world. Let them know it was good to be in the Lord's house today and trying to share this truth with our lives. We we praise you and give you the glory in Christ's name. Amen.