Hope that your week is going pretty well and uh looking forward to our study tonight. We are now out of the Beatitudes And we're getting into the rest of Sermon on the Mount. So excuse me, let's bow for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our time. And then we will dig into verse number 13 tonight. Let's pray. Father, we ask that tonight as we open the Word of God that you would speak to our hearts. Father, help us to have a clear mind. Help us to understand this truth very, very well. Help me as I communicate it to Present these truths in a way that are very accessible, that are practical, and I pray that the Holy Spirit will take these things in you. use them in our hearts. Help us to recognize that as your people, we are a distinct people, and you leave us in the world for purpose. And a function, and I pray that we would uh embrace that rather than run from it, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Matthew 5. 13 is the scripture we're reading tonight. And here's what the scripture says. Ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt has lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is henceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men. Let me read that again. Such a simple verse. It's only one verse. It says, ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt hath lost his favor, wherewith shall it be salted? It is henceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men. Let me give you a summary for what I think ultimately Jesus is saying in these verses, and then I'd like us to dig into this concept one piece at a time. Here's the summary. God's children have a distinct nature, like salt, which functions as a preserving agent. in this corrupted world. Let me say it again. God's children have a distinctive nature like salt, which functions as a preserving agent. In this corrupted world. God wants his children to understand their function in the world. Now, before we look at this question in detail, why does he make this illustration or why does he make this analogy? I think it's important for us to recognize the logical connection between the statement, you are the salt of the earth, and the next statement, you are the light of the world. And what he's just said about how the believer experiences persecution. He says, when you are persecuted for the sake of Christ, happy are ye. When you are persecuted for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. And so when Jesus talks about this, probably the most logical thing for a Christian to do is to say, if we're going to get persecuted for righteousness' sake, And we're going to suffer for the name of Christ. Wouldn't it be far better for God to just take us and remove us from this world so we wouldn't have to deal with that? I mean, hey, it's great that we're different from the world, and it's great that that distinction can be seen, and it's great that that distinction identifies us with Christ. But we would really like to not have to face that terrible difficulty of persecution. Or maybe it would even be better to not have to deal with the mess of this world. And let's just kind of isolate ourselves off into a little commune and let's live as good Christian people in our little commune and not be uh affected by the world around us. And by the way, there are periods in church history where that's exactly what people did. Instead of them living in the world They said, we're not of this world. We're being persecuted for righteousness' sake. Let's withdraw from the world. Let's live in a little bubble, and let's just live together in harmony and not have to come in contact with the nasty world out there. That seems like a very logical thing to do, doesn't it? In fact, in some ways that's how how my family ended up in America. They were Huguenots. They were they were being killed in France and they said, you know what, we don't want to get killed in France. Let's flee to America and then let's establish our own little community of Huguenots because it's safer there for us. And a lot of people actually came to America in those early days to flee from religious persecution. But this verse tells us something that we need to remember. God doesn't want us to flee from contact with people who are not Christians. God wants us to be planted in a corrupted world so that we will see serve a very distinct purpose. And you know what that purpose is? It is to preserve humanity for the glory of God. That's really ultimately what it is. And so let's get into this first truth that we find in these verses. God's people are the salt of the earth. He says in verse 13, you're the salt of the earth. And in order for us to appreciate what Jesus is saying, we need to consider the nature and the function of this thing called salt. Salt is a preservative or an it is an antiseptic. Okay? When we say a preservative, it's something that in the old days they used to take it and they used to rub it into meat and they would rub it into the meat. So that instead of the meat rotting, you could eat it. And then you'd probably get sick because of all the sodium that you ate, but it was it was a preservative. Okay? Or there were times that they would take that Salt, and let's say a person had a cut, a wound, they'd take that salt and they would rub it on the wound and they would do that so that it would kill the germs and it would make you scream a lot too, probably because it burns so badly I remember when we lived over in Ghana, we'd go to the uh the to the market and we'd get all of our vegetables, we'd have lettuce, and we'd have carrots, and we'd have all this stuff. And in the market it was just sitting in some not really nice stuff, okay? It's true it's fresh fruits and vegetables, but it's also true that it was fresh fruits and vegetables that came with a lot of extra stuff that you didn't want in your body. And so you know what Deanna would do? She had this pot that would sit there in the kitchen and she would put salt and vinegar in the water and then she would soak the vegetables in that water because it would kill all the bacteria that was on that and then we wouldn't get sick when we ate it. Sometimes you go to a restaurant and guess what? They wouldn't do that. And you'd get sick when you came home because they didn't disinfect it. So You know, something as simple as uh putting putting your vegetables in there to kill bacteria, pickling vegetables, all right? People like to eat pickles today because they taste good. But the real reason that people used to pickle stuff was to preserve it so it wouldn't become bad and make you sick. So when we think about this thing of salt, we need to recognize that Jesus used this illustration for a reason. And in the ancient world, salt had great value. In fact, it was so valuable to people. Because it was a part of survival that they used it as a currency. And and you know you might be sitting there going, Why in the world would they give them that as a currency? Well If if everything that you ate had to be preserved by salt, then you need a lot of it, okay? And so it was an important thing. It also could have been used to flavor food, but I don't think that was the primary purpose that Jesus uses this illustration for. Most likely he's focusing on the function of preservation. And so when the Bible says you are the salt of the earth, he's saying you're in the world for a preserving function. That's what he's saying. So I want us to move, second of all, to some of the facts that we find here. He doesn't tell them to be Sauls. Did you catch that? He doesn't say you need to be the salt of the earth. I mean that's kind of the way that we a lot of times think of it, or you need to become the salt of the earth. So what he says He says you are the salt of the earth. You might say, well, that distinction doesn't really make a whole lot of sense, or it's not really that big a deal. It's, you know, you become versus you are. Why does it matter? Well, it actually matters a lot. Because the illustration is getting to the heart of the nature of a person. It is the nature that they have that is distinct from the world that makes them the salt of the earth. And we could say that salt is salt all the way down even to the to its its very nature on the molecular level. This isn't a science thing, but either salt is salt or it's not salt. That's the way that it works And the way that you can test something as salt is you can look at some of the properties that you know true salt has, and you can test those properties. One of those things is you can taste it. Alright? You can taste it. Now, if you taste something that you think is salt and it's not, that could be dangerous for you. Okay? Could be very dangerous for you. And this kind of gets to the illustration that he's about to use here in a second. If something is called salt and you examine it, but it does not have the quality that salt possesses, and you have one of two things. Either one, you have something that's being called salt and it's not. Or you have something that is salt, but it's had all these, we could say, diluting elements added to it, and so it does not now have the pure quality of being only salt. Does that make sense? So let's say that you had salt in your cupboard and your child goes out in the backyard and takes that little salt thing and they have a white sandbox. And they take the salt and they pour it in the sandbox and they mix it around. Is there salt in the sand? There is some salt in the sand. Is it only salt? No, can you use it in that state? No, you can't. Okay? So in other words, all the salt, it's still salt, but because it's in the sand, it's not usable anymore. You can't use it. And so if something was once pure, but something has been added to it that dilutes it or corrupts it, salt's still there, but it's not usable. And this is part of what Jesus is getting at. The next thing is this. This indicates some very specific qualities about the believer. Let me kind of work my way through them. First of all. He's saying this is true because they're believers. Not because they think they're believers. Not because they say they're believers. Not because somebody else tells them they're believers. This is true because they are truly genuine believers. Second. Being genuine believers means that they are regenerated. That means that they are alive in Christ. They're not spiritually dead, they are spiritually alive. Like in Ephesians chapter 2, it says, You have the quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world. But he says, But now in Christ Jesus you've been made alive. So he's talking about these people being real believers, being regenerated, meaning they have a real nature that is completely different than what it was formerly. And then thirdly, this new nature is going to manifest itself in a very distinct way. That's what the Beatitudes are all about. Blessed are those who are poor in spirit, and blessed are those who mourn and blessed are the meek and blessed are the pure in heart. And he goes through all these qualities. What what was the the importance of those things? He's saying when a person becomes a Christian, their their nature changes, and this is what you see in that This is the result of someone being a Christian. So, believer, regenerate, new nature manifests itself in a very distinctive way. And lastly, and here is the key, God has left them in the world as a preserving agent Let me say it again. God has left them in the world as a preserving agent. It is God's will that you and I in this room Stay in the world till he says, you have run your course, you have finished your race, and I'm taking you home. There are a lot of Christians that say, you know I'm weary, I'm tired, I just want Jesus to come so I don't have to deal with this messy world anymore. , And that's a fair feeling for us to have. But we have to come to the conclusion that, you know what, if God's left us here, he's left us here for a purpose. And we need to accept that. And we need to embrace that. And that's where he is getting at in this passage. We also see that Scripture is filled with many reminders. That God's people have functioned in this way throughout all of history. Let me give you some examples. The first passage I want you to turn to is Isaiah chapter 1. Verse number nine. This example is from Old Testament Israel. What was the function of the nation of Israel? What was it supposed to be in the ancient world? He said that you are a kingdom of priests, you are a holy nation, you are a peculiar people. It doesn't mean y'all are strange and weird. That's not his point. But his point is that you're different. You're particular. There's a distinction between the world and God 's people And so in verse 9 of chapter 1, Isaiah 1. 9, he says, Except the Lord of hosts had left a very small remnant. We should have been as Sodom and we should have been as Gomorrah. Could you imagine Jewish people reading that and going, whoo? If it wasn't for a small remnant in this nation, we would have been like Sodom and Gomorrah. And you say, well, in what way? He doesn't actually say. I mean, in one way, they would have been completely morally degenerate. So there were people in the nation who believed in the Messiah, who were real believers waiting for the Messiah. And they were following what God said is right and rejecting what God says is wrong. And their presence in the nation kept the nation, as degenerate as it was, from becoming Sodom and becoming Gomorrah. That's what he's saying. If those people were gone, the nation would have descended to that level. That's what he's saying. But there's a second aspect to it. God preserved the nation of Israel because there was a remnant as well. And so when we think about the story of In Genesis of Sodom and Gomorrah, and God comes to Abraham and he says, I'm going to destroy the city of Sodom and the city of Gomorrah. Abraham says, Well, God If there's this 50 righteous in the city, would you spare it for them? He said, yes, I'll do it. He says, okay. He's like, let me let me let me try that again. And he he whittles it down and you know what's amazing? He whittles it down to ten people And if you do the math, you know what you discover? If just Lot's family had been a righteous family, just just Lot, his wife, His kids, their spouses. If only that group had been righteous, as wicked and evil as Sodom and Gomorrah was, God would not have destroyed it. Isn't that an incredible thing to consider? Just that one family would have kept it from that destruction. And so the point is this: God leaves people in communities to preserve. If Law and his family had done what they were supposed to, God would have preserved that city. It's a stunning thing to consider. And so God says, I'm preserving the nation. Obviously, there are all these promises he's made to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob and to David and to Moses. But God says, I've preserved a people within that people. Another example, 1 Kings chapter 19, verse 18. He says, Yet I have left me 7,000 in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him. Now this is a story dealing with Elijah, and you remember Elijah when he's there on Mount Carmel, and there is this great victory, and all the prophets of Baal are executed. And God has demonstrated his power and his authority. And the next thing that happens is Jezebel sends this message to Elijah and he says, and she says, What you did to the prophets of Baal is going to happen to you. You're going to get killed. And I'm going to see that it happens. And you know what Elijah did? He ran for his life for days all the way to the Sinai Desert. And there he sits on this secluded area and he begins to have a penny party, which probably you would have had and I would have had as well. I mean, this was this emotional high and then this emotional low, and he's running for his life, and he's weary, he's tired, he's hungry, and he just says, God, just kill me. I don't want to deal with this anymore. There's nobody in this country that loves you and cares about you except for me. That's what he said. I mean, let's think about the logic. If there's only one person there, then why would God take them? He needs a witness there, right? But when God is speaking to Elijah, he says, Elijah, you're wrong. There's at least 7,000 people in this country. Now that's not a lot of people, okay? When you're thinking about a nation, that's more people than are here tonight. That's more people that are here on a Sunday. That's more people that have come through these doors in the last five years. That's probably as many people as we have in some of the strongest gospel preaching churches just in this community. And the reality is that God has a people, and those people are functioning to preserve. We see another example. This is in the New Testament in John chapter 17. This is Jesus' high priestly prayer. Listen to what he says. I have given them thy words, and the world hath hated them. Jesus is speaking to the Father about the disciples. I've given them thy word, thy word they have hated, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world. But that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. Now, some people are going, why didn't Jesus just say, why don't you present them and take them out? He says, I pray that you don't take them out. Isn't that an amazing statement? God wants his people to be living in this fallen world because we have an important purpose. He then goes on to say this, they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world, and for their sakes I sanctify myself that they also might be sanctified through the truth. Now here's where his prayer gets even more interesting. He says, neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word. Now, if Jesus took his people out of the world, guess what? That message doesn't come to all these people that he's talking about here In other words, he leaves us in the world for a purpose. And that purpose is to function as a preservative. We are the salt Another example, last one I'll mention is in 1 Peter 3, verse 15. Here's what it says. Sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. And then he says in verse 18, 4, Christ also suffered once for sins. The just for the unjust to bring us to God. Now, I I hope you can understand the logical connection that Peter is making for these Christians. He's basically telling them this. First of all, God leaves you in this world, and this world's a messy place. The people that he's writing to, they were experiencing persecution. That's one of the great themes of 1 Peter is suffering and persecution. And he says, Your job, Christian, is to sanctify the Lord in your heart. That means You live like he's really the Lord. Okay? You submit to his authority. In your heart you say, you're in charge, I'm not in charge. And so you live in a way that is very distinct from the world around you. And then he goes on to say this, when you do that, people are going to ask you questions. He says, be ready to give an answer to every man. Why does he say that? Well, because people will say, why do you live this way? Why do you think this way? Why don't you do these things? Why do you do these things? It doesn't make sense. You just experience this thing and the way that you're handling it and the way that I'm handling it, totally different. Why? And you say, well, it's the hope that lies within me. What is that? It's the gospel But then he goes on beyond that and he says, and let me give you the greatest example of somebody who suffered so that another person could be redeemed. It's Jesus. He went into this messy, nasty world He lived a perfect and holy, righteous life. He was persecuted. He was hated. He was despised. And he goes to the cross and he's crucified on the cross so that you can be brought to the Father. So he says, you serve a function. It's important. Second truth we find here. It is possible For the professing church to lose its distinctiveness. I mean, do I even need to say this? It's very obvious, especially in the culture that we live in. But in this passage of Scripture, he draws this out. He says, verse number 13, it's two words, but if, you know what that tells me? There is a condition that can happen. So what he's going to talk about in just a minute is how the salt can lose its savor. And this is something that we have to think about. What does he mean by that? But the idea is that this is a possibility. This is something that can happen. When a person claims to be a Christian, he either is a Christian or he's not a Christian. I mean that's that makes good sense, right? If you're saved or you're not. There's like not a middle ground. You're not like sorta saved and sort of not saved. There's not this middle ground, this like purgatory between being a Christian and not being a Christian. It doesn't work that way. Either you're in Christ or you're in Adam. Either you're under the wrath of God because you're in Adam or you're alive in Christ and there's no condemnation. There's no middle ground. And so when somebody says I'm a Christian, either they are or they're not. But a genuine Christian is one who is living out that distinction. And this distinction is going to have a profound impact. on where God plants them. The idea is that when a person has truly understood the gospel and they've trusted Christ as their Savior, and they become a new creature in Christ and old things pass away and all things become new. And they begin to grow into Christ-likeness, that changes how they relate in every area of life. It changes their conscience. There's stuff that didn't bother them before. And you become a Christian, guess what? All of a sudden you're like, I don't feel comfortable doing that. And you know what's funny about it? Sometimes nobody even told you don't do that. I've experienced this when you're working with a young Christian. They'll say, hey Joel, this this thing I've been thinking about and I I've been doing this and I I kind of kind of don't think maybe I should do that anymore. I'm like, why why do why do you not feel good about it? I don't even know that I can explain why, but I don't feel right about it anymore. I'll say, well Let me show you why you shouldn't feel right about it. I'll go to the Bible and say, well, here's what the scripture said. They're like, oh no, I really don't feel right about it. What does that do? Your conscience is affected by becoming a new creature in Christ. Your work ethic changes. Things like your demeanor, how you relate to other people, how you handle conflicts. The way we raise our family, the things that we vote, like what we value when it comes to even choosing our leaders as a nation, how we pray for our nation, how we pray for our leaders. What we're living for, what we're willing to die for. Every aspect of our life is touched by our faith in Christ. And here is the simple fact. That when a person becomes a Christian and they're in a work environment, they were not a Christian before, they they understand the gospel, they trust Christ, and they start living in a distinct way. Their life starts to affect that little context that they're in. Now, some people will not like that, and they may face some pressure. But I'll guarantee you there's things that were said in front of that person as an unbeliever that will not be said after they're a Christian. It's true. Like people all of a sudden they'll realize like, oh, I really shouldn't talk about that. Or there's a conversation being had. You walk into the room to to go get your lunchbox for lunch break. Or uh do people use lunchboxes anymore? No, they don't, I guess, you know. Whatever. You you walk into the break room and all of a sudden it gets quiet. Why do you get quiet? I mean you didn't tell anybody to stop talking. It's because they know you don't improve of those things. Like everybody's laughing but you and all of a sudden they're like, oh, probably shouldn't say that around them next time. Or there's an issue with the boss, and the way that you think about it is so different than the rest of them. There's a conflict with somebody. The way that you handle it is so different. What's the point? The point is this. There is corruption in every single context you go into in life. And God plants Christians in those contexts so that it's not as bad as it could be. It's not as nasty and corrupt as it could be. God wants the Christian to be salt in that context. Just like a person who's got a slab of meat and they say, I'm going to rub the salt into the meat so that the meat doesn't rot, God puts us in the world to preserve. When a body of people claims to be a body of genuine believers, talking about a church, either they are or they're not. Okay, it's true on the on the on the inner personal context. It's also true in the corporate context. A healthy, vibrant body of believers will have a powerful impact where God has planted them. That church is going to lead people to Christ. That church is going to shape the current and future generation within it. That church is going to care for the spiritual well-being of the people around them. That church is going to be a presence that has a preserving presence in an otherwise decaying world. And this is one of the ways that God preserves humanity. He does it through the presence of his people. You know, there are a lot of Christians that in their mind they say, you know what I hate seeing what's going on in my culture. I wanted to stop. I wanted to change. But rather than addressing it at the root They they constantly deal with it at the fruit level. They're like a person who's pruning a bush. Do you know what happens when you prune a bush? You get more branches. Okay? You get more branches. You cut a branch off, and then four come up in the spot where you just cut it. There's a tree right out here. Okay? It's right over the top of our of our ACs And if you walk out there, you'll see that there's like this branch that was going and that was cut off and there's like five branches going from that one branch. And now all this little branches are they're hanging over the AC and we've got to cut it back all the time. And a lot of people think that the way you transform society is you deal with all the problems. Oh, we got this issue, we got this issue, we got this issue, let's address this one and this one and this one and this one. And in and listen, that is not the way the Bible addresses these issues. You know what's stunning about the New Testament? Paul never told the church to go to Rome and crusade against, you know, we need to give workers rights in this country. In this Roman Empire. He didn't do that. He didn't do that. There were all kinds of social ills that were going on in Rome. He never said the church needed to go to Rome and try to fix those things. You know what he did? He said, preach Christ. Because when you preach Christ, a person who was totally okay with this and this and this and this and this And they did it and they celebrated, and it was something they would live and die for. They become a Christian. All of a sudden they want nothing to do with those things. Now that's only one person. But when you get enough of those one people being conquered by the Spirit of God working in their heart, guess what happens? A society doesn't tolerate these things anymore. You know why? Because there's enough people that really have biblical values, because they're actually Christians, that they don't support those things. And in fact, even in our own country we saw that take place. In the UK that that took place We talk about the stories of missionaries going into cultures that were full of all kinds of vice and wickedness And when the church was planted and people became Christians, all of a sudden practices that were completely acceptable for many, many generations Polygamy, people beating and killing their wives, slavery, people that would just kill their children if they didn't want to have a girl, because We want boys only, that mindset, or oh this child has this deformity, let's leave them on a mountainside and just let them be exposed All of a sudden the society doesn't do those things anymore. Why? Oh, because they outlawed it. No, because they have a different character because they're Christians and they don't accept those things. And so the idea is that when the church is functioning the way it's supposed to, it has a preserving nature in the place where it's planted. But when a group of people that once had this distinctive lose the distinctive, it goes the other direction. You say, well, what does that look like? Well, a church is unhealthy. A church that becomes diluted. When I say diluted, what I mean is That that congregation still has people that are genuine Christians, but because of compromises in that congregation, as the church gets older, the people that are coming, they're not actually genuine believers. They don't hold the same beliefs. The same values. They don't believe the same thing. And the church changes. Meaning in the same building, has the same name on the sign. They may not even get rid of the doctrinal statement right away. But the nature of the people is different. That can happen in congregation. People call themselves something, but their character is different. And the body ceases to be what it once was. It ceases to function in the way that it once did. And that leads us to the third truth. The kind of loss that Christ is addressing is something that cannot be reversed. And verse 13 he says, if the salt hath lost his savor, Wherewith shall it be salted? Maybe to put it in another way, if your son, I have a a a toddler who likes to go into the cabin. It's amazing. He can go into the living room and he can pull a chair, drag it all the way. He can drag it into another room and slide it up there and he can climb on top of that thing and reach up and he can grab something and just dump it all over the floor. He could do it. Boom, just like that. And and it's stunning how quick it is. If my son goes and he grabs that that thing of iodized salt and he takes it and he pours it out in the sandbox. And he stirs it around. Guess what? It's been wasted. It ain't gonna get used. Just gonna leave it there. Let the kids play in the salt box, right? And guess what? That happens in churches too. A church can get to the place where, the way he describes it is, lost his savior. In other words, that body that says we are God's people is now so watered down that it's not what it once was. And it gets to a place where, frankly, it cannot be reversed. I'll put it like this. While Christ is building, preserving, and guiding his church. There are some local assemblies that are being birthed. There are some local assemblies that are growing and maturing. There are some that are full of life. They are reproducing themselves, starting other churches. Sending out missionaries. They're sending people out who are going to start other churches. They're going to be pastors in other churches. People that are going to be vibrant Christians. But other churches at the same time are starting to decline. They're beginning to compromise. They're beginning to become lazy and self-centered. And guess what happens? Over time, that congregation gets to a place where it can't get reversed. It can't get turned around because it has become so compromised. Because it has become so unhealthy. It's possible for a local assembly that was once a thriving church to reach a point of no return. And I think that this is really the sense of what Jesus is getting at when he says salt has lost its savor. Salt doesn't stop being salt. But if you have something that has salt in it and you add stuff to it, all of a sudden it's diluted and it can't be used. That's what he's saying. And so in the book of Revelation, listen to what Jesus says to the church at Ephesus. He says, Remember from whence thou art fallen. Repent. Do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent. You say, what's Jesus saying? What he's saying is if a church stops doing what it's supposed to do, there's going to be a day that it doesn't exist. And you say, why doesn't it exist? Because God's going to see that it doesn't. That's what he's saying. He's warning the church at Ephesus, if you do not do the first work, you will one day not have an assembly in this location. And you know, you can see this practically if you've been a Christian for a long enough period of time and you've been in different churches over the years, you've seen what happens when a church splits over irreconcilable disunity. And so a church that was once like two, three hundred becomes a church of like 150, and then all these people have contentions and then it becomes a church of 75. And then it becomes a church of forty, and it becomes a church of fifteen, and they're all in the same family. And guess what? That church is gone. It's gone. They might still have the finances to keep the doors open in their building, but you give it another ten years. Once those people are too old to do it, one day they're going to close the door Because they can't continue to do what they're doing. If a church compromises doctrinally to a point where it no longer holds the basic essential Christian beliefs, guess what happens? You have what you have in some of the churches our community where it's like, let's celebrate Pride Month. I'm like, what in the world are you talking about? Yet you can drive by places that I'm assuming that there was a time when they actually preached the gospel in some of these places, maybe 50 years ago or 80 years ago. There's no church in that building anymore. There's nothing that even resembles a church in that building. It is an essential scandal in a church that is covered up. is something that can ultimately destroy a congregation. A group of people can become unpasturable because they are so unhealthy in their view of how they relate to people and leadership. I think this is the idea of what Jesus is getting at. You have a group of people who say, we're believers, we're salt, but the salt has lost its savor And he says, what's the good of it? It's worthless. Throw it out in the street. You can't do anything with it. So that moves us to truth number four. A false confession of relationship to Christ is worthless. There's a difference between being a Christian and saying you're a Christian. A person can say anything they want. You can put any name you want on a sign in front of a building. You can say, this is who I am. But the fact is, it could be a lie, or it could be the real deal And so in verse 13 he says, It is henceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men. I'll give you an illustration from when I was in Ghana. Remember one time I had my vehicle and we had a Toyota Highlander and it was a great vehicle. I mean it's a great vehicle for somebody still, I believe And I remember one day I was driving that vehicle and I was driving down to the seaside and uh I was going fishing down there, okay? And so I pulled over the Highlander and I get all my gear out and I walk down to the river and I'm fishing there in the mangrove swamp. And I catch some fish, I got my thing, my cooler and everything, and I I get back and I I get into the vehicle and I start it up and it goes boom boom boom boom boom boom I was like, oh, it's weird. I I drove this thing here, there's no problem. I've never had an issue like this until I turned turned the key and It does the same thing. And it's it's dead. I can't get it to do anything. I can't I can't get it to turn over. Nothing. I was like, what do I do? So I called a friend and he said we're gonna have to get a tow truck, which that was kind of weird, but yeah, we got a tow truck. And we took it to a mechanic shop. And you know what they discovered when they looked at my vehicle? The gasoline that I bought at the gas station that day did not have just gas in it. In fact, it was it was primarily water with gas in it. That's essentially what it was. And so they had to drain everything in that vehicle. They had to drain all the hoses, drain the gas tank. In fact the guy even said, here, you can smell it. It's got a little bit of gas in it, but it's not gas. And that's why you couldn't drive your vehicle. Well, did I say, well, oh, hold on a second. Let's separate the gas and the water and let's put the gas back in the car. I mean, you can't do that. We just threw it away. We disposed of it very well, I'm sure, at that mechanic shop. That was worthless And so you could call it gas. I paid for it as if it was gas, okay? I put it in my car. But it wasn't. And I remember talking to them, they said, well, you know, sometimes these gas stations to like you know raise their profit margins a little bit, they they put some additives in there. And sometimes they put too much of the additives in there and it's not really gas anymore. I said, thank you. I now know that. Well, this is kind of what Jesus is talking about here. In the same way that assault substance A salt substitute, in the same way that a salt substitute or diluted salt is of no, is not the real deal, neither is a spiritually dead assembly that confesses that they have a relationship with Christ. In the same way that a salt substitute or diluted salt does not pass the qualities of genuine salt, neither does a spiritually dead assembly that says they have a relationship with Christ possess the qualities of a genuine church. In the same way that a salt substitute substitute or a diluted salt is worthless, so is an empty, lifeless confession of relationship to Christ. There's nothing absolute about the word Baptist on a church name. There are Baptist churches in Anaroma County that do not believe in inerrancy. They don't believe in the substitutionary death of Christ. They don't believe in the deity of Christ, they don't believe in a literal bodily resurrection, they have a totally different definition of marriage than the Bible. You say, but it says Baptist. Yeah, that's true. But it doesn't believe what the Bible teaches in those areas. You say, well, why don't they just remove the name? Well, it's there by tradition. The tradition is more valuable than the standard of Scripture. And the fact is that this can happen. And we need to be prayerful and we need to be conscientious and we need to be diligent and say, God, don't let it happen here. We are salt. Let's maintain the purity of that quality. And so the final thought is this. 1 Timothy 3 verse 14. He says, the things, these things write into you hoping to come to you shortly. If I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God. Which is the church, the living God, the pillar and the ground of the truth. The church is the pillar and ground of the truth. We have a completely, radically different nature than the world around us. God left us in the world to be a preservative. We're supposed to be here. If God took us out, guess what? People wouldn't get saved. People wouldn't grow. The world would just wander off into lust field. In the same way that God said to the nation of Israel in Isaiah 1, if I hadn't left a remnant, you would have become like Sodom and Gomorrah. You would have had the values of Sodom and Gomorrah, you would have been destroyed like Sodom and Gomorrah. But I left a remnant to preserve you. As bad as you got, you would have been way worse had those people not been there. That's what he's saying. God left us in the world to preserve. And we need to take that function seriously. We need to desperately grow and live consistent with our position. We need to tell people about Christ. We need to function without apology in the capacity that God has planted us in here for. And so I say, may God help us to do that. It's totally logical that he would say, okay, the Christian faces persecution. You want to pull out, and I'm going to say, your assault, stay in it. Stay in it. Until I say it's time to go, you stay in it. Let's bow and ask the Lord to help us with this. Father, I pray that you will help us To really understand this concept very, very well. Help us, Lord, to be a pure church. That we would love the gospel, we would love sound doctrine, we would have a heart for souls, we would care about discipling those who place their faith in Christ. Father, help us to reach this generation and help us to train the next generation. And until you come, I pray that there would be a faithful congregation of believers proclaiming the true gospel message. And sound doctor in this place until that day. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen