Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and looking forward to digging into this passage again with you this morning. If you have not been joining us this week, uh we are in Luke chapter 9 And we're looking at verses 28 through 36, and it's the passage dealing with the transfiguration. So let's all turn together there and read this passage, and then we'll look at another interesting concept that we find in these verses. Here's what it says. And it came to pass, about in eight days after these things, he took Peter and John and James, and went up into a mountain to pray. And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, his raiment was white and glistening. And behold there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias, who appeared in glory and spake of his decease, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep. When they were awake they saw his glory and the two men that stood with him. And it came to pass as they departed from him. Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here. Let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, and one for Elias, not knowing what he said. While he thus spake, there came a cloud and overshadowed them, and they feared as they entered into the cloud There came a voice out of the cloud saying, This is my beloved son, hear him. And when the voice was passed, Jesus was found alone. And they kept it close and told no man of those things, any of those things which they had seen. Now as we've been dealing with this passage of scripture, we've looked at several concepts that are presented in these verses. We've looked at the importance of the cross and its connection to the revealing of Christ's glory. We talked about the fact that Jesus is God in flesh, God incarnate. and that his glory was veiled and it was revealed here in the transfiguration. Yesterday we had the opportunity to look at how Jesus is the centerpiece of all of Scripture, the Old Testament, the New Testament, at all points. to Jesus' person and the cross, what he was going to accomplish. Well this morning what I'd like us to focus our attention on is a an interesting statement that is made at the end of verse 34. It says that when Peter heard and saw these things, he said, Master, it's good for us to be here. Let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, and one for Elias. And then here's the statement I want us to think about, ponder this morning. He says, he said these things not knowing what he said. What an amazing statement. What it's telling us is that Peter had a deficiency in his understanding of what Jesus was coming to accomplish. Peter was clear on Christ's identity. He knew that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God. He understood that Jesus was the Messiah He understood that he was coming to establish his kingdom. But what Peter did not understand was the nature of what had to be done in order for Jesus to bring people into this kingdom. It appears that Peter did not understand fully the connection between the cross and glory. And what I want us to notice in these verses is that even though Peter heard and saw wondrous things, His understanding was limited. His misunderstanding was not the result of the Old Testament being unclear on these issues. It's that his relationship historically to these events was what allowed him to be confused in what was going on. Now, we know that in the Old Testament there were people that were believers and they understood the nature of Christ's person and work. I think about the story of Zechariah, John the Baptist's son. And some of the greatest or John the Baptist's father, one of some of the greatest statements that we find in all of the Gospels about the person and work of Christ are stated by Zechariah In fact, Mary's another example, or Simeon's another example. These are Old Testament believers who understood the nature of redemption. And I want to just kind of take you to some of the passages in the Old Testament so that we can understand how clearly these things were articulated. For instance, in Isaiah 52, listen to what it says, verse number four. It says that his visage was so marred more than any man, that his form more than the sons of men. He's talking about the incredible sacrifice that Jesus was going to experience, the pain and the agony and the physical anguish. Isaiah 53. 1. He says Who hath believed our report, Jesus would be rejected. Verse number three it says, He is despised, he is rejected of men, a man of sorrow is acquainted with grief. And we hid as it were our faces from him. He is despised and we esteemed him not Isaiah 53, 4-6, it says, Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we just seen him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. He was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. Verses 10 and 11, it says that it pleased the Lord to bruise him He shall make his soul an offering for sin. He said, He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied Isaiah fifty three, twelve, he will divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul into death. He was numbered with the transgressors, and bare the sins of many, and made intercession for the transgressors Verse number eight, with everlasting uh excuse me, the next chapter, Isaiah fifty four, verse eight, with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the Lord, Die Redeemer, verse number ten, my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith the Lord that hath mercy on thee. And then one of the greatest statements in this Isaiah fifty-two to fifty-four section As he says, this is the heritage of the servants of the Lord, and their righteousness is of me, saith the Lord. You say, well, well, Joel, why do we take the time to go through these scriptures? Well, I take the time to go through them to say that Peter had access to these things. The book of Isaiah was written hundreds of years before the time of Christ. And so if you were carefully Carefully studying the book of Isaiah, you would recognize that the Messiah was going to be rejected, you would recognize that the Messiah was going to physically suffer, you would recognize that he was going to bear the sins of mankind upon himself He was going to be punished so that we could have peace. The word propitiation, he was going to cancel God's wrath against our sin by taking it upon himself. I I love that statement that uh he's going to divide the spoils with the strong because he made his soul and offering for sin. I I love those statements. Those statements tell us about the nature of redemption. And then Isaiah 54 17 talks about These people, the servants of the Lord, having their righteousness of him. All of these statements talk about the essential components to the gospel. Peter had access to these things and he could understand these things. But here's the problem. Because Peter was anticipating the cross and what was coming, he didn't fully understand it. You know, we go back to the Old Testament and we read these passages, we're thinking about all these New Testament passages, we're thinking about the Gospels, but Peter didn't have that side of the perspective. He had the ability to know these things, but he didn't have the ability to say, here's what happened. Oh, now I see why Isaiah wrote these things. Now, Peter also actually talks about this in 2 Peter chapter 1, when he talks about the fact that the apostles were being guided by the Holy Spirit to write the very words of scripture. And I want you to notice what he says, because what he basically tells us is that the apostles' experience was actually deficient to what we have in the scriptures themselves. Listen to what he says. He says, We have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of the majesty. Peter is saying, We the apostles saw with our own eyes Christ. And then he's going to say this When we came, there was a voice that said, This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. Again, this voice which came from heaven we heard when we were with him in the Holy Mount So not only did the apostles see the ministry of Christ, but in this particular moment, Peter and the other two disciples who were with him They heard the voice of God saying, This is my beloved son, and him I well pleased. Now, you and I might say, Well then Peter was more privileged than we are, because he sat with Jesus, he ate with Jesus, he heard him talk teach. He witnessed these miracles firsthand. But that is not the way that Peter looks at himself in relation to those who have the scriptures. This is what he says. We have also a more sure word of prophecy whereunto you do well to take heed. What is Peter saying? He's saying that my recollection and remembrance of my own experience with Christ actually fall short of the purity of what we have in the scriptures themselves. And so I make this very simple point today. The New Testament Christian has a greater access to the full story and is uniquely privileged even above that of the apostles themselves. Folks, when we open up the Bible, we have the inerrant word of God. We have not just a reminder of what took place, but we have an explanation from God Himself about why it matters. Whereas those who are eyewitnesses are like people who live through history. We we experience it, but we have to interpret it from our own minds. So we have to interpret it with with with the wisdom of other people around us. But the scripture is different. It's not based on a private interpretation. It is God telling us the significance of those events themselves And so as we look at this passage of scripture dealing with the transfiguration, that is a detail that I think is important we do not forget. We are a privileged people. We have access to the Word of God, the perfectly preserved, inerrant word, which gives us a perfect record and explanation of the significance of these matters. So you might say, well, Joel, how do you apply the text? Let me give you a couple of thoughts that I hope will encourage you as you think about this study. The first is this. We need to ask ourselves some questions. The question we should ask is, well, do these truths actually move us? The fact that Jesus is God in flesh, that he went to the cross, so that we could experience the glories of eternity with him, does that move us in any way? The the fact that we have this privileged position as people who have the Word of God written and preserved for us today, does that not move us in any way? Have these things exposed some deficiencies in our understanding of who Christ is or the nature of his redemptive work? Do we understand the gospel? And are we placing our trust alone in the finished work of Christ? Those are questions. that I think we've got to absolutely consider. And so I ask you this morning to ask the question, do these things move you? Do you understand them? Have you trusted in Christ alone? Then I want to ask this other question. Have you considered the weight of the humiliation of Christ and his sacrifice and allowed that to shape the way that you relate to him? and to others. Are you living a life that is abundant in light of the privileges you enjoy in Christ today? That's the encouragement this morning, that we would take these truths, internalize them, and live in the light of them. Hope that you have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing tomorrow. We'll do one more study and it will be a bonus episode. So I hope that you'll join us for that tomorrow. Have a blessed day. Bye now.