Good morning, welcome back to Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection number two for the week. And uh if you joined us yesterday, you know that we're in Luke chapter ten So I'd like to invite you to take your Bible. Let's turn there together. And let's pick up where we left off yesterday. We kind of did some introductory thoughts. We looked at Ephesians chapter 2. and uh just talk a little bit about God's grace. And what we're going to do this morning is we're going to look at the first details that Jesus addresses in verse 21. So here's what it says, Luke chapter 10 verses 21 to 24. In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight, all things are delivered to me of my Father. No man knoweth who the Son is but the Father, and who the Father is but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal him. And he turned him unto his disciples and said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see. For I tell you that many prophets and kings have a desire to see those things which ye see. and have not seen them, and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them. Now as we've been breaking down this passage of scripture, it's it's important for us sometimes to kind of keep in our minds what's going on in the context as Jesus is is making these statements. So if you can remember back to last week, we were talking about the fact that there was this warning to the disciples about pride. Jesus says when the disciples come back and they say, look at all this authority that we have. Look at how Satan is submissive to us and we're able to cast out demons. We're able to heal the sick and people responding to the gospel message. When the disciples said those things, Jesus could have easily said, yes, that's what ministry is all about. This is the excitement of ministry. That's not what he did. Instead, he says, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. And basically he begins to lay out a couple of simple thoughts that Satan rebelled in pride, and you have authority over Satan at this moment in time. And you're experiencing the blessings of ministry. And so be very cautious that you do not fall by the same trap that Satan fell by. that you do not allow pride to grip your heart and begin to affect your attitude towards yourself and towards God and towards others. And so he basically says there's one place you should put your joy, and that is in the fact that you're saved. So what Jesus is doing is he's warning against pride. Now, that concept should still be in the forefront of our minds as we're moving into the text in front of us Because what Jesus is going to do is he's going to talk about the blessedness of that position that our names are written in heaven. And he's going to emphasize the fact that that blessing is a rich blessing. Because it is God's grace that gave us that position. It is God's grace that purchased that redemption. And it's even God's grace that pursued us and humbled us and brought us to the point. Where we understood the gospel and we turned to God and we place our faith in Christ. This is all a result of his gracious, kind work in our hearts, his mercy, his love, his grace. And so these verses are a part of that theme that we see being emphasized in the text. So in verse 21, what we're going to see is that it is humility that ultimately is the starting point to knowing God. Verse 21, it says this, in that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit and said, I thank thee, O God, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth. that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. Even so, Father, for so it pleased, it seemed good, Now, when we read these verses, we go, what in the world is Jesus saying? It's important that we don't take this statement and disconnect it from the flow of what's going on in this passage of Scripture. Jesus is dealing with the disciples, and he's contrasting those who are proud, the learned, the wise, the noble, the Pharisees, the religious leaders, and the disciples who were essentially ignorant fishermen who he sent out to preach the gospel. He's emphasizing the fact that they need to be humble, even though they're seeing God work through them. And so in this statement, it's almost in these verses, it's almost as if Jesus is saying Let me just take a moment to reflect on the marvel of the way that God works and how different it is than the way that the world works. and the way that the world would anticipate things being done. And so I want to start with this contrast. The way that God works is so different than the way that the world would expect things to be done. One of the passages that pops in my mind as I think about this is 1 Corinthians 1, verses 25 to 29. Now Paul is addressing the church at Corinth. who is very proud and there's a lot of division in the church because of the pride and the rivalry that was going on. And this is what he says. He says, because the foolishness of God is wiser than that of men, the weakness of God is stronger than men. For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, and not many noble are called, but God hath called the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. And God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty, the base things of the world, and the things which are despised. Hath God chosen, yea, the things which are not, to bring to naught things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. Now, Paul is basically telling those Corinthian believers The way that God operates and the way that man operates is just totally different. What the world would anticipate when it comes to establishing a movement, accomplishing something great in the world. is that the world would say, let's target those people who are affluent. They got money, because money drives uh the the the movements of the world. And Let's go to the educated because these are the people that can communicate. These are the elites. These are the people that can actually get something done. Let's go to the people who are cultured and let's go to the people who are physically strong and mentally sharp and self-reliant. That's the way the world would expect God to work. But God says that's not how I work. He says, not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty men, not many noble. God's chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty, the base things of the world them that are despised. What it's showing you is that when it comes to the people that God chooses to work through, many times it surprises us It doesn't seem to make sense. They're not the people that God would have thought, or that we would have thought that God would work through. His ways are different than ours. And that is really something that is being drawn out in the statement that Jesus is making. The gospel was spread to the nations by the most unlikely of the people. These disciples were those very people. And I'm reminded of what it says in Acts chapter 4. When they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled at them that they had been with Jesus. Now he's not saying that these are people that had no ability to think and reason. The idea is these were not the professionals, these were not the elites. These are not people who had gone to formal training and education. These are guys that were just, they spent time with Christ, and that is where they were discipled. Not in the courts of the temple. And not in the synagogues, not not sitting under rabbis like a gameliel. These people were trained by Jesus out in the villages. They walked with him, they talked with him, they listened to him preach. That's how these people learn. That's the way God works. And the fact is that God will not use people. Who are arrogant and proud. In fact, we really can't even know God unless He first chooses to reveal Himself to us. If he said, I'm just going to leave you where you are, we'd be on our own. So negatively, what Jesus is saying here is that there's a certain kind of person that God chooses to leave where they are. Okay? And he he says he states it in these verses. He says, the wise and the prudent. This is a particular category of wise and prudent. He's not saying, I mean, the book of Proverbs tells us we're supposed to be wise and it talks about the importance of being prudent But when he talks about wisdom and prudence in the book of Proverbs, that is very different than the way that he's using those words in this particular context. He's talking about the elites, he's talking about the educated, he's talking about the self-righteous Pharisees. He says, those are the people that God resists. And you know what the the gospels are full of examples of this. For instance, in Luke chapter 10, verse 25, there was a certain lawyer. That's a person who's wise and prudent. This certain lawyer stood up. and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit the king the what shall I do to inherit eternal life? How did the rest of the conversation go? Well the rest of the conversation went basically like this. Jesus says, Why do you call me good? There's none good but God. What is Jesus doing? Well, he's trying to show this man, look, you have to humble yourself in order to first come to the point where you can see that you need salvation. There's no salvation and there's no understanding of God's character and ways, and there's no relationship with Him until there's a humbling of self first. Or Luke chapter 18, verse 18. A certain rule asks him saying, Good master, what shall I do it to the inherit eternal life? Same kind of thing goes on Okay? Or in Mark chapter 14, verse 1, it says, After the days of the feast of the Passover of unloved bread, the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by craft. and put him to death. The reason I draw your attention to those three examples is because when Jesus says the wise and the prudent are not the ones that understand, these are the people he's talking about. The people that are self-righteous, they've got their education, they don't need God, they don't need a savior, they don't need salvation. And so when we talk about the gospel, before we get to the good news, we have to deal with the bad news And people have to understand their need before they will embrace the one and only means through which they can be saved. But then stated positively, God has revealed Himself to babes He's talking about those who are who who who are are dependent and who are humble and those who recognize that they have nothing. The wise and the prudent think they have it all figured out Those who are babes, they're the ones who believe they have nothing. And so Jesus basically says, you know who knows God? You know who understands the truth? You know who the believer is? Not the one who is self-righteous, not the one who's got all this Bible knowledge and believes they've got it all figured out and believes they can earn their way to God through their knowledge and through their righteousness and all those things. He says, no, that's not the way Those are not the people that are blessed and have this understanding. It's those who are humble. And we see this thread all throughout the Gospels, and not just the Gospels, all throughout the Scriptures. That humility is a prerequisite for understanding the truth and experiencing God's grace and salvation And so in Matthew 5, 3 it says, Blessed are the poor in spirit. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. That means in order for a person to be a Christian, they've got to humble themselves. They gotta see that they're spiritually bankrupt. That is the prerequisite for someone being able to believe in the gospel. They have to see they need to Or Matthew 18, verse 3, except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. So this person that's self-reliant and strong and they believe that their righteousness can cut it, he says, that's not who's in the kingdom. It's the person who humbles himself like a little child. And recognizes it's Christ alone, and recognizes it's his work alone, recognizes it's a gift, recognizes it's grace. You see, positively he's stating, the people that God's revealed himself to are those who are dependent and humble. James 4, 6. God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Same concept James 4. 8, draw nigh to God. He will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, purify your hearts, ye double-minded, be afflicted and mourn and weep let your laughter be turned to mourning. And your joy returned to heaviness. Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. And so we see this very simple principle that Jesus addresses that is a consistent biblical theme. And that is that knowing God starts with humility. When a person is proud, when they are self-righteous, when they believe they've got it figured out. When they're not going to look at the Bible and honestly look at themselves recognizing I've got nothing to give God that can give me salvation, that person is not in the kingdom and will not come to the kingdom until they have been humbled. And so the question this morning is this. Are you one of those people that have been humbled by the law saying you are guilty? So that you could turn and trust in Christ who says, by grace you're saved through faith. That's really the question this morning. May we be a humble people who can know God because he's revealed himself to those who what? He resists the proud, gives grace to the humble. I hope that'll give us something to think about this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing tomorrow we'll continue our series. Bye now.