Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh yesterday we went over an introduction to the section that we are looking at this week. And today we're going to look at part number two, or we could say part one if you're looking at the progression of the text. And uh we're talking about the mystery of God's providence. So the passage that we're in is Luke chapter 7 and uh we're looking at verses 11 through 19, though today we're gonna focus our attention just on verses 11 and 12. So that's all I'm gonna read this morning, but if you have a Bible, I want to invite you uh to take it. Let's turn together there Luke chapter 7, verses 11 and 12. Here's what it says. And it came to pass, it came to pass the day after that he went into a city called Nain. Many of his disciples went with him, and much people. Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold there was a dead man, carried out, the only son of his mother And she was a widow, and much people of the city was with her. When the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not Now when we read these verses, it's important for us to kind of set the the stage of what is going on. four words that I want to uh put before you this morning that I hope will help you to think about kind of the heart of what's being communicated in these verses. The first word is the word ordinary. The word ordinary is describing, you could say, the the nature of the circumstances that we were in. And it says in these verses, it says he went into a city called Nain. Now there's nothing spectacular about Jesus going into the city. We know that from Galilee down to down to Judea There was a route that people traditionally took, and Nain was on that route. So we know that Jesus was up at Capernaum. Uh he was not too far from Nazareth. At this point, he's moving down into Judea. And so it would have made a lot of sense that along that way he would have gone to Nain. So that's a very ordinary thing. There were people traveling with him, and when those people were traveling with him, they would have never ever thought or predicted the significance of what they were going to witness on that day when Jesus comes into that villa that village or town called Nay. The second word that I want you to remember is the word visible When Jesus is going into the town, he's doing it with an audience. Now, Jesus didn't call these people to be an audience. They had seen what took place in Capernaum They saw him heal this man who basically was on his deathbed. And so they wanted to see if there were other things that he was going to do. They wanted to listen to his preaching and teaching. They were willing to follow him. And so it says that many of his disciples went with him and much people. So Jesus had an audience. It was visible. And by the way, that is significant. What he's about to do was meant to be done visibly so that people would see it. The third word that I'm going to mention is the word timely. The timing of Jesus coming to Nain, though there was a sense in which it was very ordinary, was was it it it happened at just the right time for Jesus to meet a group of people who were walking out of the city and who were in the midst of a processional where they were grieving the passing of the only child of a widow. And so it says, now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man being carried out So the timing is important. We know the timing is important because of what happens in the rest of the story. But again, as Jesus is coming into the into the town, As all these people are watching, and as as people are leaving on that particular day to take out someone who is deceased to go and bury them, none of those things would have struck the people following Jesus as unusual The fourth word that I want to mention, and this one is probably the most powerful of all the words, is the word tragic. When we read these verses, we get a little bit more information about this person who has passed. And by the way, any time that someone passes into eternity, there is a huge weight that the people are going to carry who love that individual, who are experiencing the separation. And even when a person is a believer or someone that we know is with the Lord, there's still a lot of a lot of pain that's associated with this. But the way that they describe this person uh who has died in the relationship that he had to his mother, then you see even how more tragic it is. This is what it says. The o she he was the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and much people of the city was with her. You know, I remember when we were in Ghana, there was uh a man who was he was fairly young. In fact he had young children and he was studying uh to get his masters uh in another portion portion of Ghana One day he was uh in the library, he was studying, he was working, and and he literally dropped dead of either a heart attack or a stroke. I was never given clear detail as far as what happened, but he was literally just going about his business. And he dropped dead uh there in that time. And it it was absolutely tragic. I remember going and visiting this family at the house, seeing the widow and seeing the children. It was a really painful thing You know, a person who has lost a spouse, a widow, has experienced tremendous, intense grief. But this woman was not only experiencing grief, she was a very vulnerable person, especially in those days. They didn't have safety nets um that are available today, not that the safety nets uh take away the pain and the grief, but at least there are some financial helps that are available to people in our society. But in those days a woman was extremely vulnerable when her husband passed. It it also tells her that tells us that She had only one child, which uh would have been her, you could say, the thing that brought her the most joy, probably after her husband has passed. And so to add to the vulnerability that this woman has already experienced, and to add to this the pain and the intense suffering that she has experienced, her only child has died. That is an incredible tragedy You might say, well, how in the world does this passage have anything to tell us about God's providence? Because That would give us the impression that God's not in control. Like how in the world could God allow this woman to lose her husband and then to lose her child That's absolutely tragic. Well, from the human perspective, all we're able to see is the pain and the tragedy and this reminder that human suffering and death are universal to all of us. We are all going to pass through those waters. We're all going to experience the death of someone very dear to us. We all suffer in this world. That is a human experience. It's universal. That's the human perspective. But what's unique about this passage is that we have the ability to step back and to see there's another side to this story. And the other side is that God's providence is guiding through the experience of the ordinary. That the fact that Jesus just happened to walk into Nain at the time that he did and to meet this woman in this processional was not an accident. He was coming to the town at that time for a very distinctive purpose. And you know what that purpose was? The purpose was to bring comfort to this woman. It was to raise her child back to life. It was to bring joy and comfort to this woman. And it was to demonstrate his power. his authority, his mercy, his kindness. It was to prove a visible authentication of his person and ultimately the work that he would do. I say all of that to say something very simple. God's providence in the ordinary is a major biblical theme. God is personally involved in people's lives. In the ordinary, in the painful, in the difficult, the things that we don't understand, God's hand is working behind the scenes, either causing or allowing or erupting the situation. He's doing it for a purpose. And let me read to you a couple of scriptures that give us that teaching. For instance, in Daniel 4. 35 it says this, He, that's God, doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth None can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? Romans eleven, thirty-three, it says, O the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments And his ways past finding out. Who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or who hath been his counselor? And then the next statement is very important. It says it says, For of him And through him and to him are all things. Of him, meaning that God is actively at work in the lives of people. He is allowing things to unfold and choosing not to personally intervene, but upholding. He's guiding, he's moving, sometimes he's stepping in. And he's stopping circumstances. God's actively at work. And that's what it's saying. Isaiah fifty-five, verse eight, it says, My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. As high as the heavens are above the earth, so high How much higher are are my thoughts than your thoughts and my ways than your ways? He has made everything beautiful. In his time also he has set the world in the heart, so that no man can find out the work of the Lord that God maketh from the beginning to the end. Romans 8. 28. This is one of the most comforting scriptures in all the Bible. It says we know that all things work together for good. to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. God takes what's going on in our lives and he uses it to accomplish good The ultimate purpose is to conform us to the image of Christ. And by the way, we're going to break down this concept throughout the week quite a bit more. that I am here in this short video, but we're gonna see how God works and how really we are to make sense of what He's doing by taking the lens of Scripture And and and allowing that to shape our worldview as we go through life experiences. He works mysteriously. And that means that he doesn't always tell us the why. We don't always understand what he's doing, but he is working and there's a purpose in what ge and what God is doing in our lives. Last thing I want to mention on this point is that we're not entitled to all the answers. And even if we were, and God were to give them to us, I am convinced we would not have the capacity to follow fully make sense of everything that's going on in the world. In Proverbs 25, too, it says that it's the glory of God to conceal a thing, but the honor of kings is to search out. A matter. Job 40. We know the story of Job. All the things that Job experienced. And ultimately at the heart of that story is that Satan comes to God and he says, He says, have you considered Job? And he says, if you take everything away from him, he's going to curse you and die. And God said, you can touch him. But here are the limits. And so what it shows us is that even Satan, who wants to attack Job, God has to permit him, and God limits and God guides and he's purposely working to accomplish something in the end. And what Job says is fascinating in chapter 40. It says, Shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct him? God speaking there He that reproveth God, let him answer. Job answered and said, I am vile. What shall I answer thee? I will lay mine hand upon my mouth. Once have I spoken, I will not answer, yea, twice I I will proceed no further. What is Job saying? When God says, Do you understand what you're saying? He says, I don't understand. It's too great for me. Job 42. He says, I know that thou canst do everything. No thought is withholding from thee. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I spoken things that I understood not, things too wonderful for me that I knew not. So when we talk about the mystery of God's providence, we recognize that the Bible is very clear. God is personally, actively at work in our lives, but there's a mysterious side to this. By the end of our study, what we're going to see is, while there's a mysterious side to this, and while we can't understand everything, we do have some very certain promises from God's Word. And one of those promises is that He takes everything that we experience in our lives. And he moves in life to accomplish good, to conform us to the image of his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. May God help us. To learn to trust God as He moves and guides in the ordinary but sometimes painful circumstances of life I hope that this has been an encouragement, a little sobering I understand, but an encouragement. God rules. He loves us and what he allows and what he does in the world and how he guides and moves It is all ultimately to accomplish good in our lives. I'm praying that you have a great rest of your day today, and I really look forward to the rest of our study. Bye now.