Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope you've been enjoying this series that we've been doing this week. Such an important topic, and it is central to our understanding of the gospel. If you remember yesterday when we were talking about the whole discussion from Palm Sunday, is that the disciples had some challenges when it came to their understanding of some ethical essential issues that connect uh their ability to be able to be a part of God's eternal kingdom. And what we saw yesterday is that it is the gospel, it's the cross, it's the resurrection and it's triumph over sin and death that are ultimately the the essential element that they were not understanding. And so today what we're going to do is we're going to continue in that discussion on the the the importance of the cross, we're gonna focus our attention on the resurrection. And what we're going to do is we're going to look at why the resurrection was absolutely essential. to them being able to be a part of the kingdom. And so in in order to do that, I want you to turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 15, because that's where we're going to focus our attention this morning, as opposed to John chapter 12, where we've been throughout the week. And here's what it says in verses 19 through 28. It says, If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Every man in his own order, Christ the first fruits, after that they that are Christ that is coming. Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom of God even to the Father, when he shall put down all rule and all authority and all power, for he must reign till he must put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. For he hath put all things under his feet, but when he saith all things were under his feet, it is manifest that he is accepted, and which did put all things under him And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all Now what I want to do is I want to take this passage of scripture and I want to just break it down piece by piece and I want us to look at the theological basis for the resurrection and the cross being absolutely essential to the kingdom. And so let's just work our way through this passage. The first principle we're going to find is in verse 21. Here's what the text says. It says, since by man came death, So also by man came the resurrection. That word sense and the word by are extremely important. Since death came through a man, death has to be conquered by a man. This is why Jesus had to be God in flesh. He had to be fully man, not just fully God. He had to be that combination of fully God and fully man. Because if a man's the one who brings sin and brings death into the world, then a man has to be the one who conquers sin and conquers death. And he has to do it through both the cross paying for our sin and the resurrection triumphing over sin and death. The second verse that I want to draw your attention to is verse 22. It says, in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Notice the words in and the word all. Those two words are very important. Our relationship or our union to one of these two individuals determines everything. We are naturally born into this world in Adam. He is our father, our forefather, our representative, and so we are by nature under God's wrath and judgment and death. And so he states in Adam all die. There are no exceptions. Every single one of us born in Adam is under the judgment of God because of our sin. by practice and our sin by nature being represented in Adam. But on the other side of that, he says, even so, in a comparable way In Christ shall all be made alive. Every person who's been born in Adam, but at a point in time is placed into Christ, they take a new identity because of a new union, a union with Christ. They are dead to Adam. They're alive unto Christ. And so the point is that a person has to be united with Christ in order for them to Be safe from their sins and ultimately enter into the kingdom. Third verse that I want you to notice is verse 23. He says, But Every man in his own order, Christ the first fruits, very important word there, afterwards they that are Christ at his coming. That word first fruits is important. It tells us that Christ's resurrection is not only establishing the basis for us to be resurrected. So when we look at what happened to Christ, it reminds us this is also going to happen to us as well. In the same way that Jesus died and rose from the dead, and we see the nature of this glorified body that the Lord Jesus Christ has. In the same way, you and I who have died in Christ will be raised up And we're going to receive a glorified body in the same likeness of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he uses the word first fruits to say, look, it's not just the basis. that is established by the resurrection, but it is the foretaste of the resurrection of the saints that's coming on. So again, the theological basis for the resurrection being an absolute essential to this issue of us as sinners, we as sinners being able to be a part of God's kingdom. The fourth verse, I'm going to draw your attention to is verse 24. He says, Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom of God, even the Father, when he shall put down all rule and all authority and all power Another essential aspect to this uh kingdom of righteousness is that it has to be an untested rule. When I say untested excuse me, an unresisted rule, what I mean by that is that there can't be anybody within this kingdom who's a part of this kingdom Who is unredeemed in fighting against the king? It is a kingdom of eternal righteousness. A kingdom that is If you think of the Book of Revelation, at the end of the book, he talks about the New Jerusalem, and he says that there will in no wise enter into it the New Jerusalem anything that is defiled. And so Every inhabitant of this kingdom has to be redeemed, has to be glorified, has to be in this state of no longer in Adam and no longer in a fallen natural body. And so we see that the most significant aspect of this future kingdom is that it establishes God as the king unresisted and he puts everything right. All those who have rejected the Messiah, they're going to be resurrected to eternal destruction. All those that have placed their faith in the Messiah, they are united with Christ. They're no longer in Adam, but they're in Christ. those individuals are going to be resurrected to walk in this eternal kingdom forever. The fifth passage verse that I'm going to draw your attention to is verse 25. It says, he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death This is a very fascinating statement. What it's telling us is though that there though there is a sense in which Christ is going to rule in his kingdom someday, there is also a sense in which he rules today over his kingdom yet not fully realized in the practical sense. What he's talking about is how God is still on his throne Governing, providentially ruling. He is still sovereign over a broken creation, but within that creation, he has secured a people for himself. He is preserving that people until the day that they're going to be glorified and they're going to enjoy the full benefits that taste. And so you notice the statement, he must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet. So he is still in charge, he is still ruling, but the nature of that rule is different today than the way it's going to be in the end. And all of this is connected back to what? The cross and the resurrection. And then the last verse that I want to draw your attention to is verse 28. Notice what it says. He says, When all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all. Now it's possible that when you read a verse like verse 28, you said, what in the world is going on? I thought that Father, Son, Spirit, there's there's perfect equality uh amongst those members of the Godhead and how is it that he's talking about the Son being subjected to the Father and then God being all in all? I don't understand how this is possible Well let me give you kind of a simple explanation of this. When we talk about the Godhead and the three distinct persons of the Godhead, we are talking about three distinct persons who have the same essence. There is perfect equality in the Godhead when it comes to the essence of the Father being divine, he's God, the Son being divine, he's God, the Spirit being divine, he's God. The Father, the Son, the Spirit, they are fully God. There is no limitation of the essence of deity when it comes to these three persons of the Godhead. At the same time There is clearly a distinction of person which also bleeds into what we would call a distinction of function. And there is clearly an order within the Godhead. Sometimes people use the term economic trinity, and what they mean by that is that the Father, though he and the Son are equal in essence as God, they have distinct functions, and the Son is subject to the Father within their roles in the Godhead. So to put it simply, when we talk about our salvation, the Father has a very distinct role in our salvation. The Son has a very distinct role in our salvation, and the Spirit has a very distinct role in our salvation. The Father did not go to the cross The Spirit did not go to the cross. The Son went to the cross. The Father never took on humanity. And the Spirit never took on humanity. The Son took on humanity. And so we could say it this way The Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. The Father had a plan of redemption, and he has guaranteed that every single one of his children will have a completed salvation. That's what Ephesians chapter 1 is all about. And so it talks about the Father's plan, his will. his purpose within himself. It talks about the Son going to the cross and securing redemption through his death and his triumphant resurrection. And the scripture talks about the Spirit having a role. in regenerating, making a person who is spiritually dead in Adam alive in Christ. And then the spirit takes residence in the believer. The Holy Spirit indwells the believer. He seals the believer until the day of redemption. So the Son doesn't seal the believer, the son doesn't regenerate the believer, the father doesn't regenerate the believer, the father didn't go to the cross, the father's role is distinct, the son's role is distinct, the spirit's role is distinct. Perfect equality in essence. but a distinction of role, function, and order within the Godhead. And so what this verse, verse 28, is saying is that this future glorious kingdom is going to emphasize the perfect order within the Godhead in accomplishing our redemption. And the Father and the Son and the Spirit will have that There there are roles very distinct and well ordered for all of eternity. And that's going to be emphasized in this final kingdom Fascinating thing to consider. So what is the point of all this? Well the point of all this is that this is the theological basis for that missing component. All of those things are true, and so because they're true, it makes the cross and the resurrection, absolutely essential to the coming kingdom. So you say, well Joel, how do you practically apply this today? Let me give you a couple of thoughts in closing. The first is that the need for the cross and the resurrection is not an arbitrary issue. It is absolute essential. You do not have the gospel without the cross. You do not have the gospel without the resurrection. Absolutely essential, not arbitrary issues. Secondly, we need to understand the essential nature of these things if we're going to properly appreciate them. A lot of people don't love the gospel the way that they should because they they frankly don't understand it. Almost at all. They understand it on its most basic, on its most primitive level, but they don't understand it in its fullness, in its richness. And so if we're going to properly appreciate the gospel, we've got to dig into these truths and understand them. And that is a prerequisite for properly emphasizing each aspect of the gospel. And so again, this is essential, absolute essential, not arbitrary. And lastly, we should take tremendous comfort in this wonderful reality. There are practical there are practical ways that I respond to these truths on a daily basis. I'm reminded that I have a resurrected Savior who has uh I have been united with, I was, I was buried with him in baptism and raised to walk in newness of life. And that that position that I enjoy in Christ is not just A secured position, but it's also a position that strengthens me to battle against sin on this side of glorification. And it's something that strengthens and builds me up and encourages me. As I look at the future glory that I'm going to enjoy, it gives me encouragement as I go through challenges on a daily basis. Remind yourself on a regular basis throughout the day. You serve a risen Savior who has paid the penalty for your sins. This is absolute essential to you being one day a citizen of that eternal kingdom. I hope that this has been a challenge to you this morning. I know we got into a couple of concepts that are a little bit deep and maybe complex, but they're very rich. And I hope that they'll encourage you. They have a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing tomorrow we'll continue our study. Bye now.