Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And uh we are in our third part looking at uh this uh passage of Scripture in Luke chapter seven. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to encourage you to take it and let's look together at verses eleven through fifteen uh this morning and we're going to actually focus in on verses thirteen, fourteen, and fifteen, but just to help us with the context, um I'm gonna go back to verse eleven. So here's what the scripture says. It says and it came to pass the day after that he went into the city called Nain. Many of his disciples went with him and much people. When he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold there was a dead man carried out the only son of his mother. She was a widow, and much people of the city was with her. And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and he said unto her, Weep not And he came and touched the bear, and there she and they that bare him stood still, and he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise He that was dead sat up and began to speak, and he delivered him to his mother. Now we looked first of all at her introduction on the first uh day of the week, and then yesterday uh we took some time to look at how God's providence is involved. and all of the details of our lives. What I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to focus on our on our third part, and that is that God's providence is intended to point us to him. And it's not just to him in a general sense, but it's to help us to have an objective understanding of God's nature. And so we're going to dig into that concept a little bit this morning. First thing I want to do is I want to talk about the two main basic reasons that Jesus performed this miracle. If we look down in verse 13, that the first thing that he says is, it says, when the Lord saw her, he had compassion. The first reason that Jesus performs this miracle is true compassion. That means when you look at this woman, his heart was moved. And it's amazing how many times in the Gospels it talks about Christ's compassion, his mercy, his love. toward people who were in great need. Let me give you some examples. For instance, in Matthew 9, it says, when he saw the multitude, he was moved with compassion on them because they fainted. and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Or in Matthew fourteen it says Jesus went forth and he saw a great multitude and was moved with compassion toward them and he healed their sick. Or Matthew chapter twenty it says Jesus had compassion on them and he touched their eyes. Immediately their eyes received their sight and they followed him. Probably the greatest example is in John chapter 11, where it talks about Jesus raising Lazarus back to life. Lazarus was somebody that loved, that Jesus loved deeply. He loved his family. He spent a lot of time with them. They were dear to him. And it says that when Jesus went there and he saw the people weeping, it says He had when he saw them weeping, and the J Jews also weeping with her, he came to them and he groaned in his spirit. and was troubled. And then the shortest verse in our English Bible it says, Jesus wept. What do these verses do? Well they tell us Jesus had compassion. So we see that side of his character. The second thing we want to see here is that he's trying to object give an objective witness to his true nature. We talk about who Jesus is, we talk about God's nature. The Bible gives us in the scriptures objective statements about who God is Helps us to understand him in sort of an academic sense. A lot of people study theology. I studied theology when I was in seminary. And what we did is we talked a lot about God's nature And we talked about it in sort of an academic sense, not that we wanted to stay there, but that was a part of what we were doing. We talk about his sovereignty, his love, his mercy, his grace. His wrath, his justice, his righteousness. We would talk about his holiness, all these attributes of God. But what's very unique about the Bible is that when we read the Bible, the Bible is not written like a systematic theology The Bible is written as a storyline. In other words, God is moving and working in people's lives practically And so it God obviously intends for us not to just know him in an academic sense, but he wants us to know him personally because he was personally personally involved in the lives of people like Abraham and Isaac and Moses and Jacob and Joseph. He wants us to know him personally. But then we go from the personal historical to what we call the experiential side. You know, you could hear a story about how God has worked, and that affects you uh in some way. It might warm your heart. I think about when we have testimony times on Sunday nights. That's very encouraging to us as God's people. But when we talk about the experiential side of God's knowledge, we're not just saying, I know what God did in your life. I'm saying I know what He did in my life. I've experienced His kindness, his compassion, his grace, his justice, his holiness. I've experienced it personally. God wants us to move from an academic understanding to a personal Experiential knowledge of him. And so that is why he works in our lives providentially. So here's the question I think we all need to ask. How does God get us from an ap academic understanding to an experiential knowledge of Him? Well, it's through us reading the Bible, and as we walk through life, we are forced To see God at work in our lives. We're forced to make decisions, to face the consequences of decisions. We see how God moves in circumstances, and all of a sudden, what we know intellectually starts practically having weight in our lives. Many, many times when I preach a sermon, I think about certain truths from God's word and and my mind goes back to something that I have lived through or something A conversation that I've had with someone, maybe it's a a situation that somebody's dealing with, I'm praying for them, I'm burdened for them, all of a sudden those experiences, what do they do? They give shape to this understanding of God's character. And so he's got to move us through circumstance in order to get us from academic to experience. Or how does he move us from having a shallow understanding of him to a deep relationship. It's uh it's through his providential working in our lives. How does God shape us into the image of Christ? Well He does it through process. In other words, patience has to have her perfect work, like it says in James. Let patience have her perfect work. That means if you're going to be a person a person who has patience and endurance You have to go through a process that actually develops them. That's God's providence. How does God uproot idols in our hearts? And the truth is, we all have them. We may not even realize that we have them. They may be actually blind spots in our life. How does God uproot those idols? Well, it's through his providential work. He takes something away that we loved, we didn't realize how much we loved it, and all of a sudden we realized, you know what? That thing was an idol. We had a certain plan and everything was perfect, how we were gonna we wanted it to play out and all of a sudden God disrupts our plan and it doesn't play out the way that we want it to. We realize, you know what, I really am trying to control my own life. I'm trying to take the place that God's taking. So many different examples. This is about God's providence, to remove those idols, to turn our hearts to himself. He's got to work in such a way. How does God make us consider the emptiness of this world? Well, he allows us to see the painfulness of this world. You know, sometimes God allows us to stumble and fall. He's been pressing us, he's been pushing us, he's been giving us warning after warning after warning. And we have resisted that. And so you know what sometimes God does? He removes that restraint for a season so that we will face the full weight of of our own decisions and it is in that facing the full weight of our decisions that we realize you know what sin really is nasty sin really does hurt sin really is destructive I don't want anything to do with that God has a way of loosening our grip on the things of this world, the things that are destructive, the things that are fading away. so that he can move us to look at the glories of our eternal inheritance. So when we talk about God's providence in a personal and practical way in our lives, It's meant to ultimately point us back to him. He wants us to go from an academic understanding of him to a personal experiential, rich depth of understanding of who he is. And I even think about what Jesus says when he defines eternal life. He says, what is eternal life? This is life eternal that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. Eternal life isn't just something that I have, it's something that I grow in the experiential side of my eternal life. I'm going to grow in a knowledge of God for all of eternity. It's not just that I'm going to heaven. But I'm literally going to spend all of eternity growing in a knowledge of God, growing in a depth of appreciation for Him, growing in a deeper sense of love. and warmth and affection for him and appreciation for what I have in the gospel, that is something that we will grow in forever And so God wants us to be transformed. He wants us to know him personally. He wants us to grow. And you know how he does it? It's through working in our lives providentially. I don't know what what you're going through in your life. You may be going through a wonderful time, a season that everything seems to be falling into place. It may be the exact opposite. It may be the darkest, most discouraging and frustrating season of your life I have this encouragement to you that in the midst of those things that you're experiencing, as painful, as frustrating, as discouraging, disheartening as they may be, God wants to demonstrate his compassion for you. And God wants to strengthen you and uphold you. He wants to reveal himself to you. He wants to point you back to himself. And so I want to encourage you gently and lovingly, let God point you to himself. Let him change you. He molds you and shape you into the image of his son. I hope that that's been an encouragement to you today. This is a really rich study. And uh it's practical, sometimes it's a little bit painful, but it's exactly what God wants for us. I hope you have a great rest of your day, and I look forward to our next study tomorrow, Lord willing. Bye now