Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to the book of 2 Chronicles. And tonight we are in 2 Chronicles chapter 33. And This passage of scripture is something that really is built on one of the last things that we talked about, and that was when Pastor Josh dealt with the story of Manasseh. And we saw many lessons from Manasseh's life. Most of them were very positive. But at the end of his life, things did not go well. And so what we're looking at this evening is sort of the continuation. I know we're looking at the story of Manasseh, but what we're actually looking at is in many ways the continuation of those final years. So let's go ahead and pick up 2 Chronicles chapter 33 and we'll read verses 1 through 12 together, but we'll actually go further into the text than verse 12. It says, Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign. Do we have any twelve-year-olds in here? Boy, would you guys be tyrannical 12-year-olds if you were kings? Well, unfortunately, this man was a villain, alright? So Manasseh was 12 years old when he began to reign. He reigned 55 years in Jerusalem. We have any 55 year olds in here. I'll leave that one alone. But But he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord like unto the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. For he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had broken down. He reared up altars for Balaam and made groves and worshipped all the hosts of heaven and served them. Also he built altars in the house of the Lord. Wherefore the Lord said, In Jerusalem, shall my name be forever. And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the courts of the house of the Lord. He caused his children to pass through the fire in the valley of Hinnum. Also he observed hymns and used enchantments and used witchcrafts and dealt with a familiar spirit and with wizards. He brought much evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger. And he set carved images, the idol which he had made in the house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house And in Jerusalem, which I have chosen before all the tribes of Israel, will I put my name forever. Neither will I any more remove the foot of Israel from out of the land which I have appointed for your fathers, so that they will take heed to all that I have commanded them. According to the whole law and the statutes and the ordinances of the hand of Moses. So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to err, and to do worse than the heathen whom the Lord had destroyed before the children of Israel And the Lord spake to Manasseh and to his ch to his people, but they would not hearken. Wherefore the Lord brought upon them the captains of the host of the kings of Assyria. Which took Manasseh among the thorns and bound him with fetters, and carried him to Babylon. And when he was afflicted, and when he was in affliction, he besought the Lord his God. And he humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we look at this passage of Scripture and we see So many different principles that are laid out. I pray that we would really come to grasp these things very well. That you speak to our hearts. Help us to learn from the errors of Hezekiah. And help us to learn from the life of Manasseh. Both the incredible weight of sin and what it does when people lead others into error, but also your tremendous grace and your mercy, how you resist the proud, but you give grace to the So I pray that tonight we would see all of these things very clearly. You speak to our hearts, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, well the story in front of us is a fascinating story. It's a story of God's mercy. It's a story of God's judgment. It's a story of Pride and arrogance it's also a story of people humbling themselves. All of that is a part of the story in front of us And so what I want to do first of all is just kind of tell you the storyline so we sort of see the different pieces of this. And then from that, I want us to look at uh an interesting little detail because when we read the account of this man's life in 1 and 2 Kings. Verses first and second chronicles, what you're going to see is that there's some details that are not mentioned in the Kings, but they are mentioned in Chronicles. And I I want to comment on why that is, but then I'd like us to kind of pull it all together and look at some simple thoughts. So first of all, the story. This is the story of probably the most villainous king in Judah's history. Now, when we think about the worst of the worst kings. In Israel's history, we don't think of this man Manasseh because he's in the southern kingdom. We tend to think of somebody like Ahab. But Manasseh was a si a son, he was a king in the southern kingdom. And there are several things that I think are very interesting about this man's life In verses 1 through 9, we see the story unfold. First of all, notice how long this man was influencing the nation. It says in verse number one, Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem. So you do the math. He didn't quite make it to 70 years old, but this man influenced the nation for over 50 years. That's a really long time. That's people being born. That's them having children. And that's them watching their children get married and have children. And especially in days when people would have started having children at a much younger age than they are today in our culture. So you have children and grandchildren and maybe even in some cases a few great-grandchildren who are influenced by this man's life. And it's interesting that he begins when he's only 12 years old. Questions should pop into our minds. Why would you put a 12-year-old on the throne? And the answer is because his father, Hezekiah, died when he was only 12 years old. Another question that should pop into our mind is, well, what was going on in the life of Hezekiah during the time when this man Manasseh was born? And the answer is Hezekiah actually became very sick at the end of his life, and it was very clear he was going to die. And he begged and he pleaded with God, don't let me die. You know I've been a godly king. I've done so much good for for the land and so please have mercy on me and what does God do? He lets him live another 15 years. So three years into that, last fifteen years of his life, Manasseh's born. And you know what's really sad? Obviously, in those 12 years, what Manasseh saw did not influence him for good. Even though Hezekiah was an excellent example of a godly king for the majority of his life, he was not a good example during the years that influenced that young man's life. And that's important. We're going to come back to it. Second thing I want you to note is how, notice is how deep the depravity of this man was. There are some things that when we read them in the Bible, we're like, I wish you would have like sanitized that a little bit so I wouldn't have had to read that or know that. And these things are not written in the Bible to glorify them in any way. The Bible speaks very transparently and very bluntly about the sins and the struggles of people. So we begin in verse 2. It says, but he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord. I like that statement. Let's always remember everything we do is before the Lord. He sees it, he hears it, he knows it. He did that which is evil in the sight of the Lord, like unto the abominations of the heathen. And then notice how he puts it. Whom the Lord cast out before the children of Israel Now, when I see a statement like that, I need to go back and think about some of the stories that we read about in the Old Testament that give you a little bit of an understanding of how depraved the Canaanites were. Give you an example. Sodom and Gomorrah. Think about that story. Why did God destroy that city? Because of the tremendous depravity of that city. We see lots and lots of examples of little indications to how wicked and how evil the people were in the land. And what does God say? God says, I gave these people 400 years. But at the end of that 400 years, I drove them out of the land. Now notice what he's saying. This man Manasseh was worse. He has the law of God. He had a father who led tremendous reforms in the land. He has a father who cleansed the temple and re-established The practice of the Passover and so many different things. And what does he do? He rejects everything that his dad did right, and he goes down this path that's even worse than the people around him that don't know him. That don't know the Lord. The third thing we see is this. He had a tremendous disdain for what was sacred. Verses 4 and 5. He built again the high places which his father, Hezekiah, had broken down. He reared up altars for Balaam and made groves and worshipped all the hosts of heaven. And he served them. He built altars in the house of the Lord. Wherefore the Lord had said, In Jerusalem shall my name be forever. And he built altars for all the hosts of heaven in the two courts of the house of the Lord. So it's not just That has or that that Manasseh says, well, you know, I don't want to serve the Lord in Jerusalem and I don't want to go into the temple. And so I'm going to go ahead and rebuild these groves and we're going to celebrate idolatry on the mountaintops. But if people want to go to Jerusalem, if they want to go up to the temple, they can go into there. They can be a part of what's going on. And we'll just kind of have both things going on in the country. That's not what he's doing. He's going back into the temple and he's saying, we're not worshiping the one true God, Jehovah. We're instead worshiping the gods of the nations around. I'm going to remove the altar to the Lord. I'm going to replace it with an altar to these gods of the land. And he begins to take this very sacred location. And in fact, he completely turns it upside down. What a shock. Third thing: his behavior, personal behavior, was infamous. Verse number six He caused his children to pass through the fire in the valley of the sons of Hinnem. You know what that's talking about? He's talking about child sacrifice. He causes his own children to pass through the fire in the valley of Hinnum. Also, he observed times and enchantments and he used witchcraft. He dealt with familiar spirits. And with wizards, and he wrought much evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger. Pause. Do you remember the story of Saul? And how Saul at the end of his life could not get any answers from God about his future? And that just drove Saul crazy. And so he said, I'm going to take one last shot to try to get a word from God. And Samuel has died. And so what does Saul do? He sends out his people and he says, I need to find someone who can bring up Samuel from the dead and can communicate with me. You know what he did? He looked for a witch. And it's very interesting that when he goes, when his people go there, the woman says, You know that Saul has removed all of our people from the land. Why did he do that? Well, because that's what the law commanded him to do. There's actually a death sentence for people to be involved in witchcraft. and wizardry and all those things. And so he makes it very clear that that was not to be a part of the people. Here is this man who's not just permitting what is evil, but he's embracing He's using it. He's becoming involved in these matters. And so what do you see? This downward descent into more and more chaos. Manasseh is a very evil person. And then we see in verse number 7 how arrogant he is before the Lord. Lord. In verse number seven it says, He set a carved image in the house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen before all the tribes of Israel, will I put my name forever. How would you summarize this man's life? Verse number nine. So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to err and to do worse than the heathen. whom the Lord had destroyed before the face of the children of Israel. So ask this question. Do you think that this man has any hope of God's mercy? Do you think that this man has any hope that he could experience a turning to God? And all of us would say , doesn't seem super likely. He seems like out of all the guys, he's like the last person that would ever turn to God He is talked about as being worse than the worst. He's talked about as someone who's even worse than the ones whom God destroyed and threw out of the land. Yet what I want you to see is that despite all of that evil and all of that arrogance, God got this man's attention. By the way, did you know that God got the attention of Ahab as well? Now, this story I think is even more profound than the story of Ahab because it does appear that Ahab at the end of his life actually humbled himself before God But he does not do what Manasseh did because as we work our way through Manasseh's life, at the end of his life, we're going to see it wasn't just like a deathbed conversion for this man. He lived life beyond him turning to the Lord and being humbled. And he actually made significant progress to reverse what he had done during his lifetime. But listen to what it says in verses 10 and 11. It says, The Lord spoke unto Manasseh and to his people, but they would not hearken, wherefore the Lord brought upon them the captains of the hosts of the kings of Assyria. Which took him Manasseh among the thorns, and he bound him with fetters, and he carried him to Babylon. Now think back to the story of Hezekiah. We know that one of the greatest moments in Hezekiah's life was when you have the king of Assyria coming and he encamps around Jerusalem. And when Hezekiah sees what's going on, he says, I'm not going to back down. I'm going to strengthen the fortification. I'm going to get all the advice that I need. I'm going to go to the Lord in prayer. And God's going to deliver us. And so we see in the story of Hezekiah that he gets the best advice. They stop up the Gihon Springs. They actually build this aqueduct under the ground and they they basically make the the Jerusalem The city of Jerusalem, a much stronger location. And then when they send letters and they try to discourage the people, what does he do? He takes those letters and he goes into the house of the Lord and he lays those letters before the Lord and he basically says, God I'm praying to you to have mercy on us and to deliver us. What does God do? He does it. Deliverance. So here is his son. And what happens to him? Well, the king of Assyria comes in and he captures him. He takes him back to Babylon, and he's basically a servant there in Babylon. But that's not the end of the story. The fact is that there in Babylon, God did something in his heart. And sometimes God does this in people's lives. Sometimes God allows us to go down a path, and it's not that He He resists us along the way. He brings opportunity, He teaches us, He sends people our way, He allows us to experience consequence, He allows us to see other people go through similar struggles and what does he do? It's his way of saying, don't do this, don't do this, don't do this. The top of the stove is hot. Don't touch it. And you're like, oh yeah? And that's what they do. But when he experienced the pain of his choices, he actually humbled himself before God. Manasseh's repentance and God's mercy is what we read about in verses 12 through 17. 16. Notice what it says in verse 12. When he was in affliction, he besought the Lord, and I think this is an interesting statement. His It doesn't say he besought the Lord, his father's God. It says his God. Interestingly, when we look at the story of the patriarchs, even look at Jacob. When Jacob talks about the Lord, many times he talks about the Lord being the God of Isaac. and the God of the God of Isaac and the God of Abraham. This statement is clear. He is crying out to the Lord, his God. There's something going on in this man's heart. It says he humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers. He prayed unto him, and he was entreated of him, and heard his supplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom. Now, I don't know what all of the circumstances were where the king there, the Assyrian king, says, you know We we took you away from your your country, but we're gonna send you back and we're gonna let you go back and be key again. I have no idea why why that happens. I'm sure if we studied in history we can can probably find out some details about what was the cause of that. But I'll tell you what the cause was ultimately. It was God. God worked in this circumstance when this man humbled himself and he said, I'm going to reappoint you to the office you once held. And I'm doing it because I'm a merciful and gracious God. And then in verse 13 it says, Then Manasseh knew that the Lord, he was God. So it's not just that Manasseh humbles himself and that God appoints him, but Manasseh processes this and he says, he is the true God. Only God could do this. Manasseh is a person that's experiencing a radical change as an individual. And then he goes beyond this. He literally starts to reverse the things that he had formerly done. It's almost like he's going back to the position. Of Hezekiah, his father, when Hezekiah comes to power, what does he do? He removes the idols and he tries to re-establish proper worship. Here is Manasseh, the guy who did all those things. Now he's reversing his choices. Verse 15, he took away the strange gods and the idols out of the house of the Lord. Verse number 16, he repaired the altar of the Lord, and he sacrificed thereon peace offerings. and thank offerings. So he's not just cleaning the place up, but he's actually actively participating in the true worship of the Lord Verse 16, it says he commanded Judah to serve the Lord God of Israel. And I want you to just pause and think about this. Could you have ever predicted such a Could you imagine living in a a nation like Judah? And here you are, you know, all that you've ever known is Manasseh, your king, and he's an it He's just an evil, wicked man, and there's idolatry all around, and he's captured and he ends up in Babylon, and then he comes back and all of a sudden he's he's cleaning up the house of the Lord. And he's not causing his children to pass through the fire, but in fact he's actually abolishing those practices. And now he's encouraging people to do what's right. And you're like, I think I'm experiencing whiplash here. What's going on? What's going on is The gracious work of God in a person's life. God can do that in anybody's life. There might be people in your life that you've given up on, and you say, I don't think that person could ever come to the Lord. Don't stop praying for them. Don't stop taking the opportunities that God might give you to plant a seed. Now I'm not saying hound them. I'm not saying every time you see them, try to force the issue. No, no, I'm not talking about that. But what I'm saying is this, keep the door open. Keep praying. See what God does. But I leave you one final thought here under this section. Judah still had problems. Even though their king made a lot of good choices. There were still people following the original bad example that he set before them. And in verse 17 it says, Nevertheless, the people did sacrifice still in the high place. Yet unto the Lord their God. What you see in this last little statement is that there is a syncretism going on in the nation. People are following what he is saying, but they're blending it with the pagan practices. And so this is a reformation that's going to take place for a short time But it's still an amazing thing. Second thing I want you to notice tonight is this. There is a great contrast between the two accounts that we read in 1 Kings 21. and in 2 Kings 33, or 2 Chronicles 33. Listen to verses 12 through 16. When he was afflicted He besought the Lord his God and he humbled himself. Verse 15, he took away the strange gods and the idols out of the house of the Lord. Verse sixteen, he repaired the altar of the Lord and sacrificed thereon peace offerings and thank offerings. and commanded Judah to serve the Lord God of Israel. You know what's really interesting? When you read the passage in 1 Kings 21 and you read the passage in 2 Chronicles 33, it's the same guy. But you don't read about this in 1 Kings. 21. And we might ask, why is that? Is it because it didn't happen? No, it did happen. Why would the writer of 1 Kings, why would he leave out this incredible story of this man turning to God? repenting, humbling himself, experiencing a complete turn of the events in his life. The reason for this contrast is the two different purposes. When we look at 1 and 2 Kings, what we see is God demonstrating that he was absolutely just and righteous to judge the nation of Israel. Israel. And so what is highlighted in 1st and 2 Kings is the terrible choices of their of their kings and also the tremendous evil that went on in the nation during that time. time. And what God is doing in those books is he's laying out a case so that people recognize when God sent his people into Babylon, he was absolutely right to do it. And really that is the story. Even though Manasseh did turn to the Lord, the nation's trajectory continues. It's like we have a little blip on the radar, but then it goes back after this period of time. And so God is demonstrating that in those books. But when we come to 2 Chronicles 33, the purpose of that book is different. The purpose is not to say you deserve to be judged. That's true. The purpose is to say, God's not done with you yet. In other words, God gave the book of 2 Chronicles and 1 Chronicles to encourage the people as they were coming out of captivity after the exile, that in fact God still had purposes for them. them. And so the inclusion of this important part of his life story is a reminder to the people, if God could do this with Manasseh, he can do that with you too. It's like the story in Jeremiah of Jeremiah going down to the potter's house and he he sees that there's this work on the wheel and it's marred and what does the potter do? He breaks it down and then he reshapes it so that it's what it's supposed to be. God can do that in the life of these people. And so that's the encouragement. First and second Kings says, God is right to judge. First and second chronicles, but he's not done with you as a people. Those promises that he has made, they're still there. They're still valid. Though God is just, he's also rich in mercy. He remains faithful to his promises. His word will not fail. And you know what? We need both of these stories in our lives. Sometimes we need to be reminded: God is just, and I am going down a path of folly, and if I don't wake up, I'm going to be in trouble. And sometimes when we're humbled, we need to look up and remember that God's not done with us. He loves us. He cares about us. He wants to work in our lives. And he will if we will stay in that humble place. position. Third thing I want you to notice are a few lessons that we should never forget from the story. And so let me give you this first lesson that I think is a really important part of the story. And I kind of tried to draw this out, though we're focusing in on Manasseh, Manasseh's life is a result of what was going on at the end of Hezekiah's life. By the way, in the same way that Manasseh's son is very wicked, but his grandson, in fact, is very godly. It's a pretty pretty amazing thing. So what we see is that the person that he influenced during his most formative years, during those evil evil years, he follows in his father's footsteps. But the one who he influences at the end of his life, the child, he follows in the good. So what is the principle that we need to learn here? Here it is. We must guard against drift during transitional periods in our lives. I know that when kids are growing up in church, Teenagers hear a lot of stories about how teens shouldn't rebel against parents. Isn't that true? I grew up in youth group, heard a lot of stories about rebellion. Bitterness, those kinds of things. Those are like the classic things that teenagers hear at camp. But let me tell you, it's not just teenagers and kids going off to college who make really bad choices that hurt them. Lives. Hezekiah was a godly teenager, and he was a godly young man, and in fact, he was very faithful for the vast majority of his life. You know when he wavered? He wavered at the end of his life. He wavered during a period when his health broke. And during that time of his health breaking, rather than him crying out to God and saying, your will be done, he became very self-absorbed. And the truth is that at the end of Hezekiah's life, the way that he thought and the way that he operated was reflected in the son that was born during that period. And I have seen this. We need to be very cautious when we go through these transitional periods of our lives. I was listening to a sermon, a Martin Louis-Jones sermon uh several several months ago. And as I was listening to this message, he talked about the danger of the Middle Years. I guess I put myself in that category, right? Middle-aged-ish. I guess I'd if I live to be 90 years old, I'm not totally there yet. But I don't know that I'm gonna live to be ninety, so maybe I'm past that. I don't know. But but the point that he made is this when we go through these transitional periods in our lives, we've got to be very careful. You know, when your kids are going off to college and now you're an empty nester, that your life changes a lot. You know, you're young and you're athletic and you're vibrant and you're at the top of your field and all of a sudden you're getting into this stage of life where people that are the age of your children, they're smarter than you. They can get more work done than you can? They're making more money than you? They're advancing very quickly, and you're like, what happens here? How is it that the kids are now passing me? What's going on here Yeah, you start wrestling around with your son and all of a sudden you realize like I think if I do this again he's gonna beat me and it's not gonna be pretty for me, not for him. And all of a sudden you start realizing something. I'm not as strong as I used to be. I'm not excelling like some of the people coming behind me. There are things that I thought I was going to get to do in life, and now they've passed me. There are things that are disappointing about my life, and all of a sudden these things begin to weigh on us. And you know what happens? We start going Through a crisis in our lives. And when we go through that crisis in our lives, we can become very, very self-absorbed. And we can begin to drift from what we know to be true, we know to be right, and we have consistently Done for years on end. And those choices we make and that mentality that we have, that can impact our kids. It really can. David wasn't twenty-five when he committed adultery with Bathsheba. He was probably fifty. And so the point that I want to make here is this. We've must guard against drift during those transitional periods in our lives. We're often very sensitive about the teens and the young adults, but we need to be wary about every period of life. life. Sickness, disappointment, the aging process, children moving out of the home. Of course we're Me, I'm gonna be doing this for another fifteen years. But here's the truth. And and I I'm sure some of you that have gone through these stages in life, you're like, yeah, I can I can actually appreciate with what you're saying. I can't appreciate as one is experienced. But I can from those things that have been shared with me. And I can say see it in the text. Hezekiah drifted at the end of his life, and for 55 years Manasseh was a tyrant in the land. Second thing. We need to pray for our leaders because nations tend to follow their ways. People follow. That's true. They really do. When someone is strong, guess what? People follow them. And that, you know, strength can be good or bad. Some people lead in a strong way and it's it's really good for the people that are following them. And others it's And one of the things that we observe as we study the story of the different kings is that when the kings loved the Lord and they said, Let's serve the Lord our God, the people would line up and they would follow them. And then as soon as that person would fall off the stage, scene and somebody would take their place and they said, let's reverse everything, then let's do it another way. The people are like, all right, let's go ahead and do it. Let's do it another way. And the truth is that we are responsible for our own choices. There's no doubt about it. But what's also true is those who lead influence a society a lot. Now we live in a country where we elect our our leaders. But we have pretty limited options. Don't you kind of feel that way this these days? Our options are a little limited. It's like there's like this big And there's worse. And then there's like really bad, all right? That's kind of how we look at it. Now, the options that we have, they really are a reflection of our culture. I hate to say that, but it's true. And we get what we deserve many times. But what's also true is this, the people who lead, they influence culture. The things they say influence culture. The things that they permit, they influence culture. The mentality that they present, it influences culture. And there are certain things that would not have been permissible in our society 10 years ago, 20 years ago, and 40 years ago, but because of the People that have been involved in leadership and the mentality that they have presented to our nation, we have allowed things in our society that we would have never permitted a few decades ago. And the question is why? What has changed? What has changed is when people lead, we begin to become a little bit like a frog in a frying pan. And we need to pray for those in leadership. They are there because God has put them there. And the truth is that that what they do, not just the choices they make, but the way they lead, it affects It affects the way we talk in our homes. It affects what we think is good and bad. And we need to pray for our leaders. Third thing: God is just, but He's also Very patient. And that's something that really comes out in the text in front of us. We should never presume against God's justice. Here's this man. He just throws off restraint. He goes as as far down this path as you could imagine. And God sent prophets to that man. Don't do this. He just didn't listen. Don't do this. He doesn't listen. He says, All right, you didn't listen. I'm going to get your attention the hard way. But here's what happens. When he experiences the pain and the suffering, he acknowledges that it's the result of his own choices A lot of people don't get there. Everybody's fault but mine. How about it is your fault? You're there because you put yourself there. Manasseh recognizes this. And he humbles himself. And when he humbles himself, what does God do? God shows him mercy. It shows you that there's still hope for people, even those who seem like they are past that point of no return. And so I leave you with one simple final thought. As it says in James, God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. That's exactly what we learned from the life of Manasseh. When Manasseh was proud, God resisted him. When he humbled himself, what did God do? He gave him mercy and grace. And God can do that in our lives. God can do that in the lives of the people around us. Let's take to heart these very simple lessons from a very complicated man's life. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father in heaven, as we think about this text, I pray that we would take to heart the things that we have seen. And heard. Father, we pray for our leaders. We pray for people that are in Congress. We pray for our president and his administration. Father, we pray for our governor. We pray for people that are involved in very important decisions in this state, in this nation. I pray for those who are justices. I pray for those who are involved in every level of government. These people are in those places because, in your providence, you have allowed them to be there. You have put them there And I pray that these leaders, as proud as some of them may be, truly arrogant individuals, that you would humble them. And you would bring them to their senses. And you would help them to walk in a humility before the God who created them. I pray that as your people we would be salt and light in this world. Father, I pray for our families. I think of every single one of us as we go through various seasons of life that bring new challenges, health challenges, physical challenges. challenges, relational challenges, career challenges, financial challenges, you know all of them. I pray that through each of these seasons we would stay true. We'd walk in your ways, we would be consistent and faithful, we would be a good example to those who are following us. Father, I pray that if we have people in our lives who we think are beyond hope, we would not give up on them. But we would earnestly pray for them, for their salvation, for their repentance, for them to turn to you in humility. And Father, help us to rejoice in you getting the glory in their lives. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Nay, Amen