Well let's go ahead and turn our Bibles back to First Corinthians chapter seven tonight. First Corinthians chapter seven. And uh tonight the topic that we're going to address is the importance of a healthy marriage. And uh gonna tell our young people you need to learn about the importance of a healthy marriage before you're in one so that you don't end up having to deal with miserable and challenging situations. You need to think biblically before you enter into marriage. And so big encouragement to our young people, but not just to our young people, also our not so young people, that the Lord would strengthen our marriages. First Corinthians chapter 7, and we'll pick up again in verse number 1. Here's what it says. Now, concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. Nevertheless To avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife. Let every woman have all have her own husband. Let the husband render unto his wife do benevolence, and likewise also the wife unto the husband. The wife hath not power over her own body, but the husband, and likewise also the husband hath not power over his own body, but the wife Defraud ye not one another, except it be with consent for a time that ye may give yourselves to fasting and prayer, and come together again, that Satan tempt you not for your incontinency. Now, it's important for us to remember that the reason that Paul is addressing this issue is because of a series of questions that the church has sent to him. And the question that really is being raised with this answer is, how are people who are married supposed to relate to one another appropriately? And it's very interesting the way that this passage of Scripture lays this out. And so what I want us to do is I want us to just work our way through some of these details. They're very simple. should be very common sense in many ways, but sometimes you need to state the obvious, the simple, and the ordinary because that is where we tend to have problems in our lives. So the first thing I want you to notice from this passage, and the word we want to stay uh to focus in on is the word foundation, a healthy marriage. Starts with a godly foundation. Marriage is God's idea, not man's idea. God is the creator of marriage and he has a purpose. for it. In fact, we go all the way to the Garden of Eden. We could talk about it from there. But we want to kind of start in this text and I want you to notice a couple of things that are stated that it's sad that I'd have to kind of draw your attention to it, but it is there. And so look down in verse number two, it says this. Let every man have his own wife. And let every woman have her own husband. Such a simple little statement. Man, wife. Does it say man-wives? It says Man-wife. It doesn't say man -husbands. It says man, one, wife, one. And then he says, let every woman, one, have her own husband, one. You say, well, that's kind of simple. That makes sense. Yes. This is beginning with some assumptions that these people understand a biblical foundation on the issue of marriage. And by the way, when it came to their culture, there was a lot of corruption of a good thing in their society. First assumption is this. Marriage is monogamous. Now, when you read through the Bible, you're going to find that there are a lot of people that did not Follow God's pattern and plan for one man and one woman. We see a lot of examples. And guess what we what all of those examples have in common? Not how many wives they had, but all the problems that came as a result of their decision to reject God's plan for marriage. Just because there are many examples in Scripture of people who disregarded God's plan and chose to take multiple wives does not mean that that's God's plan. Does it mean that that was right? Doesn't mean that God was okay with it. God's plan is very simple. Marriage is to be monogamous Let every man have his own wife. Let every woman have her own husband. Second very simple observation is this. Marriage is between one man and one woman. Such a simple thing as well. What do we see here? He says, man, woman, wife, husband. Very simple. The whole purpose of marriage is so that when life is created, it is created in a covenantal bond between one man and one woman for life. And as God blesses that union, those lives or that life that is cultivated within that bond of marriage, that covenant, is going to be guided by mom and dad. Not just dad, not just mom, not some complex mess. God's plan is that mom and dad who have children raise their children up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And this is simple nature, God's basic plan. Third statement. Marriage involves the giving of oneself. Notice these two statements. Let the husband, and I'm going to kind of say a little bit more about this a little bit later tonight, but it says, let the husband render, very interesting word there. Unto the wife, do benevolence. Likewise also the wife unto her husband. Then he says, the wife hath not power over her own body, but the husband, and likewise also the husband hath not power over his own body, but the wife. Now, what does this tell you? Well, marriage involves the giving of oneself for the person that you marry. And by the way, it's important that you notice that there's a balance presented here. He doesn't just address the husband and then be quiet about the wife. He doesn't just address the wife and then be quiet about the husband. The reason for that is when it comes to God's plan, he wants the wife to be fully committed to the marriage, giving of herself entirely, and he wants the husband to be doing the exact same thing. God's plan isn't for one person to be dragging along the other person. It's for both individuals to be committed 100% to that marital bond. And so we see that marriage involves the giving of oneself. Fourthly, marriage brings certain obligations. And we know this because of a statement later on in these verses where he says Defraud not one another. Now what is defrauding someone? It is holding back something that rightfully belongs to them. It is cheating them of something that they are obligated to. And you know what that tells you? When God created marriage and that covenantal relationship, he expected that those who enter into this bond of marriage are to not defraud one another within that covenant arrangement. By the way, it goes both ways. A wife can do this to her husband, a husband can do this to his wife. Fifthly, the burdens, obligations, and sacrifices of marriage should be carried by both husband and wife. And we know that because of this word likewise. In other words, God's not holding the wife to a different standard than the husband. He's not holding the husband to a different standard than the wife. They both have the same obligation within this relationship. And it's important that we recognize that. Sometimes in their marital problems, someone will say, well, I'm going to do my part only if My spouse does their part. I've heard this many, many times. The fact is, if things are going to work out, then both sides have to be all in on what they're doing. And so we see these very simple things. Marriage is to be monogamous, it's but to be between one man and one woman. It volves The giving of oneself, it involves certain duties and obligations, and the burdens and the obligations and the sacrifices of marriage are supposed to be carried by both husband and wife in the same way before God. Next thing I want to mention under this first point is this. These duties are in perfect harmony with the consistent order laid out in Scripture. Now, sometimes what people will do is they'll go to a passage like this one right here, and they'll say, well, you know, based on what I'm seeing, I see that husbands are to give of themselves to their wives. And I see that a husband has no power of his own body, and they'll kind of focus on the husband, or they'll go to the wife's side, and they'll kind of focus on the wife's side And then they'll kinda say, Well, you know, it doesn't appear to be any order or structure within the home, as in the fact that there is a head, the husband And if the wife is under the husband's headship, that that must not be there because we have this equality kind of conversation here. That's actually a very common way that people will look at this issue today And they'll do that because somehow they get in their minds the concept of authority and structure is bad. The problem isn't authority and structure, it's how people function in authority and structure. It's when people abuse their authority. It's when people ignore that structure. It's when people do not follow through with the responsibilities that they're given. The problem is not with the structure and the design that God has given. The problem is what we do within that or how we throw it off. And so I think it's important to recognize that what Paul is saying here in 1 Corinthians 7 is in no way in conflict with what he says in Ephesians 5. or Colossians chapter 3 or in the book of 1 Peter. And so I want to read to you those things just so that they're highlighted so we get the full balance of what is going on. When it comes to this passage in 1 Corinthians 7, the emphasis is how do you function within the context? When we talk about Ephesians, Colossians, and 1 Peter, That is part of what is talked about, but what is also discussed is the structure of the home. And so in Ephesians 5. 25, here's what it says. Wives. Submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. And he is the Savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands and everything. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. Now, notice that there are two things that are stated here. I mean, there's a lot stated, but there are two things that are very prominent. One would be it's very clear that there is a relationship of headship between husband and wife. And two, there is also a very clear indication that the way that a husband relates to his wife in such a relationship, in such a situation, is very, very important. He is to love his wife. sacrificially in the same way that Christ gave himself for the church and loved it. And so what do you see? You see the balance there. Colossians 3. 18. Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands as is fit in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives. Be not bitter against them. Interesting statement. You say, well, what kinds of things could cause a husband to be bitter against his wife? Well, in a fallen world, there's all kinds of things that can create these scenarios. Lots and lots of different things. And so what does he do? Again, he affirms structure, but he also indicates the relationship of how we are to relate to one another. And then in 1 Peter chapter 3 he says this, Wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, that if any obey not the word, they also without a word may be won by the conversation of their wives, will they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear. Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hindered. When I read these scriptures, what I see is balance. I see structure and balance. When I look at 1 Corinthians 7, what do I see? Balance. To the wife, submit, subject in everything. To the husband, love, do not be bitter, dwell according to knowledge, give honor, your heirs together. Do not disregard how you treat your wife, because if you do, your prayers will be hindered. You see, there is balance there. And so they maintain the right balance needed in the home to address the potential abuses that could take place. That's why God gives us instruction the way that He does. Because there are husbands that don't love their wives. There are husbands that are cruel and mean. And the fact is they're going to answer God for the way that they treat their wives And there are wives who frankly are very manipulative of their husbands. And they blow off their responsibility and their duty to let their their husband actually guide the home the way that he should. And there are lots and lots of power plays and lots and lots of contentions between husbands and wives. And this is what happens when people disregard God's plan. In fact, this is even talked about after the fall in Genesis chapter 3. Listen to what God says to Adam and to Eve after the fall. Specifically, what he says to Eve. He says, thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee. Now what's very important to recognize here, Is that the structure of the home, the husband being the head, is not something that came after the fall. In fact, Paul's very clear about this when he talks about order in the church. So what he's talking about is not now there's structure there wasn't before. He's talking about the attitude of people toward one another within the structure now that sin is in the world and now they are fallen creatures. For instance, that phrase, thy desire shall be to thy husband I think what it actually means is that you will long to overthrow the proper order of the home. That will be the temptation of a wife. Attempting to manipulate because she has sinful tendencies. Or when we talk about the husband, it'll be the tendency to abuse the rightful order of the home. A husband that'll act as if his wife has obligations to him, but he has no obligations to her. And you know what? You see this a lot in unsaved marriages. Sadly, you see it in a lot of Christian marriages that are not healthy. The idea that a person, because of their fallen nature, is resistant to God's plans. So I start with this. That these scriptures begin with some foundational assumptions. There is a biblical structure, there is a biblical order, and this is a part of what Paul believes the church understands. Second truth. The word sacrifice is important here. A healthy marriage is maintained through the giving of oneself. Verse 3. But the husband render Unto the wife do benevolence, and likewise also the wife unto the husband. I don't think it was a mistake or incidental that Paul starts by addressing the husband first. And the reason I say that is because the way that this is structured in the home. Is that while it is true that the husband and the wife have an equal responsibility before God in this area , A husband is the initiator of the relationship, and the wife is the responder in the relationship. And we know that even we go back to Genesis. Where it says, for this cause, marriage, a man leaves his father and mother and is joined to his wife. And the two become one flesh. Interestingly, it doesn't say a woman leaves her father and mother and is joined to her husband. That's not what it says. Technically that happens. But when it says that a man leaves father and mother, it's indicating that he is the one who is to initiate the relationship. He leaves home to establish a new relationship. He enters into covenant with his wife, and they're now a new unit. And so he starts with the husband first. Let the husband render unto the wife do benevolence Sometimes men get frustrated with their wives. Well my wife doesn't treat me with a lot of honor and respect and blah blah blah blah blah and all this kind of stuff. And then if you talk to the wife, she'll be like, well my husband doesn't love me very much and she'll start talking about all the different ways that he's uh he's uh kind of harsh and His his expectations are unreasonable and he doesn't spend time with her and all these different kinds of things that go on. Now both people need to cut it out and do what's right. But the fact is this, if a man has initiated, he wants to marry a woman, And she says yes, and they get married, well, guess what? He better continue to be the kind of man that he was when he started. It's very important. Okay? And so when they when he uses this word render It's interesting. On Sunday, I actually quoted from a verse on government. And this is what it said. Render to all their dues, tribute to whom, tribute to you, custom to custom, fear to fear, honor to whom honor. You know that passage of scripture that I mentioned in Romans? Guess what? That word render is the same word. It's kind of interesting actually. Well when when we think of this word, the idea is it's the I it's the idea of a discharging of a duty. This is something that you're obligated to do. Now that's not suggesting that you should do it like, oh, I don't want to do this, but I'm just gonna go ahead and do it because I have to. That's not the idea. But the idea is that you sense this responsibility. You're a husband, you have a wife, guess what? You need to treat her right. It's that simple. You have a responsibility. Render, due benevolence, the affection that is due to her. Interestingly, when he goes to this other some of the other passages, he says that we're to dwell with our wife according to knowledge. What does that mean? That's a lifelong pursuit. Okay. But a lot of that really comes down to understanding how to relate properly to your wife in a way that she knows that she's loved, that she's cared for, and she's cherished. Genesis 2, a man leaves father, mother, and cleaves to his wife. Ephesians 5, 25, husbands are to love their wife as Christ loved the church. 1 Peter 3, 7, husbands are to dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel. What is all this another way of saying? Render to the wife due benevolence. But there's a second half. Wives should respond to their husbands in giving of themselves as well. Verse 3. Likewise also the wife unto her husband. Maybe another way to put that is in the exact same way that I have just addressed husbands, wives, you have the same responsibility too. In the same way, you need to do this as well. So you could almost say in the same way that a husband is to show due benevolence to his wife, his wife is to show due benevolence to him. They are both equally involved in the same covenant relationship. Also add this. There clearly needs to be some communication in this home. And verse number five, when he talks about this issue of responsibilities, he says that there are exceptional situations when a husband and wife are going to separate from a normal marital relationship for a period of time so that they can give themselves to prayer and fasting and he says they're to they're to do it with consent. You know what that means there's a conversation. They're actually interacting on this issue saying, let's talk about this situation, let's handle it right in a way that is mutually responsible and mutually loving, and we're in agreement on this issue. That's what he's saying. Who do you think should initiate that conversation? I mean the context it kind of seemed like the husband should. We move to a third truth, and that is the word duty. A healthy marriage is maintained through a sense of duty. Again, I don't think that people should look at their marriages in some kind of stale manner. But there is a time That a person needs to recognize, as a man, I have a responsibility, I need to fulfill it. There are times that a woman should say, as a woman, I have a responsibility, I'm to fulfill it. We definitely do this with our children. There are many, many times with our children that we are called to take action that's not easy, that's uncomfortable, that's exhausting, it's frustrating. Yet we do it because we know that, hey, I'm a parent. I have a responsibility. I need to do this. Well, the same thing would be true when it comes to our relationship as husband and wife. He says in verse 2, let every man have his own wife. Let every woman have her own husband. That's telling you that there is some obligation to your spouse, just by the way that that's worded. Or then in verse 3 he says, render unto the wife due benevolence. Likewise. The wife also to her husband. What does that word tell you? There's responsibility, there's a duty. Verse four She hath no power over her own body but to the husband. Likewise also the husband hath not power over his own body but to the wife. What's kind of funny is I think in our in our culture, when we read verses like that, we go, hmm, that sounds a little, I don't know about this. They would have done that too, but they wouldn't have done it the same way we would have. You would have had men that would say, hold on a second. You mean that my wife has the same, I have the same obligation to my wife as she has to me He'd say, yeah, absolutely. In other words, the reasons that we might cringe a little bit today are different than the reasons they would. But God's word is clear for all generations. The point is this, you have obligation, you have responsibility, you have duty. And that obligation is primarily oriented to God. Matthew 19, when Jesus gets into this, we could say he's grilled about this issue of divorce. This is what Jesus says. He says, well haven't you read? In the beginning, what God created? And then he goes on to say this in verse 6, he says, They are no more twain, not two, but are one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man put asunder. Now, what is he saying here? Marriage isn't just a commitment to your spouse, and it's not just a commitment to society, or just a commitment to her family or his family. Marriage is a commitment to God. We have an obligation to him. Or Malachi chapter 2, verse 14 The Lord hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously, yet is she thy companion, the wife of thy covenant. Did not he make one? Yet had the residue of the Spirit wherefore one that he might seek a godly seed, therefore take heed to your spirit. Let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. The Lord, the God of Israel, saith he hateth putting away. Therefore take heed to your spirit that you deal not treacherously. Notice that the way that this is word is not just relationship obligation on the horizontal, but there's also a vertical. And the vertical actually is probably more prominent in the text than even the horizontal. And I also want to mention this here. This is not just duty for duty's sake. That word benevolence is important. It's a word that has some warmth to it. Some affection. A person shouldn't just respond to their spouse because they're like, well, I gotta do this. They should have true warmth and affection for their spouse. For instance, in Ephesians 5, husbands love. Love your wife. Ephesians 5, 28. So ought men to love their wife as their own body. That's a really interesting statement. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. No man hated his own flesh, but he nourisheth and he cherisheth it. That doesn't sound like a I'm just gonna do this because I have to kind of a thing. The word nourish and cherish. Very important words. Love. Very important words. And so this isn't just people saying, I'm going to do what I have to do. This is people saying, I have a duty, but my heart's in it. Fourth truth. The word is vigilance. A healthy marriage protects against potential liabilities. In verse 5, he says that they should come together again so that Satan tempt you not for your incontinency. That word has the idea of a lack of self-control. Marriage does not magically remove the potential for temptation. Now, this is a great danger that people have sometimes when it comes to this issue of marriage. It is true that God created marriage so that people would not get involved in sexual sin. Obviously that's true. And he makes the point of this here. But another point that I think is very, very important is that marriage does not all of a sudden make people immune to sexual temptation. It's very important. Many times when people have issues in their marriage and there's been some kind of unfaithfulness or something is going on, many times this is true. The problems preceded their marriage. Way before they were married, those seeds of those problems were going on in the lives of those individuals. And so they enter into marriage and it doesn't just magically go away. They continue to have the same fleshly temptations they had before. Yes, they have the covenant of marriage, and yes, this is good, and yes, God has created it for their good. But they still need to guard themselves against temptation. And it's clearly being stated in verse 5. A person who's married needs to be vigilant about making sure that their marriage stays healthy Think of some of these verses. 1 Thessalonians 4:4. Let every one of you or every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. You know what that means? People need to learn how to control their bodies. That's true for teenage boys. That's true for junior high boys. That's true for college-age young men. That's true for people in their 30s. That's true for people in their 60s and 70s. And 80s. Nobody in their 90s here. That's true for our whole lives. That's true, not just for men. That's true for women. We need to learn how to respond appropriately in the body to temptation. That's what he's saying. Colossians 3. 19, he says, love your wife, do not be bitter against her. You know where a lot of people end up having affairs from? Bitterness? It's really common. Hebrews 12, 15. Look diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. Lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold as birthright Why did he do it? Because he was bitter. When people allow some kind of irritant to become a bitterness, And they nurse that bitterness, you know what? It becomes easier and easier for them to do. It becomes easier and easier for them to justify inappropriate interaction with others. that becomes progressively worse with time, that leads to tremendous, tremendous heartache in marriages. And so marriage doesn't magically remove potential temptation. Couples have to guard their hearts. And they have to protect their marriages. I go back to some of the verses that we saw the other week. Proverbs 5. 18, let thy fountain be blessed, rejoice with the wife of thy youth. Ecclesiastes 9. Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of thy life. This is thy portion in life in the labor which thou hast taken under the sun. We've got to cultivate healthy marriages. We've got to give of ourselves. So that leads me to a final question. How do we apply what we've talked about tonight? I think that this is pretty simple stuff. Very foundational. But this is where we get in trouble when we forget the basics. How do we apply it? Let me first of all speak to our unmarried folk here. Because we have quite a few. If you're not married, you need to realize that marriage is a massive commitment. Realize that marriage is going to involve tremendous changes in your life. Marriage is going to change you as a person. Now, I'm not saying that's that I encourage you not to get married. Listen, people here are going, I don't want to deal with that. I don't I don't want to have to have this massive commitment, I'm afraid of commitment. I don't want to have to make adjustments in my life and have to be a little bit uh Less selfish and things like that. I don't want to have to deal with that. And you know, there's a lot of people that that's the that's the route that they take. Okay The fact that a person's sobered going into this doesn't mean that they should avoid it. It simply means they need to go in with their eyes wide open. A lot of times people have problems in the early years of their marriage because they go in with a lot of unrealistic expectations. And so for those who are unmarried, realize that the commitment is great. Changes will take place and you will have to give of yourself. But marriage is good and is something we should not run away from. God does say whoever finds a wife finds a good thing and obtains favor from the Lord. So that's my encouragement to our young people that are not married. Then two are married. We need to renew our commitments in these areas. We need to remember what God's plan is for our marriage, and we need to live like we actually believe it. Now I know that we know these things. But sometimes we need to kind of re-remind ourselves of the basics. We need to renew our commitment to conducting ourselves with honor. Sometimes after people have been married for a while, they make some uh They make some decisions and they open themselves up to things that they would not have done before, and because of time, they start getting a little bit impatient. They start getting a little bit careless. And sometimes people are willing to make decisions that they would never have entertained a decade earlier. Be very careful. Be very careful. Thirdly, renew your commitment to give of yourself for the good of your spouse. The truth is that when people love one another after 30 or 40 years of marriage, that love is a lot realer. I don't know if that's a good word right there, a lot realer. It's a lot more mature than uh when they said ideal on the day they got married. Very idealistic, uh, very rosy eyed and as people get older and they've lived life together and they realize the commitments that are involved They actually see love in a very different way. And the fact is, sometimes we need to kind of re-remind ourselves of these things. We need to renew our commitment to guard our marriages. A person that has a strong marriage is giving a lot to it. A couple that has a strong marriage, they're both giving of themselves to that marriage. And what comes out of that, the blessings are great. But there is a tremendous commitment. Lastly, we need to invest our hearts in the person God has given us to build our life together with. So, if you're married, be a faithful husband, guys. Be a faithful wife, ladies. Pour your life into what God has given you. And he will be able to bless that. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word and this passage of Scripture that is very simple, very plain, very foundational. Help us. Whether it is someone who's not married and is down the road going to prepare themselves, or whether it's all those who are married here, may we take your word to heart. May we obey it. May we trust in it, and may we see the wonderful fruit that comes from doing what is right. We ask it in Christ's name, amen.