Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And if you joined us yesterday, we were in Luke chapter 9, looking at verses 10 through 22. And it's a very familiar passage. It's the feeding of the 5,000. And so this morning we're going to be back in that same passage. And what we're looking at is how that miracle reveals the identity and the nature of Christ. And also Really the entire ministry that Christ is there to accomplish. And so if you have your Bible, let's turn there together, please, and we're going to dig into this text again. Here's what it says. Luke chapter 9, verse number 10. And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they had done. And he took them and went aside privately into a desert place belonging in the city called Bethseida. And the people, when they knew it, followed him, and he received them, and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of healing. And when the day began to wear away, they came then came the twelve, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the towns and country round about and lodge and get victuals, and we are here in a desert place. He said unto them, Give ye them to eat. They said, We have no more than five loaves and two fishes, except we should go and buy meat for all this people. And they that were about five thousand men, and he said unto the disciples, Make them sit down by fifties in a company. And they did so, and made them all sit down. Now this passage is a wonderful passage and it's a familiar passage. And sometimes when we're dealing with familiar passages, what we do is we tend to just kind of blow right through it and not think about implication. And so I'm purposefully not digging into just the content where I'm looking at details, five loaves, two fishes, the fact that there's a boy that came and he said, Can you do anything with my lunch and all those kinds of things? Those are important details, but what I really want to do is I want to focus in on why each of the evangelists is writing these details, being led by the Holy Spirit, guided to give us God's word why they included these details and why Jesus performed this miracle, what he was trying to demonstrate about his own person. So yesterday we talked about the authority of Christ and the selflessness of Christ. And so we saw that here is someone who has the ability, because of their own nature, To be able to create out of something that is already existing. By the way, he also has the power to create out of nothing. Ex nihilo But we also see that the same person, the Lord Jesus Christ, who by him were all things created and by him all things consist, that same Lord Jesus Christ receives people Who don't understand who he is, they're disrupting a time where the disciples needed to rest and recharge and refresh and talk about what they Experience and Jesus chooses to spend the entire day ministering to these people in their condition, where they are. He meets them there. But what I'd like us to also see this morning is the fact that Jesus is a savior and he comes to seek and to save those who are lost. And part of him being the savior is that he approaches people in a very provocative manner. What I mean by provocative is that he provokes them to a response and his desire is to see people turn to him but in order for them to turn to him he has to confront them where they are. He has to confront them where their greatest need lies. And we see this in verses 13 and 14. Here's what it says. He said unto them, this is the disciples, give ye them to eat. And they said, we have no more. But five loaves and two fishes, except we go and buy meat for all this people, for there were about five thousand men Now Luke chose not to record all the details that are recorded in some of the other gospels, but it appears that there was a conversation going on between Jesus and the disciples. And as Jesus is talking to the disciples, there's a little boy that comes along and he says, Hey, can I give you my lunch? It's a wonderful story. It's someone who They don't understand the situation entirely, but they want to be a help. And so they offer what little they have. And basically the disciples say, well, Jesus is all we have. We have a little boy's lunch, and Jesus says, okay, no problem. We could take care of this problem. Now, why did Jesus tell them to give food to these people? I mean, that was an impossible thing for them to do. They didn't have enough money. They didn't have enough food. They did not have the means to do it. Yet he says, feed these people. Well, the reason that Jesus did it is because he was going to provoke them to think. He was going to help them to see that, look, they do not have what they need. But he has the ability to provide. In fact, really, what the disciple should have said is, Jesus, we don't have the means But we know who you are, and if you want to feed all these people, then by all means, you can do it. That's what they should have done They've seen what Jesus is capable of. They've even gone out and they've performed miracles under his authority by his sent-out mission. But that's not what they did. They just said, we can't do this. We don't have any money. We don't have the means. And so Jesus says, tell them to sit down. Now The point that we're about to look at here is the fact that Jesus gave them this command to get them to think. And Jesus does this over and over and over again. in the Gospels. Jesus confronted people where their greatest need lies. And let me give you some examples of it. For instance In Luke chapter 5, we see where Jesus calls the disciples to follow. Many of Jesus' disciples were fishermen by trade. And this is what it says in Luke chapter 5, verse 4. It says, when he had left off speaking, he said to Simon, that is Simon Peter, launch out into the deep, let down your nets for a drought. Now, Peter basically tells them, Jesus, we have fished all night and we've caught nothing, but we will do what you say. Why did Jesus do that? Well, the reason he did that is because of what we will see next. They catch a massive number of fish and and the nets don't break. They bring those uh fish back in, and then Jesus basically says to the disciples Leave your nets, leave your fishing, come and follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. What's the point? Jesus hit the disciples in their livelihood, and he said, This has been your livelihood for all these years. This has been your identity for all these years. Your identity and your livelihood is going to change. It's going to be fully absorbed in the proclaiming of the gospel, fishing for men. That's what he does. He confronts them where their great need is. Another example. John chapter 3, this is the story of Nicodemus. Jesus says unto him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Now, Nicodemus was a religious man. He was a respected man. He was someone who understood the scriptures, but he did not understand that he needed to be regenerated, made spiritually alive to become a part of the kingdom of God. Nicodemus believed by Jewish origin he is one of God's people. And in the physical sense that was true, but not in the spiritual sense. And so what does Jesus do with Nicodemus? He hits him right at the point where he needs to know, I cannot enter the kingdom of God if I'm not born again. That's confrontational. That's provocative, that's making him think, that's getting to the heart of the issue. Another example, John chapter four. We know the story of the woman at the well And Jesus says unto her, he says, If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that saith unto thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him, and we he would have given thee living water. The woman says, give me this water so that I don't thirst again. And Jesus says, well then go call your husband. You say, well, why did Jesus do this? Why did he ask her to get him a drink of water? Why does he talk about eternal life like it's water that is never going to uh is never going to end. And why does he tell her to call her husband? It's because this woman's greatest need was salvation. And what stood between her and salvation was recognizing her sinful condition and that Jesus is the only one who could rescue her and save her from her sinful condition. Again Jesus provokes people to think. He addresses them where their greatest need is. And then lastly, I mentioned Matthew 19. Think about this statement. He said unto him, Why do you call me good? There is none good but one that is God. If thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. He says, Go and sell all that thou hast, give it to the poor, and then thou shalt have treasure in heaven and follow me. That passage of scripture is Actually, a fairly complicated one because some people say, well, is Jesus saying that you go to heaven by giving money and following him? The answer is no, that's really not what he's saying. What he's saying is you believe you're good You believe you can merit eternal life. You believe you've kept the commandments. And I'm going to hit you at the point where it proves you don't keep the commandments. Give everything that you have to the poor and follow me, and then we'll see if you really love your neighbor like you love yourself. The answer is that he did it. And so Jesus hits this man where his self-righteousness was most apparent, and that was that he loved himself more than his fellow man. And all of these examples, and there are numerous more examples, Jesus goes to the point. What's the point? He seeks and saves those who are lost. Jesus is emphasizing by the way he's relating to the disciples that he wants them to learn something about him through this situation. And by the way, he's done that for you. He's done that for me. If you have trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior, if you have been born again, then the reason is not just because of what Jesus did for you. for you, but because of his action toward you before you had any capability to understand fully what he had done for you. He sought you out He sent people to you. He sent the scriptures to you. He convicted you of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. He hit you where you most needed to hear the truth. So that you would recognize that you had no ability to come to God through your own righteousness and your own good deeds. You had to come through the redemptive work of Christ and Christ alone. And that's the way that Jesus is. There is a side to Jesus that points out where we need him most, and he draws our attention to the truth, ultimately for what reason? So he can save us. I hope that that comforts you this morning. I hope that gives you something to think about. I hope that reminds you that you know what? If a person continues as they are and they're not confronted in their sin, then there's absolutely no way that they can be saved. And they can become a citizen of God's kingdom because it is that confrontation that is an essential part to them being able to turn to God and place their faith alone in the finished work of Christ. Well, that comes the end of our study this morning. I hope it's giving you some things to think about. If it has, share that. Encourage someone else with it. Have a blessed day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again to continue looking at this passage by now