Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning of Reflection. And uh excited about our episode this morning. It's a bonus episode. And we're going to be dealing with the importance of having a healthy conscience. And Lord willing, we are going to do several bonus episodes on this topic. not necessarily out of the chapter or the passage that we're looking at this morning, but I think that these are going to be very helpful. So if you have your Bible, I want to encourage you to take it and let's turn together to the 38th Psalm and we're going to look at the first eight verses. And we're going to see what they have to say about the conscience. So let's begin reading together. It is a Psalm of David to bring to remembrance. He says, O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure, for thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. For my iniquities are gone over mine head. as an heavy burden, they are too heavy for me. My wounds stink and are corrupted because of my foolishness. I am troubled, I am bowed down greatly, I go mourning all the day long. For my loins are filled with a loathsome disease And there is no soundness in my flesh. I am feeble and sore broken. I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart Now, as we read these verses, what we see are some of the most personal, and I would say some of the most emotionally painful verses we are going to read in the scriptures. There are several passages in the Psalms where David pours out his heart to the Lord and he expresses internal anguish, and this is one of those Psalms. But some of those psalms, the anguish that's being experienced is one uh that is because of another person's sin. Sometimes it's because of fear and anxiety. In this particular passage, what we are looking at is an expression of a troubled conscience. And so This morning, what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look for a few minutes at this concept of the conscience and why it's so important that we have a healthy conscience. And when I think about uh some of the most practical topics that we can address in the Christian life This is very high on that list, an issue of the conscience. So let me begin by giving you kind of a summation of these verses, and then let's dig into uh this this uh as as as helpfully as possible. So first of all, a summary. Psalm thirty-eight reveals the complex physical, mental, and emotional anguish that we experience when we have a violated conscience. David is expressing this in his own words, how he feels internally And I think it's important for us to recognize that a healthy conscience isn't a conscience that is necessarily pricked about everything, or on the other side, a conscience that is desensitized and is never pricked about anything. What we need to understand is that a healthy conscience is one that is biblically grounded. A person who is thinking biblically They're listening living consistently with a biblical worldview. And when they sin, because we all do sin, they understand how to process their own sin in light of the gospel. So those pieces come together. founded on the scriptures, living consistently with our worldview, and then when we sin, processing that sin in light of the gospel So let's go ahead and look at a couple of details here this morning. First of all, David was a man who knew God. He loved God. He was called a man after God's own heart. But there were times when he experienced intense physical, mental, and emotional anguish. And in this particular passage, that anguish is connected back to sin. And there are several different factors that I think are at play here. Why David experienced such an intense anguish in his heart The first factor, I think, is actually his temperament. When we look at David's life, we see that David was a person who was passionate. That means when when he was thinking about the Lord correctly, his heart was overwhelmed with affection, it was overwhelmed with intense gratitude and joy. He expressed worship in the most intense and passionate ways. Yet when David was in a lowly place He felt just as intensely the lowness of his position. And so he was a person who had a temperament that was prone to the highs and the lows of the Christian life. Not everyone has a temperament like David did But this is a factor. A second factor that is very important, and this is something that applies to all of us, is that sin complicates life. There are natural consequences that flow out of sin. And so we have to understand that just because we experience negative consequences when we sin does not necessarily mean that God is actively punishing us. Sometimes That's just what happens when you sin. There's a reason that God says don't do this. We'll come back to this in just a moment. A third factor that's important. is that when someone's conscience is violated because of sin, they feel guilty because their worldview is in or their their their lifestyle or what the choices are that they make is inconsistent with the worldview that they have. And so they feel conflicted internal internally because they say, I affirm this, I believe this, but I'm doing this. That inconsistency is a huge factor into why people feel internally conflicted and troubled in their conscience. A fourth, the internal turmoil that we experience is something that sometimes drives us to think inconsistent with our worldview. So To put it very simply, we don't always feel consistent with what we affirm. So a person may say, I know that God loves me. I know that the Bible affirms that God is good. I know that the Bible affirms that God is patient, that He is full of grace and full of mercy. We believe those things if we were to write them on paper. But when it comes to the actual practice, because of what's going on internally, we begin to affirm in our practice something that is different. In other words, Our emotions push us outside of what we would call our normal worldview. And David experienced that. And I'm going to draw your attention to that in just a moment. And then the fifth factor is that sometimes God actually actively chastens us. And we have to recognize that when God does this, it's not out of anger or animosity, it's out of love. It's out of fatherly care. God wants his children to walk consistent with their position. And God wants his children to grow in maturity and in wisdom. and affection toward him. And so there are times that God actively moves in our life in a way that is chastening. And so all five of those factors come together. So what I'd like us to do next is I'd like us to kind of look at how This passage of Scripture really communicates all of those dynamics very, very well. So in verses 1 and 2, here's what it says. O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. Another way to put that is David felt the intense displeasure of God because of his sin. Now, just because David felt that way doesn't mean that his feelings were consistent with reality. So when David says that I'm feeling this intense wrath against me Yes, he's describing how he feels, but the question is, does God pour out his wrath on his children? Does God hate his children? And the answer is of course not. God doesn't hate his children. We're not under wrath. We've been rescued from that position. So there is a sense in which though David has sinned and his sin is serious, and obviously God's not pleased with his sin At the same time, he's not under wrath, but he feels as if he is. In other words, his perspective of his father is actually unhealthy at the time that he writes these things A second uh example, verse number three. He says, There's no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger. He's feeling the weight of God's hatred towards his sin, and it's actually affecting his own body and how he feels physically. Verses three and four, he says, Neither is there any rest in my bones because of my spirit. Mine iniquities are gone over mine head. As a heavy burden, they're too heavy for me. What David is talking about is how he feels this incredible heaviness in his heart. And by the way, the same way that, you know, when when it comes to this issue of our sin Satan tries to convince us it's not a big deal, he says, Go ahead and do it, it's not gonna hurt you. , And then as soon as we do it, what does he do? He convinces us That this is an insurmountable obstacle, that God would never ever love us again, that God would never actually forgive us, that God doesn't care about us anymore, that He's fed us to the side and We're worthless and there's nothing for him, uh there's nothing for him to do in our lives, and there's nothing for us to do uh be done that there's no way that he can work through us again. And so Satan diminishes the consequence of sin and then he overwhelms us with this feeling of we could never stand up again. Well neither of those positions is correct. Yet that is exactly what he does. David is expressing, this is how I feel. And verse 5. He says, My wounds stink and are corrupted because of my foolishness. Verses 6 to 8 he says, I'm troubled, I bow down greatly. I go mourning all the day. My loins are filled with a loathsome disease. There is no soundness in my flesh, I am feeble, swore broken. I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. What David is describing is the fact that he is not just a brain and is not just a body. He is someone who's created in the image of God. who has a body, who has a mind, who has a heart that processes, and he's talking about this internal connection between his body and his soul and his spirit. And so the fact is that David is experiencing a troubled conscience and it's beginning to affect his body and his physical health. And he may also be very well talking about some of the consequences of his sexual promiscuity. We know that David was not a person who was married to one woman and was faithful to that woman, one woman, but David was someone uh who was involved in a lot of sexual sin over the course of his life. And so he may even be describing that as well. So the question is what's the point? Well the point is that when a person has a troubled conscience, it's a serious deal. And when a person has a troubled conscience, it doesn't just affect their heart, it affects their mind It affects their bodies. And so this issue of the conscience is very serious. It's not something that we can ignore In fact, I'll put it this way, you cannot fight against reality. There are real-life consequences when we try to do that. And so this issue of David's temperament actually matters. We need to understand our own temperaments. The fact is when we make a decision to sin against God and to ultimately violate our conscience. There could be consequences for that. We're gonna feel the weight of those things When we choose to make sinful choices, there are natural consequences that flow from that. You cannot fight reality without real-life consequences. And this issue of the conscience is where we're going to feel it The most. But I'm also going to say this as well. When it comes to this issue of the conscience, we need to recognize that if we don't understand our conscience, we don't understand why we have it and why we respond this way, and if our thinking is unbiblical in these areas, we are going to also have problems beyond not just the natural consequences of our sin. Not just the fact that we are living inconsistent with our conscience, but it could also be that we have a conscience that's not healthy, a conscience that's not founded on truth, it's not biblical. And so part of that problem isn't just I've sinned against my conscience, it's that my conscience isn't healthy. And so this concept of the conscience and having a healthy conscience is extremely, extremely important. So that leads me to a final question. What is the practical implication of this talk, of this study, this episode this morning? Well, I think the first takeaway is that more than anything in this world, you and I need to have a biblically focused conscience. We need to affirm in our hearts what is biblically true. That means that conscience can't be built on culture. or family culture or a misunderstanding of scripture, our conscience, if it's going to be healthy, has to be built on the Word of God. Has to be built on the Scriptures. That is the number one most important takeaway from this. Number two. In order for that to happen, there are certain means that God works through. He works through our churches He works through our family life. He works through mentors. And so it's extremely important that you and I have people who are shaping our conscience, who are biblically wise, and they understand the scriptures, so that the perspective that they put in front of us And that is guiding our thinking is actually consistent with the truths of Scripture. It's consistent with reality. So I want to encourage you, pray for those who minister to you in the Word. Pray for your pastors. Pray for those uh who who are teaching Sunday school to your children. Pray for your spouse as they might teach the Word of God. Pray that the people that are mentoring other people are wise and biblically grounded. Very, very important. We need to cultivate a healthy conscience by being in an environment where the word of God is being preached week in and week out. Where it's being rightly divided and it is shaping the way that we think. And I'll also add secondly to that, we need to be living in a way that is consistent with the worldview that we affirm within our conscience. If we are living inconsistently with our conscience, then what's going to happen is we're going to be conflicted in our souls. And so Lord willing, what we're going to do over the next couple of weeks is when we come to our bonus episodes We're going to be talking about this issue of the conscience, and we're going to be digging into it so that ultimately we can understand what our conscience is, how it works. How to have a healthy conscience, and then how we are to relate to issue uh relate to one another on issues of conscience. I hope that this study has been an encouragement to you this morning. I hope that it gives you something to think about this weekend, and I hope that it is a big encouragement to you throughout the next several weeks when we talk about this topic. Lord Mulling on Friday afternoons, mornings, whatever you read, or whatever you watch these videos. Okay, hope that you have a great rest of your day and have a great weekend. Many of you, we look forward to seeing you on Sunday. So we'll be praying for you guys this weekend. Bye now