Well, good evening. Good to see each of you. I hope that you had a good afternoon and looking forward to our service tonight. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we will get started with our service Let's pray. Father, thank you for the opportunity to gather again. Thank you so much for the local church and the blessing of Christian fellowship and the opportunity to sit under the ministry of of the word tonight. I pray that you'll bless our time of fellowship together. I pray that you'll bless the singing, the preaching. May everything that is done tonight bring glory to you. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen. Well good evening. It's good to see you all. By the way, Pastor, thank you so much. She's been doing heavy lifting the last couple of weeks. It is not easy to leave singing and preach. So thank you. I'm back now and I'm excited. All right. 391. Let's get started with some great singing. Please stand with me. And Pastor Joel told me that ever since we have lifted the masks, you all sing so much better. Let's find out how that is. 391, I am resolved. We'll sing verses 1, 2, and 4. I am resolved no longer to linger, charmed by the world's delight. Things that are higher, things that are nobler, these have a Lord my signs, I will make sense to them Instead of glad and praise Jesus , great and fire, I will come to thee I am resolved to go to the Savior, leaving my sin and style. He is the true one, He is the just one. A set of fire fire, I will connect I am resolved to enter the kingdom, leaving the path of them. Fends me, opposed me , both may besides me Where I get to A sense of that dream to greatness, I yes, I will consider the great singing, please. be seated as we turn just a few pages over to hymn number 397. 397 higher ground. We'll sing verses 1, 2 Two and four I'm pressing on the upward way, new heights I'm gaining every day Still praying as I onward down, Lord, let my feet on my ground Lord lift me up and let me stand, my feet on the stable land. What plant my peace on my brown? My heart has not entirely Where down to rise and fear dismay, Though some may dwell within the mound, my prayer, my aim is fire, Lord lift me up and let me stand. My faith are bad and stable than a fire plane that I have found. Lord bless my feet on higher ground I want to scan the guy, And cancer claim a glory pride, but still I'll pray as a man I found, or lead me onto my ground. Let me up there my king down, my teeth are down and say more, my friend, then I have found, or five my teeth are. And over to hymn number 445. Hymn number 445. Standing on the promises, we'll sing verses 1 Three and four Standing on the Powers and the Price for King When we do away the bearest pain, the pain story is the final thing of the pain. Standing on the ground never standing on Spending on a promise when I got Spending on a promise in the price of dawn and every turn away. I was standing on the promise and the one stand Spending on the promises I cannot home. Listen every moment to the spirit home. Resting in my chair as my own without standing on the promises of God. Amen. Please be seated. As we were singing that, I kept thinking about the importance of those lyrics. We stand on the promises of God. As we stood up, we never had any doubt that the ground would Support us. We never had any doubt about our foundations. What an amazing scriptural truth. Let's continue our singing with hymn number four hundred sixty-three. Blessed assurance. What a wonderful song to follow this up. With blessed assurance, Jesus is mine over the foretaste of glory divine. This is my story, this is my soul, breathing my service on the day Good in my story, this is my God, praising my Savior on the name of Perfect Sugar , perfectly like Praising my Sabo de la This is my story, this is my song, praising my Sabo Devon. Perfect submission all is at first Are you my feeling happy and blind? Watching and waiting to get above The wind is God and busting love This is my soul being This is my song Praising my step This is my story, this is my soul, raising my saddle on the Amen. Great singing this evening. Okay, well on Sunday nights we'd like to take a few minutes to give you an opportunity to share testimonies of God's work. Let's see. Ah, good one Don't I be the night and more be the day Lord make me follow in thy brother , though calm and sorrow of grace be right Lord make me somebody from sunshine or steps of a good man are watered by the Lord And we like the men is when we all each a lot. Be all the lake us down for the moon for the For the moral Right, saying let's number thirty three. Ice stand redeemed. Can we play through this one one time? All right, let's do that first. At the dawn of eternity, when the mist of time is gone When the fire of heaven gathers to begin with I will bow before my Sabor in a body new Well rise to sing his praises on eternal age and law. My slave , by the way , Jesus The price of hair, my dad is all But change the baby no longer will be black baby Great singing. Alright, let's go over to our hymn book, number thirty-eight in the red book. Thirty eight, how great thou art Oh Lord my God, when I am a water and settle the one that can have I say that's not I knew the following I climbed out your neighbors as How great thou art And stay my soul thy savour God to be All right, and 142 in the red book. The wonder of it all There's no wonder that it blame, but no wonder that 's the right I play Pana wander , et on wandel Damn, the wandarad, as a big bad me I wonder what I 'm a little bit. Great singing. All right, we've got time for some more. Chris. 130 in the blue book. Yes, ma'am. Six twenty-two in the red book. We've got time for one more. Yes, ma'am. Five sixty-second Six. All right. One thirty in the blue book. Can we play through this once? In the pool of heaven for your exalted I king on the throne Sarah Ben quieta. All right, six twenty two in the red book. Six twenty two, all right Thank you, Lord. Sing it through twice. Thank you, Lord, for saving my soul. Thank you, Lord, for making me go Thank you, for giving the beat, my grace, and for Thank you, Lord, for saving my small. Thank you, Lord, for making me more Thank you, Lord, forgiving to me my great prophet service and grave. Honest question, is this chorus part of another song? When I grew up I I remember hearing this as a chorus. Oh okay, that's what I was wondering. Some some some thank the Lord for sudden shadow. Alright. Wonderful. We 'll have to dig that one up. Five sixty-six in the red book. Five sixty six. Ooh. Ooh, good one. Let's stand, sing the first and the last one. When the trumpet of the Lord says sound the times are mean of war, and the morning breath is high, o' bright and bright, When the saved of us are gathered over on the other shore, and the Romans called yard. When the ball is gone up yonder, when the ball is gone up yet. When the roll across the thunder I'll be there Let us labor for the master from the dunce Let us talk of all this one with one again Then when all the life is over and the work on earth is done And the roll is called up yonder I'll be there listening for you men with the roll Let's call the blender when the wrong is called a flander, when the wall is called a flower When the roll is called up, yonder I'll be men. Amen. Great singing, please be seated. Okay. That was good singing. That's a good song to uh Segway into our study this evening, I'd like you to ask I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles. Let's turn together to Ecclesiastes chapter four Ecclesiastes chapter 4, we're looking at verses 8 through 12 together tonight, and I think you'll find that the passage that we're looking at tonight really does connect very well with the passage that we looked at this morning. So this morning we talked about the importance of developing a culture within the church where we bear one another's burdens, we encourage one another, we strengthen one another. And such an important topic for us to address. Tonight what we're going to look at is the importance of teamwork. The importance of teamwork. Another way to put it is the importance of finding joy in partnered labors. When we work together as a team to Uplift and strengthen one another. So with that in mind, let's look at Ecclesiastes 4, and we're reading verses 8 through 12 together. Here's what the scriptures say. There is one alone, and there is not a second. Yea, he hath neither child nor brother Yet is there no end of all his labor. Neither is his eye satisfied with riches, neither saith he, For whom do I labor and bereave my soul of good? This is also vanity Yea, it is a sore travail. Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labors. If they fall, the one will lift up his fellow, but woe unto him that is alone when he falleth For he hath not another to help him up. Again, if two lie together, then they have heat. But how can one be warm alone? If one prevail against him, two shall withstand him, and a threefold cord is not quickly broken. You know, there's an African proverb that I think a lot of people are familiar with that talks about taking a journey. And it goes something like this. If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, take somebody with you. If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, take somebody with you You say, what is that little proverb expressing? It's basically expressing a concept that I think that we all understand on some level. If we want to do a task quickly We can do it quickly without all of the encumberment of trying to work together with another individual or another individual. We can get it done very quickly. However If we're trying to complete a task that is a long duration task, it takes a long period of time. We need people to go with us to strengthen our hands in the midst of what we're doing. I want to ask you a question. Are you a person that would rather go it alone or someone who's willing to let others share in the task? If I was to be completely honest with how I typically am as a person, I would say I am much more inclined. to go it alone. If you ask me, do I like fishing by myself or with somebody No offense, Tori, 'cause we went fishing uh this this week. I like going alone. I do, because that's how I catch fish. When I take my kids, you know, I'm always baiting I like doing things alone. The truth is, probably a lot of us are this way. We like doing things alone, but I want you to realize That in this passage of Scripture, God is showing us in His Word how important it is that we recognize the importance of being A team player. Or we could say bearing one another's burdens and shouldering the burdens as a team. In fact, the purpose of the passage in front of us is to remind us that there is a great danger in isolation. The reason that we see that is to see the value and blessing of community and teamwork. You know, the reality is that this principle is something that we could take into almost any area of life. The fact is there are lots and lots of areas of life that it is easy to do things alone, but you will not go as far. This passage is going to draw us, draw our attention. to the value and the blessing and the joy and the strength of working with others. Because God wants us to find joy in partnered labors. So how can we be a people who understand the importance of importance of teamwork and purpose to be team players and the endeavors that God calls us to. Well the first truth I'd like us to see from this passage is we need to realize that isolation leaves us empty and vulnerable. Let me say that again. Isolation Leaves us empty and vulnerable. Look at what he says in verse 8. And he's going to give four statements that kind of express this concept. Here's what it says: there is one alone. There is not a second. Now what's interesting is when he makes this statement, if you go to verse 7, he says, I returned and I saw vanity under the sun, and then he's explaining the nature of that vanity. There's a person that's alone. They don't have somebody with them. He says, yea, he hath neither child nor brother. Yet is there no end of all his labor? Neither is his eye satisfied with riches, neither saith he, For whom do I labor and bereave my soul of good. This is also vanity, yea, it is a sore travail. Now basically what he's expressing is this isolation is both empty and it's painful It's empty and it's painful. It's because we are left vulnerable. Notice the four ways he expresses it. The first thing that he says is that this person is described as someone who is alone. Not a second, neither child nor brother. Now, Solomon doesn't comment on why the person is in this position. It is very possible that a person could be in this position of absolutely no fault of their own. It could be that through difficult circumstances This person finds himself in such a place. It could also be that this person has actually put themselves in such a place. Let me give you an example of Naomi. When Naomi went with her family into Mub, she was simply doing what her husband told her to do. Her boys go and they marry Moabite women, and then over the course of Of time, her husband dies, her two sons die, and so she's left with herself as a grieving widow, and her two daughter-in-laws as grieving widows. Well she says, I'm gonna go back, I'm gonna leave Moab, I'm gonna go back to Bethlehem because that's my countrymen, that's where my family is, that's where I need to be. And when she was going to go, her daughter-in-law said, We want to go with you. And you know what she said? No. She said, I want to go alone. Now we see that one of her daughter-in-law said, okay, that's fine. Her other daughter-in-law said, no. I'm going with you. Now in that particular situation, we see that there is a blending of circumstance where Naomi finds herself isolated, but she's also responding to circumstance. circumstance where she is trying to withdraw from the people that God has put around her that can be a minister or a blessing to her. Now, what's very interesting is over the course of that story, we see that God doesn't leave Naomi. In fact, God persists works in Naomi's life. And because Ruth goes with her, God ends up blessing this woman who is very burdened and very bitter and very troubled. He ends up giving her a child to take care of. Ends up giving her the opportunity to have joy restored to her life and relationship to blossom again. She's even going to be a part of the story of the lineage of Christ and the line of lineage of David. But the point that I'm trying to make is he doesn't comment on how the person gets in such a place. Yet we see this principle Whether it is by difficult circumstance or whether it is by choice, the person who is isolated is very, very vulnerable. He then says it a second way, the person feels emptiness because there's no end of all of their labors. It's like all this person does is spin their wheels. All they do is work. And the reason that that is the sense of their life is because they have no one to share the joys and the burdens with. In other words, because of their isolation, all they do is work and work and work and work. I want you to realize that relationship is a valuable part of our lives. If we don't have interaction with other people people, then that is exactly how our lives become. , This endless cycle of drudgery, this labor. And so the person feels empty because of the isolation. The third statement, the person feels empty because their eye is not satisfied with riches. Now it's kind of interesting that Solomon makes this statement. The truth is that there are times in life that there are people who choose isolation because they want to become wealthy. Now, not everybody who becomes wealthy chooses isolation to get in such a place. Not everyone who chooses to be isolated is going to become wealthy. But his point is this: there are some people That make a choice, a conscious choice, to reject family, to reject marriage, to reject children, to reject the complications of their interpersonal relationship. with people and they focus their attention on one thing, making money. Can I tell you this is where our culture is going today? This is one of the things that we're seeing in our society today. People are all about career, and at the end of their life, this is what they're going to find out. Your eyes are not satisfied with riches. And so he emphasizes that. The fourth thing he emphasizes is that this person feels emptiness because for whom do I labor and bereave my soul of good? In all work there is sacrifice. If I'm going to put my shoulder and my energy and my sweat, whether it is mental labor, whether it's physical labor, or whether it's a blending of the two, The reality is if I'm putting all my energy into this, yet there is no one to share the blessing of labor with, he says, that is empty. This person feels emptiness because all their work cannot be shared with anyone What is the point that Solomon's making? The point he's making is people who isolate themselves will be vulnerable and will be empty. Let me talk to you for a moment about some of the practical ways we're seeing this playing out in our society. I want you to realize that the modern breakdown of family And the rapid self-absorption of individualism that we see within our culture today is something that is leading to a rapid crisis. Of vulnerability and emptiness in our culture. You know, it's interesting. I was I was thinking about this message. This morning, I was reading through the text, I was looking over my notes again, and I happened to see a notification for an article in the New York Times. Now you might say, Pastor, you like reading the New York Times? Not really, but the article was fascinating. The article was talking about the fact that there is an impending crisis. Not just in America, but it talked about cultures all around the world. And that crisis is that the birth rate in nations around the world is no longer going up It's actually plateauing and going down. In fact, in a lot of European countries, the birth rate is under two, which basically means When enough time goes by, guess what's going to happen? There'll be more people dead than being born. And the population is going to decline, and as the population declines, it gets older and older and older. And eventually what you end up with is a society that does not have growing economies. A society that doesn't have people to take care of, the elderly, it's a society in crisis. In fact, I was listening to uh a podcast recently about what's going on even in modern day China. There's incredible ambition in the Chinese Communist Party. Do I need to say that to anybody here? Incredible ambition. They're incredible advancements, but they're having a problem in that nation. You know what the problem is? They're dying off. In fact, believe it or not, if the birth rates stay the same in Nigeria and China today, by the end of this century, Nigeria will be a larger country. Than China. It's pretty amazing to think about. Nigeria's population a little over 200 million today. China's population over a billion strong, and they're gonna reverse in the next seventy, eighty years. You say, well, what is leading to this decline of population in societies all around the world? Rabid self-absorption. People who would rather pursue career and money than have families. It's the truth. An unwillingness to make the incredible sacrifices that are necessary to bring children into the world, to raise those children, and then to send them out to be productive members of society. You don't even have to be a Christian to understand this concept. But the reality is that as the nations reject God's design For marriage, for family, for gender roles, as people refuse to marry, or they get married and they say, I don't want to have children I'd rather give all my attention to my career. I'd rather raise dogs than raise kids. The reality is this is where we're gonna end up as a society. There's an incredible disengagement from our families And our community connections. The rise of social media and screen time has dropped us all into isolation. The fact is that there is an incredible disillusion. A face-to-face community interaction. And also the rise of disengagement of one's view of the church. I want you to realize that all these things that we're talking about, these are some of the practical implications that we are seeing in our society today and really at the root of this all is this fundamental, me -centered, self-absorbed, rabid individualism. It's not about me connecting with people. It's not about me investing in the lives of my wife, my husband, my children, my grandchildren, my great-grandchildren. The reality is the majority of people that are my age Will probably never be grandparents like their parents and their parents' parents were. Why is that? Because they're getting married so late. They're having their kids so late. The reality is by the time their kids have kids, they're going to be old and unable to actually enjoy the blessings that God designed for His plan for marriage and family. I bring these things up to simply say this. What is shaping our perspective on life in these areas? The second truth we see is that we need to realize that there are many wonderful blessings associated with teamwork and community. Now he talks about the negative. He says, if you're in isolation, you're in an empty place. You're in a vulnerable place. It's actually dangerous to be in such a place in the long term. But he says, I want you to see not just the negative side, I want you to see See the positive side. There are incredible, wonderful blessings that are associated with being a part of family, community, teamwork He says it in verse 9 like this. He says, two are better than one because they have a good reward for their labors. Now, when we look at this text, he actually makes several statements about the blessings of teamwork and community versus the difficulties of isolation. He talks about how there's greater strength. He says it this way, if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him that is alone when he falleth. He hath not another to help him. Now let's say that you're a hunter and you like going hunting or you like going fishing. or you like going boating or you like going mountain climbing or something like that. If you're doing that alone, you're gonna go fast, but what happens when you fall and there's no one to help you? No cell service. There's nobody to go back and get help. Guess what's going to happen? You're going to die in the woods. You're going to die because of the elements or you will be weak and you will be in a very dangerous position. And what is he saying? He says their strengths when you have two people that are going together, as one falls, the other picks them up. As one's in danger, the other one Seeks help for that individual. He says, there is strength in teamwork. He talks about the physical benefits of the presence of others I know it's just a simple illustration, but here's what he says. If two people lie together, they have heat. But how can one be warm alone? He says if you're sleeping in a bed and it's cold and you're by yourself, it's still cold. But if you have your spouse there, guess what? There is one There is protection. There is strength. There are physical benefits to the physical presence of another. He talks about protection And the sense of when a person attacks you, tries to assault you, tries to rob you, he says, if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him. Now there are some individuals in here that are pretty tough people and can handle themselves. But guess what? If it's you and your buddy and somebody's messing with you, you're in a much better position, aren't you? There is danger, there is vulnerability when you are alone. And then he makes a very interesting statement. A threefold course. Is not quickly broken. In other words, the intertwining of one another's strengths provides tremendous strength. Now, I remember seeing this illustrated when I was in college this way. My pastor took these little dowel rods, okay? And he brought a kid up. I say a kid, he was a college student, so he wasn't really a kid. Depends on your perspective, okay He brings up this college young man, you know, big, tough, strong guy, and he says, I want you to take this rod and I want you to snap it. And the guy's like, oh yeah, snap. He said, Well get you another one. Can you break that? He said, snap. Give him another one. Yeah, he gives him four or five of 'em. He says, Can you snap those? He said, Oh yeah, no problem. He does He said, now you just easily did that. I want to do something here. He takes another set of dowel rods. Same number, puts them together, binds them up, and he says, Alright, tough guy, break it in front of everybody. Guess what? He couldn't do it. He couldn't do it. He snapped one, two, three, four, five, put them all together and he couldn't do it. And he said, that's what this this verse is illustrating. The strength that is combined and intertwined, guess what it does? It puts you in a place where you can do far more than you could ever do by yourself. You take four or five people that are strong and working independent of one another, they can get stuff done, but you take the four or five together and you You combine their gifts, you combine their strengths, you combine their talents, and guess what? That team can get far more done than that team could have as individuals. The point that he's trying to make here is that there are many blessings associated with teamwork. The third point I want us to see tonight is that God created us , catch this, with a need for other people. God created us with a need for other people. I want you to see this from a series of passages of scripture that really help us to understand that when God made us, he did not make us to be alone. Now I'm not saying that there are times, that there are never going to be times that we have to be alone. That we have to be strong alone. There are times that we have to Stand firm in isolation. Sometimes we have no choice. We have to do that in places. But by design, God created us to be in community and to be strengthened within community. Let me give you the first example. We see this in creation. In Genesis 2. 18 it says, the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helpmeet for him. Now, when we're reading in the Genesis passage here, it's fascinating. Because over and over and over again, as God's creating the world, at the end of it, it says he looked at everything that he made, and behold, it was what? It was very good. He says it over and he says it over and he says it over again. And then when it comes to God's creation of man, he tells Adam, he says, I want you to go and I want you to name the animals. And as he's naming those animals, he's noticing something. Every single one of those animals has a pair. Now, do you think after a while maybe Adam would have sat there going, that's kind of interesting. Every single one of these animals that I am naming has a pair. But what about me? What's the problem here? And then God makes a statement: it is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him an help meet for Him. God created marriage. God created family. God chose that in the context of marriage Family, he gives children, so that those children are nurtured and strengthened and guided and prepared to go out into the world and to do what? To do what God created them to do. To thrive and to function in this world the way that God created them to function. In fact, we see in Proverbs 18 But Solomon tells his son, Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favor of the Lord. Let me just say this to you, young people. You might be ten, like my boys, twelve, fourteen. Marriage is a good thing. God made it, God blessed it. It is for our good. And so I want to encourage you when you are young, begin thinking: I want to be a responsible man someday who gets married, has a family, and serves God with my family. We see in Psalm 127 very interesting series of statements about God's view of family. Listen to what it says in verses 3 to 5. It says, Lo children are in heritage of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is his reward. As arrows are in the hands of the mighty man, so are children of the youth. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. They shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. Now some of you might think there are couple families in our church. This is like their life chapter, okay. But let me say something here. It is very sad that in our society today People do not see the value and the beauty of God's design for marriage. They don't see children as a blessing, as a gift, something that God gives for our good, so that we can invest in them for his glory. That is being lost in our society. That is something that what we have left in our society is the remnants of what happened during the Reformation in Europe several hundred years ago. We are literally living on the fumes in Western society of this reunderstanding of marriage and family and the blessing of children. But I want you to notice some of the details here because this is very significant in this discussion about isolation versus the strength of community. The first thing is that he says, this is an investment we enjoy forever. Children are an heritage of the Lord. If God gives you children and you lead your children to Christ, guess what? You will enjoy those kids forever. Forever. Is there anything in this world that you will enjoy forever? Is there anything? The dollars that you made and that you lost and wasted and squandered on things, do we get that for eternity The house that we live in, the boat that we invest in, the cars that we drive, the reality is when God gives us children He gives us souls that we can enjoy for eternity. He says that they are inheritage of the world. They are something that we are to invest in and something that we can enjoy forever. Family and children are a gift from God. He says the fruit of the womb is his reward. Reward. Is that how society thinks today? No, it's not. It's not And the fact is that by the time people get to the stage in life where they realize how important family is, their days maybe have passed. They cannot go back and have children that they didn't have. They will not have the ability to have the grandchildren that would come from the children that they never had. The fact is, if we don't learn this early, then this season of life will pass us, and we can't go back and have it. Children are a gift from God. God created family for our protection. This is a very interesting statement. As arrows are in the hands of the mighty, so are children of the evil. He then later on says, they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. I don't know if you appreciate what he's saying, but what he's basically saying is this A strong people You don't mess with. Strong people you don't mess with. The fact is when the Bible talks about those uh disciples being called the sons of thunder, the idea is they had a reputation. You mess with one brother? You're messing with all of them. When he talks about the fact that children are like arrows in the hands of a mighty man, and the person that has his children will not be ashamed to speak with his enemies in the gate. He is speaking of something that we really don't appreciate in our modern context, but he's saying your children will be a tool that God uses to protect you. When you become old and weak and unable to do what you used to be able to do. The last statement is very interesting. God created families as an instrument through which he gives us He says, happy. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. Now, whatever that means, you just sit down and think about it. But he says, happy. Happy. That means that God created the family to be an instrument through which He gives us joy. Now I want to say this for a moment. Just because people want to have a lot of kids does not mean they have a biblical view of marriage. And a biblical view of family and a biblical view of children. It's all about motive. Why do you view children the way that you do? And the biblical perspective should be God created family for our good. He gives us children to give us joy and to give us strength and to bless us. And we are to invest in. these young people. And want to ask this question, how do you view the family? We then see a third example. Not just marriage, not just family. But the example of the church. And in 1 Corinthians 12, verse 4, he makes a very interesting statement. Paul says that there are diversity of gifts, but the same Spirit. There are differences of administrations, but the same Lord. There are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all, but the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man Now we've talked about the importance of marriage. We've talked about the importance of family. The fact is that not every person that is born into this world gets married. And it may not be the will of God for every person to get married. There are some people that God gives the gift of sin. And I could see all these teenage boys say, not me. I don't know. It's not necessarily God's will to give every single couple children. There are there are parents that would are husbands and wives that would love to have children, but God chooses not to give them children. But let me tell you, when we talk about marriage and we talk about children, family The third is unquestionably for everybody. And that is the local church. If you are a child of God, whether you are single Whether you are married and have no children, or whether you're a person that has an expansive family, the church is created by God for you to rub shoulders with other people. For you to share burdens with one another, to encourage one another, to grow together. And in this text, he emphasizes to minister through the differences of gifts that God gives you. God chose of his own wisdom and purposes to give every person in the church gifting that is unique to them. That is different from the person next to them. God did not create the church to be this cookie-cutter group where everybody looks the same, everybody's got the same talents, the same abilities. We all think the exact same way in every single area of life. God created the church to have some diversity in it The reality is he wants us all to have different gifts so that we have to draw from one another and we have to learn to depend on one another. God chose to give some people strengths and to leave other areas weaknesses so that the person next to them has different strengths and different weaknesses so when they come together there's a balancing out of strength and weakness. And there's an ability to move forward in greater strengths. God wants the church to take the diversity of giftedness To work together for his purposes. Diversities of gifts. Diversities of operations. But they're given, notice the last statement. By the Spirit to every man for the profit withal. Spiritual gifts are not for us to lift ourselves up, but they're to invest in the body so that the body goes forward. It's like if we're watching a football team and all those players are training and you've got some people that are they're holding the line. And you've got somebody that's calling the plays. And you have people that are running past patterns. And you have people that are standing in the backfield to maybe block in certain situations or to run the ball in certain situations. situations or to go out for a pass in certain situations. Every single one of those individuals has different strengths, different body types, different speeds, all those things, but they work together as a unit. to accomplish a purpose. And that's on the offense side. On the defense you have others who have their different their different their different strengths and weaknesses. And so what happens is as this team works together, the team does well. God created the church in a similar manner. Not as a football team. But God created the church with these differences so that together we would unite to do the work that He's called You say, well, why do you take the time to talk about those things? It's because this is the practical outworking of what Solomon is talking about here in Ecclesiastes chapter 4. In Ecclesiastes chapter 4, he talks about the danger of isolation and the emptiness of isolation and the strength of community. And these are the practical ways we see community. community working out in our lives. So I asked this question. How do we practically take these truths and just Working them out in our lives. Let me give you a couple of simple thoughts for practical implication. The first is this I want to encourage you to invest in your family. Invest in your family. Invest in your marriage. Invest in your kids. Invest in your siblings. Yes, I see some dirty looks. Invest in your siblings. This isn't just for mom and dad. This isn't just for mom and dad with you. Family, every single member is important. Invest in your family. I want to say this to our young people. Don't buy the bait of our society that says don't get married and have a family. If we look at the statistics, we the church are the anomaly folks But most of the people who are my age and younger, they're not having families. They're not getting married. They're investing in careers. And at the end of this season of life, they're going to look back, and whether they realize it or not, this season will pass them, and they'll have gotten what they wanted, but found out it was empty. Don't buy the bait of our culture. Reject the culture selfish view of marriage, family, and children. I want to also mention, let's invest in our church family. You know, we've learned a lot through this whole COVID situation. I hope what we've learned Is that the church is not a screen, it's the people. And the screen can be a help for a season, but the church is the assembled Body. There is something very, very special, very unique, very edifying about being gathered together to worship with one heart and one voice. There are many, many places around this country where people have not appreciated the local church until COVID. And all of a sudden, as this is being pulled away from them, they start realizing I needed the body to shape my perspective. I needed this desperately in my life. And so I want to encourage you, let's invest in our church family. And then I want to give you one final thought. I think. No, I don't. I have two more. Develop and maintain deep relationships with other Christians. It is so important that our relationships are not just on the surface. We need relationships with people where we can really share our thoughts. We can really ask questions. We can answer honestly. We can actually disagree. And we can have vibrant, edifying interaction with one another. We need to be a people who maintain Maintain and develop deep relationships. And by the way, when I say that, I'm not saying just within the church. Develop deep relationships with other Christians wherever you meet them. When you meet somebody, invest in their lives and the opportunities. Maybe it's a homeschool group. Maybe it's somebody that you know through your schooling situation. Maybe it's people that you interact with Through sports with your kids. Maybe it's people that you work with who are fellow believers. Maybe we're not all part of the same local church, but we are walking with God and we're trying to serve the Lord. Let's invest deeply in relationships with other Christians. I want to encourage you, don't labor in isolation if at all possible. I know that there are times That we have no choice but to be alone for a season. Those seasons should be as few and far between as possible. Let's labor to labor in community. I want to encourage you, let's be team players. As we look at the text in front of us, I think there's one very simple thought. God wants us to find joy in team partner labors. And so that's what I want to encourage us from God's Word with tonight. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to internalize. Father, thank you again for the passage that we looked at this evening. We covered a lot of ground, so many issues that are related to Our overall worldview and perspective. Father, I pray that you'd help us not to be people who pull away from other Christians who we need so So desperately, and they need us to help us to be people who invest wisely in the development of relationship with one another. Father, help us not to be people who get frustrated with one another because of the differences of strengths and weaknesses, but help us to be people who embrace Those opportunities to serve shoulder to shoulder with others who sometimes don't have the same strengths as we have. Who can draw from our strengths and we can draw from theirs. Father, help us to invest in our families. I pray for our young people. I pray that you would begin shaping their perspective. About these very important foundational issues, even while they are very young. Help them not to be captured by the world's philosophy, a philosophy that changes. Through the seasons of philosophy that's going to find them in a difficult and empty position down the road. But I pray that they'll see the incredible joy and the blessing of your purpose. For them. Father, help us to be obedient to the clear understanding of this text. Help us to be a people who labor together in your strength. Service. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could, let's take out our hymn books. And ah, here it is. Our closing hymn is hymn 478. Hymn four hundred and seventy-eight. And the hymn is It Is Well With My Soul. I'd like to ask you to stand together since we didn't stand for all the standing on the promises. I just messed with you, Tori. And uh let's sing the first and the last verses of It Is Well With My Soul. Wonderful, wonderful hymn. When he's like a river attend my wave, When starrows like steamboats roll. Why ever my life thou hast gone to stay? It is well, it is well with my soul, it is wild With my soul It is well It is well with my soul on the last An old name started when my name tell me size combat me born back as a scroll. God shall be sound, and Al shall descend even foe It is well with my soul, it is well Ooh, that sounded good. That sounded really good. Uh Mr. Jenny, can you close us in prayer please tonight? And uh good to see each of you out, Lord willing. Uh we'll be back again on Wednesday to continue our study in the pastoral epistles. So all right. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, what a privilege it has been to be in your house today. Both this morning and this after this evening, Lord, we just thank you for the beautiful day that you have provided for us. What a joy it was to be able to fellowship together with one another. Pray, Lord, for those that that uh couldn't be with us today that was able to join us with live stream lord as some of it have been uh laid aside on beds of affliction lord that you would just in uh continue to encourage them as we We've been encouraged today, Lord, to go out and comfort one another and empower one another and just be a team, Lord, that we We can be beneficial to your kingdom. We pray, Lord, that as we go forth from here tonight, that you would give us safety on our journey home. And as we enter into our mission field, Lord, that we that we would endeavor to see men and women, boys and girls come to a saving knowledge of you. And we'll give you the praise for that in Jesus' name. Amen.