Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will jump into our study again tonight in First Corinthians. Lord, thank you so much for this opportunity tonight to gather again in the middle of the week and to focus our attention on you. And I pray that tonight as we open the word that you would speak to our hearts, Father, help us to have A very fresh and clear understanding of this text in front of us help us to think deeply about how we may be falling short and how we apply this. And so help me to present this in a way tonight that would be very helpful to everyone that's here and also those who've joined us in the live stream. We pray that you would bless The young people in the back as they have their classes, be with those who are teaching them. Pray that you'd help them to communicate your word very clearly and just continue to Cause our young people to grow in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, well let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 6 tonight. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, and we're going to read, it's actually going to be a little bit of a lengthier passage. We're going to read verses 1 through 11 together. And then dig into the gospel and sensible conflict resolution. The gospel and sensible conflict resolution. And you can see that this is kind of building on the theme that we've been talking about in relation to church discipline and the importance of within the church context having a culture where there is restorative uh relationship work going on. So let's go ahead and read the text together. It says this Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before the unjust and not before the saints? Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Know ye not that we shall judge angels? It's kind of an interesting statement, isn't it? Like, I didn't know that Well there you go. How much more things that pertain to this life? If then ye have judgment and things pertaining to this life set to them to judge who are the least esteemed in the church, I speak to your shame. Is it so that there is not a wise man among you? No not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren, but brother goeth to law with brother, and that before the unbelievers? Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another. Why do you not rather take wrong? Why do you not rather suffer yourself to be defrauded? Nay ye do wrong and ye defraud, and that your brethren. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you, but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus. and by the Spirit of our God. Now when I read this passage of Scripture, the truth is I probably could spend, I don't know, five or six sermons in this passage, because there are a lot of details that we really could dig into. But what I want to do is I want you to kind of see the totality of what is being communicated in this section And sometimes what happens is we get so focused on one tree that we miss the beauty of the forest, and I guess beauty is probably not the word that I'd use in this passage. But sometimes we get so focused on a little detail here that we kind of miss the big picture of what's going on. The last part of chapter 6, verses 10, 11, that section is actually a continuation of the thought of the verses before it. I think that when we look at it as a whole, you're going to see how these pieces work together. But I want to begin with, first of all, a couple of introductory thoughts that I think will help us as we think about the topic in front of us. So, a couple of basic observations about human nature. And I don't I'm not necessarily going to go to scripture to pull these out. This is just I think if you observe human nature and you think with a biblical grid, you'll come to these conclusions. The first is this. We know that society is made up of broken individuals. There's not a just man on earth who does good and sins not. All of us are sinners, and because we are sinners, that affects our relationships on every single level. So we know this society has many people who are broken. And this breakdown on the individual level leads to collective societal trouble. Have you ever stopped to think about How much waste we have in our nation as a result of the vices that people have, their personal vices, human nature? Think about how much money is wasted because of people being drunkards. Think about how much money is wasted because people are intoxicated all the time. I mean people die. We we think about all kinds of uh domestic abuse issues, we think about Children who are neglected and they're not taking care of something as simple as alcohol. What about something like drugs? Think about how much crime in our inner cities is connected directly to drugs and the use of drugs and the distribution of drugs and all the crime that comes along with that. Think about how much people are sapped economically by things like divorce and all the conflicts that go on between people when they're fighting over their kids and who gets what and all those kinds of things. There are lots and lots of things that we experience in society that are a direct result of nothing more than sin. And if people would live clean moral lives, it would actually make their lives so much freer and so much better. And the collective nature of that really affects society. So we see that the breakdown on the individual level is going to affect everybody Everybody. Third thing is this. Every society needs government to restrain evil and to protect the vulnerable. Government is God's idea. In fact, it's interesting when we dig into this passage. Someone might say, well hold on a second. This is telling us we're not supposed to go to the law court if we have an issue with another person, a brother. So God must be against government. The answer is no, he's not against government. There's a very particular problem that's going on in this text. I'm going to address that hopefully in a way that's helpful to you. And so so society needs government. It's good. It's God's plan. It restrains evil. At least it's supposed to. And it protects the vulnerable, at least it's supposed to. But here is the problem. The trouble is that human government is made up of people who are broken who reflect the values of the society that they are a part of. And so the idea is this: there will never on this planet be a perfect government till Christ comes. Okay? There won't be. There are always going to be problems. In fact, it's interesting, even our founding fathers understood this concept. I I I found two interesting quotes, you probably are familiar with them, uh, by John Adams. But this is what he says. Our Constitution was made only for a moral and and a religious people. It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other. That's a really good statement, isn't it? Second statement. Democracy never lasts long. It soon wastes, exhausts, and murders itself. There never was a democracy yet that did not commit suicide. It is in vain to say that democracy is less vain, less proud, less selfish, less ambitious, or less avorous than aristocracy and monarchy. It is not true. In fact, nowhere it appears in history. Those passions are the same in all men, under all forms of simple government, and when unchecked, produce the same effects of fraud, violence, and cruelty. Now I'm not here to give you a political speech, but I'm trying to show you something here. I have no idea what John Adams' personal views were on the gospel, but he obviously understood human nature. That's why within our system of government there's so many checks and balances, because that is the founder 's way of saying we don't trust each other. We are all sinners. We are broken people. We will abuse one another if government is not kept in check. And so really the only hope for a society Is that God in His mercy and grace provides a spiritual awakening in that land. And through that, as people embrace the gospel, their lives are transformed in mass because it starts with the heart. So the greatest promotion of human flourishing and personal responsibility on a societal level is through preaching the gospel and seeing people's lives really changed. It really is. And so I think it's important that we don't lose sight of that. The very best periods in human history have always come on the backs of God's gracious work in society, in people's lives on the personal level. And every period in human history that has had flourishing has been, we could say, short-lived, and it always tells us we need something better. That's Christ. So, with that in mind, I want us to dig into the content of this passage because those concepts are really important for us to understand. When it comes to this issue of how brothers are to deal with one another in the context of civil disputes. and how that relates to government and law. So I'd summarize the passage this way. We have been called to both live and think in the light of our position in Christ. We need to live like Christians, to put it in a very simple way. And so in order to do that, we need to see what is found in this passage, how Paul addresses this issue. In fact, let me kind of give you an idea of what the issue was that was going on in the church. Basically, you had people that were using the legal system to destroy the people around them. They knew the loopholes, they knew which judges to go to, they knew uh which people to represent them, all that kind of a thing. And so the idea is that they would rather than Having an interpersonal dispute being handled in a godly way, they were taking it into the legal realm, and they were using the legal realm to destroy the people around them. By the way, it still happens today. It happens sometimes when Christians get in involved in these things. I can think of very specific situations that have come across my desk through my office where someone has had to deal with maybe a neighbor or a coworker or someone who basically just had a personal issue with them and they wanted to destroy them and so they were using the legal process to make their life as miserable as possible That should never happen in the Christian church. And that's what this passage is all about. So let's work our way through this passage piece by piece. First of all, living like a Christian is humble. In verse number one, he says it this way. Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before the unjust and not before the saints? That's not a statement. That's a question. The reason that Paul asks the question is because this is the way he is going to engage the Corinthian church all throughout this section. In fact, I want to make a couple of comments about Paul's approach here. One is that his approach is to propose questions to engage the conscience And I think that this is very important for us to learn. The way that Paul is doing this is super helpful. So let me just take it into another realm, like giving the gospel to someone. You could take two approaches to giving the gospel. You can take the approach, I have all this information to give you, and then I'm just going to open up the fire hydrant and I'm just going to spray you with all this information. So I'm gonna run through the Romans road and I'm gonna run you to this point of making a decision and this person is just looking at you like, I don't even know what you're talking about. And you're like, don't you want to trust Christ? And they're like, I'd like you to get off my porch. Do not walk across my grass when you get off my porch. What do I need to say to you so that you'll go? That's not how we should do evangelism. That's how a lot of people do evangelism, but that's not evangelism No a good way to do evangelism is you ask questions. By the way, if you ask questions and people could care less, they're just gonna say, you know, I'm really not answer I'm not interested. You know what? Let them go. That's okay. That's not the time to engage them deeply, but God may open up the door to another time. But when someone is truly thinking, one of the best ways to deal with evangelism is to ask them questions. Ask them questions that get them thinking about the root cause of the problems that they're dealing with. You know, everybody's got a conscience. And when you ask questions that engage the conscience, you know what God does? He awakens people's sense. Hey, I have a problem. I'm a sinner. If I'm to go through the law and I say, well God says this um and God says this uh have you ever violated this commandment? And well well what are some ways that you might do that? Well we start talking about that and all of a sudden this person's starting to really get Get pulled into this. Why? Because the Spirit of God works through questions. Jesus was a master of asking questions. In fact, when he taught in parables, the per the purpose of a parable was not to illustrate a point. As much as it was to weed out those who could care less and to engage those very deeply who were very interested, because those who were very interested would ask questions. And they would realize that they needed to think about what Jesus is saying. And as he started engaging them on those things and they started wrestling through those concepts, And then he explained those things, they stuck deeply in them. That's the way a lot of the Proverbs are written as well. Paul's approach was to ask questions, to engage the conscience. to get people thinking and this is something that we really need to do. We need to do it well. We need to do it when we're raising our kids. When your child does something that's wrong. You could just Come real hard at him, say, you did this, and here's the consequence, and that's the end of it. Or you could sit down and say, hey, I want to ask you about what you did And you just let them talk. Why did you do that? Let them talk. Is there a reason? And you start working your way through that. And as you do that, you know what you you're going to do? You're going to get to the root issue. And when you get to the root issue, then you can actually have some very productive conversations. So this is the approach that Paul is taking. This is the approach that Christ takes. This is the approach we need to take when it comes to these issues. So when he says, dare any of you having a matter against any go to law before the unjust and not before the saints, he's asking the question to get them to think, how in the world Could we do this? Because this doesn't make any sense. That's the sense. We need to ask why Paul asked the question. And so we have a lot of ways that we could do that. Let's go back into the context and go back into the epistle a little bit further back and see some of the things that he says. So Paul addresses it the issue of pride with the church. When he says, dare any of you, he's saying, how in the world do you have the arrogance in your heart to do what you're doing? That's really what he's saying That's really what he's saying. And this is a problem that's been repeated over and over and over again. Go back in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians 4. 6. 1 Corinthians 4. 6. He said, these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos for your sakes, that no one of you be what? What's the next statement? If you're not looking your Bible, you can't answer. Does anybody know what it says? It says you are puffed up one against another. Now look over at verse 18 of chapter 4. He says, some are what? Puffed up. Very good. As though I would not come to you. 419 he says, I will come to you shortly if the Lord will, and will know not the speech of them which are what Puffed up, yes. Chapter 5, verse 2 he says, ye are what? Puffed up, and if not, rather mourned. Do you think that Paul's gotten his point across? You have a problem in the church. There's a lot of pride. You are puffed up. Inflated ego. And so when Paul comes to chapter 6, verse 1 and he says, Dare any of you having a matter against another go to law before the unjust? He's saying You think you've arrived and you think that you're too and great as a church. And he's like, I'm going to give you an example where it makes no sense that you think this way. How dare you have this attitude? That's what he's saying. That's the sense of it. And godliness and godly wisdom always start with humility. This is very important. Proverbs 15, 33. The fear of the Lord is the instruction of wisdom, and before honor is humility. When we talk about the fear of the Lord, what this really saying is this. I realize I'm a creature. He's the creator. I don't have all the answers. He does have all the answers. I need to have a humble disposition towards God. That's really what the fear of the Lord is. So before I get instruction and before I get wisdom, and before there is honor, there's humility in the fear of the Lord. Proverbs 9:10, he says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. If I want wisdom and understanding, I need to know God, and my attitude toward Him needs to be right. 1 Peter 5:5, be clothed with humility, for God resisteth the proud. But he gives grace to the humble. And so we start with this principle that living like a Christian is a humble thing. And in every one of us, we struggle with pride in various ways. We struggle with pride. Sometimes we uh we feel like we're very humble, we're actually feeling like We're very humble, but we're actually very proud, okay? It's like the person, God, I thank you. I'm not like other people are. I don't do this and I don't do that. And he's like, okay. Pride is such a tricky thing. It's so easy for it to get into our hearts. And so if we're going to be godly people, if we're going to live like Christians, we need to be humble people. Second thing we see is this: living like a Christian has a foundation. And we're going to look at this in verses 2 to 5. He asked the question, do you not know? And there are four soul-searching foundational questions in verses 2 through 5 that the Apostle Paul is going to ask. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to read what it says, and then I'm going to kind of give you, I would say like my Cliff Notes explanation of what that question is all about. So verse 1, dare any of you having a matter against another go to law before the unjust and not before the saints? What's Paul saying? How is it possible that you could handle your issues so irresponsibly? That's what he's saying. How is this possible? It's unthinkable. You know better than this. That's what he's saying. Second, chapter 6 verses 2 to 3, he says, Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Know ye not that we shall judge angels, how much more things that pertain to li to this life? Now this is a really interesting uh series of questions because he's getting into some things that perhaps you've never really thought about, like You're going to judge angels, uh, you're going to judge the world. What is he talking about? Well, he's really talking about eschatology here. He's talking about the fact that every believer is going to have a role in God's eternal kingdom. And so that role is something that's determined based upon our faithfulness and the judgment seat of Christ and all those kinds of things. But he he he's appealing to the fact that one day you're going to stand and and you're going to be a part of God's kingdom and you're going to have Real big deal situations that you're going to actually be judging. So he says, how could you not understand the implications of your actions? If the saints are going to judge the world, why can't you trust them to judge a small matter, something that's not that big a deal? If they're going to be judging angels, why wouldn't you let them deal with an issue in this life? That's the idea. Third question. Verses 4 and 5. He says, if then ye have judgment of things pertaining to this life. Set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church. I speak to your shame. Now this one, the way that it's worded in the translation is actually a little bit challenging here. But the idea is this, how could you submit your grievance to a system that you know is thoroughly corrupt? When he says you're going to go and allow people who are not esteemed in the church to make judgment, he's saying, you know that these are people that are unjust. These are people that are dishonest. These are people that take bribes. These are people that don't fear God. Why in the world would you put yourself in that kind of a system? Unless your ulterior motive is to use it to abuse another person. That's really what he's saying. It's like a person who asked the question, not is it righteous, is it legal? Not everything that is legal is righteous, okay? It's just true. And so he says, how could you do this? You know the system. Interestingly, when you read about Corinthian culture and you read about their legal system, you'll realize that it was kind of a well-known thing that rich people got what they wanted and poor people got abused in the law courts. And people that had access to power and people that had the ability to have relationships with people, which you know, money and power were a big part of that. Those people were not treated the same way in the legal system as those who had no means and no ability to protect themselves. And this has historically been a problem in really every single culture Because people have power and people have means use what they have to take advantage of others. And so Paul is saying, how could you do that? How could you put people in front of those courts and destroy them? The last one, verse five, is it so that there is not a wise man among you? Know not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren? He's saying, how can you overlook the invaluable wisdom in your own local church? Now he actually could be saying something else as well here. He could also be saying, do you really not have one person with enough sense in your church to help you work those things out? That's pretty harsh, is it not? But that really could be what he's saying. So the problem could be that there are people in the church that really do have the ability to work these things out, and they're ignoring that. Or they really don't have people that are able to do it because they don't have that kind of maturity in the church. Either way you cut it, it's a huge problem. So Paul is addressing this problem by asking a series of questions, and those questions are trying to get at the root. What is really at the heart of your action? And so there are four principles I want you to see from those questions that he asked. First principle is this: Christians should never handle their interpersonal grievances like unconverted people. Now, I am not suggesting that Christians won't get into difficulties with others. I'm not suggesting that Christians can always resolve their difficulties with other people. What does Paul say? As much as lies within you, live peace and be with all men. There are some people that you really cannot resolve a thing with because of the nature of their mindset towards you or toward you know you have a different standard that you are being judged by. And so it's not possible to resolve every single conflict you have with people in life, but the way that you go about it as a Christian should be very different than the world. The way that we process the wrongs of others, the way that we treat those who have wronged us, the way that we're willing to sit submit to a process to work things out, all of that is very different than the world around us. If you're working with a bunch of unsaved people and you were to talk to them about the situation that you're dealing with, chances are they're going to approach it very different than how you should. So be very careful. Be very careful about getting advice in a context where you have a bunch of lost people that aren't going to look at things in a godly way But simply put, Christians should never handle their interpersonal grievances like an unconverted person. Second, God is destined And is preparing us for eternal glory. Therefore, we should put greater confidence in mature Christians than those with a different worldview. Now that statement, mature Christians, is important. Just because you're a Christian doesn't mean you're a mature Christian. Just because you're an old Christian doesn't mean you're a mature Psha Just because someone's a Christian doesn't mean it qualifies them to be in the position to work out an issue between people who have a serious problem. The word mature is very, very important. But if you have someone in your life who is a mature Christian, how dare you go to someone who's not a Christian to get advice instead of that mature Christian? Or how dare you go to an unsaved person who does not have a biblical worldview to help you work through those issues when you have people who are godly Who fear the Lord and love you and will give you the advice you need, not the advice you want. We have to be so very cautious about this issue. Third, it is shameful for Christians to exploit the brokenness of this world system to exploit others. When you think about that statement, it is shameful to exploit a broken system. The sad reality is there are a lot of Christians that do. There are a lot of Christians that are very pragmatic. And if it works, they will do it so they can get ahead. The fact is that as Christians, we should never do that. We should never use authority in an inappropriate manner. That's authority in our own personal family life. That's authority in the church context. That's authority in the legal process. We should never use authority in an abusive way. We should never exploit. The abusive nature of others in authority. You know, if you're working with somebody and uh they're kind of giving you trouble and you know that the boss really doesn't like them. You know, don't try to trash them in front of the boss and the boss goes after them and basically you use the boss to do your dirty work. There's people that do that kind of a thing. We have to be so very cautious. Fourthly, the church should be filled with mature, capable people who can resolve disputes. This is the way the church should be. If a church is healthy, this is what we have. If a church is not healthy, then this is what we need. Okay? And so God wants us to work through issues with godly mature people around us who can help us. Truth number three, living like a Christian sees sin clearly. In verses 6 through 8, Paul is going to be very blunt. He's going to be brutally honest about the way he sees the way the people are living. Says, now therefore, there is utterly a fault among you. Do you get the idea he sees some huge problems? The answer is of course he does. And so I'd break this into two categories. The first category is their active sinful behavior. For instance, in verse 6 he says, brother goes to law with brother, and that before the unbeliever. So they're being very contentious amongst themselves. Or in verse 6, when he says, he emphasizes this is before unbelievers, he's emphasizing the hardness of people's hearts toward one another. He's like, you really hate this person so much and you have such a desire to get even with them that you're going to put them in front of people that you know are going to take advantage of them They're going to be overly harsh with them. They're going to be abusive with their power. That's a callousness of heart. It's not just about being contentious, but it's about being hardened in the disposition. And then in verse 80 says, you do wrong and you defraud in that your brethren. The emphasis is unrestrained. When he says you do wrong, he's emphasizing that the way they're going about it is entirely the wrong way. When he says that you Excuse me. You defraud. The idea is you're taking something that doesn't belong to you. When he says it's for your brethren, he's saying, why don't you have affection for these people? In fact, interestingly, if you look in chapter 6, just take a note personally of how many times he uses the word brother or brethren. He does it over and over and over and over and over again. And there's a reason for that. He's like, don't you love other Christians? Don't you hold them with affection and warmth? He says, you're acting like unbelievers. And so there's a contentious spirit, there's a hardness of heart, there's an unrestrained attitude towards these people. But then on the other side we see the absence of godly behavior. And in fact it's not just that they're doing things that are evil, it's that they're also not doing things that are good. There's two sides to this. We can look at it both p positively and negatively. You should be filled with grace. He says, why do you not rather take the wrong? You should be willing to forbear. Why do you not rather suffer yourself to be defrauded? Now, this is something that I think as Christians we have a hard time with. We believe in justice and we should believe in justice. And God is a just God and He is righteous. But the fact is, as Christians, we need to be quick to give grace. And we need to be willing to carry with the wrongs of others. I think about Colossians chapter 3. He says, put on as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercy, kindness, affection. He said, let the peace of God rule in your hearts. Bear long with one another, forgive one another. This is the way we're supposed to be as Christians. In other words, instead of being vindictive and demanding a pound of flesh like the world does, We need to be the people that are willing to defer, willing to let go, willing to show grace. Grace is not saying you're right. It's not sin. Grace is saying, I'm willing to let God deal with it. There's a really big difference between those two things. In fact a lot of forbearance and forgiveness and showing of grace is really about walking by faith. Do I believe that God's big enough to right this wrong? Do I believe that God's big enough and he's righteous enough to handle it the way that it needs to be? Am I willing to trust God's timetable to resolve the issue? Those are the kinds of things that Paul is saying the church needs So instead of them being contentious and hardened and unrestrained, they should be filled with grace and forbearing. To state it very simply, He says, you're proud, you're contentious, you're hard-hearted, you're unrestrained, you lack any distinction of life from the world around you. You should be filled with grace. You should be willing to forgive. That's them. What about us? Are there people in our lives that the truth is we we haven't taken them to court, but we have the same attitude? There's no place for that as Christians. If we find ourselves in this place, we need to humble ourselves. We need to see our sin clearly. We need to confess it to God, and we need to try to resolve it in a godly way. Truth number four. Living like a Christian is theologically consistent. And uh because this is a very rich and long concept, I'm gonna stop here. But I'm going to read to you what it says because this is where we're going to go. And what 's interesting is that verses 9 through 11 is almost like the capstone of the section. He says, verse number nine, know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves Nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. By the way, if someone ever tells you that the Bible never condemns homosexuality in the New Testament, that's a lie. It's not true. He actually uses two different words in this passage to describe homosexuality. When he uses the term effeminates and the term abusers of themselves of mankind, he actually uses two different terms to describe that particular behavior. And I I'm the reason I'm singling it out is is not to say that it's greater or less than anything else in this statement, in in this text It's simply to say that it's something that people sometimes will say, well, Jesus never condemned homosexuality. It's never condemned in the New Testament. That's just an Old Testament. Not true at all. Not true at all. And this passage of scripture is very clear. But notice what it says in verse 11. And such were some of you. There are also people that will give you the impression that someone who's been involved in homosexuality could never become a Christian. And that's equally wrong. The fact is, God can save you from any sin. No matter how evil, no matter how much it has become ingrained in your life, you can be saved from sin. But when you are saved from sin, he says, such were some of you. You are washed, you are sanctified, you are justified in the name of our Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God. Lord willing next week We're going to dig into this passage right here because it is really, really important. But I want you to realize that 6, 1 through 11, not 1 through 8, and then 9 through 11 is two different sections. It's actually one section with a coherent thought, and I think it will be helpful to you. So let me just give you a couple of thoughts in closing, and I will restate these again, Lord willing, next week. What do we take from this? Well, one of the things we take away from this is that what we believe really matters. I'm talking about theology. I'm talking about our belief when it comes to doctrine and practice. That really matters. Why do I say that? Because when Paul's addressing this issue, he addresses it in theological terms. He goes to, don't you know the unrighteous won't inherit the kingdom of God? He lays out all these particular sins that dominate people's lives, and he says, you used to be that, but you're not. Anymore. You're washed, sanctified, justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. So theology really matters. It matters practically. Second thing is that theology is not just about being intellectual. It's not about knowing how to answer the questions It's about living in the light of truth. It's about people taking what they know about God and what they know about themselves, and they actually live practically in the light of it. Third thing I'll mention is this, we need to learn to ask the right questions to ourselves and to others. Some people are really good at asking questions to other people, but they never turn around and ask themselves. We can't do that. We need to be good at asking questions to others. We need to be good at asking questions to ourselves, and we need to be good at letting others ask us questions. Because the fact is that's how the conscience gets awakened, and that's how heart issues get exposed, and that's how we really get to a place where we're walking with the Lord like we ought. Fourthly, the church needs to be spiritually mature. This constantly comes up in this text. Don't you have wise people in your midst? Don't you have people who can handle these issues? What's Paul saying? If you don't, there's a problem. If you do and you neglect them, there's a problem. Fifthly, we need to lean on the body that God has given us. Now I am not of the opinion that this church is the only place that you can get truth and be helped. There are situations, even when I deal with uh folks who are counseling, that I will refer them to someone who has specialized in a particular area. I have no problem doing that at all. I have no problem with people within the context of the church going and getting counsel outside of this church. No problem at all. What I do have a problem with, and I say I have a problem, what I think is very, very dangerous is that sometimes people go outside because they don't really want accountability inside. It's very easy to go to people that don't know us and to uh present something in a way that's not entirely true Or to hand select who we talk to and who we don't, because we know who will tell us the things that we want to hear and will not tell us the things we don't want to hear. It's very dangerous to do that. When we go, when we get counsel, we have to go to people who are wise. We have to go to people who are honest. We have to go to people who are going to be blunt with us sometimes. People are willing to bear the burden with us. And so it's very important that we learn to lean on the body that God has given us. And I think there's got to be balance in that, where we don't feel like this is like the answer in some all of everything because it's not. But it's also important that we don't neglect it. Sometimes people do. Lastly, we need to live like Christians. I mean, who you are, be it. Live like the person that God has made you. How could we live in sin any longer? We're dead to it. That's the whole point that Paul makes in Romans chapter 6. So may God help us to do that. Lord willing, next week we'll go back. And we'll look at the last part of this text, which I think will be very helpful and challenging to us. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Our Father, I thank you so much for your word. It has the power to get into our hearts, to dig deep. To probe, to point out areas where we're not where we ought to be. And I pray that you'd help us to have humility in our hearts Father, help us to be very cautious that we don't neglect the body that God has given us, that we don't neglect the godly, mature people that He has put into our lives. That we don't hand select people who tell us what we want to hear, but who will tell us the truth. Father, I pray that you would develop within this congregation a whole host of men and women who are godly, mature, wise. have the ability to truly bear the burdens of younger Christians or troubled Christians. They have the discernment to be able to help them work through great challenges, and they have the heart to do it when others might give up on them. Father, I pray that you would develop within our congregation great wisdom, insight, and great burden to see people growing into Christ's likeness. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.