Well, good morning. Hope you're having a great week and looking forward to the weekend. Hope that you had a good start to your Friday morning. And I also hope that this has been a great study for you. As I've been thinking about Psalm 34 and thinking about the different pieces that are a part of this psalm, there are so many rich lessons for us to take away from it. And so I hope that each day there's been something you've been able to uh to really digest and that it's something that the Lord has used to strengthen your walk. It's something that the Lord has used to shape your perspective and to really ultimately help you to be a more faithful Christian. I'm going to read Psalm 34 verses 1 through 9 one more time and then I'd like to give you some final thoughts that kind of summarize um what we've learned this week from the Psalm. Here's what it says. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear thereof and be glad. O magnify the Lord with me, let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears. They looked unto him and were lightened, and their faces were not ashamed This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles. The angels of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. O fear the Lord ye his saints. There is no want to them that fear him Now, as we worked our way through this psalm, we were first of all on Monday reminded about the terrible situation that David found himself in. It was one of the lowest moments in the younger years of David. He's running from his father-in-law. His life is in danger. He's lied to Ahimelech, and when he when he lied to Ahimelech Ultimately it costs Ahimelech, and not just Ahimelech, but many of these other priests at Nob. It cost them their lives. He pretends to be a wild man, a crazy man, and that's how he escapes from the Philistines. As David reflects on all these things, there's a lot for him to process. But one of the things that David does is he's reminded of the fact that there's nothing that is outside of God's ability to use for our good. And that while it is true that hardship changes us, it doesn't have to change us in a negative way, but it can actually be a catless for great growth. And so as we reflect on the things that David expresses in the Psalm, I want to ask you a couple of questions for us to ponder as we go into the weekend. and then give you a couple of simple resolutions that my prayer is that we will resolve to respond to the text of scripture the way that we have here. So first of all the questions. My first question is this. If we truly value spiritual maturity, are we willing to accept the process that is an essential component in shaping us into the image of Christ? I think it's a valid question. We say we believe that spiritual maturity is something we need, but do we willingly accept the process that produces it? Question number two. We long for intimate communion with God. We know that we are created for God's glory, to know Him, and to enjoy Him forever. We know that. The question is, are we willing to accept the catlass, the tule that God uses to ultimately press us in our hearts to Him so that we will experience a deeper measure of communion with Him. We say that we believe that we are made for fellowship with God. We say we believe that it's good to know him personally and deeply, but are we willing to accept what God uses to get us to that point? Foul question. Question number three. We say that we want to see unmistakable evidences of God's work in our life. But do we have the, or have we have we ever considered The fact that there are certain contexts that are necessary so that we can see the unmistakable work of God in our lives In other words, if I want to see that God is a deliverer, what does that mean I have to experience in order to seek God's deliverance? It means I have to be in a tough place. If I believe that God is wise, that means I have to be in a set of circumstances that I see the contrast between his wisdom and the chaos that's around there. And so the question I ask myself is, do I really believe that maturity is what I need? Do I really believe that communion is what I what I desire? Do I really want to see evidence of God's work in my life? Well then I've got to be willing to accept what God uses. to accomplish those things. And fourthly, we say that we want to enjoy a robust fellowship with God, and not just God, but other Christians. We say we want it, but do we understand what the pieces are that God uses to form the foundation of that kind of fellowship with other Christians? Sadly but truthfully, one of the things that bonds people is often shared commonality, but also shared difficulty, shared struggle, shared hardship And so while we value these things, are we willing to accept what God uses to accomplish them? If we're asking Him to do these things in our lives, Are we willing to accept the things that he uses to answer the prayers that we have laid before him? If I say, God, help me to be more patient, do I realize what I'm saying? God help me to be more humble. Do I realize what I'm saying? God help me to be more merciful. Do I realize what I'm saying? God works through means, and those means can often be very challenging. The second thing I want to do is give you some simple resolutions that we can do in the light of the text in front of us. The first is this. Let's resolve to learn from what David wrote in Psalm 34. Because without missing the backdrop, we will not understand this if we miss the backdrop of the Psalm. So let's purpose to learn. Secondly, let's respond properly to him when we suffer, so that he will move us to greater measures of maturity and death. So let's resolve to learn from the Psalm. Let's resolve to respond properly to him when we suffer. Thirdly, let's resolve to stop and recount the many, many ways that God has demonstrated his goodness. I want to encourage you as you think about Psalm 34 You think about these lessons, these episodes that we've done, maybe take some time at some point today. Take some time. To write down how God has demonstrated his goodness to you, how God has taught you of his faithfulness, he's taught you of his goodness. Write those things down, reflect on them, and then thank him for it. And so my ultimate encouragement to you is let's do what the scriptures teach us to do here. May God help us to be a people who rightly divide the word and live in the light of the truths of Scripture as doers of the word, not just hears. Hope you have a wonderful weekend and Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. If this has been encouragement to you, please take a moment. to just share that it has been an encouragement. If you think someone else could benefit by it, perhaps take a moment to share it with another person who could be encouraged by it. And also want to mention that we are now publishing these episodes on uh Apple Podcast. And so if you don't want to see it, you just want to hear it. uh perhaps check it out on Apple Podcasts. It's under Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflections. And hopefully that'll be an encouragement to you as well. Have a blessed rest of your day and a blessed weekend. And we'll see you again next time. Bye now.