Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our evening service and looking forward to opening up the Word of God together tonight and singing praise to Him. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer. Then we will get started with our service tonight. Father, we're so thankful for your kindness to each of us. We thank you for the privilege that we have to gather together and to worship you as a body. And I pray that tonight you would speak to our hearts. And as we address a very delicate topic, I pray that you'd help me to handle it well. And I pray that as we sing praise to you, we would think about the words of these songs and we would sing them with great joy and passion toward you. And as we have opportunities to share testimonies and to get updates, I pray that you would just bless during that time. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good evening, Acrobaptist Church. Good to see you back tonight. Let's take our song books or stand with me and look at the screen. We're going to turn to page 99 in the book. If you want to sing along, sing parts, a shelter in the time of storm. In him we fight, a shelter in the time of score. Your whatever he'll be tight, A shelter in the time of store. For Jamaican , I was really glad you have a weird , for channel , and a great man , a shelter is a good one. I told the legal story , a very strong game, I tell the glory together. Very good, you did watch. Nobody was napping on that one. Page one hundred and one Page 101, just over a page, all the way my savior leads me. All the way my fellow did what I pass in my life. Escola. Saisis käy kautta , ennek koen tuon kyllä meetään , yli kään. Go ahead and have a seat as we turn back. Just a few pages to page ninety-five. No one Ever cared for me like Jesus. I would want to tell you what I think of Jesus Since I found in him a friend so strong and firm I would tell you how he changed my life completely If there 's something that will have a point to And I just don't Page 430. Please stand with me. Both verses. No So Okay, well, if you have your Bibles tonight, which I hope that you do, I want to ask you to take your Bibles to two places. The first place is 1 Timothy chapter 2. And we're going to read the first couple of verses of 1 Timothy chapter 2. And then we are going to also turn over to Romans chapter 13. And tonight the topic that we're addressing, which is something I don't typically do , is the Christian and civic duty. Maybe I'll put it this way. What is the question question as a question? What are our duties as Christian citizens? What are our duties as Christian citizens? And obviously there's a reason that I'm giving this message tonight, and that's because on Tuesday we have election day. And on election day, um our country has the potential to go really one of two very different directions. And I know it won't happen overnight But the fact is that the two administrations that are in play, and when I say administrations, obviously we are thankful for the balance of power that we have. We have a Supreme Court. We have a legislative branch of senators and House of Representatives. We have obviously an executive branch where we have the president and his administration. So I'm very thankful that our country is set up the way that it is. Because the fact is that there's a balance of power to sometimes keep crazy stuff from happening quickly. But the fact is that we have a huge election going And I think it's important that we open up our Bibles and we dig into the Word of God and we ask the question, what are our duties as Christians as it relates to these issues? And I'm going to as much as possible try to stick with what is objectively being taught in Scripture as opposed to my opinions. And so if I have an opinion, I'll say my opinion, just so that you understand that that's what it is. It is not scripture. But as much as possible, I want to dig into the Word of God on this topic and help us to think very biblically about our duties. So 1 Timothy 2, verse 1 says the following. I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings, and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. You know, there have been many, many kings and administrations throughout human history that have despised Christians. And that's absolutely nonsensical that an administration would hate Christians. One of the reasons for that is that Christians are commanded to pray for their leaders. We are commanded to even give thanks to God for those who are in authority. We are taught in the Word of God that we're supposed to be peaceable citizens. Christians are people who are not looking to create problems in society, but are rather looking to do what is good and right and holy and righteous in a society. But we see throughout human history that there have been many, many administrations that have despised and even persecuted the Christian church. Second passage of scripture I want to draw your attention to is Romans 13, and we'll begin in verse 1. It says, let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power resisteth the ordinance of God. And they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Skip down later, he says, For this cause pay ye tribute also, for they are God's ministers, attending continually upon this very thing. Render therefore to all their dues custom to whom custom is due, tribute to whom tribute, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. Owe no man anything but to love One another, for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law. Please let's bow together and ask the Lord to really speak to our hearts through this text, these texts of Scripture. Father, as we open up your word and as we work our way through many principles from your word, I pray that this would be helpful to everyone that is here I pray that you'd help especially those who are really struggling with the decisions that they need to make in relation to voting in the next few days. Maybe some. Maybe some feel like their vote doesn't matter in this state. Maybe some feel I want to make a statement by not voting or by voting third party Father, I pray that as we open up the Word of God, you'd speak to hearts and help us to realize we have a great duty, a great responsibility on several levels. And I pray that you'd help us to take very seriously that duty. Help us to be faithful citizens who honor you to the very best of our ability with what's in front of us. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, the first truth I want you to notice from God's Word is that we have an objective duty toward human government. What I say by objective is when we dig into the Word of God, there are several things that we can say absolutely for certain the Christian is supposed to do this and this and this and this. There are four duties I want to draw your attention to. And we find them here in 1 Timothy 2 and in Romans chapter 13. And I want to mention that the government that was ruling at the time that Paul wrote these things was not a government like the one that we have. It was not a constitutional republic. Okay? It was not kindly disposed toward Christians. In fact, when Paul writes 2 Timothy to the same person at the same place , Paul is riding from prison, and he's going to be killed by the ruler Nero, who was a horrific ruler there in the Roman Empire. And when Paul writes to the church at Rome, he's writing to people who were living in, we could say, the most powerful city in the world at that time. But the truths that he gives, or that the truths that the commands that he gives to these Christians are commands that they're valid today. They stand for us this evening. And so let's think about them one by one. The first duty of the Christian is to pray for government officials. Now, if you um are here on Wednesday nights or maybe you're not able to be here because of work or whatever it is. You get an email, and in that email we have a prayer bulletin. And if you look on the left-hand side of that prayer bulletin, when you open it up, you're going to see various topics That are being addressed, and we as a church are asked to pray for those things. Well, one of those topics in that column is praying for those who are in leadership, in government. And this text of Scripture, 1 Timothy 2, verses 1 through 4, is at the top of that, and under that are several specific things that we are to pray about. Now, because of how much I'm going to talk about tonight, I'm not going to dig into all the things we should be praying for as it relates to our government. I simply want to make the simple statement, we are to pray for our leaders. He says in chapter 2, verse 1, I exhort that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings and all who are in authority. How many of us even know the names of a lot of our government officials? It's sad, but it's true. You can walk into a mall and just ask a bunch of people, hey, can you name who your senator is? Just one of the senators that you have? I couldn't doubt you. Can you tell us who your representative is? No? What's a representative? Ah maybe we should talk about that. Do you know what the Constitution is? The the fact is that a lot of Americans have no concept of our system of government. They don't know anything about it. And I hate to say it, they don't care to know. And that's one of the reasons we are in the place that we are as a nation. We as God's people ought to be informed citizens. We ought to know how our government works. We ought to know who the people are that are in these positions. And we ought to be concerned about these people. We ought to be concerned about their well-being. We ought to be concerned about what they believe, how they function in that role. We need to know their days. We need to pray for them by name. The second duty I want to mention is this. We need to be law-abiding citizens. If you go back to Romans chapter 13, verses 1 and 2, he says, let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. There is no power but of God, the powers that be are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God. We as God's people, as Christian citizens in this country, are to be law-abiding citizens. Now, I want to pause and say something about this. There is no such thing as absolute human authority. Some Christians get in their head that because the government says I have to do this, I have to do this no matter what it is. I mean there is a reason that there was religious persecution in the Roman world. It came to a head when you had groups of people who said, hey, you need to Pay homage to the emperor, not just pray for him, but you need to worship him as a God. And there were Christians who said, Well, we can't do that. And they said, Well, actually you have to do it or you're going to pay this massive price. And they said, We'll pay the price. Because that's evil for us to submit to that kind of a law. Yet at the same time, there are Christians who were submitting to laws that frustrated them and discouraged them and were weary on their shoulders. But they did not violate biblical principles. They just frustrated the people. There's a difference between those two things. There's also a sense that our government is unique in the fact that we have this balance of power. We have a constitution. We have a bill of rights. We have various jurisdictions within our government. We have federal laws and we have state laws and we have local laws. And one of the reasons that it's important to recognize that is because we in our system of government have the opportunity to vote for the people that are going to represent us. We have the opportunity to know the things that they're going to actually vote on. We have the opportunity to go and even visit their offices in some situations. We have the opportunities to write them letters, send them emails, to actually voice our opinion. We have the opportunity to do that if we so choose. We even have the opportunity to protest certain laws if we believe they're unconstitutional. If a person says that the law that has been established violates the Constitution, they can say, I don't obey that law, and when they're prosecuted, guess what? It could go all the way to the Supreme Court and they could actually win the case because it's not a constitutional law. In fact, there's a church in California, a very well-known church, that did exactly that during the pandemic. They said, We're not going to close our doors, we're going to continue to operate the way that we believe that we should And when their government officials said, no, you can't do that, they fought it all the way to the Supreme Court and actually won. The government actually had to pay damages to the to that particular church because of the way that they overreached their authority So the reason that I bring this up is not because I'm trying to encourage us all to be a bunch of restless people fighting the government, obviously that's not the case. It's to simply say that when we talk about obedience to our government, we're not talking about an absolute authority in our government. And there's a need for us to understand the process that is involved in our nation. And it's important for us to recognize that our highest allegiance is to God Himself alone. Day number three, we need to honestly pay our taxes. Now, we may not realize how much we pay taxes in this country. We have state taxes. We have uh taxes we pay on our house. We have taxes we pay when we buy gas. We have taxes we pay when we pay our electric bill, taxes we pay when we pay our w Otter bill, we have taxen we pay when we buy stuff in the store. We pay a lot of taxes. And it'd be easy for us to say, well, I'm just going to kind of like My money, I'm not going to report it. I'm just going to ignore that area of life. And as Christians, we are not to do that. He says, render therefore to all their dues tribute to whom tribute is due. Now, let me pause for a second and say this. Don't pay the government more than you have to. Okay. Don't do that, alright? You need to take care of your family. It is your money, you earned it, for crying out loud. But we need to pay our taxes. Fourth duty. We need to show proper respect to government officials. Verse number seven says, custom to whom custom Fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. I do think that we as Christians sometimes ignore this last one. We have a political person that we we personally dislike a lot because the way that they have governed frustrates us. It makes us angry. I could use that word. Okay? We feel it's unjust, we feel it's unfair, we think it's irresponsible, and we can be very arrogant in our attitudes towards those in the government. We need to be very cautious about this issue. In fact, I think we'll discover that we do this when our kids say something that embarrasses us in public. Let's be very cautious about how we talk about those in government. Truth number two, we should be deeply concerned about the way that our government wields its delegated authority. Now, I use that word delegated for a reason. The reason that the government has authority is because God has given it to them. If God chose to not put a person in power, he has the absolute ability to do that. We think about the fact that it is God who lifts people up, it's God who puts people down. Think about the story of Nebuchadnezzar. Here is this very powerful man. You could say a tyrannical kind of individual. I mean, he laid siege on Jerusalem and destroyed Jerusalem, destroyed the temple, he he brought slaves back into the land of Babylon. He treated the people absolutely horrifically. And what's amazing about that story Is that God in his kindness and his wisdom plants Daniel through very difficult circumstances? He plants Daniel in the administration of that man, Nebuchadnezzar. And God humbles Nebuchadnezzar to such an extent that part of our Bible is actually Nebuchadnezzar talking about how he praises and he magnifies the God of heaven whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom and his dominion is an everlasting dominion. And it reminds us of the fact that the king's heart is in the hands of the Lord, and as the rivers of water, he turns it whithersoever he wills. And it's amazing how God, in his providence, puts very godly people sometimes in very influential roles. Joseph is an example. But the way that Joseph got into power was a pretty big mess, was it not? Sold as a slave by his brothers. Lied about in Potiphar's household, forgotten in prison, and then God plants him right there in the palace Pretty amazing thing to think about. Or you think of the story of Daniel, how does Daniel end up in the position that he's in? Well, he's a part of the captives that were brought. And he said, I won't defile myself with a portion of the king's meat or the wine which he has given me. And so he requested that they could eat something totally different. The reason that they were doing what they did was to basically brainwash him and Take him out of his Jewish culture. Take him away from serving the God of Israel. Yet what does God do? He intervenes on Daniel's behalf. And so we're reminded that God puts people in power. He does it, and it's an amazing thing to consider. God established human government for our good. Now that's not to say that all government is good And that's not to say that all human government wields their authority in a good way. But the purpose of government, in fact, it is for the good of humanity. And there are three primary concerns that we need to have when we think about how our government wields its delegated authority. First concern, and we find these in 1 Timothy. First concern is an administration that promotes the opportunity to live a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness Maybe another way to put it is an administration that is not overbearing in its use of authority. And some of you are going, amen to that. Give me some space. Let me just do what is right before God in my conscience. You know, that's really what the Bill of Rights is all about. The Bill of Rights is saying we believe that God gave you as a human image-bearer these certain unalienable rights. They come from God. And our job as a government is to protect those rights that God gave you. We don't give you rights. God gives you rights. We protect. So when the government doesn't do that, what does it do? It abuses its authority. And so what's amazing about our system of government is it started with that particular foundation. But we should be concerned that God would allow us to have rulers over us who will govern in such a way, and I use the word administration. Because we get real focused on like one individual here or there, but the fact is whoever's in power has people that work for them and work around them and work under them. And so it's not just about the person that you vote for, but it's the people they surround themselves with. The mentality of those people. The agenda that they are promoting, the agenda that they're pushing. So when we think about voting, we need to be thinking about more than just an individual that we're voting for or against. I did that this year. This year, I'll say. I voted against some individuals. But what we're also thinking about is the administration that is going to surround those individuals that are ultimately going to work out their agenda for good or for evil. So, when we think about a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness, what we are praying for as God's people, we should be thinking about good order in society. An administration that promotes good order is good for the country. Geopolitical peace. Establishing and enforcing just laws. Respecting liberty of conscience, promoting good and discouraging evil in society. So when we think about our concern for those who are in authority, our prayer should be God help those in the government to establish an administration that promotes good order in society, not destroys good order in society, that promotes geopolitical peace. Establish and enforces just laws, respects liberty of conscience, and promotes good and discourages evil in society This is something that we don't think about very much, but I do get a sense of this having lived overseas and interacting a lot with missionaries. The things that happen in this country affect the rest of the world. You know, we we get concerned about our economic situation, but sometimes we forget that the dollar is like the trade currency of the world. And so when our dollars lose money, guess what? All of these other currencies that trade and sell on the dollar, their currency loses even more value than our currency is losing. Or when our government does something that's absolutely crazy and chaotic, it affects missionaries in other parts of the world. Sometimes one government retaliates against our nation because of what's going on. And God's people who are trying to do God's work get caught in the middle of this. When there's a war and there's instability, guess what? It makes it a lot more difficult for the gospel to spread in certain regions. Because of what goes on in the governments of nations. So concern one, quiet and peaceable life in all godliness. Concern two An environment that is conducive to the spread of the gospel. What's interesting about this passage is he says in verse number three. This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior who will have all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now, why does Paul say pray for your leaders? So that you can lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness. Oh, I know, so we can all be wealthy and prosperous. Wrong. Okay. The reason is so the gospel can spread. without it being interfered with, without there being government intrusive that limits what's able to happen. I want you to think of it this way. We are able, this morning we assembled for Sunday morning worship and we sang hymns of praise to God as a pretty good-sized group of people. But what would happen if our government became absolutely authoritarian and said, you know what, because of your views on, and they they list the area, your church has to shut down. In fact, whoever is teaching these things, you're done. We're gonna take you out. What would happen? How would that affect the church body? Well, we would have to kind of reassess how we assembled together and where we assembled and how open we were. And you know what that would do? That would create a lot of difficulty for us. Now, would it strengthen our faith potentially? Well, it would certainly weed out those who weren't very serious about what's going on. There's no question about that. But what if people were being killed? What if people are being dragged out of their homes? What if dads are being thrown in prison and now mom 's raising the kids by herself because the government doesn't like what dads say? Those kinds of things actually have an impact And so when we think about the fact that we are desiring an administration that produces encourages a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness, this is so that we see the gospel spread without Interference. When government allows disorder, it promotes an environment or permits an environment that's dangerous to the spread of the gospel. If you're trying to do a ministry in Baltimore City and the government officials decide they're not going to prosecute crimes anymore, I mean I should say maybe that's already happening. Guess what? If you're trying to start a church in the inner city in a tough, tough community, guess what? It might create a lot of problems for you in that church plan. Because the government isn't doing its job. Or when a government becomes actively hostile to the government or to the gospel and liberty of conscience, it creates an environment that is dangerous to the spread of the gospel. I hate to say this, but we have people running for the highest office in the land that do not believe in liberty of conscience. And they have stated it publicly. And we need to take note of this. When governments become too passive or too provocative, it contributes to an environment that is dangerous to the spread of the gospel. I'm thankful for the strength of our military. And the fact is, when our military is strong and not provocative, but establishes good deterrence, it's good for the world. Because it promotes peace. And when our government is weak, guess what it does? It creates problems Because there are hostile nations that would love to go out there and create problems. And if they believe that our country is not going to establish good deterrence, it's going to create a lot of problems. In fact, we've seen that in the last several years. There are reasons that Russia invaded Ukraine. There are reasons that the land of Israel is being attacked from the north and the south. It is actually something that we could look back and say, there are deterrence that have not been maintained that have incentivized people to do those things. The reason I bring that up is to simply say this. Our concern is that the government should should wield its power appropriately. Concern number three, an administration that promotes good and punishes evil as God ordained it to do. The purpose of government is not to promote Christianity. Now I'm a Christian pastor, and I would love it if every person in this country was a believer Okay? I would absolutely love that. And I would love it if we had churches filled all over the place. But you do not spread the gospel through the government. It's been tried. And it's failed. There's a reason I'm a Baptist and not a Protestant. That's just the honest truth. Because I believe that the church is not to become a part of the state. But at the same time, I believe that Christian values ought to infiltrate every single area of society. including those who are in the government. And I pray that godly people get into positions of power because they'll have good sense. They'll have good judgment. They'll have good character. They will promote what is good in the places that God plants them. But it's not the job of the government to promote the gospel. That's our job as Christians in the church Rather, it is to establish the protection of all citizens, including Christians, to live conscientiously. This is one of the things that we really talked a lot about during the COVID pandemic. I remember being on a call, and on that call I read from the Maryland Constitution about religious liberty of conscience. Because you may not realize this, but our Maryland Constitution actually has a really strong statement on this issue of liberty of conscience. Why? Because when it was written, people were concerned about that. Second thing I'll mention here is that the more closely aligned an administration governs to biblical values, the better it will be at promoting peace, stability, and freedom. Proverbs 14, 34 says, righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. Proverbs 29:2 says, when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice, but when the wicked bear rule, the people mourn. Why is that? Because ungodly people oppress. And righteous people actually promote human flourishing. It is good when we have righteous leaders. It is destructive and it is oppressive on society. When we have leaders who are evil, who are unjust, and are pushing agendas that are contrary to nature and contrary to the word of God and God's design. And so I want to mention a couple of areas that are really at the forefront of this issue. The first is the issue of abortion. I want you to think about this. This discussion about abortion is sadly and shockingly The way it's framed, probably the most significant agenda being pushed in this election cycle. We literally have a party platform that is aggressively promoting and celebrating a clearly immoral and irreversible and unnatural agenda. Irreversible. You take a person's life, you don't give it back to them. Unnatural. Why did God create male and female? So that we'll be fruitful and multiply? Like that's the natural purpose for God creating man and woman? I hate to say this, but it's true, neither party is pro-life. This is the honest truth. One party is weak and pluralistic. The other aggressively promotes and celebrates. There is an agenda that is far more evil, though neither represents the biblical viewpoint. And so I want to encourage you when we think about this issue of abortion, do not allow What is going on in our society to cause you to drift from a biblical viewpoint? God created me in his own image. From the moment that a child is conceived, that human life is to be protected. And that human life has value to God. And that human life should be protected even by its government. And so I will say that when I voted this past week, I voted for the lesser of two evils. And I voted against a very evil agenda that we should all be grieved by. Or I could talk about the male, male-female binary. It's shocking, but we actually have people that cannot answer the question, what is a woman? Like you could say, oh, we could have the first woman president. They can't even define that. So like what's going on here God created mankind in his own image, either male or female. And this biological assignment is from God with a distinct purpose that conforms to his design for men and women and society, the home, the church. This biological distinction is a good thing, and we should submit our to our creator's design as either the man that God created us to be or the woman God created you to be. I'm not a woman, so for you, not me. You know what? This is a very clear distinction on how people are looking at this issue. Do you want government officials that are not able to tell you what the difference is between a man and a woman? Do you want a government that's going to push children being able to transition to another, we could say, surgeries to deform their body so that they can present themselves as someone that they're not? Irreversible damage that can be done to their bodies. This is a huge issue. This is not politics. This is morality. This is right and wrong. I'll go so far as to say you don't even have to be a Christian to understand the distinction between a man and a woman. It's nature, folks. Go work on a farm. And then we talk about the institution of marriage. And sadly, this one has been lost in our society. God established and defined the institution of marriage. One man, one woman for life. Unbroken. Why? So that God can produce a godly seed. And no matter what our society says about that issue, God's institution stands. And those who understand nature will recognize God's good design. I think about violent crimes like murder, human trafficking, sexual assault. You know what, our country is not dealing with these things harshly and appropriately anymore. In fact, it's incentivizing very, very vicious and evil practices Damages from theft and destruction to personal property should be justly restored, and justice should be proportionate to the offense. Yeah, we have a lot of people that are running for DA on many different levels in other states. They don't believe that. They don't practice that You didn't vote against people like that. Economic policy should encourage productivity, not incentivize poor moral choices, by insulating people from natural consequences to their sinful decisions. So leave me to truth number three. We've only got three. Don't worry about it. We should be actively engaged in a distinctly Christian way. I want to give you three things to think about here. The first one is this: be wise. I'm going to encourage you to go out and vote, but before I encourage you to vote, I'm going to encourage you to be wise. And in my view, the wisest, most sensible people in a society ought to be people that know God. Ought to be people that read the Word of God and understand that we have a creator who designs and sustains And that we know him personally, and that his purposes are good, and this informs everything about how we look at life. So if I was to look at a society, those are the last people that I'd want to sit on the sidelines. Those are the people that I'd want to see go out and get engaged. Those are the people that I hope would vote. Those are the people that I hope would voice their opinions. Those are the people that I hope would be engaged in the process and know what's going on. That they would actually be influencing the good of society because they have good sense. Now not all Christians have good sense. I'll just be honest about that. But we should. So be wise Wisdom prioritizes biblical concerns, the first concern of an administration promoting a quiet and peaceable life, an environment that is conducive to the spread of the gospel. An administration that promotes good and punishes evil as God ordained government to do. Wisdom prioritizes. And by the way, sometimes we have to prioritize. When I look at a situation, I can't get so hung up on this little issue over here that I disagree with that I have lost the big picture. We have to look at the big picture when it comes to an issue like who we vote for, who we vote against, how we look at these issues. Be wise. Second thing I'll mention here is that wisdom understands human nature. And I want to mention a couple of principles here. The first one is this: laziness and free handouts incentivize destructive behavior. I could camp on that for a real long time, okay? But in 2 Timothy chapter 3, verse 10, it says this: This we command you, that if any would not work, you should give him food, right? Uh universe-based income, right? Oh no. Then you shouldn't eat. You see that's so mean. If an able-bodied person refuses to work, You shouldn't give them anything. Did you hear that? You say that's not merciful. This is Bible, folks. He says, we hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly, working not at all, but are busybodies. This is what happens. When an able-bodied person refuses to work. And you incentivize such laziness by giving them free handouts. You know what they do? They're going to use that energy in a lot of bad ways. They're going to use that energy that they have, they're going to use that mind that they have for destructive purposes. And by the way, it brings a deterioration of society when people don't have good work ethics, when they're not motivated and driven to actually be engaged in using their mind and their body for good purposes that God has designed them to be able to do. Second is this, laziness produces poverty and industry produces prosperity. Proverbs 10, 4. He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand, the hand of the diligent maketh rich He that gathereth in summer is a wise son. He that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame. How many people experience shame because they don't work? Sadly in our society, very few. But in a society that actually believes in biblical principle, if somebody's not working hard, their family's embarrassed. My son's lazy. My family's not doing the job that they should do. And guess what? When you're an industrious person, it produces the good of people. It actually blesses. You think about someone who starts a business. They're not just feeding their own family. They're providing goods and services. And they're actually feeding lots of families because all those people that are involved in that industrious work are not only benefiting other people through the work that they do, but they're providing for their families as they are responsible to do. And when someone chooses to withdraw and they choose not to be industrious, guess what happens? It sucks energy, it sucks resources, it promotes a lot of problems in society. I would be curious to know how much money is wasted in the American economy by people just flat out being lazy. Be very interesting. I'm sure no one's ever done that study. But I'd be curious if someone ever did. Next, I'll say this: a lack of justice incentivizes violent behavior. If you have good laws in the books, but people ignore them, you know what you do? You incentivize evil. Ecclesiastes chapter 8, verse 11, because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily. Therefore, the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil. There are people that can commit violent crimes in some of our cities. And when they are arrested and they are booked, they're let go immediately. You know what that does? That tells people there's no rules. I can do anything I want. I can beat up anybody that I want. I can take anything that I want. If I treat someone violently, I assault them. It doesn't matter. Because nobody's going to stop me, because nobody is stopping them. And so when we think about the government, there's a dereliction of duty when people do not deal with violent behavior justly. Next thing I mention is this wisdom thinks practically about life in a fallen world. This is where I think it gets to be kind of practical. Not that those other things aren't practical. But Ecclesiastes chapter 11 says the following. Cast thy bread on the waters, and thou shalt find it after many days. Give a portion to seven, and also to eight. Thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth. If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. If the tree falleth towards the south or towards the north, and the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. He that observeth the wind shall not sow, he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. As thou knowest not the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God. If you want to know what should inform how you vote, that text of Scripture will give you everything that you need. Let me hit a couple of highlights. When he talks about casting your bread on the waters, he's saying, be an industrious person. Be involved in business. Give your portion to seven or eight. Don't put all your eggs in one basket because you don't know how things are going to work out. There's a lot of uncertainty in life. If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth. Guess what? If you see a problem brewing, it's gonna happen. If a tree is leaning, it's gonna fall. If somebody has said something over and over and over again, believe them. If they said it over and over and over again, then they stop saying it because it's not For their good and then they're real quiet. Believe what they said. He says, if a tree falls to the south or to the north, In the place where the tree falls, there it should be. That's a really interesting little problem. You know what it's basically saying? You've got to live with what happens in life. If you choose to sit on the sidelines, guess what? You're going to have to live with that choice. If you don't pray for your leaders, if you're not involved in the process in a responsible way, you're going to have to live with what happens. Whoever our nation chooses in all these different areas, we're going to live with them for the next several years. Whether they're good or bad Whether I was gonna say honest or dishonest, I don't know that that was really a good one. Depends on how dishonest they are, right? We're gonna have to live with that But this one I think is very interesting. He that observeth the wind shall not sow. He that regardeth the cloud shall not reap. I think a lot of times as Christians Because we are so focused on doing what's right, which we should, sometimes we are impractical at how we look at the challenges in front of us. If a person needs to plant his field, sometimes when he goes out there, the conditions aren't perfect. And you know what he's supposed to do? Plant his field. You say, well, I don't know if it's perfect. It'll never be perfect. Go out and plant your field and see what God does. There is not a candidate that you will vote for. in this election cycle that will uh be someone that you would want raising your children. Maybe not even influencing your children. I'd say that. The fact is that a lot of the people that are willing to put themselves forward and step into these roles are people that are very proud. They have dubious pasts. There's a lot of baggage associated with most of them. I I would almost say all of them, but I guess that I don't want to go that far. But the fact is that most Normal law-abiding people don't want to jump into stuff like that. They really don't. They don't want to get in that mess. And so the bottom line is the people that you have to choose from are all going to be people that do not have the character that you want. And they're not people that should have a character that I wish they had character that was noble and noteworthy, but the fact is that they don't. And this is the society that we produce and these are the people that work through the process. But the fact is we have to choose the best option available to us in every single choice we make when we pick up a ballot and we vote. Second thing I'll mention is this, we need to be informed. Do not vote if you don't know the facts. Proverbs 18, 13 says, He that answereth the matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him. I hate to say it, but the election on Tuesday will will very likely be decided by people that are pretty ignorant. Of the choice that they're making. You realize that? Sad but true. There's a lot of Americans that are very knowledgeable and engaged in the process. And they take it very seriously, and they're voting their cast with a so they're casting their vote with a soberness of mind. And there are a lot of people that are voting because somebody came to their house and said, hey, fill this out. I'll take care of that for ya. Fill this out. I'll take care of that for you. Hey, come get on this bus and let's go over and let's vote together and let's have a party. Hey, do you see this picture? Do you see this picture? Which one looks better to you? Oh, did you know this person said this? I mean, nothing about the context, and we don't know what this person said, but people are very manipulable But here's the fact. When it's all done, God's going to put in power the person that's in power in all of these places. But when we come to this process, we shouldn't be like that. We should be well informed. We should actually soberly in our conscience perhaps even wrestle through these issues. And to the very best of our ability before God, we make our choices, knowing what we needed to know to make an informed decision Know what people believe. Know the patterns that they have established from verifiable sources, not hearsay. You say the more I know, the less I like. Yeah, I get that. That's how I feel. Know what is being celebrated and actively being promoted. Admit where better options fall short and don't allow the sifting views of society to influence. You to drift from a biblical position. I think it's really sad when Christians celebrate people as heroes who clearly are not. I'm serious about that. I voted for people that I am very Not happy with them on a lot of levels. But I voted to the best of my ability. And I want to encourage you with that. When you go into a booth and you cast that boat You're not making a statement. You're contributing in a process. Making a statement is when you stand up and tell people who you voted for. Menus statement is when you go out and you pass out brochures for that individual or those individuals. Contributing the process is going quietly and sitting down. And putting those those marks on that ballot and sending it in. Third thing I'll mention is this, we need to be responsibly engaged. And this is what I hope you'll take away from tonight. The first is this: pray for those in public office. We as Christians need to pray for those who are running and those who will run this country. The second, you might say this doesn't sound very political, but it's wisdom. Raise your kids right Do you know why we have all these problems in society? Because we've had a couple generations of parents that didn't do a good job. Maybe I should say did a horrible job. I'm just gonna be frank about it. And that could be us too, the ones raising our kids right now. We need to teach our kids how to work. We need to teach 'em what is right and wrong. We need to give them a good example. Your kids aren't gonna follow your shoes. If they see you being a disgruntled But if they see you being a vibrant person who loves God and loves people, they're gonna say, man, I want that. Raise your kids right. Prepare them for life. Vote for the best options available to you. I know some Christians say, well, you know, I'm going to make my statement and I'm going to sit on the sidelines. That is not a statement. That's refusing to engage in the process. I'm gonna make my statement, I'm gonna vote for third party. I'm gonna write in my dog. Maybe you made a statement there, I don't know. But the truth is you really didn't engage in the process. Do the best you can. Step in there and do it. Third, be engaged in what happens in our community, state, and nation. It's not just who wins the presidency, folks. It's who wins on the state level. It's who wins on the local level. You know, we really had more problems from our local officials during COVID than we did from our state officials. And from our federal officials. We really did. A lot of the goofy stuff that we had to deal with was because of county council. It wasn't really about the governor and his viewpoints. And so what it tells you is that, you know what, it really matters. People that are on school boards really matter. Guess what? They're influencing the curriculum. Thankfully, not my children's curriculum. But they're influencing the curriculum of a lot of kids growing up in the society who are going to grow up, they're going to be working jobs or not working jobs, they're going to be voting or not voting. They're going to influence society. We need to be concerned about these things. Next, live a faithful life in all godliness no matter what you face. I don't know what's going to happen on Wednesday. Probably nobody's gonna know what's gonna happen on Wednesday, but anyway, whenever we find out like how everything unfolds. Your responsibility as a dad hasn't changed. Your responsibility as a mom hasn't changed. Your responsibility as a Christian hasn't changed. It might be harder, it might be easier, it might be a tassa, but your duty hasn't changed. Be a faithful Christian. Whatever we face over the next several years, be a faithful Christian. Accept God's providence and trust his power to use all circumstances for good. I don't know what the church in America needs. I know what I want. And probably most of you agree with me on that. But I don't know what the church needs. But if the people that you voted for get into power, probably not in Maryland, but anyway, the people that you voted for get into power That's not what that is not what ultimately is going to make a nation turn to God What makes a nation turn to God is the gospel. It's what happens in the church of God. It's how Christians live their lives. And so what we should be most concerned about is not who ends up in office, but how we live with the liberties we've been given. And how we relate to those who are in office. So my encouragement to you is be a faithful Christian and your civic duty. Let's bow for prayer. Father, there's a lot we've gone through this evening. My desire is to just help people as much as possible to think biblically about this issue. A lot of issues actually. Help us to be faithful Christians, no matter what we face in the coming days. Father, we pray that you'd have mercy on our land. We understand that righteousness exalts a nation and sin is a reproach to any people. And when the wicked are in authority, people mourn. And when the righteous are in authority People rejoice. And the administrations that will govern this land on the federal, state, and local levels are going to directly impact people's lives in lots of ways. And so we pray that you would intervene and work for the good of people, and may we be faithful Christians through this whole process. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay. Our closing hymn is going to be hymn number 96. Oh God, our help in ages past. I do apologize, it went so long tonight. Didn't want to go quite that long. By the way, I am going to break this down uh for anchored into words this week. So if you want to hear that um in parts, we will do that as well. If you want to share that. Maybe you'd say I wouldn't want a shirma. That's fine too. Okay, don't tell me about it. But uh I hope that the things that we've talked about tonight have been an encouragement Hymn number 96, we'll stand together. We'll sing the first and the last verses of O God, our help in ages past. Oh God, our health in dangers passed for all. Well, I hope that you'll be able to uh join us again on Wednesday night uh for our midweek Bible study. I will have uh A B B I class on Tuesday. Um fight the election. We will we will have our class and uh hope that you can join us for that if um that's what you've been doing. Or maybe you haven't but you'd like to. And um Let's really be in prayer for our nation. Pray that God will work and that we as Christians will be faithful in our duties. Scott Moore, can you please close us in prayer? And then we'll be dismissed. Let's pray. Lord God, we are so so thankful for your sovereign uh hand upon our country and our lives. Pray, Lord, that we might uh be confident that you will bring about What you want to accomplish through the people that we elect, I pray that we might not be discouraged. at the outcomes, but that we would look forward uh to living out our Christianity in the world that we live in in such a way that we might impact others. In Jesus' name. Amen.