Well let's go ahead and uh turn our Bibles again to First Corinthians chapter eleven tonight. First Corinthians chapter eleven, and we will be looking at verses seventeen down to verse thirty-four, and we are talking about Paul's instructions regarding the Lord's table. And this is a very important topic for us to understand. And so we are going to spend some time in this passage of Scripture. And I hope that by the end of this time you will have a greater appreciation for What we are doing when we gather together and we partake of the Lord's table, and I hope that you'll understand exactly what Paul is saying and what he's not saying here. Also, before we dig into this passage, I have a note here that says, I'm supposed to remind you of Christmas caroling on Saturday. And so I almost forgot that, even though it was right here in front of me. Four o'clock is in. We're going to start and we're going to do several groups that will go out. Please do sign up, and that's going to help us as we plan the routes. Pastor Josh is working on that. And I know that the folks that we will be going to sing Christmas carols to and we'll be dropping off some little gifts at their houses, they really do appreciate it when we come by. And it is a real blessing. And so it's not just a blessing to them, it's a blessing to us. We enjoy that. And you never know, this Saturday it might be snowing a little bit when we go out. We'll see. But there is a chance of snow Saturday. Um we'll see what happens. So We'll find out. Alright, well, we are in 1 Corinthians 11 tonight, and we're going to read verses 17 through 34. Here's what Paul writes. Now, in this I declare unto you, I praise you not. Boy, if Paul starts out this little section that way, you know that we're in for some heavy things that he's going to say. I do not praise you that you come together not for the better, but for the worse. For first of all, when you come together in the church, I hear that there be divisions among you. And I partly believe it, for there must also be heresies. That's an interesting word. The idea is a division, not heresy in the way that we think of it as a doctrinal heresy. I'll deal with that in a few seconds, but among you that they which are approved. may be made manifest among you. When you come together, therefore, in one place, this is not to eat the Lord's table. For an eating, everyone taketh before other with his own supper. One is hungry, another is drunken, and that has the idea of being intoxicated. What Have ye not houses to eat and to drink at, or despise ye the church of God, and shame them that have not. What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not For I have received of the Lord that which I also delivered unto you. The Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. When he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take. Eat, this is my body, which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me. After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supp, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he come. Wherefore Whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself. And so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself. That word damnation means judgment. not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, tarry one for another. If any man hunger, let him eat at home, that ye may come not together unto condemnation. The rest will I set in order when I come And I can only imagine that when that little section was read, people thought, when we see Paul, it's not going to be a good day. Well, the passage in front of us is in fact a very important text of scripture. Interestingly, when we talk about the two ordinances of the local church, we talk about baptism. We talk about the Lord's table. This is the fullest text in the New Testament that talks about this issue of the Lord's table. And when we celebrate the Lord's table, I don't read this entire passage every time, but there are times that we do need to go back to this passage. We need to read it, we need to understand it. And I hope that by the end of our discussion on this passage. It will give you a good understanding of what we are doing, what we are not doing, why we do it the way we do it. And I hope that it will be actually a blessing, not something that you tremble and are fearful of, but that you actually come to the table and your heart is warmed. by what we are remembering. And some of you go, well, how can my heart be warmed when I read things like, he drinks damnation to himself? He's not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. How can that be something that warms my heart? Well, we'll dig into the Word of God and hopefully by the end of the time, actually it will be that, because we will understand those concepts in the context in which they're given. So the first thing I want to do here is I want to start with Paul's critique. In fact, if we're looking at these pat this passage, we break down into Paul's critique. And then he talks about how they're supposed to understand the Lord's table. And then he goes on to what is an appropriate and right response for how to deal with this issue. So first of all, Paul's critique. We find this in verses 17 through 22. And I know I just read this very lengthy passage, so I'm not going to read through all these verses, but we're going to look at that section. As Paul critiques the way that the church is conducting the Lord's table, he starts by introducing it with several concepts. Here's the first thing that he says. In verse 17, he says, Now in this That I declare unto you, I praise you not. Now, that is a change from what he said earlier in chapter 11 in verse number two. Listen to what he says in verses one and two. He says, be followers of me even as I am of Christ. Now, I praise you, brethren, that you remember me in all things and keep the ordinances as I have delivered them unto you. So Paul at first talks about the positive of what they are doing. It's good that they're partaking of the Lord's table. That is a biblical ordinance. What's not good is the manner in which some of the people in the church are practicing the Lord's table. And so we see that there's this change from I commend you to what you are doing to I do not commend you because of how you are doing it. Then we see that there is a warning that the practice he is about to address is in fact a very serious matter. In verse 17, he says, you come together not for the better, but for the worse. Now when we talk about something like the Lord's table, we need to understand that throughout church history there have been different groups that have had different views of how they approach this issue of the Lord's table. We could really put it into two categories One would be what we call those who have a sacramental view of the Lord's table and those who have what we call an ordinance view of the Lord's table. Now, those two things are in fact very, very different. We talk about a sacramental view of the Lord's table. We're talking about something that the church believes, or I should say, those groups that teach this and practice this. believe that somehow there is a means of grace that the person receives as they partake of the elements. That is why in those particular groups there is teaching that the bread becomes the body of Christ And the wine or the grape juice becomes the blood of Christ. And so literally, if you are in a church that and I use that term very loosely, a church that practices what we would call a sacramental view of the Lord's table, then we are talking about people that believe they are literally eating the body of Christ And they are drinking the blood of Christ every time they gather. And when they do that, they are receiving grace that they are cooperating with through the church. That is giving them ultimate salvation. Now, is that how a person becomes a Christian? The answer is no. That is not biblical. In fact, that's a pagan practice. That's taking the Bible and that's blending it with a pagan idea, and this is now making the church the means through which a person receives salvation Not, I understand the gospel, I hear it preached, I understand I'm a sinner, I'm separated from God. My only hope is the work of Christ. I repent I believe, I trust in Christ, I am justified. And now as a justified sinner who has identified with the Lord in believers' baptism, As a body, we come together and we remember what Christ has done. We are not receiving grace that gives us salvation. But rather we are communing with one another as we reflect on the heart of our faith. That's a very different practice So when we talk about a sacramental view, we see something that's very unbiblical. And by the way, there's various ways that this plays out. And then we have the ordinance view that simply says this. God commanded and now we remember. And so what I'm doing is I'm not earning my salvation by cooperating with God. I'm looking back at the basis of my salvation. and I am rejoicing in it every single time that we partake. Do you see the difference between those things? Very, very different. So the warning here is that this practice is very serious. It's not a sacrament that gives us salvation, but it's also not something that we should be flippant about. It's not something that we should be casual about. It's something that's very sacred. It's very serious. When we gather together, we enjoy something very sweet with one another as we worship the Lord and remember what Christ has done for us. Third thing here is this. The repetition of the passage tells us what the main problem is. For instance, in verse 17, he says this. You come together not for the better, but for the worse. Verse 18 When you come together in the church, I hear there be divisions among you. Verse 20. When you come together, therefore, into one place, this is not to eat. the Lord's table. Verse 33, when you come together to eat, tarry one for another. Verse 34, if any man is hungry, let him eat at his home that you come not together unto condemnation. What do you think he's saying there? The problem is that when they gather together, there is something wrong about the way they're doing this. And the way that they're doing this is very, very serious. You say, well, what is it? We'll get there, don't worry. But he's emphasizing the fact that the problem is that the way the church is practicing it is thoroughly unbiblical. And in fact, it's a mockery of what this is supposed to picture. Fourth thing we see And this is really taking that concept of them coming together and it's showing you where the problem lies. They were establishing unscriptural divisions within the church. when they came to the Lord's table. Notice what he says in verse 18. He says, I hear that there be divisions among you. Now I know that we have four sections. Well, there's nobody in that section. And we have one family in this section over here, and we have kind of the bulk of us right here. And I guess even the guys in the sound booth, we'll give you number five back there, right? We're not talking about divisions like that. What we're basically saying is this. When the people gathered together and they're supposed to be fellowshipping as brothers and sisters in Christ There were these, we could say, haves and have-nots. It was becoming very clear. In fact, he's going to kind of explain what he means by that, where he says exactly what is going on between them. But I think it's very important to make a note of something here. In verse 19, he makes a statement that I don't want us to miss. There are certain kinds of divisions that are necessary in the church. Did you catch that? In other words, there's a right kind of division and there's a wrong kind of division. Notice what he says in verse 19. There must be also heresies. And that word heresy simply means division. Okay? And um if you have a modern translation, the word is not heresy there. Okay? And that's not a mistranslation. That actually probably gives you a better sense of what it's saying. The idea is there has to be division in the church on certain matters. Let me give you an example. Church discipline. What is church discipline? Church discipline is when someone who has been become a part of the church has claimed I'm a Christian, they've been baptized. And then they are living in a way that's not just they're stumbling in the Christian life, but there's an unrepentant, public sinfulness that is bringing r uh disrepute to the church and even to that person's profession of faith and people go to them and they're trying to resolve the issue. in a very loving manner, and the person is resistant, they're rebellious, and they want nothing to do with it. A great example, a sad example would be if someone's cheating on their spouse. It's a known thing. Okay? The church can just go, well, we don't see what's going on there. We just kind of let you keep teaching your Sunday school class. We're going to talk to you about the fact that you're not being faithful to your wife. That's wrong. That's the kind of stuff that was going on at Corinth. And so the church has to address the issue. Well, that kind of a division's not a bad one. That's an appropriate one. That's the right one. Interestingly, when we come to the gate together to the Lord's table, not everyone who is sitting in the room should participate You say, well, who makes that decision? Well, the person is responsible to make that decision. But it's very clear if you're not a believer and you don't understand what the Lord's table is all about, Or if you're coming to the table in a way that's inconsistent with the intent for which it's given, you should not be partaking. So when he talks about there being a division, he's talking about the fact that within the church context, there there's a clear line between those who are believers, they're a part of the body, those who are not. Those who have professed faith in Christ, but in fact they are not affirmed by the church because of public sin that is unrepentant and not dealt with. And so when he uses the statement there has to be some kinds of divisions here so that those who are approved may be made manifest among you, he's not talking about that kind of a scenario. He's not saying it's wrong to do that. What's amazing is this. In some church contexts, they'll affirm what's wrong and they'll exclude what's right. In fact, that's kind of what was going on at Corinth. And so Paul makes it clear there are certain divisions that are necessary. Those who identify with the gospel and are recognized by the church versus those who have been removed from the church due to unrepentant sin. But the problem at Corinth was not the scriptural, it was the unscriptural. You say, well, what was going on? There were divisions based on ethnicity and culture. There are divisions based upon societal differences, rich and poor, bond and free. There are people who are Jews that were like, I'm not going to eat with the Gentile. There are people that were very wealthy and they're like, there's no way I'm going to eat with my poorer brother over here. He's of a different status in society. I am a citizen of Rome. I have rights. That person doesn't have any rights. Well, guess what? When it comes to the Lord's table, we're brothers. We're brothers and sisters in Christ. And that kind of an attitude is something that was not to be permitted. And interestingly, if we go back to First Corinthians chapter seven, where he talks about the present distress when he's talking about whether or not people should marry and all that kind of stuff. He mentions this this little statement, this present distress. I recommend that you do this or you don't do this. It's possible, we're not 100% on this, but it's possible. That one of the problems going on at Corinth was that that there were people that actually were not getting enough food because they were suffering physically. And so here you have these wealthy people who have so much food that they're they're gluttonous and they're getting intoxicated and they're excluding people that don't even have food. You're like, that's crazy. How could that be happening in the church? Well, it was. And that's why he's addressing this issue. Fifth thing we see is this: the people were making a mockery of the Lord's table. Now I think it's important to say something here. When we come to the Lord's table and people examine themselves, I believe many times. That when people think of this, what they're really doing is they're going to their room on a Sunday afternoon, if we're doing it in the evening. Or on a Saturday evening, and they're trying to remember if there is some sin that they have somehow forgotten to confess to God. And in their mind, they're like, if there's some sin that I have somehow forgotten to confess to God, and I eat the Lord's table, I might die. There's people that are that fearful. Or there's people that are like, maybe I told God that I repented and I asked him to forgive me for that sin, but I don't know if I really repented, and so I'm not sure if I really cared enough to turn away from that. And in the back of their mind they're like, I don't Don't think I can eat the Lord's table. Now listen, that's not what he's talking about. That's not the kind of issue that Paul is addressing. Now, am I suggesting that we should have unrepentant sin in our heart? Not a chance, okay? Am I suggesting that when we confess sin to God that that we should be somehow like half and half on it. Not at all. I'm not saying that at all. But what I am saying is this. There's something very specific that Paul is addressing in these verses. Don't miss it. Verses 20 and 21 and 22. When you come together therefore into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's table. For in eating everyone taketh before other his own supper. One is hungry, another is drunken. Have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? Or despise ye the church of God? This is an interesting statement. And shame them that have not. So what does it sound like the problem is? Does it sound like it's something the person forgot to confess? No It sounds like you have people that have means who are mocking and excluding people who don't. And that's a huge problem. That's a huge problem, especially in Corinthian society, because people put a tremendous weight on status. You know, it's kind of similar to what happens in the book of James. He says, hey, if somebody walks into your congregation and they're dressed like a wealthy person, don't take the guy that's sitting over here that's very poor and say, hey You need to move over there. Hey, come on down. Have a seat over here. Because you got money, obviously. Look at how you're dressing. Or you had women that were coming to the church and they had this their hair all put up and they had all these jewels and all this gold and when they came into the church it was all about drawing attention to how much money they had. and their status and their clouts. So this is a problem in the early church. Could be one today too. Maybe we don't have people doing the exact same thing, but the attitude in the heart can be there. If somebody comes and visits the church and They look like they just walked off the street and maybe they slept at the rescue mission last night. Are you gonna treat that person different than if another person drove in and parked in one of those visitor parking spots with a Bentley and walked in and they look like they had it all together Would you treat the guy off the street different than the guy in the Bentley? If you would, that's what he's talking about. And so this is something that was a huge problem in the church. They were formally assembled for worship. They're eating the elements as they were instructed. They're going through the motions, but they're doing it in a way that contradicts its purpose. If there was ever a time in the church. . That you should see the unity of how the gospel connects people from different cultures, different ethnic backgrounds, different, you could say, socioeconomical scenarios. It would be at a time like this, because the cross levels the playing field 100%. And so if there's ever a time that that kind of behavior would be extremely offensive, that would be the time. And that's what Paul's talking about. about. The table in those days came in two parts. Now we don't do this in our church. This was a part of church history in the past. There was a time when it uh kind of stopped because of the way it was being abused, and in some churches it's something that's actually done again. But the idea was that the table came in two parts. There was a part where they would eat the elements, the bread, uh that would represent the body of Christ, and then the the the Fruit of the vine, which would represent the blood of Christ, and then after this time of communion, they would have a meal, and that meal would be called a love feast. And so what's basically happening is they're celebrating the Lord's table, and then they're having this meal together, but some are getting pushed to the side. He said, that's where the problem is. People are being excluded and treating with treated with disdain. Some are being are flaunting their wealth. Some are getting intoxicated. Some are being gluttonous. This action is spiteful. It is shameful. It's unthinkable in the church of Christ. God. Kind of makes sense, doesn't it? Second thing I want us to notice, and I don't know how much we're going to get into this one, just looking at the time, but we're going to wade into it a little bit. Is Paul goes from giving these concerns to the reminder of what the Lord's table is supposed to be. And we find that in verses 23 through 26. And I'm going to read this just because we've kind of uh we read the text a while ago. He says, for I've received of the Lord that which I also delivered unto you. But the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. When he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. This is you in remembrance of me. After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as often as ye drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you show the Lord's death till he comes. All right, that is his reminder of what the Lord's table actually is supposed to be. So let's look at the individual pieces of Paul's reminders to the church. The first thing we see is that this is an ordinance that was passed down by Christ through the apostles. Now when we use the word ordinance, we're saying this. Christ gave authority to the apostles so that they would give instruction to the church in his name by his authority, and then the church was to take those practices and they were to follow them. Now someone would say, well, how do we know what those practices are today? Do we still have apostles? Do we have something called apostolic succession? In other words, do we have the apostles who taught their disciples? And then their disciples taught their disciples, and their disciples taught their disciples, and for two thousand years of church history we have people passing on the baton one generation after another generation after another generation. Apostolic succession. Is that what the Bible teaches? The answer is no. You say, well, why is that? Why do you say that? Well, it's because when we go to the pastoral epistles, Paul makes it very clear to Timothy that Timothy's duty was to follow Christ. Scripture. Because Scripture is what the apostles gave us that establishes the standard, the rule for our faith and practice as a church. So in the same way that God spoke to the apost or through the prophets in the Old Testament, Christ established the apostles to give us the scriptures. And then to leave for us a record that is unchanging throughout all of church history. In fact, just to kind of give you a help in seeing what we're talking about, go to 2 Peter chapter 2. Or excuse me, 2 Peter chapter 1. And what's very interesting about the book of 2 Peter is 2 Peter talks about the problem of false teachers It's important for us to understand that false teaching isn't something that just happened like 20 years ago, or 100 years ago, or 500 years ago. You do realize that there were false teachers in the first century church. Okay? There are heretical teachings that can trace all the way back to the first century. There are heretical practices that can trace all the way back to the first century. Just because it was being practiced in the first century doesn't mean it's scriptural. Just because it was believed in the first century doesn't mean it was scriptural. How do we know what is right and what is wrong? The answer is the standard is scripture, not tradition, scripture. And when we go to 2 Peter, Peter makes it very clear that there is a distinction between what he calls a false teacher who teaches tradition. And a true teacher of the Word of God who stands on Scripture. Now listen to what he says in 2 Peter 1, verse number 12. He says, I will not have you to be negligent, to put you always into remembrance of these things, though you know them and be established in the present truth. Yeah, I think it meet or necessary as long as I'm in this tabernacle, referring to his physical body to stir you up and to put you in remembrance. So to put it in very simple terms, Paul says this, as long or Peter says this, as long as I'm alive, I want to remind you of the truths that God has given us. as apostles. I want you to remember the truth. Then he says in verse 14, this is where it gets very important for us to notice. Knowing that shortly I must put off this tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ has shown me I will endeavor that you may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance. So what is Peter saying? He's saying, I have been giving my whole life since I became an apostle to teaching you the Word of God. And as long as I'm alive, I'm going to keep teaching you. But God has revealed to me I'm going to die soon. And so what am I going to do? Well, I'm going to teach it to one of my disciples, and then they're going to take my place. Is that what he said? No. Why not? Because his disciples aren't infallible. His disciples are mere mortals. They're men just like Peter is and just like you and I are. And they can be mistaken. They can add to scripture. They can take from scripture. They can misunderstand scripture. So Peter is going to say, when I'm gone, you need a standard that is perfect. He then goes on to say this. We have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus. We were eyewitnesses of his majesty. He received from God the Father honor and glory that came from a voice of the excellent glory that says, This is my beloved Son, and whom I'm well pleased. This voice which came from heaven, we heard when we were with him in the Holy Mount. So if somebody tells you, I heard Jesus say this, doesn't that carry quite a bit of weight? If somebody says, I saw Jesus do this, doesn't that carry a lot of weight? I think it does But he says that's not good enough. To be able to say I heard or I saw is not enough. And so he goes on to verse 19. We also have a more sure word of prophecy whereunto you do well that you take heed as a light that shineth in dark places. until the day dawn and the day shall arise in your hearts. Knowing this first that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. You know what that means? When the apostles wrote, yes, their minds were engaged, but they weren't just giving their own opinion about what they saw or heard. They're being guided by the Holy Spirit. That's why he uses the word prophecy. He says the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Now what's the point? The point of all this is to say this. When Peter is about to die, he says, we're leaving the scriptures for you so that that is your standard. Not my disciples, not your pastor, not your pastor and who your pastor discipled. We're not talking about that. The scripture is your final authority And every teacher that you have that comes after I'm gone is going to be judged as a false teacher or as a faithful and true teacher by how real how they follow the scripture. That's distinct. Interestingly, we see something very, very similar in 2 Timothy chapter 3, verses 16 and 17. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. That means every written word of scripture is given is breathed out by God. It's profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness, so that the man of God may be perfect, truly furnished unto all good works. It's talking about the sufficiency of Scripture, the nature of Scripture. And so when we go back to the fact that this is an ordinance passed down by Christ through the apostles, it's important for us to remember something. Paul is not suggesting here that Jesus gave me information, I'm giving it to you, and then those who are going to be your teachers They're going to like take the baton, and your standard is going to be these infallible teachers who follow me and then those who follow them all the way down through church history. That's not what it is. The standard is Scripture. And the apostles served a function as those who gave us the Scripture. Very, very important. So what's he establishing here? He's establishing the fact that this practice bears Christ's authority. And so we need to do it the way that Christ taught it. Second thing, the elements in this ordinance served an important function. The bread was to be eaten with a gratitude as the observer reflected on the body of Christ broken for them. Verse 24. He gave thanks. And he broke it and said, take eat, this is my body, which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me. Someone might say, hold on a second. It sounds like the bread just became his body. Well, if that's all that it said, you could maybe come to that conclusion. But there's another statement later on that says, as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you show the Lord's death till he come. What's that what's that telling us? Well that's telling us is that you're eating bread. You're not eating body. You're eating bread that's a symbol. It's a picture. It points you to something significant. Christ's body broken for us. Secondly, we have the cup that was drunk with gratitude as the observer reflects on the blood of Christ. Which was said for them. Verse 25, this cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. Notice something here. Both times he states, you eat this, you drink this in remembrance of him. So what that's telling you is that the focus of the Lord's table is not us. It's him. It's not what we do, it's what he did. Now that's going to be very significant when we come later on to this issue of what it means to partake unworthily. What does that mean? It's actually not about you being unworthy or being worthy. It's about the manner in which you go. We'll get to that. Thirdly, the focus of the ordinance, or fourthly, the focus was to give thanks and remembrance. You do show the Lord's death until he comes. Every time that these individuals gathered and they ate this bread, that reminds them. And this Jews that reminds them they are celebrating the gospel. By the way, we do the same thing when we do baptisms. We're going to have a baptism coming up here. When we do a baptism, when this person goes under the water and they come out of the water, there are basically two things that are being demonstrated for us visibly. One is Christ died and is risen. That's one thing. That's the gospel being pictured there. But the second thing is, I have been united to his death and resurrection. So as he has died. And now is risen. I've died with him. The old man is dead. I'm a new creature in Christ. Old things have passed away. All things have become new. And now I'm raised to walk in newness of life. So actually we're not just picturing the gospel, but we're also picturing the benefits of the gospel when we have a baptism. When we partake of the Lord's table, we are remembering the gospel, the death of Christ, and the significance of that death. The gospel is literally being procla preached or proclaimed through the ordinances. And the last thing I'll mention here is this. The elements call us to reflect on a deep spiritual reality. But do not become something other than physical elements. And that's why in verse 26 it says, as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you show the Lord's death until he comes. I'm going to stop there tonight with just those first two pieces. What was the problem? They were abusing the Lord's table by dividing the church up between the haves, the haves-nots. People are being gluttonous. People are getting intoxicated. People are basically mocking something that is very sacred. That's the first half. But the second half is they need to positively remember what it's all about. And so I want to encourage you, when we come to the Lord's table, don't come flippantly. Don't come carelessly. Come with a heart that's thinking deeply about what is being pictured there. When we eat those elements, remember the body of Christ. Remember his blood that was shed. And rejoice in those things. Lord willing, the next time we come together, I'm going to get into some of the background so you can see the Passover. what pointed to Christ's coming, and now the table that points to Christ who has come and how those two institutions point on the same event in history and how the one is replaced with the new because it's been fulfilled in Christ. So that's where we're going to go, Lord willing, next time. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you so much for the word. Very interesting trees for us to dig into. I pray that as a church we would be faithful to you and how you have instituted this practice. Father, every time we gather and we eat this bread and we drink this cup, I pray that we would celebrate Christ, who is our Savior, who has given us A justification before you, forgiveness before you, cleansing before you. In him we are accepted in the beloved. And I pray that we would celebrate that every time we gather together Bless our time of prayer tonight, may it be very sweet, and we ask this in Christ's name, amen