Okay, tonight we're in Matthew 5 again, and uh it's only our 18th sermon uh on the first sixteen verses of Matthew 5, but We're in Matthew 5 looking at verses 14 down to verse 16, and it is the longest section that we have dealt with thus far in the Sermon on the Mount. Here's what our Lord says. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father, which is in heaven. Now, if this is a kid's class, maybe we could sing this little light of mine and all the teen teenagers saying, Oh, don't do that, don't do that. But um that is really um the song that song is based on the passage in front of us And it's a very familiar passage of Scripture. And what I like about the section that we're looking at tonight and the one that we looked at the last two nights before. is that there are a lot of parallel ideas between us being the salt of the earth and us being the light of the world. Yet the emphasis of those two illustrations, though they are parallel, has some difference. And so let me start with a summary statement so that we can kind of understand where we're going, and then I want us to remember a couple of introductory details. So God 's children have a distinct nature, which functions to dispel darkness in a corrupted world, ultimately pointing lost people to Christ. So when Jesus says, you are the light of the world, he's saying, that is your nature. Your nature is distinct and that distinct nature is serving a function in this world. That's where he's going with this And so as we look at the passage, what we're seeing is that God wants us to embrace the function that we have in the world. And the fact that we even have to say that we need to embrace it kind of presupposes that sometimes We're prone to not want to embrace it, even though in fact it is true about us. And so let me remind you of a few introductory details. First of all, the Sermon on the Mount has emphasized the unique nature of the Christian. and his distinctiveness in the world. So when the Bible talks about someone being a Christian, he's not just saying you claim that you believe in Jesus. Or he's saying, well, you have this doctrinal understanding that is consistent with what the Bible teaches. That is a part of being a Christian, but that's not the end of it. Being a Christian means that you have actually been born again. You have been regenerated. You were once spiritually dead, and now you're spiritually alive. And when you became spiritually alive, you received a nature that is different than the nature that you had before. We could say that the old man is dead. He's been crucified with Christ. And then as Paul says, yet nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And so we're now a new creature in Christ. That really is a big part of the emphasis of the Sermon on the Mount. And so he talks about how the believer is one who is poor in spirit. He's one who mourns over his sin. He's one who is meek. Those are character qualities that are rooted in a nature, a disposition that's consistent with being alive in Christ. Secondly, it emphasizes that the way of the Christian, or is the emphasis emphasizes the way that Christians who are living consistent with their new nature relate to other people. And so he uses statements like those who are meek and those who are peace, those who are merciful, and those who are peacemakers. Now being merciful is going beyond just this is my character, but now it's about relationship to another person. So I can either be callous toward a person and it's going to come out in the way that I relate to them, or I can be merciful to a person which will come out in the way that I relate to them. or a person who's a peacemaker. It's not just I want there to be peace between two people, but I'm actually actively trying to pursue bringing two people who are at odds into reconciliation. So he's talking about how we relate to other people. Thirdly, he emphasizes how the world is going to respond to these kinds of Christians. Now you would think, well, of course the world would love such people. I mean, they are they are gentle, they are meek, they are kind, they are merciful, they're peacemakers. Of course the world would love such people. That's not what the text tells us. It says that these are people who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. These are a people who are persecuted for the name of Christ's sake. And so the world says, I don't like that nature, I don't like that character, I don't like that kind of living. I'm actually opposed to it. And so the implied assumption Is that Christ's statements are telling us when he says that you are light and you are salt, that the believer is going to be tempted to withdraw from that function that God has given him in the world. And I think every single one of us has experienced this. Have you ever been in a work situation? Conversations going on, and you just kind of like shrink back a little bit? And you're like, I'm not going to say anything here. I don't want to get into this conversation. They ask you, hey, what do you think? And you're like, I'd like to just plead the fifth today. Or you just try to kind of pull back. Why is that? Because you don't want to get into an argument. You don't want to get to be the guy that's on the side and they're like, hey, we got to get this guy out of here. We don't like him being a part of our team because of what he brings into the the team. team. Those things are possible situations that you could have. Oh you're you're that Christian, the narrow-minded person who has these different values than the rest of us. You're not a very affirming person. You're not a very kind person. You speak so bluntly to us. And you're like, I'm not even trying to be that way at all. The world doesn't like that. And so when he says things like, if the salt hath lost its savor or let your light show shine, it's Christ's way of saying, I know that believers struggle embracing their function in the world. But you need to be reminded that in fact that is your function and you need to embrace it. And so the illustrations of salt and light are parallel ideas that emphasize two unique functions. That are true of all Christians as individuals and as members of a body of believers. So let's get into this passage by looking at the second illustration. The first thing we're going to find And the text this evening is that we are light. Now, when I say we, I mean we who have placed our faith in Christ. disciples of Christ, people who are growing in the Lord, we are light. And he says in verse 14, ye are the light of the world. I want to remind you again that in the same way that Christ does not command us to be salt, he does not command us to be light. The reason is we are salt and we are light. Not we're supposed to be salt and we're supposed to be light. No, you are salt and you are light. You're supposed to embrace that function There's a difference between those two things. It is natural for a Christian to function in such a way because of who they are in Christ. And so it is who we are because of that new nature. Second thing I didn't mention is the difference between those two functions. Last time we talked about the function of Saul, and there are probably a couple different things we could have said. But we really focused in on salt being a preservative. It literally pushes back the rot and the corruption that's going on in the world around us. And so in the same way that a piece of meat that you want to preserve for a long time, you take that salt and you rub it into it, not just so it tastes really good. Okay, we would do that too. But we rub that salt in it so that it doesn't rot, so that it's actually preserved. I remember when we lived in Ghana, they had this fish. was tilapia and they called it Siamon. Okay? And this stuff, like literally you could put it in your bag and you could leave it there for months. It was a fish. And the reason that you could do this is because they left it out in the sun and they rubbed salt in it and it was preserved. It was like it was like beef jerky, but it was a fish. It's kind of crazy to think about. Well, that's how they preserved it. And you know what? That's the way that people throughout most of human history have preserved their meats And so he says, You Christian are Saul. I've left you in the world with all the decay and all the rottenness and all the corruption. I have planted you in the world for the purpose of preservation. The second is what we're going to look at tonight, and that is light. The purpose of light is to push back the darkness as an illuminator. Now, when you walk into a dark room, there are lots and lots of things that are there. I'll give you the illustration of maybe in my house, one of the reasons I always clean up downstairs before we go to bed is because the last thing I want to do in the morning when it's dark and I'm waking up is to walk down the stairs and step on something and land on the floor because, you know, nearly break your neck because of something that's in the middle of the of the living room. And so, you know, clear all that stuff out, put it all away. There's stuff there, but when it's dark, you can't see it. And so when the Bible talks about the world being a dark place , He's actually referring to a couple of different ways in which there is darkness in the world. And so what the Christian is there to be is a person who pushes back the darkness so that people have the ability to see what's right in front of them. It's a fascinating concept. The scriptures describe the world a lot in this illustration of darkness. For instance, Proverbs 4, verse 14, he says. Enter not into the path of the wicked. Go not in the way of evil men. Avoid it. Pass not by it. Turn from it. Pass away. For they sleep not except they have done mischief, and their sleep is taken away unless they cause some to fall. They eat the bread of wickedness, drink the wine of violence. For the path of the just is as the shining light that shineth more and more into the perfect day, but the way of the wicked is as darkness. And they know not at what they stumble. Isn't that an amazing statement? The way of the wicked is as darkness, and they know not at what they stumble. And this is so true. Have you ever interacted with a person who does not know the Lord, does not understand what the Bible says about some of the most basic things, and you watch the choices that they make in life? And you know that the ultimate consequence for those choices is going to be very destructive, very painful, very frustrating. And as they go down those roads and they experience the natural consequences of making poor decisions, they don't understand why they're having these problems. You say, why is that? Well, because God has ordered the world a certain way. And the way that God has ordered the world is good and it is for our best, and when we disregard what God says, guess what happens? All kinds of trouble. All kinds of problems, all kinds of misery. God isn't saying thou shalt because he's because he's mean and cruel and he's trying to keep us back from good and fun things. He says thou shalt not because it goes against his design. It's ultimately going to harm us and harm other people. And so he says, the wicked, their way is as darkness. Another passage, 1 John 2. 11. He says, he that loveth actually I'll go back to verse 8. He says, A new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you? I love the way he puts this. Because the darkness is past and the true light now shineth. He's basically saying, you're Christian, and this is who you were, and now this is who you are. The darkness has passed and the light shines. What an amazing statement. He then goes on to say this He that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him He that hateth his brother is in darkness and walketh in darkness and knoweth not whither he goeth, because the darkness hath blinded his eyes. Do you see the way he talks about evil? See the way he talks about the world. You see, the way he talks about people who don't know God. He talks about them being blinded. He talks about them stumbling in the darkness. The darkness has overtaken them. Those are the illustrations he uses. 2 Corinthians 4:3. Here's another great statement. If our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. Why do people why are people lost? It's because they don't know where they're going. Okay? So they're going down a path, they're moving somewhere, but they don't know where they're going. And they don't know how to get to the place that they ultimately want to go. And he basically says that's the way people live in the world. They're lost. He says, the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not. Lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine into them. Do you see how he refers to the condition of the world as being a very dark place? John 3. 19, here's a great one. This is the condemnation that light is come into the world. And men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. Every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God Again, we see this contrast, light and darkness. And the way that he puts it is when people are in the darkness, they actually like it. They don't want to come to the light. It's like a person like, you know, y you go into the room to wake up your kids early in the morning and it's still dark. This time of the year is really hard for people to get up early. Especially you know my kids kids. I go in there and I'm like, all right guys, wake up. And they're like, ah, light's hurting my eyes. That's the way people respond to light in this world. Except it's a moral response. Not, oh, that hurts my eyes. But they don't like what is revealed when the light is shown into their into their lives. And then I want to leave with one last passage here, Romans 1. 21. Because that which may be known of God , because when they knew God, they glorified him, not asked God. Neither were thankful but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible man. Wherefore God gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts to dishonor their own bodies between themselves, who changed the truth of God into a lie. You say, okay, well, Joel, obviously the world is in darkness, but what exactly does that mean? I'll summarize it this way. When the Bible speaks of the world being in darkness, there are at least three different ways that this is being expressed. It's being illustrated. The first is talking about the moral depravity. of the world. When I say moral depravity, what I mean is that the choices that people make in the darkness Are evil. They are filled with unrighteousness. They are twisted. That's what the word perverse means. It means God has said something straight and man has made it crooked. It's twisted. It's perverted. It goes against God's design. It's debasing. And the idea later on in that passage, he says that they dishonor their own bodies amongst themselves He's saying the way that people relate to one another, it's debasing. It's dishonorable. It doesn't show value to the other person because It's contrary to God's design. And so when the Bible talks about the world being in darkness, moral depravity is an element of that darkness. Another aspect is spiritual blindness, the idea that they are without spiritual understanding, without wisdom. They do not know God. There is an ignorance of God's nature, of God's goodness, of God's ways, of God's kindness, of God's way of salvation, of God's perfect, holy, righteous standard. There's a complete ignorance of those things. And so you take this ignorance of God's character and an ignorance of who we are as people, being image-bearers And you mend that together, you place that together with a heart that is followed and that's why you have moral depravity. They go together. And then there's a third side to this. And this is the one that's perhaps the most tragic. Not that moral depravity isn't tragic, and that spiritual blindness isn't tragic, but the third aspect is relational exclusion. We are separated from God in such a condition. And in the Gospels, Jesus talks about there being outer darkness. People are excluded from his presence. That is what's going to take place when people are punished eternally in the lake of fire. It's not just the torment of the lake of fire, but it's the excluding exclusion of the lake of fire, excluded from the presence of God. And so we're separated from God in the darkness. And so with that being the nature of the world around us, guess what God does? He says, I save you to plant you in the middle of that mess so that there's light. And so that people who are stumbling in the darkness, in moral depravity, and decadence, spiritual blindness, separated from God, they can see because your presence will be a means through which God reaches into their lives. That's what he's saying. It's a stunning thing to consider. So we see the second thing here. It's impossible to conceal this distinction. And verse 14, later on, he says, a city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. Now we live in Maryland and there are trees everywhere, and so it's a you don't get the sense of this on the east coast like you do if you go out into the west. But if you drive across Texas You drive across Texas, you can see on especially on the west side of Texas, I mean it's like the most boring state ever that it is I'm sorry, people love Texas, but I've driven across Texas It it doesn't appeal to me at all. You just try and there's like no trees, it's flat, and it's just like it's like desolate. I don't think Texas is as bad as like Utah or Nebraska or or Eastern Colorado. But I mean you drive through these airs and you just you don't see anything. There's like no life anywhere And then on the top of the hill, while you're driving at night, you see this light. Guess what? Somebody lives over there. Somebody lives over there. And I I I I remember um years and years ago I went on a missions trip to Las Vegas. Don't laugh, it is true. Okay. We went to Las Vegas. We were helping a a a church planter out there in Las Vegas. And I remember we were driving over the the mountains that are on the outside of the valley where uh in the desert where that city's been built. And you're coming over these mounds and and it's like, I want to see the sign said it was like thirty some miles away and you're looking like I see the city right there. It's the craziest thing. Especially at night. It's so bright. Dark everywhere. It's bright right there. This is what Jesus is saying. A city set on a hill can't be hidden. You cannot hide what is there. It stands out. You say, well, why does Jesus say that? Well, because that's what you and I are. We are light in a dark world and you know what? We stand out. You say, well, what about when a Christian, you know, is a little compromised and they're a little quiet about things. And they just kind of kind of stay to the side and they don't get in the fray. Hey, guess what? You still stand out. If you're really a Christian, you stand out And if that bothers you, you need to stop and ask the question, do you want to be like that? Or do you want to have a life that's conformed to the purpose that God has for you? The passage that comes to mind here is 1 Peter chapter 4. Listen to what it says. Verse number 1. He says, For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, Arm yourself likewise with the same mind. Think like Christ. That's what he's saying. For he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin, that he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh of the lust of men, but to the will of God. For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. When we walked in lasciviousness, you say, what in the world does the word lasciviousness mean? Well, if I told you bluntly what it means, then your face would turn red. But we could just use the term moral debauchery. Okay? I'll refer to it that way. Sexual sin without any kind of restraint. Kind of like America is today. I hate to say that, but it's true. Just no restraint, no rules, no standards. You just do what you feel like doing. I think the statement is you do you, something like that. That's exactly what he's talking about. Lascivius this He then goes on to say this. Excessive wines. The idea is that people used to go to drunken parties. It was a part of it was a part of their religious rituals, okay? I mean It's pretty wild times. Revelings, banquetings, abominable idolatries. Maybe another way to put it is the kind of stuff that you were involved in. Like as a Christian, you're in you're embarrassed to even like remember what that was like. Like you don't want your kids to know what it was like before you became a Christian. Then he goes on to say this. They think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot speaking evil of you. So, there's a little progression here that I don't want you to miss. He says, in times past, meaning you used to do these things, okay? When we walked, Peter says we, I mean, I I have to assume that Peter means he was like this too, okay? I mean he was a fisherman, he was a rough guy. He he was Yeah, when when when Jesus was there in the boat with him, he says, get away from me, I'm a sinful man. There's a reason he said that. Because he lived a pretty sinful life. He never really explains all that, but that's what he's saying. We used to be like this. They think it's strange that you run not with them. Well, you know what this tells me? That these are people that you associate with that once you were involved in all these things. with them and now you've withdrawn from those things and they say what's what's gotten what's gotten into you? Why aren't you doing this anymore? And then it says they speak evil of you. Now, when I think about that progression, what I think is very fascinating about it is that the distinction between the Christian and the unbeliever That people Peter is talking about. It is clear. He says, have the same mind, the same mind as Christ. And this distinction is there, even though the people are trying not to be confrontational. I mean, Peter is teaching them how to stand stronger than they are. Does that make sense? How to be more distinct than they are. That means in the state that they're in at the time he writes the letter where there is compromise and there is a little bit of an unwillingness to stand firm, the distinction is still there Do you understand what I'm saying? I mean you don't have to stand up and say, hey, I just want everybody to know, hey, I used to do LEC, I don't do them anymore. You don't have to do that. You can just kind of like withdraw to the corner and they're like, hey, I remember you used to hang out with us. Why don't you you do this anymore? You're like, ah I just don't do that stuff anymore. Why not? What's your problem? You think you're better than us? You say we're doing bad things. You can't have fun with us too. You say, well, I'm not trying to get into a confrontation with you. Guess what? The distinction is clear. Whether you're standing strong or not. They know. They can tell. That's what he said. And the world is bothered by that distinction even when the Christian is trying to avoid the confrontation. And you know what? We're experiencing this in our society today. I demand that you use my preferred pronouns. What is that? What is that? That's exactly what he's talking about right here. Hey, I just like to not use pronouns at all. I'll just use you by I'll just use your first No no no. You gotta use My demanded preferred pronoun. Preferred's probably not the right word, is it? And I'm going to make sure that I bring the backing of some people in authority where we work to make sure that you do this. The point is this: the world doesn't like it when the Christian just tries to live a simple Christian life. The world is not kind towards the Christian. The world is not affirming of the Christian worldview. People say, oh, everybody should just love everybody and let's all, you know, there 's you just everybody should get along except you people that just want to you know do your own thing over here the world is not an affirming place Move to the third truth. It makes no sense to attempt to conceal this distinction. Now this is what he says in verse 15. He says, Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Now, the first statement that he makes is, if there is a city on a hill and it's dark, it's impossible to hide it. The second thing he says is If it's a dark room and you have a candlestick, why in the world would you cover it? I mean, you have the candle because you want to see what's in the room. It would almost be like we spent all this time to wire all of these lights into this room and we just decided, you know, we want to save money. We don't want to use energy and so even though all the lights are there and even though all the wires are are there and we have the ability to put the power on and to have light in this room, we're just gonna sit in the dark because we'd rather do that. And you'd say that's a make any sense. You put the lights there so that you could see. And Jesus says, exactly. If you have a candle in a dark room, you you're holding the candle because you want to be able to see what's there. That's the whole reason you brought it. That's the whole reason that you lit it. And he said, so does it make any sense for the Christian? If God's planted you in this world and he's called you to be light, he says you are distinct by nature. There is a function that's very important. Does it make any sense that you would go ahead and try to cover that up? You say, well, it's about self-preservation. I don't want to lose my job. I don't want to make enemies. I don't I don't want to have tension with other people. And and nobody should Should, you know, go out there and say, hey, I'm a glutton for punishment. I just want to be persecuted today. And I just want to make waves with everybody. But that's not what we're saying. But what we're saying is this Don't be ashamed of who you are in Christ. Don't be ashamed that there's a light that is burning brightly, and yeah, it's sad, but people don't like it very much. His first point is it's impossible to hide. His second is that it's illogical to attempt to hide. And so that reminds me of 2 Corinthians 4. 6. Here's what it says. God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. We have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. We are troubled on every side yet not distressed. We are perplexed but not in despair. We are persecuted but not forsaken, cast down but not destroyed, always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus May be made manifest in our body, for that we which live are always delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus might be made made manifest in our mortal flesh, so that death worketh in us, but life in you. That's an amazing Statement, isn't it? What is he saying? Well, he's saying that God commanded the light to shine in the darkness. Just like Genesis 1. 1, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth, and the earth was out form and void, and darkness was on the face of the deep. And God said, let there be light, and there was light. God spoke light into the worlds. He created light. And in the spiritual darkness and the depravity and all the wickedness of this world and all of the blindness of this world, you know what God said? Let there be light. He sent light into the world. You say, well, how do you do that? Well he sent his son into the world to die on the cross. And when Jesus came, he was revealing the Father. And guess what? Jesus went back to heaven after the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. He ascended to the Father. And he left us here. And so he goes from saying he commanded the light to shine into the darkness, and then he says, and he has shined into your hearts. So he didn't just say, let there be light, and he shined light into the world in this like general sense, but he shined it directly into my life and into your life. And then he tells us why. You say, well it's to save me. Yes, of course that's true. But it wasn't just to save you. It was so that you would understand it was to give light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Another way to put it is God sent the light to you so that he could bring the light through you to others. what he did. And so the question is, if that's the way that God works, then why in the world we try to conceal that? Why would we try to hide that? Doesn't make any sense. You can't hide it. It's who you are. It's your identity. So to try to hide it makes no sense Three observations here. God put the light into the world to illuminate the darkness in the same way that a person would light a candle to illuminate a darkened room. We are that light that He has planted in the darkness of this world. And our presence in the world is something that is very significant. You say, well, what does that mean? Well, it means things like this. God put us in that position to expose people to what he says is right and wrong. You realize that something as simple as husband and wife, staying faithful to one another, raising their kids, teaching them what's right and what is wrong, all your neighbors watch you And guess what? The rest of the neighborhood doesn't do that. They don't. Why? Well, because they live by a different set of values. But they see you. They see they see how you relate to your kids. They hear if you scream at 'em or if you get along with them. Okay. You know we're gather gathering for you know to get in the car to go to church. You know, they see how that goes. If they're awake, some people are or not. But the idea is that when a Christian lives a very consistent life, people in the world they notice that. So like, your kids are different than the other kids. The way you guys relate to each other, husband and wife, it's not totally different than everybody else. Like the way that you deal with other people in business and work and in conflicts, all these things, it's not like everybody else. You know what that does? That sheds light into the story. Why is that distinction there? Well, it's there because of the gospel. It's to expose people to the person and work of Christ. People don't get saved just because you're living a good moral life They get saved because they hear the gospel. There was this uh statement in history that was, I don't even know if it really was really made or not. But it was like always preach the gospel through your life and and at times with words. I I think you've probably heard that before. That's not a biblical way to look at this issue. Always preach the gospel through your feet, and every opportunity you get, preach with words. God uses the word to bring people to face the gospel and to be saved. It's to point people to their need to trust in Christ alone. It's to live consistent with our position in Christ, revealing the power of the gospel. The truth is that one of the things that bothers the world when they see transformation in the Christian is that they know full well that if they wanted to stop doing the things they're doing, they don't have the power to do it They really don't. And they can't explain why your life's changed and they know full well theirs could not. Well, the fact is theirs could, if they came face to face with Christ and the gospel New life in Christ does change the direction of our life entirely. But one of the things that it does is it demonstrates the power and it demonstrates the beauty of the gospel. It commends the goodness and the beauty of God's ways. One of the most wonderful things that I get to observe as a pastor is when people do what's right and they experience the sweetness of what flows from those decisions. I mean I also see the other side too. And that's sad when people make very poor decisions and you see the downstream effect. One of the things that's great about as you get older is you're able to see that those who make wise choices and honor the Lord, they see the downstream blessings of those things. And you also see, tragically, what happens when people don't do that. Well, the fact is that our lives are a tremendous testimony to the beauty of God's ways and the goodness of God's ways. The fourth and final truth is this. We need to be willing to rub shoulders with lost people. Verse 16, he says, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works. And glorify your Father, which is in heaven. Three important little pieces to this statement. The first is it's a command. Let your light shine And not a suggestion. It's not like, hey, the good Christians, they do this. The mediocre Christians, it's off and on, and you know, the Christians that are not so dedicated. Well, they never do this, but you know, we'll see what happens. He says, no, you need to do this. This is a command. Secondly, there's a purpose behind the command, so that they may see your good works. Now he's not suggesting that the Christian is supposed to be showy. Like I just want everybody to notice that I'm a really good person. That's not what he's saying. And you'll know that because of where he ends. But what he is saying is don't hide the difference that's in your life. Yeah, if somebody asks you a question about something that you believe, don't be ashamed to say, well, I am a Christian. I do believe that God created the world and he ordered it a certain way. And I do believe that the Bible is God's word, and so this is what I believe about your question. Okay, I'm not saying, oh, I believe it because it's just in my head. I'm saying, well, I believe it because the scriptures are telling me this is what is true. Don't be ashamed of that. Don't be afraid of that. But here's where he leads to. This will lead to a distinctly Christian outcome. They'll see your good works and glorify who? It doesn't say they'll glorify you. It says they'll glorify your Father, which is in heaven. Now, when we when we look at uh athletes, and uh I I I love I love baseball, football, wrestling, but I really love watching the NCAA Championships wrestling every year. While everybody's watching March Madness, we're watching wrestling at our house. Okay? Hate to say it for all you basketball lovers, but I don't care about March Madness. I care about the NCAA finals. And it's always interesting to listen to the wrestlers who win the national title. In fact, I'm really stunned by how many of them, they're actually like actually pretty humble in the things that they say. Very soft spoken. Here's this guy. He just he just like torched the guy on the mat. He should be exhausted. And he's like he's like barely breathing heavy. And they're asking these questions and they're asking about this move and that move and and you know tell us about everything that's involved. But even the most humble wrestlers, you know what they'll they'll do? They'll talk about their dedication. They'll talk about their hard work paying off. They'll talk about people that pushed them in in the room when they were practicing. They'll talk about their coach that taught them this or that. And you you know, even though they're presenting it in a in a fairly humble way, they're still taking credit for what they're doing. doing. And then you know you get into some of the other sports. Football. Forget it, man. Basketball, sorry guys. Yeah, same thing. Because we celebrate self when we achieve. That's the way that we are by nature But that's not the way that this passage ends. That they will see your good works and glorify you. No, that they'll glorify your Father, which is in heaven. This is a distinctly Christian outcome. And it's because we understand the gospel and what it does. Think about Ephesians 2. It says, you at the quickened who were dead in trespasses and sin. Spiritually you're dead. Now you're spiritually alive. In times past you walked according to the course of this world. In the lusts of your flesh you fulfilled the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. That's all negative. That's who we are. Verse 4. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love for which he loved us, even when we were dead in sin. Verse 7, so that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. By grace are ye saved through faith, not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good work. Which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. You know, Ephesians 2, 1 to 10 gives us clearly why when a person in the world sees the distinctiveness of the Christian. That distinctiveness doesn't cause them to glory in the Christian. It causes them to look up and glorify the God who saved the Christian. And is transforming the Christian. We see it right here in the text. He says, you used to be spiritually dead. You followed the impulses of a fallen nature, but God interrupted your story. He interrupted your life. In his rich grace, he brought the gospel to you and he showed you your brokenness and your sinfulness and your unrighteousness and he saved you That's what he did. And this salvation is a gift. It's by grace alone. It's through faith alone. It is not of works. So that no person can boast in their own salvation. But then what does he say? That salvation changes people. You are his workmanship And so the point is that this is really showing you the exact same thing that Jesus is talking about in Matthew 5. When people witness the transforming power of the gospel, The glory is entirely reflected up to God, not to us. They don't say, wow, you've you've done a great job earning your salvation. Say, I didn't earn it. I'm nothing It's all him. It's all what he did. It's all what he accomplished. It's all his righteousness. You're like, but your life's changed. And you're like, because of the Spirit of God, not because of me I don't take any credit for it. It's all of his grace. That is the sense of these verses. You say, well, what's the final thought? How do you pull it all together? Let me leave you with some final thoughts to consider. As God's children, we have a distinctly Christian nature that is distinctly different from the world around us that functions in two ways. It leaves the world, it leaves us in the world as a preservative in the midst of rottenness. It leaves us in the world as light to dispel the darkness and to point people to Christ. It is impossible to conceal this distinction, even though under pressure we might be tempted to try. It makes no sense for us to attempt to conceal this distinction. Because it goes directly against the one reason God saved us. One of not the one, but one of the great reasons that God saved us. We have been saved from sin unto righteousness. So my encouragement is simple. Let's embrace this function that God has for all of us. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for the word, and I pray that the things that we have looked at, they will just grip our souls. Help us to be overwhelmed with gratitude that you have saved us. You have redeemed us. That you are shaping us into the image of Christ. We are so unworthy, and yet you are so You are doing it. Father, I pray that you would help us to glory in Christ and to not shrink back, to conceal the distinctive things That is who we are in Christ. I pray that you will strengthen us. I know that within this church, there are people that work in tough places. They work with people who are antagonistic. Sometimes openly, sometimes subversively. And I pray that you'll help us all to be strong. Help us to embrace who we are in Christ. Christ and not to shrink back in any way. We ask these things in Christ's name, Amen