Good evening. Let's go in our Bibles to First John. First John three. Trust you had a great day today. And thank you for all those who have coming out. Thank you for all those who may be logging on and uh watching via live stream That is one of the uh things I've enjoyed when we've been away. I've been able to stay in touch with our church. We'll be able to watch, and I've appreciated that. Technology has its downsides, but it also has its benefits as well. One of the benefits of live stream is the fact that several of our church members' families, and I've even heard other stories as well, that would not normally attend church, have been watching fundamental Bible preaching churches via live stream. And to that I say amen. One of my friends at my home church, his grandparents wanted nothing to do with truth. But there's these things called grandkids and great-grandkids. And so they said, hey, your great grandchild is singing a song today in church. Or another situation, here, your great grandchild is their kindergarten graduation. Why don't you log on? They sent him the log on credentials. And I can tell you of at least a couple of grandparents and great grandparents who have been watching faithfully for the past year now. Bible preaching churches. And to that I say, praise the Lord. That's worth the effort, and thanks to the guys who make that possible. But thank you for all those who are actually physically here. 1 John chapter 3. 1 John 3. I love 1 John, and tonight we're going to look at a subject matter that can be, well, let's just be honest, a little bit ethereal, a little bit like, ooh, spooky. I am a guy who likes football. Your pastor and I root for opposing teams, and that has been a source of contention over the last several decades. And we'll probably be for the next several decades. But that's fine. It's not eternal. But I'm not a touchy-feely guy. I'm not one that gets in touch with my emotions. I don't watch ballet. I watch football. And so when we come to this subject matter that we're going to look at tonight, instantly in our minds and especially in our circles, oftentimes we look at that and go, oh yeah, that's kind of weak. We look at this matter that we're going to talk about and we think, oh, that's kind of a oh that's for other churches, not for us. We're fundamental Bible preaching churches. We preach the book, the blood, the blessed hope. We preach the word of God and we don't deal with this subject matter. But I'll be honest, as I studied and as I've let the word of God sink into my heart and life, I've been challenged, motivated by this matter called love. Now, we just got through February and Valentine's Day, where love is portrayed as whatever it's portrayed as. Chocolate. Chocolate, yeah. Or flowers. I uh you just remind me of something. I saw a meme last night and I sent it to my brothers. Uh at a marriage conference, a Person giving the conference said that many of you, I think Joel shared this with me, many of you don't know your wife's favorite flower. And this guy said, Hey honey, it's self-rising, right? That's your favorite flower. But yes, we just got through February. Some of you are going to be chuckling that about for that about for a while We just got through February and we have all this love and you know this big racket, but what is love actually? I would submit to you that when we don't understand love, we're the ones who suffer, we're the ones who lose out. And here we have John. He's at the end of his life. From what we can tell, he's already survived. Perhaps he perhaps he's already survived Patmos, and he's he's he's an old man. And so let's give him some some uh space here. He's not like us. You know how old people they come back to some of the same themes over and over and over again? John's writing is not logical, it is circular. So you'll find that he talks about love and th the fellowship and he comes back around the next chapter and talks about love and fellowship and Yeah, we just talked about that, John. So it took me a little bit to get to understand this book, but it's not logical. He's not writing a progression of truth out like Paul would in Romans. But he's coming back around, and you can almost picture this old man who knew personally the Christ, who has suffered for him, who has walked with him, who loves him, and who has battled heresy within that first century church. Sitting in a rocking chair talking about the love of God and how we can know Him. And as I have studied the love of God out, I have come to the realization that we truly don't understand the incredible Power, the nature and the ability of love, God's love, in our hearts and lives. And to be honest, oftentimes we have looked down at people who have emphasized love I remember growing up, well, no, I grew up in a Baptist church or Bible church or a good Bible preaching church and we we had the doctrines. We emphasized separation. And many in our movement have have been of that persuasion. And yes, I'm not advocating for one second that we abandon those We look down on, and I gotta be honest, I look down on those churches that emphasize love, because oftentimes those churches who emphasize love did not emphasize truth. And so it's like a one or the other, and perhaps some of you grew up in a church that emphasized truth at the expense of love. And perhaps some of you grew up in a church that emphasized love. But you've got to be honest, it was at the expense of truth. You know what? We read it on uh Psalm eighty-five, righteousness and peace. Jesus Christ Himself, He was full of grace and truth. It doesn't have to be the expense of it. Both are biblical concepts that we need. So let's read 1 John 3. 1, beginning. I'll read a few verses and we'll pray. And while I pray, would you ask God to help us understand truth? Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that while that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be likened, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. Father, would you take your word and would you show us the error of our thinking? And for far too long, we have minimized or set aside or we have not emphasized truth and we've done it at the expense of love. Would you help us to be biblically balanced tonight and see what the Bible says? Would we take your word and would we be challenged? Lord, I need you. Help us to be challenged, edified, and convicted. I can do nothing but fail. And I pray you bless the kids program back with my wife. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. First of all, tonight I want to see what love is, and then I want you to see what love does. I want you to see what love is, and I want you to see what love does. First of all, what is love? Notice, first of all, that love is incredible. Notice the wording or the lack of wording we should say that John uses here in chapter 3, verse 1 to describe. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. And if we're to stop, I know I'm asking us to stop on a Monday night. We just got our brains in gear. We're going for the week. We've got these projects. They gotta go here on Tuesday and do this and pick this up on Wednesday and go here on Thursday and meet with this person here. We we've got our brains do it, but stop for a second. And think about what God has done for you. Wow Wow. What did we deserve? Not that. What did we get? Love. That's incredible. And I would submit to you, first of all, that the love of God is incredible. It's incredible in its quantity. Notice what it says here: behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. How many people are in the world today? A lot. I heard blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. I looked tonight uh today this afternoon in fact on the online calculator and obviously no one's going around counting, but it's around seven point eight to seven point nine billion. That's a lot of people. Very soon will be eight billion people in the world. Do you know all their names? How many of you have a social media account of some sort? Would you raise your hand? I'm not I do too. Yeah. How many of you have at least a couple hundred friends A couple thousand? Why not? Well, I don't know that and let's be honest, if you really have, like let's say you have 500 Facebook friends, are you really friends with all of them? Well, I went with uh to high school with this person back like 30 years ago, I think. That that's oftentimes what Facebook is. And yeah, there's certain people I enjoy keeping up with and interacting with them. Thankful for that. But good good good friends, how many do we actually have? Five, ten, maybe? And of course we're friends here in the church and this is the body of Christ and this should be part of who we include in our friend list, but When it comes to actually loving people, how many people do we have the capacity to actually love? Our immediate family, hopefully. Maybe some close friends, maybe a few people beyond that, but we're limited. How many people does God love? All. I don't I d I pfft mind blown, I can't do that. That's the incredible. And it's not just, oh yeah, yeah, he's a Facebook friend. God's their Facebook friend. Yeah, yeah, I like God. No, no, no. God loves the world. And that he died for all. For God so loved the world. And we can haggle about the different definitions that different theologians put there, but the fact is that God's love is incredible, first of all, in its quantity. God loves everybody. Everybody that's ever been alive, everybody that ever will be alive, God has demonstrated love toward them. Wow. And you look at the language that John uses, behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. Language just can't even capture it. Incredible, wonderful. Open your hymn book sometime or open another uh several hymn books and you'll find a lot of songs and the the language we have to use is incredible and wonderful, amazing, but that even then doesn't do it justice. Even the word incredible that I'm using tonight doesn't do the love of God justice. It's incredible, first of all, in its quantity. God loves the world. It's incredible in its quality. Notice what it says here. Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Have you stopped to think about what love actually does and what how what it can accomplish? We'll talk more about that in a few minutes. But the fact that God's love, not only does he love the whole world, but he has made a way for those who place their faith in him to be redeemed and to spend all of eternity with him. You know, it's one thing, and perhaps some people in here have experienced adoption firsthand. I don't know if anyone in here is adopted, but it's one thing for someone to love somebody. And I I could do that. I could love somebody that's not part of my biological family. In fact, love them so much that I give them my last name. I adopt them. But what I can't do is I can't get inside them and radically change their nature. But that's what God does. That's love. And for all who will believe, he becomes their father, and they become the sons of their father. Of God and it doesn't just stop there on a name basis. No. The Spirit comes within and radically changes them from the inside out. They're new creatures That is incredible. What other words can we use to define it? There's so many we could use, but none of them do it justice. Isn't the love of Jesus something wonderful? Well that even then that doesn't even do it justice. If we were to stop and think about what the love of God is, then truly, as the the the hymn writers and the and the poets have said We could drain the ocean dry if it were a quill. And we would have to find every tree to write down all that we could about the love of God. We can't even comprehend it. It's incredible in its qual quantity. that he loves the world. It's incredible in its quality. That we should be called the sons of God. It's an incredible thing. God from eternity past made a way for you and I to be part of his family. That's love. And as we'll see, it's not just as a stop there. It goes on, and the love of God that we see is sacrificial. Look down with me at verse number 16. Hereby perceive we the love of God because He laid down His life for us. The reason we know that God is love and that God demonstrated love is because of what he did. I think about sacrifice. And instantly I think about some of the great sacrifices of men in history. Men who have stood in the gap, sometimes literally and figuratively, and stopped great hordes of evil from coming through. And I'm thankful for that. I enjoy war history. I enjoy listening to Audible when I'm driving, and I drive a lot. I usually get to process several dozen books a year, and I enjoy war history, and I think about the sacrifices at Dunkirk. about how basically the Allied army in its infancy, basically the British Army and the the French, the early Allied army was saved from utter annihilation by a handful of people. It was an incredible sacrifice. And we could go on, we could talk about the different sacrifices. But even practically in our life, I think about the sacrifice of fathers Often working long hours to put food on the table with from people who don't, kids who don't even recognize what their dads are doing, but yet they do it selflessly. I think about mothers. Who don't get rewarded, don't get their own space, their own time, who sacrifice their bodies to bring this little inkling into the world. And how do they get rewarded? More dirty diapers. That sacrifice. But none of those even comes close to the sacrifice of what God did for you and I. Look over with me what it says in chapter 4, verse 14. And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. God Himself, who needed no one, who wasn't like it was like, oh we got to do this, I'm so lonely. No. God who needed nothing, he's self-existent, he's self-sustaining, he was happy before there was even the concept of happy on this earth. He was fine. He broke apart the Godhead, separated himself from his only beloved. Why? Because of love Endured humiliation, endured grief, because we're great people. We're very redeemable, right? No. Because we have something to offer back to God, right? No. Because of love. What could we do for God in return? Nothing. What does God need from us? Like God's incomplete or something? What does God need? Nothing. You stop and think about that, and you realize very quickly that the love of God is sacrificial. It goes beyond just incredible than the fact that it's quantity and quality, but the fact that it's sacrificial, God demonstrated his sacrificial love in sending his son to die for you and I. Love by its very nature is always sacrificial. Love is desiring the betterment of another, even if it costs me at my expense. That is love. Love is not about getting, love is always about giving And the quicker a young person going into a dating relationship can understand that, the better off they'll be able to have God's vision of whether or not this person is for me for life. Love is always about giving, not getting. And that's what God demonstrated for us. Not only is love un incredible, love is sacrificial, but love is unconditional. Look with me what it says in chapter 4, verse 10. And I realize we're bouncing around in this last half of 1 John, but that's how John's logic kind of works sometimes. He's kind of circular. He kind of comes back to some of these same things. Look what it says in verse 10. Here in his love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Ephesians 1 says that he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, meaning God knew you before you were ever thought. It's incredible. Even before the world began, God knew you. You know what his attitude toward you was? Love. And you know what? He knows you. It's not just your Facebook profile and your Instagram handle that everyone looks like, oh man, that family's got it all together. Look at that housewife. She's got a perfect house. No, no, no, no, no. He knows you and I. And yet he still loves. Sometimes we get hung up on this issue, and sometimes in talking with those who come into church from a rough background, oh I don't think God could love me. Here's what they don't understand, and here's what we don't understand, and we don't fully comprehend sometimes, is that God in heaven chose to demonstrate love for you and I knowing who we are and knowing what we are and knowing exactly what we do. I know me better than anybody else knows me, and I know me, and I don't love me sometimes. And some of you can identify with that. But do you know who does love you and loves you unconditionally? God. Wow. And with every fiber of being, with every breath we take, it's God saying, I love you. But brother, I've I've really messed up. I think God set me on a shelf. I th I don't know if God truly knows me. Wait a minute. Where were you when God chose to die for you? Where where were you in this? Not even in the picture, right? Some of you are a little bit older than I, but still not even in the picture. You go back as far as you want to go, and God knew everything ahead of time. He knew all about us. And this is where my brain starts to blow up. God still, knowing the rejection, the scorn, the times of rebellion, the pride, the insolence, that I would demonstrate to God, God still in his love. Chose to die for me. Wow. If you've been redeemed and you're hearing truth like this You know what our natural response should be? Wow. I'm not worthy of this. Who am I? God, why would you do this? But at the same time, you know what that means? That God's love is unconditional. It doesn't depend upon my merit. It goes back to what we talked about yesterday morning, that the eternal security It's not based on me because I know me. And if it was based on me, whoop, that's it. Forget this whole heaven thing. I can't attain. Even on my best day, I'm still a man. And that's all of us. But it's not based on your performance. It's not based on anything like that. It's settled. God loves you and he loves me. Period. When you and I, I I know all of this is review. If you've been in church for any length of time, you've sung about the love of God, you've heard about the love of God, you've heard preaching on the love of God. You know, you go back to the Sunday school with the little kids, and there's two or three answers that the every Sunday school answer has. You have these little kids. Now, what do we think about this? Love God Jesus Jesus is one of those pat answers that at the very beginning we all know. And we think, oh yeah, yeah, Brent, I know this thing about love. What can you actually teach me about love? Because Brent, I've been going to church for several decades. I've been going to church longer than you've been alive. Well, perhaps. But, friend, stop for a second on this Monday night revival service and stop and think about God's love for you. And I've convinced that so often we've been there done that we've gone beyond oh I I'm I'm advanced in my theological understanding and I don't need to go back to that love thing. That's for the weaklings, that's for the baby Christians. I'm more No, no, no, no, no. John at the end of his life, the beloved apostle who walked with God, who knew him personally, who knew Jesus, what is he coming back to? The love of God. If you study your New Testament, you find that in the New Testament, love of God appears 13 times. Five of those are right here in this book of 1 John. This is one of the themes that he keeps coming back to. And if John the Beloved keeps coming back to it, don't you think we should too? It's incredible. It's sacrificial. It's unconditional. You know, most religions say, try harder, maybe God will love you, maybe God will accept you. The Bible says something completely different. God loves you. Period. Now, what does that make you want to do? You know, we we sometimes look at love in a in a light way, and I'm convinced that that is the wrong way of thinking about God's love. What's the greatest of these according to 1 Corinthians 13? Standards. Being a Baptist. Truth! All those things are important, are they not? What's the greatest according to 1 Corinthians 13? Love. I would submit to you, friends, and most of you would understand this, most of you would even know this, but the most motivating factor in our life Is love. Oh no, Brent, I'm a guy. I go to work and I I well why why do you do that? And you can boil it back down and at the end of it all is the love of God When we boil all the motivations down, why do we do what we do? Because of love. Think about the marriage relationship for those of us here tonight who are married. Why do you do what you do, husbands and wives? Well, the Bible commands me to. Well, that's a pretty weak motivation, isn't it? But love. You see not only what love is in this passage, but we also see clearly what love does. First of all, we see back in chapter 3 at the original passage we were looking at that love purifies. Love purifies. Look what it says in verse number one again. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. So catch John's logic here. He has this logic laid out. Because of God's love, we have a hope. Because of this hope, we're going to see God. And because we're going to see God, we need to live pure lives. Did you follow the logic? So what does that mean? That means because of love, we should live purely. One of the most maligned virtues of God today in the evangelical world is this matter of love. Uh recently I was listening to the radio and it was this preaching, teaching. I didn't even know what station I was on, but the guy was preaching the Bible, so I listened. It was pretty good Well the guy turned off and I'm still driving and I k to catch the next song and as these guys come on they start singing about tear down these walls And I instantly knew what they're doing. They're tearing down all walls of doctrine, all walls of separation. We just need to love each other. And that's oftentimes The theme song of many people, and they look at doctrine, they look at all that stuff, and separation is divisive. But I will tell you that one of the most purifying factors in life is love. How so? Well let me just get an illustration. If I walked in tonight to the auditorium holding another man's wife's hand, would that bother you? You're thinking, yeah, especially if it's my wife, guys, right? But I'm showing love Right? And God commands us to love our brothers? I'm just showing love. No, no, no, wait a minute. Who is my love for? My wife. And because I love my wife, I don't do that. My pastor, I don't remember what much of what he said During our premarital counseling, but I do remember this. He said, Brent, when you on that day say I do , you are saying I don't to every other female in the world. I remember that. And we could make the argument, well, we just need to love people. We just need to be more accepting. We need to be more well, no, actually, love when you stop to think about it actually purifies. Because my love for God, my love for my wife first, I say no to that. Because my love for God, I say no to the world, the flesh, and the devil because of love. And yes, we should get our young people, we should get ourselves from the dooty, dooty, dooty, don't do this, don't do this, to an actual relationship of love. Because that's where the Christian life is free, when it comes from love. John here makes the argument. Every man that hath verse 3 of chapter 3, every man that hath his hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. Keep your finger here in 1 John and look back with me at the little epistle of Ephesians. Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, and I say that for my sake, not yours. Ephesians chapter 5 And look what it says here. Paul says to this church, be ye therefore followers of God as dear children, and walk in love. Oh, there we have it. We're supposed to love and we're not supposed to separate. We're supposed to be kind and we're supposed to just be accommodating to all sorts of doctrine All sorts of problems. We're not supposed to name sin. We're just supposed to love I've heard argumentation that would be like that, and perhaps you have as well at certain churches. And I'm not demeaning those brothers. They are some of those are brothers and sisters in Christ. But look what it says here. And walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us and hath given himself for us in the offering of a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. But notice what this next verse, verse 3 says. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as become of saints. Whoa! Do you mean that walking in love actually involves purity? Yes. Again, I mentioned it already, but think about Jesus. Who was he? What was he? He was full of grace and truth. I mentioned this already that some of us come from churches and thinking and backgrounds and families that emphasize truth, truth, truth, truth, and we look down our noses at those who emphasize love. They're softies. Other of us may come from backgrounds, families, and churches that emphasize love, love, love, love. Oh, I know the doctrine's there, but you know, let's just love them. And we look down our noses at those who emphasize truth. And when you and I come to the Bible, you don't have to separate yourself from either. Because Jesus was full of grace and truth. This passage we've been reading in Psalm 85, righteousness and peace have met together, mercy and truth have kissed each other. Two antithetical, seemingly antithetical concepts have come together in biblical Christianity. And that's the way it should be. I've come to realize that one of the most purifying forces in my life is not duty. It's not do's and don'ts. Well, you can't do this because you signed your name on a handbook line and you can't go to this and watch this kind of movie. Well wow, what that happens after that job's over. Does that mean you suddenly can? Well I I I'm part of the leadership team of a church or I'm a deacon on this, so I sign my name and I won't do this, this, this. Well that's duty. And there's time for that. And sometimes children need that duty. We just need to tell them this is right, this is wrong. But why do I do it? I'm not under any of those rules. Why do I live that type of life? Oh, it's because you have to. You're a minister. Well, that's pretty weak motivation. You know what I've seen? It's because of love. Love is actually a purifying force. Love changes from within The reason I say no to every other female is because of love for my wife. The reason I say no to this world is because of love for God and what He's done with the love He's shown me. It's reciprocal. Love actually purifies Secondly, I want you to see what love does and that it moves us to action. Look at verse number 17 of back in 1 John 3. Look at verse 17. Back up to verse 16. Hereby perceive we the love of God because He laid down His life for us And we ought to lay down our lives to the brethren. But whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother have need, and shutth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him? John asked a very interesting question. He said, You see a brother who has need, and you set up the bowels of compassion. Now, right there we are a little bit different. We the center of our emotion is what? We just celebrated and you saw pink of them all over last month. What is it? The heart. Is that actually where our emotion is? No. I love you with my all my blood pumping organ. Well, that sounds kind of funky But in eastern cultures, still to this day, even some of them, their center of their motion is actually further lower down, the bowels Wouldn't it be wonderful, guys, if you wooin your wife to be or your fiance or your girlfriend, hey honey, I'm feeling you right now on all my colon. Well that's a little much in our Western mind. That would be a little bit much, wouldn't it? Some of you are smiling now. You're awake at least. Because look what Paul's, or excuse me, John says here. He shutteth up his bowels of compassion. Because in their mind, in the eastern world, the bat the bowels, the colon, the small intestines, was the seed of love. I don't know if that's much better than the heart. I think I prefer the heart than thinking about someone's small intestine every time they say they love me. But anyway, John says, hey When you see a need that the brother has, and you shut up your heart toward them, he asks this question. Look what it says there. End of verse 17: How dwelleth the love of God in him? What's the answer there? It doesn't. It doesn't dwell in that person. If you and I see a brother that has a need and we can do something about it, and we don't. John is saying the love of God is not dwelling, it's not operating in us. It doesn't mean we're not saved, it doesn't mean we're not going to heaven. John here is encouraging God's people to live out the love that they've been shown. Do you remember the story that Jesus gave in Matthew chapter 18? The one man owed a hundred, or excuse me, ten thousand talents. I've heard different measurements of what this was. Anywhere from $5 million to $10 billion, depending about how much the talent was. And the brother owed him a hundred pence. The hundred pence I've heard again different measurements. So that could have been twenty bucks, it could have been up to ten thousand dollars. Again, I don't know exactly. Depends on the Bible writer. But whatever the case is, this man was forgiven of a great debt, an insane amount of debt, a debt that was just out there is this large figure that Jesus used that no one could have even accumulated in their lifetime. He was frankly forgave him, but he couldn't forgive the guy for 20 bucks. Sometimes that's how we live. We see a brother that has a need, and we think to ourselves, well, they they got themselves into that situation. I'm not gonna No, no, no, no, no. What has God done for you, friend? What has God done for us? Stop and think about God's love for you. And you know as you and I think about that, ooh, I can have more grace toward my kid, even though I've told them 35 times. not to do XYZ. I I can still have more grace toward my kid. I that that that needy couple in the church here that they're needy. They come and just kind of saps everyone's emotion and oh Yeah, you have those people here too? Yeah, I see smiles, I see people kind of look around. I can keep going I can keep ministering. And whenever I think on the love of God and what God has done for me and what other believers have done for me through my lifetime and in our ministry, I am automatically, I'm I need to do more. I can get up on that widow's roof. I can get under the hood of that car. I won't make anybody a meal. I promise you that. And all God's people will say, Amen. Hallelujah. But I can I can do things because why? The love of God just doesn't leave me with this warm and fuzzy feeling sitting on the couch. Oh, the love of God is so wonderful. Wonderful. Yay. No. The love of God is incredibly motivational. It motivates us to purity. It motivates us to action to actually taking care of the brother and sister in Christ that actually has needs. When you see something in the church, a need in the church, whether it be physical or spiritual, whatever the case is, do something about it. You don't have to go to Pastor, Pastor, can I help out in the church? Can I minister? To some of the needs of no, just do something. That's love in action. That's the way our lives are supposed to work out. That's why we need the body of Christ. We need God's people. We need God's church. Every single one of us do So love should motivate us to purity. Love should motivate us to action. But thirdly, love should also give us boldness. Look at 1 John chapter 4. Look at verse number 17. Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. Whenever I read verse 18, I'm reminded of the story I heard heard years ago where a Christian couple loved this verse. They claim this verse is kind of their verse. And they wanted this verse on their wedding cake. I don't know, maybe some of you had a verse or something that you had when you were dating and some of you like date yeah, date. I think I remember back in those days. But this Christian couple won in 1 John 4, 18, on their wedding cake, there is no fear in love because perfect love casts out fear. Well, they asked the baker, and the baker's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, no problem. I can put it on. Well the baker didn't realize that there was a difference between 1 John 4 and John 4. And so they get to the wedding and they had John 4. 18 on their cake which says, For thou hast had five husbands, and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. I don't know that that actually happened, but wouldn't that be awkward to go to a wedding and see that Hopefully that didn't happen. But look back with me at 1 John 4. And look what it says here. Here is our love made perfect that we may have boldness. We spoke to this quite a bit Sunday morning. And so I'm not going to re-preach that whole message. But what John is saying is that when you and I understand love, it gives us this confidence. It really radically changes our life. When we know that God loves us, that God is forced. Go back through the promises of Romans 8. If God be forced, who can be against us? Who's going to separate us from the love of God? Nobody. Nothing. He loves us. You know what that does? Man, I can take steps forward for God. I I can live my life. I in fact I can hazard my life. I can sacrifice what the world says is crazy to do. I can sacrifice my life. For his glory when you and I understand God's love. Well, let's think about it practically. Do you remember when you were dating? Guys, do you remember that? Do you remember the first conversation you had or attempted to have with your spouse to be? Do you remember that? Some of you may have known each other for a long time, but I remember I went to my friend's room. Do you remember this? Went to my friend's room and said, Hey Joel, I don't know. There's this gal I'm interested in. I've been emailing her. I haven't talked with her. I don't know what I should do. I don't know. I w I was I I had been burned, put it lightly. I had been burned several years prior. And I had stayed away from fishing for several years. And so I went to his room and I was looking for some advice, and your pastor went off on me, started preaching at me from Ecclesiastes He that looks at the clouds is not gonna plant. You gotta you just gotta jump. Okay. So I I call this girl up. Hey, um, um Th Brent my my Brent's my name. Yeah. Oh, it was horrible. Horrible I you know I was obviously fearful of rejection, but it was I hung up, it was a flip phone, so remember those days? Flip phone, and I was like, that's not gonna work Why? Because there was fear there. Well, we've been married for fourteen years, praise the Lord. But you know what? Not quite fourteen years, almost fourteen. It'll be fourteen this year. But you know what? Once I got to know her and found out that she had some of the same fears, and we were able to keep talking and talking and finally got to the point, even before we were engaged, that we could just share each other's burdens, desires, deepest fears. And I wound up trusting her, still to this day. It's a wonderful thing called marriage, isn't it? God's people who are married happily say amen. Amen. Do some of us it's been a while since we remember those fears of will you like me? Will you you know girls I'm not a girl so I wouldn't know but I can guess that girls am I am I dressed right? Am I gonna look right? Am I saying the right thing? Will I cook the right thing? I know the fears are on both sides And especially for someone who comes from a bad situation home life, that takes perhaps some why uh some time to learn to trust their spouse, to learn that They're not going to abandon me. They're going to they're not going to leave me. They're not going to share my information that my my painful secrets with others. They're going to keep my trust. And when you finally get that trust, it is a wonderful thing. It is absolutely incredible. It is heaven on earth to have a good marriage. And that's the type of love that God wants you and I to experience with Him when we finally understand that, hey, quiet. It's settled. God loves you. Period. Period. Nothing can change it. But but Brett, I you don't know. I know, but God loves you. Period. You know what that does? And again, this doesn't lead us to sit back on the couch and, oh, God loves me. Yeah, let's just let's just hold hands and sing kumbayan about the love of no no no You know what this does in my heart and what it should do according to 1 John? Give us boldness. I can be faithful to you. Jesus said in Luke chapter 12, I've got you. You don't have to worry about your needs being met. Don't be like the Samaritan or like the Gentiles who always worry going around about. No, no, no. I will take care of you. Disciples, if you follow me, I will take care of every single one of your needs. Why can we know that? Why can we have that absolute confidence? Why? Because of the love of God. Thirdly, the love of God motivates us to boldness. It gives us that assurance, that confidence. Fourthly, the love of God should teach us how to love our brothers. Look at verse 19. Of chapter 4, 1 John 4, verse 19. We love him because he first loved us. If a man say, I love God and hateth his brother, he is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? Let's be honest. Are there people in your life that are difficult to love? You don't have to lie. Yes, there are. Right? No, every person in my life is absolutely perfect. always wonderful and lovely. No, there are always people in our life that are challenging, no matter what temperament we are or they are There's always people in our life that are challenging and difficult to love, and you know what the love of God says to me? Yes, that person, that family member that just And you don't express that like that, but that person who just presses every single one of your buttons through Christ, you have been given the grace, the ability to love them. Including the mother-in-law. Yeah, there's some chuckles. And we joke about that, but usually those people that we actually care about, they're sometimes very difficult to live with. Could be a kid, could be a boss, could be a spouse even at times, sadly. And yet God's grace, because of his love toward us, says, Hey, you can love the b Brothers. And that's not something we can do on our own. That's not something we're capable of. But when we understand, when we let the love of God dwell in us You know what it does? It motivates us. It changes us. It challenges us. Look back at verse 7. Beloved Let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. And look at verse 11. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. Our lives should be characterized by love. Do you remember John 13, 35? Jesus said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have standards in the church. Now again am I against standards? No. You've seen the way our family acts and lives. We do have some Bible fences that we've set up. By this shall all men know that you are my disciples if ye have anger and you're fervent in the Spirit and you have convictions No. By this shall all men know that you're my disciples if ye have. You know what the calling card of Anchor Baptist Church should be? You know what the lost, dying world, and even other churches should say about Anchor Baptist Church? That 's a church that's not perfect there's not perfect people there. That's that's a church who truly tries to demonstrate the love of Christ Those are people there that truly try to demonstrate God's love. That should be what people see. Because if there's something in the world that that doesn't have, then the corporate world is all dog eat dog climb the corporate ladder. It's all power struggles. It's all about money. Then the love of money is the root of all evil. Christians are different. We got a new name. We got a new destination. We got a new we got a new person, a new master. We're not for this world. We're not of this world. If we get ahead, fine. It's all gonna burn anyway. If we don't get ahead, that's fine, because we're going there What should be the calling card? What should be the hallmark of us of God's people? Love. Especially love for the brothers. And every time I say this I'm convicted. But sometimes we just gotta God, you give me the grace. And as much as I don't want to, as much as I think I'm right and they're wrong, you've called me to love that individual. Because God's love is incredible It's unconditional and it's sacrificial. I can love, demonstrate, I can extend love, grace to that brother, that sister, even that lost person that keeps pressing my button. I can do it. Finally, as we close and our time's gone, love should motivate us to obedience. Look at chapter 5, verse 2. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. And we'll look back at chapter 2, verse 5. Here John says something very similarly, just in an opposite way. But whoso keepeth his word in him, verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him. There is no substitute for obedience. One of the things I see in my life is that when I truly love God, what do I want to do? I want to obey His commandments. If we're not obeying what we know is right, if we're living in open sin, if we're living in disobedience, we do not have the love of God dwelling in us. Friends, I know I'm a little bit past where I want to be, but let me just close with this. Love is not some weak need. Tacchi feely, ethereal concept that we just kind of feel. Oh, let's just gather around and feel the love of God tonight. No, love does not Take truth and set it down and diminish it at all. I have come to view love as an incredibly powerful truth. In fact, perhaps one of the greatest, if not the greatest, motivational force in our life. Is love. That's why Paul said, The love of Christ constraineth me. It's a motivational force to think what God did for me out of love. Then how that should control my life and lead me to purity, lead me to Boldness, lead me to action, lead me to love, and lead me to obedience. Isn't the love of Jesus something wonderful? As we close tonight, I want us just to stop, bow our heads And think about what God's love has done and should do for us Sing it with me. Oh, how he loves you and me Oh, how he loves you and me. He gave his life. What more could he give Oh how he loves you. Oh how he loves me. Oh how he loves you and me.