And we're going to be continuing our study in Isaiah this evening. Then we'll take a break next week. But uh I've enjoyed my study so far. Uh Isaiah is a wonderful book. The fifth gospel, Christ is everywhere. And From the compassion we see and the comfort to just the straightforward gospel and the judgment that God has towards sinners And so I've been enjoying it. So we're going to pick up our study and just cover the last third or so of the first chapter in Isaiah chapter 1, starting with verse 21. And I'll read to the end of the chapter. How is the faithful city become an harlot? It was full of judgment. Righteousness lodged in it, but now murders. The silvers become dross, thy wine mixed with water. Thy princes are rebellious, and companions of Thebes. Everyone loveth it, loveth gifts, and floweth after rewards. They judge not the fatherless, neither doth the cause of the widow come to them. Therefore saith the Lord, the Lord of hosts, the Almighty One of Israel, ah I will ease me of mine adversaries, and avenge me of mine enemies. I will turn my hand upon thee and purely purge away thy dross, and take away all thy tin. And I will restore thy judges as at first, and thy counselors as at the beginning. Afterward thou shalt be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts with righteousness. And the destruction of the transgressors and of the sinners shall be together, and they that forsake the Lord shall be consumed. 4. They shall be ashamed of the oaks which ye have desired, and ye shall be confounded for the gardens that ye have chosen. For if ye shall be as an oak whose leaf fadeth, And as a garden that hath no water. And the strong shall be as a toe, and the maker of the spark, and they shall bo and they shall both burn together, and none shall quench them. Let us pray. Father, we just thank you so much for your word, the church, Christ, his life, blood, his sacrifice, his resurrection. Father, we are just overwhelmed sometimes if we just pause, remind ourselves of who we're not and who you are and what you've done through us. Through Christ, how we can gather together as believers, centering on your word, just being overwhelmed with the grace, compassion you have towards us, yet also understanding. the judgment as a righteous God that you are for the punishment of sin, and yet thankful that Christ bore it for us. So Father, we are thankful, we are grateful, and we ask that you would work in the heart of Hearts and lives of every believer here, just to do your work and to conform us more to Christ, in whose name we pray. God. Amen. We're going to look at the righteous judgment of a faithful God the righteous judgment of a faithful God. And we're gonna, I broke this down into four parts. And Pastor, I don't think it's too much of a stretch. I got them all with peas. But I will say they're all all most are right out of the text. So we are going to look at our first one, the people, in verses 21 through 22. Look at the people. The people says, how is the faithful city become an harlot? It was full of judgment, righteousness lodged in it, but now murders. So it's talking about the people and who they were. It was a faithful city. And you're there in chapter 1, just back up a couple of verses and look at verse 16, and I'll read up to verse 21 just to give us a little bit of context of what we're leading to and was touched on, I believe, a couple weeks ago. The Word of God says in Isaiah 1, starting verse 16, Wash you, make you clean, put away the evil from your doings and before mine eyes, cease to do evil. Learn to do well. Yet doing well has to be learned because we are sinners and we don't like to uh not fulfill the lust of the flesh sometimes. Seek judgment. Relieve the oppressed. Judge the fatherless. Plead for the widow. Come now, let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your skin sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat good in the land. But If ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword, for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it So leading right up to verse 21, he kind of gives them a choice, if you're willing, if you're obedient, or if you refuse and rebel. They have an option here. And so he's talking about what they were, what they can be, what they should be. And this was the faithful city. This is who they used to be. And we have a choice. We all have choices. Sometimes I think we try and complicate our choices, and yet sometimes we already know the right choice, but we want what we want and we don't do as God has desires for us according to his word. So here they have a choice, and he's talking about the city that was faithful, that should know better. It's like dealing with a child. How many times have I told you and you choose not to do it? it. And what the kids don't know is sometimes as a parent you get weary. You're like, do I have to correct them again? I mean you're begging yourself, would you please stop? I'm tired of this. I mean you cannot enjoy this process. I don't So sometimes I think that's how God is as our Heavenly Father, but we have a choice. And He's reflecting back on who they were, who they could be. And so what's happened? They don't have correct judgment. Righteousness did dwell there. And now what are they doing? Verse 21 ends with, You had all this going for you, but now it's as if you're murderers. What is a murderer? A murderer is someone who takes innocent life. You're doing it with purpose. to someone that does not d deserve it. So you don't value people as they are made in God's image. So you're degrading those things. and you're mistreating them. You're uh not understanding even what the Lord has said from the very beginning, the foundational gift of life to all people. And this, keep in mind, he's writing to who was faithful, who used to be faithful, that was the faithful city. He says, but now you're acting like murders. And then he continues on in verse 22. It says, Thy silver is become dross, and thy wine mixed with water. He is using this illustration here as really where their values, their sense of judgment. It's all been watered down. It's become polluted. It's not what it could be. It's not what it should be. This is who we are apart from our God. This is who we are apart from our Savior. We water things down. If we think we're attracting people to our own personality, our own intellect, our own achievements of any kind. We're supposed to let our good works glorify our Father which is in heaven, and it's polluted. Our values, our sense of life. It's been taken down. It reminded me of Proverbs 25, 4, as I was thinking about this. It says, take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a vessel for the finer. If you take out the impurities, you end up with something more pure, something that's more workable, something that is of a great value. The problem is what we value is what I want. We don't tend to value what God desires. This is what's taking place. This is the warning. That's taking place here. They don't value what God values. What they do have, it's polluted. It's watered down. It's mixed up. These are the people, God's people, who should know better, who've been exposed to amazing miracles on a wonderful history. Yet they are choosing to neglect the truth that they have from the Word of God. So we looked at the people. Now let's look at the princes. Let's look at the princes, verse 23. They judge not the fatherless, neither doth cause the widow to come unto them. So here, this is those that are in authority. They're taking leadership. They're part of the problem. You could always blame the people. Saul has tried that. Any other , oh, it's the people that did this. But leadership. is key. It's very, very helpful. And even as reminded in 1 Peter, Jesus Christ is an example for us by which to follow in 1 Peter. But what are they doing in verse 23? They're acting like rebels. They're not living the way they should. And what happens when the leadership lives in such a way, the people are like, eh. Okay. It's like gives it it's okay. If they do it I can do it. It's like with kids, if someone does wrong and they g get away with it, or if they s happen to bend a rule or twist a rule in the game. Oh, well if they did that, then I can do it too. You gotta be careful. And one thing you have to keep in mind, I've had the privilege of refinging officially and unofficially through many any teen events and various sports over my life, there's always gonna be someone that disagrees with you. When you have that black and white striped thing on or yellow, whatever color is that, and you have the whistle, no matter what call you make, there's good people that don't like it. They're going to disagree with you. What we need to do is make sure within leadership, and just because you may not be a pastor or you know the boss at work We still need to do our best to live according to the word of God, to not be rebellious, knowing that you're a parent, you are a leader. Even sometimes I remind the teens from time to time. There's little ones look up to you. Here in a couple of well in a couple of weeks and a couple of months we're gonna have some new ones coming to the youth group. It's always an exciting time. And I want to remind the teens before that, so kind of uh Spoiler alert, I suppose. I'm gonna have a little chat with the teens of Sunday school before the new ones come in, which is in a couple weeks. And some of these look up to you. They do. And I love that first Sunday when the new ones come in. Because sometimes they're so excited to get in. But then when they get in there, most of them, it's like they get in there and they sit there amongst themselves, you know, looking around everyone else, and they're like, they have that moment of, I don't know if I'm in the right place. There's this intimidation that comes across them. And I just wanted, you know, I never really grew up, I just got older, so it's okay. I kind of understand what you're talking about. And I look up to the teens too. So it's okay. More so when they get older. But no matter what position God gives us, no matter what if the prince is here in any kind of leadership, we are not to be rebellious, not rebellious against the Lord. We are not to do these things. But here it says they're companion of thieves. Thieves take that which does not belong to them. They're disobeying the word of the Lord. And these are obvious things even Uh a lot of them should know Exodus twenty and Deuteronomy and these nate and things of this nature. But they're being companions of thieves. And I have to remind myself as a father and as a pastor and as an oldest brother and many other things. That we do need to be just be careful how we live our life and what we teach and what we say and what we do with our lives. Here, the leadership, the rebellious, the companion of thieves here. They're taking things that they desire. They're coveting what is not theirs. And also in Proverbs. When we look at the leadership and what they're doing with loving the gifts and following rewards. It says in Proverbs 1, 13 and 14, and there's more to it than this. I just took a couple verses here. It says, We shall find all precious substance. We shall fill our houses with spoil. Cast in thy lot among law among us. Let us all have one purse. And as it continues through this, like, wait a minute. They want just to collect everything. And yeah, let's do it together. But what happens is if everyone throws all their money in one pot, not everyone is going to make the decision, only the ones at the top. So it's kind of a a trick here. The leadership is like, yeah, let's do it. Like I don't know any American in their right mind that says, yes, let's do it. The higher the taxes, the better. Because that's just someone else spending your money for you. But anyways, that's people in leadership make these decisions. They're companions of thieves. And here it says they love of gifts, they follow with after rewards. They judge not the fatherless. Neither doth cause that the widow. And I want to look at this again really quick with when it says, they loveth gifts and followeth after rewards. What is this saying? What does this really say is they like their position, they like their authority, but when they love it gifts And it says they're following after rewards. We know it perverts their judgment, which we just read a little bit. They're taking bribes. They love money rather than righteousness. They want for themselves more than to do what is right as their duty with the position that God has allowed them to have. This is the leadership. And they should have known this, a couple verses with this in Exodus 23, 8, and thou shalt take no gift, for the gift blindeth the wise. And perverteth the words of righteousness. When you take gifts and you take monetary whatever it is of any kind of possession, it will sway your opinion. Oh, I I want you to do this. You know, with kids it starts as candy bars, you know, or chores. You do this chore, I'll do this for you. You know, they're trying to bribe and take one another. That's what happens as we grow up. It just It gets different and more expensive things. But we're going to have to take gifts because it perverts the words of righteousness. Let's do what's right just because it's right. It's what we're supposed to do to do. Money should not be an option. You can say and give and offer as much as you want. But it does not change that which is right. In Deuteronomy 27:19, Cursed is he that perverteth the judgment of the stranger, the fatherless and widow, and all the people shall say, Amen. We are to look out for the fatherless and the widow as he finishes this verse by saying so. Why would it do that? Well, a helpful versus I'll read two other verses and we'll look at that. In Proverbs 31:4, it is not for kings, O Lemuel. It is not for kings to drink wine, nor for princes strong drink. Why? Lest they drink. Forget the law and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted. It affects their thinking. In James, the New Testament verse. Says it this way. I love this verse. This is like one of the key verses in James. 1. 27. You ever have someone say, what is it be religious. What is one thing that can separate you from other people? This verse can help a lot. And I'll explain it after I read it In James 1. 27, it says, pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this. So what is pure? What is undefiled? What is it to be before God and the Father? To visit the fatherless and the widows and their afflictions, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. Why is this such a big deal? What is going on with these princes? Why is this similar concept repeated in James? If you're going to help the followless and the widow, especially in these days in Isaiah and in the times when James is writing in the New Testament, the followless and the widow was the bottom. They didn't have property, they didn't have a lot of money, it was all meant based off the man. And it was a lot more difficult for the widow. So if you're to help and you're to visit and you're to plead for the fatherless and the widow, what it's saying is you are to help the helpless You're going out of your way to help those and expect nothing in return. Meanwhile, these princes in Isaiah, what are they doing? They're taking gifts. They're taking rewards. They're benefiting themselves. The righteousness and doing that which you should according to God's word , that takes second seat. What about this widow? What about the fatherless? And the princes may be thinking, yeah, but what do I get out of that? What's the purpose of that? James is saying pure and undefiled religion before fathers is to visit the on the widow. You're supposed to help others because that's what God expects us to do. That's what God should have us to do. Isn't that what Christ did for you and I? We are helpless, lost sinners In a debt that we cannot pay. Yet Christ took on flesh, lived the perfect sinless life that Adam can, that you and I cannot And took upon himself our payment, the sin debt that we owed, that we cannot pay back. And he did it for you and I. We're like the fatherless. We were like the widow. We had a problem that we could not solve. We had a debt that could not be paid, yet it was paid for us. So in Isaiah and in James, when it's saying to help the fatherless and the widow, do we have the mentality of doing that's what's right because it's the right thing to do? It's the biblical thing to do, it's what God desires? Or when we find ourselves being helpful or judging a situation, do we have the thought cross our mind, who is going to help me the most? Who is going to benefit me the greatest if I help this person or use this judgment? Or if it's really close, yeah, who gets the better benefit? If I help this person and I treat it this way, does it matter what's right and wrong? I don't know. Because what's right is if I pad my back pocket. Righteousness, truth of the Word of God can take second seat. This happens We see this. Sometimes as I was sitting, I was just thinking through this again this afternoon, and I told Becky, I was like, you know, sometimes when you read the Bible, I mean, here we're in Isaiah, we're in the Old Testament. Written long ago. Before reivranation. Long before any of this stuff. And sometimes I feel like it still applies today as it did thousands of years ago. How is that? Because it's the truth. It's God's word. It goes beyond culture. It goes beyond time. God's truth and real truth has no end. We need to do our best to have proper judgment and to do what's right, because that's what God said, to be men and ladies of biblical principle, unchanging, unwavering Every four years can get very frustrating sometimes in this country. Because things come to ahead and things come and go, it gets very frustrating. Sometimes just say what you believe, do it, just like in Isaiah, the way it should be. So these are the princes. We need to be princes of principle. Biblical principle. So we've seen the people. We've looked at the princes. Now quickly, let's look at the purge. The purge in verses 24 and 25 Therefore, saith the Lord, the Lord of hosts, the Almighty One of Israel, don't you think something's being emphasized here? Don't you think it's enough to say, thus saith the Lord? I mean, if the Lord has spoken, that should be enough to settle it. But not only is the Lord speaking, He's in a great power. He has great authority. And he reminds us of this. Just kind of quickly in passing. Therefore, saith the Lord, The Almighty One, the one who never makes mistakes, always telling the truth, never sins, knows everything, is everywhere at all times, is limitless in power. Oh, and by the way, he's the Lord of hosts, and he is the Almighty One of Israel. This is someone who has proper authority, who has power for proper judgment. Emphasizing who he is and to accomplish that which needs to accomplish. And when it says the Lord of hosts, this is the idea of war or armies, of the masses. This is the Lord who has literally the power. He has the authority by which to accomplish what he desires. To make sure that righteousness and his truth can stand He's a very patient, loving God, but he's also a very powerful, mighty one who can bring judgment. And when God judges, as we'll see, He does it right. He does it correct. He is the perfect balance of justice and mercy, of doing that which was right and grace. He has that perfect balance. He is the perfect balance. You and I, not so much. That's why we need his wisdom. In 2 Timothy 2, 20 and 21, it says, But in the great house there's not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and of earth. Some to honor and some to dishonor. If a man therefore purge himself of these, this is why I read those verses ahead of time, we can make choices. We can purge ourselves from these things with the Lord's help. If the man purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, set apart from sin, be separated from it. And met for the master's use, and prepared unto every good work. Here, we do have a choice to make. We can purge ourselves, we can try and change our ways, we can live a godly life. That is a choice that we have. We do have a free will. God's word hasn't changed. His truth hasn't changed. So if something is changing, it's probably not him. It is the man in the mirror. So here, what is he going to do? We can change our ways, but what he's doing with the power, with the authority, as the Almighty One, what's he say? I will ease thee of mine adversaries. I will avenge me of my enemies. Now pause, time out. With this, when he's talking about his adversaries, his enemies, he's not talking about like guys chasing down David this time. He's talking to the city who used to be faithful. He's talking to those who should know better But what's happening? We are acting as if we are God's enemies in how we live our lives, in what we believe, and how we're treating others and how we treat him. We will go through religious practices. The princes, oh, they still want the power. They still want to look good. They'll just take bribes on the side. They'll still look like they're trying to do right. But here, he's gonna ease it. He's gonna avenge his enemies. I don't know about you But uh when you play games, you're playing dodgeball or you know you're doing whatever it is, I want some big guys on my team because I'm not so much. You want the get the strong guys, the quick guys, depending on what game you're playing. And you know when I do it for the teens and stuff, I try and split up evenly, and it's always fun to split siblings. But you know you try and do it evenly. You want it to be close But here, when it's picking teams, I want God on my team every single time. Because he is going to do what's right, and he has power and authority to do these things. But what's he do? Look at this. In verse 25, and I will turn my hand upon thee. Ooh. And purely purge away the dross and take away thy tin. Because you're not purging yourself, because you're not doing it, God is saying, I can. I will. And if you look, you're going to see I I will and I shall a couple times in these last couple of verses. So he can purchase. We are from time to time acting like God's enemies, even the religious, even those that come to a Sunday night service. can act like an enemy of God. In Malachi 3. 3, and he shall sit as a refiner and a pure purifier of silver. And he shall purify the sons of Levi, those are religious ones. And purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness. You can choose to purge yourself, you can choose to humble yourself under the mighty hand of God, or sometimes God can help you. I'd rather do it myself and come to him with a repentant heart and to try and change my ways. But as a whole, and what Isaiah is telling them, we know as a whole, and we're if you read the rest of it and know history, as a whole this is not going to happen. The judgment is coming. Coming. But let's continue. Let's look at very quickly. We've looked at the people in verses twenty-one and twenty-two. We've looked at the princes, verse twenty-three, the purge in twenty-four and twenty-five, and lastly and briefly, the promise in twenty-six and twenty twenty. through 31. The promise 26 through 31. Here he's saying, I will restore thy judges as at first. So with God's help and his judgment, things can be restored. The problem with this is sometimes when we go through God's judgment and we go through some chastening, we think, oh, God's against me. And he's not so much against you. He's against what you're doing or what you're thinking. But he loves you. He wants what's best for you. That's why his judgment has to come. That's why he does want to help. That's why he does want to restore Sometimes when we read God's word, we think, oh, it's a list of things I cannot do. God wants to spare us from the hurt and the pain of sin and suffering. We already get enough of that in this world. It's already challenging enough. God wants to help us with that. He can restore and he will restore and ultimately this is all made possible because of Jesus Christ and what he's done to pay for our sin, as we already mentioned. That is wonderful. But here he is saying, he will restore the judges of first. Proper judgment. You and I can have our own thoughts and our own opinions. But we're always wrong if we disagree with God. We're always right if we agree with God. So our judgment is good when we're on God's side and understanding of what His Word says. Then we can be right. So God is going to restore the judges, as at first, the way that they should be, and thy counselors, as at the beginning. Afterwards thou shalt be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city. And then he goes on to say, shall be redeemed with judgment. And our converts righteous. So he is going to do these things. Look at verse 28. And the destruction of the transgressors and of the sinners shall be together, and they that forsake the Lord shall be consumed. Here's what he's saying here. I just want to point this out. They shall be redeemed in verse 27, verse 28, and really following with some ending illustrations. Destruction will be for all who forsake. But he makes a little distinction here. He uses transgressors and sinners. I just want to briefly cover this. Transgressors is you are purposefully, willfully disobeying. You are going beyond the boundary. It said no trespassing. The sign said wet paint and you want to do it and you want to go beyond where it says no trespassing. That is willful, purposeful. You are transgressing. You're going farther than what you should, and you know it. I know the speed limit is 65, but 80 will get me there so much quicker. That's a tough one. But you're purposefully, willfully transgressing beyond what you know you should do, as opposed to the sinner. The sinner's more like missing a mark. You're just not quite making it. The illustration often is of an archer. You know, you're aiming for a target and you shoot and you just you just can't hit it. Okay, it's like me at Archer. You just can't hit that whole thing. You just keep missing. You fall short. So he's talking about those who are willfully disobeying. You're talking about those that are just missing your ears not It's not willful. You're just sinning. And there's a great distinction between two. One is purposefully doesn't but here's the conclusion is the same. Look at this And they that forsake the Lord shall be consumed. It doesn't mean if you're doing it purposefully, willfully, or if you're just a sinner and it, whoops, I made a mistake and you ask the Lord to forgive you. What he's saying here is God will still bring judgment upon sin and evil. Forsake the Lord shall be consumed. So anyone. And I had the privilege about a week ago to uh share the gospel with a bunch of people that wouldn't normally get to hear it. And it was a great privilege. It was a very unique opportunity. One, because I would say in that area, it would probably more in the sinners category. But when I started speaking It got very quiet actually. I was actually very surprised. They were very respectful. These were very unchurched people. It was a crowd of people that would think that if I go to church, God would strike me dead. That's why I don't want to go. I want to I I pr I I cherish my life, so I'm not going to go to church. I mean that that's kind of the mentality. But when I started opening up the Word of God and sharing the truth of Jesus Christ and who He is, and it doesn't matter if you're a transgressor, it doesn't matter if you're a sinner, in so many words I was saying, but Christ paid the penalty for you. That's why you came. We're already condemned. None of us can be righteous enough. Yeah, but that's why Christ came. So don't put yourself as I'm a religious person or I I've never been to church. God's judgment, He must judge sin. Doesn't matter how great of a sinner you are or how little you think you might sin. God's judgment. He's faithful and he is a just judge and he will do it right every single time. And sometimes, as he illustrates, sometimes you think like you're a strong oak. Sometimes you think you've got this great garden, but they're withering. They have little value. Sometimes we can think great and highly of ourselves. And God looks at us and says, not so much. And as Isaiah is going to emphasize, how about you consider, how about you look at the Savior? Look at Christ. We will all be judged But I'd rather be judged through the blood of Christ than on my own merit. I'd rather be judged through the eyes of my Redeemer than my own righteousness. Because God is a righteous judge, and he is faithful, and he will bring judgment. He desired to use Isaiah to speak to these people who he knew most of them would not listen. Yet he sent a prophet anyways. To be one of the longest prophets in the Bible to encourage people. Consider my ways. Consider the Savior I'm going to send you. Have you thought about the Messiah? Why are you neglecting what you know you should do? You can still turn to him. You can still purge yourself. God would love to cleanse you of your sin, to be washed as white as snow and as clean as wool. Because God is a righteous and faithful judge, and he will do that which is right. Do we want to do what's right before God, not just because it makes us look good, but because we see it as a duty As a responsibility to obey the God that has saved us, or who desires to save us, and yet loves us enough to give us the choice of what we will do with Christ, what we will do with his word. And will we choose to love him more than we love our own sin? Let us close in prayer. Father, I'm just so thankful for this passage in Isaiah. The whole book is wonderful And you are a great and mighty God, and you are a just, faithful Savior, judge. We get distracted. We can get pulled away by things of this world. We can be lured away so easy. Sometimes our judgment is not so right. It can tend to be self- Others of us are still considering what to do with Christ. What do I do with the Word of God? Whatever the need is from salvation and Savior. to a closer walk with you, to understanding proper judgment and righteousness of who you are, would you help meet the needs of your people or those who can become your child Through the Savior Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen