Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome each of you to Anchor Baptist Church, and it is good to see each of you out this morning on a very special day. This is the day that we Set aside as believers and we focus on the resurrection of Christ. And so this morning our entire service is going to be centered on really what is the heart of the Christian faith, the fact that Christ died for our sins. and that he rose triumphant from the grave. And so we look forward to a wonderful time celebrating that and remembering what Christ has done for us. If you are visiting with us today or visiting for the first time in a long time, we want to give you a warm welcome and I hope that you are able to receive A visitors packet. In that visitors packet is a way that we're able to connect with you. And so if you would like us to do that, please take just a moment to fill out a visitors card and uh put that in the little offering box in the back when you uh when you leave. And that'll give us an opportunity to be able to reach out to you and to connect with you. And also it'll give you some information about our church and specifically about the gospel. If you could, let's turn in our Bibles to Isaiah 53, and we're going to forgo our announcements today because of just how many things we have going on in our service. But please do remember to pick up a bulletin on your way out if you don't have one. Isaiah 53 and our opening scripture is verses 10 through 12. The scriptures say, When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong. Because he hath poured out his soul into grief. He was made numbered with the transgressors, he bare the sins of many, and made intercession for the transgressors. This morning we're going to focus our attention obviously on the importance of the resurrection. And so I'd like to invite you to bow together with me. in prayer and we're going to just spend some time thanking God for really what the whole point of the resurrection is. So let's bow together for prayer and then we will get started with our morning service. Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity to gather together as believers. We're so grateful for the gospel. And we recognize if it had not been for Christ's finished work on Calvary's cross, there would be no hope. We would live in a fallen world and we would experience the good and the bad, but then we would face your justice. Yet we are reminded that in your wisdom and your incredible love for people, you determined a plan to send your son to the cross. So that he could pay the penalty for our sins, he would rise from the dead, and he would conquer sin and all its terrible effects. Father, we are so grateful this morning for your love and your grace that is demonstrated in the gospel. We are so grateful for your power that accomplished your plan of redemption. And Father, we are so grateful that we can stand before you accepted simply because of Christ's sacrifice. I pray that you would be with each person that's here this morning. I pray that you would speak to each of our hearts in a very specific manner. Pray that the word of God would be presented with clarity. As we sing praise to you, help us to think about these wonderful truths that we express in song. As we are ministered to through the music that we'll have in the service this morning, I pray that our hearts will be drawn to reflect deeply on these incredible truths And Father, we pray for our nation, we pray for our states, our communities, we pray that you would be at work in our communities. I pray that You would revive your churches around this nation. Pray for those who are serving all around the world as missionaries that we are partnered with. Pray that you'd give them wonderful days. in the Lord's house, worshiping and remo reminding themselves of the resurrection of Christ. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. And Christ the Rose he turned the tide of human history by sealing out a crushing wall. To his arch and before this prison war, reveal his first place. Forever thrown into one state of hell and death of man. Praise the one who is a god Praise no one you have for seasoning baked the ring When Christ arose, he offered living hope to Adam's race. Swallowing busting up and standing in our place Reusing to Allah is holy on Cardinal. I will make it more we don't rise and rain Bring no more in bed Bring the War One who is again to cancel our disgrace. He cried apart. He thrived us in and gave us strength to walk on you beneath his righteous rain. Its empty tune proclaims it where 's no spinful self is fruit by present We're the one who lives again, with the one who lives again for breaking every day. When Christ arose, he proved a rise to universal grace The why the claim of his brain will bring through endless days. Alone he walked up and slain. Together every time we order all the day. One who says the one who lives again. With the one who lives again, the story on the case. One who lives, with the one who lives again, with the one who lives again, whose glory Good morning. Thank you all so much for joining us for this resurrection Sunday. I invite you to please stand with me, open your hymn books to hymn number twelve as we sing praise. To our God. Hymn number twelve, all hail the power of Jesus' name. We'll see verses. All four verses. Oh well I can make the thing down Bring Borcover. It shows that city lay my fault. Hell bell says the finest with the minus I just won 't have that with your sacred phone. We have been called , we'll join me and prove They'll join me in a faithful and we'll turn over to him number Number 20, praise him, praise him. Jesus, our blessed Redeemer And number 20, all three verses. Praise them, praise them, Jesus I wanted regime , singing. Wonderful love my cable than glory strength into his own. My God 's heart, see the garden to carry them all along Pray, pray the Praise them, praise them, ever a joyful song. Praise them, praise them. Jesus, I blessed everyone. Himmer for us and proper than fly and die of the hope of eternal salvation ever Tell him Jesus the first and five praises. Jesus wore our sorrows of wonderful deep and strong. Praise them, praise them , the love is like the last praise, praise them, praise them, never and joyful song Praise her, Jesus, our blessed redeemer. Every portal love with us on the rain. She was never reigned forever. And ever crown , proud him , promised the Christ again, Christ declaring over the world, victorious hard. Fellow with excellence, praise them, praise them, praise them , never end up. Amen. Great singing. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number 273. Christ the Lord is risen today. We'll sing all four verses. Sing out this morning. Christ the Lord. Lord has risen to your sons of men and angels deal. Singing her and the three blood. Lives I can argue. All Hallelujah, where I make glory, I love three. Ni works onöjä , parta paikalla. We rely on our baby on our group of green my nine Amen. Great singing. Our scripture reading this morning will be found in the Gospel of John. The Gospel of John chapter twenty, and we'll read the first nine verses. The Gospel of John chapter twenty verses one through nine. The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene, early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre. And seeeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre. Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. Peter, therefore, went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre. So they ran both together, and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre. And he, stooping down and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying, yet went he not in. Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went in into the sepulchre, and seeeth the linen clothes lie, and the napkin that was about his head not lying with the linen clothes. but wrapped together in a place by itself. Then went in also that other disciple which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw and believed For as yet they knew not the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word as we continue our worship through song. We have a brass vessel first. I then must want to be must work with the This is All right. As we continue our song this morning, we'll sing that hymn, hymn number 265, Christ. A rose. We'll sing all three verses. Up from the green he alone when the mighty trial for his ball He around the bigger from the door to make We let forever with this bridge to raise We are for us, we are worse , no longer. That it 's not my own Come from the grave we are with the light for your body boss We are both And he was the space to write He are wise And you must forever make a thing to break in your God. Amen, and our final song for this morning. Will be from our blue book, Great Is the Lord. Please stand with me as we sing all three verses of Great Is the Lord The more would have done that in case the white it would make his gay. Life to our stand praises the Lord for man that gave mess up your voice. And finally now raised the board Lorraine. Try out the Lord I grave for the last land to save a full and rest. Pray to the Lord the went thing, left up your voice, and finally never went praying. Jesus Christ and Castle. The works of Christ the Lord Greatness of Lord for I can learn your voice and I lay and proclaim praises the Lord program. Amen. Thank you so much. Please be seated So the The mourners were bewildered, overwhelmed, and toward my grief. On their hearts my host should not be, on their dreams the words and God , they have not even So many questions. My take for their central wonder when they bad angel stay. And all those that so can help me, there were peaceful west dance. Hearts are still bewildered, confused, and torn away, are there hearts that have to nothing? All their dreams are crossed and not they have no metal and they want the voice for Oh so many questions pierced their souls that they search in my truth where you live and do. We are teaching with the point. He is not just, he is ready just as he I could not be wrong. Man, y'all gonna be disappointed with me preaching today, huh? Well, I'd like to ask our children ages two to six to be dismissed to the back for junior church if your kids are going back there and um If the rest of you could take your Bibles, let's turn together to the book of John, and the text of Scripture that we just read a few moments ago is John chapter 20. And we are reading verses 1 through 9 together. John chapter 20, verses 1 through 9. I'll give you just a moment to get there. Then we'll read this text together and spend some moments this morning really reflecting on the significance of that song that we heard just so beautifully sung and so wonderfully exalting Christ as the risen Savior. John chapter 20, we'll begin in verse 1. The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark unto the sepulchre. And see the stone taken away from the sepulcher. Then she runneth and cometh to Simon Peter and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and said unto them, They've taken away the Lord out of the sepulcher. And we know not where they've laid him. Peter therefore went forth that other disciple and came to the sepulcher. So they both ran together. And the other disciple did outrun Peter and came first to the sepulcher And he stooping down, looked in, saw the linen clothes lined, yet went he not in. Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie. And the napkin that was about his head not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. Then went he and also the other disciples Which came first to the sepulcher. And he saw, I love the next two words, believed. He saw and he believed. For as yet they knew not the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. You know, it's really difficult sometimes for us being so far removed. by time and culture to appreciate what's going on when we come to John chapter 20 and we read these verses. In fact, when I think about the different things that are stated in these verses, there are a lot of details that I think if you read carefully and you read through it multiple times, you're going to pick out and say there's something really neat to unpackage there. I can't do all of that this morning. But what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to kind of take you back to that event. And I'd like to ask the question, why was this event so important? What was the significance of this event? All of these details that John records, and when we look at the other gospels and we go to Matthew, And we go to Mark, and we go to Luke. The reality is each of those individuals that are writing these details, guided by the Holy Spirit, writing the very words that God wanted recorded for us, each of them is going to pick out certain details. that are not different and contradictory, but they are different in the sense that they're helping us to see a different vantage point to the unfolding of this story. The question is, why? Why were these events recorded? Why did this even matter? Well, let me give you a simple summary statement, and from that I want us to dig into some very important truths that are connected to the importance of the resurrection of Christ. John recorded these specific details of the resurrection to convince us, and that word is really important. It was to convince us that Jesus is the Messiah. Who died on the cross, who rose triumphant from the grave, and he did this so that we would place our faith in him as our Savior and receive eternal life. I want you to realize that each of those statements, those little details of that purpose statement, is really important. It's about a man, but he's not just a man. As we read the Bible carefully and as we see what is demonstrated by the things that Jesus taught, the moments of conflict that Jesus experienced. The things that the Old Testament prophets said about him, anticipating who he was and what he would do, all of these things are meant to convince us to embrace Jesus as the Messiah and to understand the significance of what that means and to trust in him The one who died on a cross two thousand years ago, who shed his blood on that cross, and who rose triumphant from the grave The reason that this event is so important is that this event is the only means through which you and I who are sinners and who are separated from God can actually spend eternity with Him This is the heart and soul of what makes a person a Christian. Do they understand this message? Are they convinced that this message is true? And have they chosen to trust alone in what the Lord Jesus Christ has done for them on that cross 2,000 years ago. God wants us to be a people who respond humbly and simple trust And the Lord Jesus Christ. And so with that in mind, let's kind of dig into some of the details that we find and let's unpackage them just a little bit so that we'll understand exactly what is in front of us. The first thing I want us to see this morning is that the crucifixion And the resurrection are real, historically validated events in time. That's a really important thing for us to understand. I think a lot of people like to view this season as simply a Western or American tradition. I want you to realize this is not just simply a Western or American tradition. By the way, there are people that celebrate this season in every single group of people all over the world. In fact, before there was ever in America as we know it today, there were people in Africa, there were people in Europe, there were people really in the center getting into Asia that understood that Jesus died and rose from the dead and they look to that event in human history as the most significant and important event that's ever taken place in all of time. I want you to notice that the way that these details are recorded are recorded for a purpose. These are witnesses, these are eyewitness accounts of an event in time. The first thing I want us to see is the first witness that's mentioned in these verses, and that is a woman. Her name is Mary Magdalene Mary Magdalene is the first witness to find the tomb empty. Notice the way that he puts it in verses 1 and 2. On the first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early. When it was yet dark unto the sepulchre, and seeth a stone taken away from the sepulchre. Then she runneth and cometh to Simon Peter, and the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, that's John. He's the one that's actually writing these details And saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. Now I want you to notice what she's saying. She's not saying that she believes Jesus is risen from the dead. She believes that someone has stolen the body. that they've hidden the body, and she's very concerned about that. And so she's going to the other disciples, really two of the most prominent disciples, and she's saying You've got to help me locate the body of Jesus. She says, we do not know where they have laid him. Now, if you're trying to convince people that Jesus really rose from the dead, you're probably not going to present that as your first eyewitness unless that's exactly what it is. That's your first eyewitness. That's just the details. She's not yet a believer in the fact that Jesus rose from the dead. She doesn't understand what's going on. She's she's heard the prophets being read while she was in the synagogue. She heard Jesus teach. She saw all these miracles. She did not understand that Jesus died and rose from the dead. She really didn't even understand the significance of why he was dying. We see two more witnesses. Those are Peter and John. These men ran to verify what she was saying. And so in verses 3 to 7 it says, So they ran both together, and the other disciple did outrun Peter and came first to the sepulchre. And he stooping down looked in, saw the linen clothes lying. And where he was not in, and he went not in. Then cometh Simon Peter following him and went into the sepulchre and seeeth the linen clothes lie. And the napkin, and seeeth the linen seeth that which was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. Now that seems like such a funny little detail, but basically what it's saying is as these two men run to the town the to this sepulchre, one was faster than the other. That was John. He was the youngest of the disciples. And when he got to that spot, he looks in, but he doesn't go in. You say, well, why didn't he go in? We don't know. Peter was a little different. Fullborn man, he was in there. But it he puts this little detail in. We see the cloth the the the the wrappings laying there I'm sure they could smell the fragrance that was embalming the body at the time after his death. And then they see the thing that was on his face, and it's it's folded neatly. Like Whoever did this is neater than my own kids, all right? You know, my children don't put away their clothes. Maybe sometimes I don't put away my clothes, just the truth be told. But John looks at that and he goes, that's kind of strange. If somebody stole this body, they did not take the time To fold that napkin up and set it to the side. This is a little weird. Witness number three, John saw the empty tomb. And this is what it says. He remembered Christ's words and believed that they were true. In verse 8 it says, They went in also the other disciple which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw And believed. For as yet they knew not the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. I want you to realize Jesus had not concealed this information from them. The Old Testament pointed to the Messiah dying on a cross and rising from the dead. You say, well, how do you know that? Because we've spent the last month looking at numerous Old Testament texts of scripture that have demonstrated that in fact that is true. Abraham believed in resurrection, Job believed in resurrection. There are many, many Old Testament examples of people that anticipated a Redeemer who would die in their place and who would rise from the dead and would establish the means through which they could have eternal life. They believed that. And up to this moment, the disciples didn't understand those things. It's an intriguing thing. They had all this information. But it hadn't yet clicked in their minds. But when John entered into that sepulchre and he saw those clothes and he saw what had covered his face folded neatly, he said, You know what? I get it now. He's not here, and we aren't going to find his body anywhere. He's risen from the dead. All of a sudden he began to understand some of the statements that Jesus had made through his earthly ministry. He began to understand some of those parables and all of a sudden all these things are coming together and it's like it's hitting him and he's recognizing Jesus died And he's risen. He's alive. He's somewhere. I wonder if I'm going to get to see him again. Witness number three, John believes. He wasn't the first to see Christ. He wasn't the first to see the evidence that Christ had risen, but he was the first to believe. Then the text takes us back to witness number one, Mary Magdalene, and we see that Mary Magdalene is in a state of brokenness. And she is unsure of what is actually going on. In fact, when we come back to Mary Magdalene, there's no indication that she got to talk again to these men. And John says, hey, listen, Jesus is alive. She's coming back to the sepulchre, and she's very broken. She's very discouraged. She doesn't understand what's going on. We see this in verse 11. It says that Mary stood without the sepulcher, weeping. And then we see that she becomes the first person to see the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, let me just be kind of blunt about this. In the ancient world in the first century, Mary would not have been your first witness to stand in a courtroom. And to say, I believe Jesus is risen, and here's why I believe he's risen. I came to the sepulchre and I was bawling my eyes out. And as I was bawling my heads out, I saw him. And all these people standing in the room go, Oh, really? That's great to hear. Sure, we believe you. Let's call up another witness and see what's going on. People did not believe her Yet, this is the first person in God's wonderful providence in his grace. This is the very first person that sees Jesus face to face. face. And she is the first person that can testify, I have seen. I have seen the Lord. It says in verse 11, as she was weeping, she stooped down and looked into the sepulchre, and see if two angels in white sitting, the one at the head and the other at the feet. Where is the body where the body of Jesus had laid? And they saw her. They said, Woman, why weepest thou? Now that seems like a funny question, doesn't it? Why is she weeping? Is it because Jesus died? Nope. It's because she believes he's still dead, but his body's gone. And as these these two angels begin to speak to her, she saith unto them, They have taken away my Lord, and know not where they have lain him. You don't lay a living person down. She believes he's dead and his body is gone And when she had just said this, she turned herself back and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, said unto him, Sir, if thou hast borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, I will take him away. Jesus said unto her, Mary She turned herself and saith unto him, Rabinai, which is to say, Master. She's the first person to see Jesus. We then see that John continues to record details of people that saw Jesus. Not just that they heard this story and they told people about this story. They saw him, their eyewitnesses. They can testify first hand accounts. I saw Jesus I stood next to him. I actually touched him. I saw him eat. This is the nature of these witnesses. Witnesses 2 through 11 are the ten of the 12 because Judas is now gone. And we see that Thomas is not with them initially. And in verse 19 it says, Then the same day at the evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut. Where the disciples were assembled, and I don't think it's important. I think I think it's very important that we don't miss why they were there. It was for fear of the Jews They were fearful. They believed that they were next. I mean, they just crucified Jesus publicly. A massive mob of people said Crucify him. We we'll take Barabbas. You take Jesus to the cross. These men believe they're next. They knew what it was like to see people die on a cross. They were hiding. And it tells us that as they were hiding there in that room, Jesus came and stood in their midst. And said unto them, Peace be unto you. And when he had so said, he showed unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord. But Thomas, one of the twelve called Didymus, was not with them. You say, why is it significant that Jesus shows his hands on his side? There were some people in the early days that said, Oh, Jesus had a twin, we just didn't know about it. So the twin is the one that we've met. Folks, he was not a twin. Jesus was crucified. And there was evidence of the crucifixion. You could see it in his hands. You could see it in his side where they took that spear and they thrust it up into that cavity so that they could demonstrate whether he was alive or dead. Jesus really physically died. And it's so interesting that the Bible tells us that one, Thomas was not there. Because Thomas is going to be kind of like the hinge point in this retelling of the events of what was going on. Because while the rest of the disciples are now believing because they have seen, Thomas says, I don't believe and I will not believe unless I can see with my own eyes. I'm not going to believe your first hand account. I need my own firsthand account. And so we see that witness number 12 is Thomas. And in verses 24 through 28, we will see how Thomas responds when he sees Jesus for the first time since his death and resurrection. It says, but Thomas, one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came. And he said unto them, Except I shall see his hands. And the prince of the nails, and put my fingers and the prince of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. Now that's pretty s pretty dogmatic right there He says, I will not believe, not just if I see him, but I need to touch the wounds and know for a fact That 's the person that they crucified, and that person is alive. I've got to see it. So the Bible tells us that Jesus said, Alright, you're going to get your opportunity. It says, after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas was with them, then Jesus came. Jesus saith he then saith he unto Thomas, Reach hither thy finger and behold my hands. Reach hither thy hands and thrust it into my side and be not faithless. but believing. Thomas answered and said unto him, this is a really interesting statement, my Lord and my Lord My God. What is Thomas saying? He says, I know now that that's the Messiah. I have seen him. I have proved with my own two eyes, with my own hands, that this is the Messiah. He died, he rose, I believe. I want you to realize that this is not all the Bible has to say about eyewitness accounts. In fact, if we were to go to 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses two and following. This is what Paul writes to the church at Corinth, who had a debate about the resurrection. It's a really interesting passage of scripture. It's one of the fullest sections of scripture that talks about the concept of us dying and rising again with a glorified body. It's a passage that we go to often at the funerals of believers. Here's what Paul writes Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel, which I also received. This is not something that Paul made up. This is something that he taught under the authority of Christ. He says how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Question. What were the scriptures that he's referring to? He's not referring to the Gospels. He's not referring to the epistles. He's referring to the Old Testament. When he says that this is the gospel which was given to me, which was validated according to the scriptures, he's saying, you read the Old Testament, this tells us. that Jesus was going to die, he was going to rise from the dead, and it was according to the scriptures for our sins. But then he goes on, he says, he was seen of Cephas, that's Peter. Then of the twelve, that's referring to the accounts that we just talked about He says, and he was seen also of five hundred brethren at once, whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. He says, you know, you have this debate about the resurrection. I want you to understand that there are over 500 people that saw Jesus firsthand. This is not second hand account. This is not third handed account. This is not, oh I heard it from my brother. I heard it from my friend. They saw Jesus with their own eyes and he said Most of these people are alive. And if you are willing to take a little trip down to Jerusalem, I'll introduce you to them and you can talk to them. They know that this is true. He says, after that he was seen of James, and then of all the apostles. Last of all he was seen of me. One that is born out of due time, I am the least of the apostles. That I am not meet to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church. You know, the thing that really amazes me about the Apostle Paul is that the Apostle Paul and Jesus were probably about the same age. The Apostle Paul was a very powerful Pharisee at the very time that Jesus was crucified. The Apostle Paul was the man who oversaw the stoning of Stephen, a martyr, the very first martyr in the Christian church. The Apostle Paul witnessed Jesus' ministry not as a believer, but as an antagonist. The Apostle Paul wanted to destroy the church. In fact, when the Apostle Paul became a Christian, the believers were afraid to let him into the church. And you can understand it because they said, this man hates Christians. This man killed Stephen. This man is dragging Christians from all over the known Roman Empire, wherever there is a Christian community, he is going there with the authority of the the Sanhedrin and he's dragging people to Jerusalem to be imprisoned, to be beaten, to be killed, to be silenced. We don't trust Paul. Folks, I want you to realize this is a true story. This is an event that happened in history. And it matters. I want you to realize it's not just about the eyewitness accounts, but the reality is when Paul said this is according to the scriptures, he's talking about This unfolding story of redemption that we read about in the scriptures. A lot of these passages are things that I talked about throughout the last month. In fact, in Luke chapter 18 We see the story of Jesus walking down the road to Emmaus, and he interacts with some people who said, you know, there's a lot that's gone on in Jerusalem. And Jesus says, What's gone on in Jerusalem? They said, You haven't heard what's gone on in Jerusalem? It's the Passover week. There's over a million people in this city from all over the world, and they crucified Jesus. A man who was known to everybody in Judea. A man who was performing miracles. A man that some people thought was the Messiah and it was going to crush the Romans, it was going to bring in liberation to our people. And he's dead, and now they're telling us he's risen from the dead. Here's what it says in Luke eighteen. Behold, we go up to Jerusalem and all things or excuse me, in Luke chapter 18, Jesus talks about this event and he begins to explain to them how he was the fulfillment of the scriptures. Things like the promise in the garden, Genesis 3. Things like the lamb that was sacrificed by Abel in Genesis 4. Things like the Redeemer that Job anticipated in Job 19. Things like the promise given to Abraham in Genesis 15. Things like the Passover lamb in Exodus 12. Things like the ram that took the place of Isaac on Mount Moriah in Genesis 22. Things like the inheritance that is eternal, talked about in the Psalms in Psalm 16. Things like God being our shepherd, who we will dwell in his house forever in Genesis or in Psalm 23. And Isaiah 53 is the sin-bearing substitute. I want you to realize it's not just that the scriptures, or it's not just that we have eyewitnesses who said, We saw the Lord, and we go back and say 2,000 years ago what they saw, we believe it. That's true, but there's more to it. What Jesus did was fulfill all of these prophecies that pointed to his coming. In other words, there is a supernatural dimension Not just to what Jesus did, but to the authentic authenticating of what Jesus did. The second truth I'd like us to see is that each of these details was recorded so that we could be safe from our sins. If you turn a little bit later into the book in John chapter 20, verses 30 and 31, John tells us why these events were recorded. Here's what he says. Many of their signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written That ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life through his name. Basically what John's saying is, hey, you know, if I was to sit down and I was to like write down everything that happened, like I'd die before I got it all written. And I wouldn't remember all these details. But what I have written, I have written because the Holy Spirit has guided me and moved me and brought to my remembrance things that have happened, and he has guided me to write Specific details for a purpose. The first is to convince us to believe on Christ. Now we are living in an age of skepticism. I know that. But I want you to realize that every age on some level has been an age of skepticism. Do you realize that there were Jewish historians who recorded about Jesus' life? And they talked about the fact that he performed miracles. And they talked about the fact that he was crucified. And they talked about the fact that there is at least a story that he rose from the dead and it's something that even the religious leaders were trying to cover and they were trying to pay people off. because this event was being told all over the city and all over the Roman Empire and it was extremely disruptive. Do you realize that there were even Roman historians who recorded on some level the events? Yet in that time with eyewitness accounts There were still people who were skeptical of the resurrection. From that moment until we stand here today, there has always been a resistance to embrace the truth. Yet John writes these details so that you'll believe. He writes these details so that you'll sit here today and you'll go, you know what? Jesus really came. Jesus really died. Jesus really is Messiah. He really died for my sins. He really rose from the dead. I want to be right with God. I'm going to trust in what Jesus did. That's why he wrote it. These were written so that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. That you'll believe that that person is the fulfillment of all those Old Testament prophecies. The second reason is so that you can be saved from your sins and have eternal life, he says, and that by believing you might have life through his name. In other words, it's to convince you so that you can be saved. What an incredible thought. The third thing I want to mention is this: Christ's redemptive work is the gospel. Now when somebody asks you what is the gospel, I don't know what you tell them. Some people say, well, that's music, right? I listen to gospel music. Oh, isn't the gospel like a story about how we live for God? Folks, the gospel's not about you. The gospel's for you, but it's not about you. The gospel's not about what you do for God, or what you're gonna do for God, or what you did do for God. The gospel's about what he did for you. When Paul says, I declare unto you the gospel, he states what it is. Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, was buried, rose again the third day according to the scriptures. The gospel said nothing about what you did for God. It says everything about what he did for you and why he did it for you. But I just to help us to understand the weight of that statement, I want us to go back to Isaiah 53 and just notice. some of the highlights of the reason for the gospel. Isaiah 53, 10 to 12. We look at this last Sunday night. Or maybe it was Sunday morning, I forget. I think it was Sunday morning. Yes, Sunday morning. So if you miss this, go back and listen to it. It's I don't know how good it is, but the text is good. Isaiah 53, 10 says, When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great He shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul into death, and he was numbered with the transgressors and bare the sins of many, and made intercession for the transgressors. I want to tell you that in those verses, he makes four statements that give us why the gospel matters. The first statement is about forgiveness. God's justice against my sin and your sin has been fully satisfied on the punishment Christ received on the cross. Here's what he says in verse 11. He will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. Our sins are against God's holiness. And our sins stand between us and God. And either we're going to pay for our sins or Christ's sacrifice in our place is going to pay for our sins. And so Jesus goes to the cross, and as he hangs on the cross and he says, it is finished, guess what that means? God has no more wrath to pour out on your sin. It's paid for on Christ. Forgiveness. If there is no cross, there's no forgiveness. The second word is the word justified. God can declare you not guilty because Christ took your place. In verse 11, he says, by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquity. I want you to realize that forgiveness is different than justification. Forgiveness means I don't hold this to your account anymore. Justified means that in front of my courtroom you're not guilty. And the only reason that God can tell a sinner he's not guilty. And the only reason that God can forgive a sinner is because Christ went to the cross and he bore the weight of our sin. And he took our place. And so God can say, forgiven, not guilty. The third word is very important, it's the word adopted. God can give us all the blessings of the gospel because of Christ's death and resurrection. I love this statement, and I think it's out of all the statements in Isaiah 53, it's probably the least thought about, but perhaps one of the most beautiful. In verse 12 he says, Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong. Because he has poured out his soul unto death. You see, what is Jesus saying? Jesus is saying, or what is the text saying? The text is saying, because Jesus goes to the cross. God can give you a position and an inheritance with him because of what Jesus did. He's dividing spoils. He's giving a portion because his soul was poured out unto death. Forgiveness Declared righteous and adopted. That is why there's a gospel. But the last word is so very important, and that's the word accepted. God accepts us on the basis of Christ's work as intercessor. And verse 12, it says that he made intercession for the transgressors. Now, when I lived in Ghana, there were things about Ghanaian culture that I did not understand. There were lots of things about Ghanaian culture I didn't understand. But as I got to understand certain concepts, I saw them to be incredibly beautiful in light of some of the concepts that we read about in the Bible in relation to the gospel. And one of those was this issue of acceptance or intercessor. Now let's say that you had an issue with a person. No, no, let's say that a person had an issue with you. You were a teenager, you were a young adult. You were a young person. And the person that had an issue with you was your dad, your grandfather. A family member who had some authority or clout in the family. You had zero right to go to your dad, to go to your uncle, to go to your grandfather, and make it right. Zero right. You know why that is? Because they would not accept you. You say that's harsh. That was their culture. And I think it's actually a great picture of what this text is talking about If you wanted to be restored to that person, the only way you could do it was to go to somebody that had standing with them. And so you would go to a brother of your dad or a brother of your grandfather, someone who had standing with that person who you had wronged and who had an issue with you And you would appeal to them, and you know what they would do? They would go in your place to the person that wasn't happy with you. And when that person came and stood before that person and they said, Here's why I'm here The guy that had an issue with you would say, I will accept you because I accept him. And that's how restoration took place. I want you to realize that's exactly what the text is talking about here. God accepts you because of Christ. Not because of you, but because of what you do for him. He accepts you and he accepts me because of Christ who stands in our place. That word intercede means he stands between us and the Father. And God accepts us because we're in Christ. Folks, if there was no gospel, there would be no forgiveness. There'd be no standing in God's courtroom We would not have an inheritance, and there would be no way that God could accept us into his presence. Yet all of those things, the things that we cherish as Christians, are all bound up in the work of Christ. God wants us to respond to this day where we remember the resurrection in faith. And so I asked this question: Are you a person that has confidence that you're forgiven and that you are justified, and that you have been adopted by God and He accepts you? Do you have that confidence? Do you know that you are God's child, not because of what you're gonna do for God, what you hope to do for God, but because of what he did for you? If you do not know that for certain, I want you to realize this is probably the greatest opportunity that you have because this is being laid out and this is being explained crystal clear, I hope. That you can be saved right here, right now. It's not about coming forward. It's not about saying words. It's about in your heart, trusting and what Jesus did for you on that cross. It's about you turning your heart and trusting in what he did for you. You can do that today if you've never done that before. I would assume many, maybe most, maybe all, I don't know, have that confidence. And I think sometimes it's really good for us to take the season And to remember, you know, God doesn't accept me because I'm here today, because of what I put in that box. God accepts me because of Christ. I'm not forgiven because of what I'm hoping I can do for God over the next 10, 20 years of my life. But I'm forgiven and accepted because of what he did for me 2,000 years ago. A lot of the problems that we experience internally as Christians is because we do not remember or we do not understand the implications of the gospel. And so I hope that this morning your heart will have a renewed sense of joy that you have in Jesus. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless this time. Just have two questions. My first question is, is there a person here today that say, Pastor, I don't I don't know for certain that I'm saved? Or maybe you know you're not. I I mean But I'm not certain that I'm saved and I need to deal with this issue of salvation. I will not call you down, I will not make a point of view at all, but I would love to make a note that you need to be talked to, and I'll I'll sit down and I'll talk with you. With you. Explain to you from the Bible how you can be saved. Is there anybody here that say, Pastor, that's me? I don't know for certain that I'm saved, and I'd really like to talk to you when you get a chance, either today or sometime during the week. Anybody at all, just raise your hand quietly. Just raise your hand and say, Pastor, I need to talk to you. Nobody else is looking but me. You may not be comfortable raising your hand, and I'm totally okay with that. But if in your heart you're uncertain of salvation, I hope that you will make a point to reach out to me. And I will make a point to sit down with you, whether it's in person, whether it's Through Facebook Messenger or something like that, I will speak with you and take a Bible and show you how you can be saved. My second question is: is there a person here that says, Pastor? I needed today. I needed today so I could be reminded again of what I have in Christ, and so that the source of my joy would flow out of what I have. Christ. And I just want to testify to that. I'm going to raise my hand and say that's me, Pastor. Anybody like that? Definitely hands. Praise the Lord for that. There is no greater blessing that you and I have in all this world than what Jesus Jesus did for us on that cross. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we will have our closing song. Father, thank you again for the opportunity to gather together this Lord's day. We are so blessed. We've been able to enjoy wonderful music. We've been able to express and song wonderful hymns of praise to you. We've been able to look at some of the most profound and glorious scriptures in all of your word. I pray that these truths would settle deeply in our souls. That if there's anyone here that's uncertain of salvation, I pray that through your work, through the word, you'll work in them. And the questions would be answered from the scriptures, or that they'll come to the right place to get the answers. And I pray that all of us would have a renewed sense of your glory and your goodness and what we have in Christ. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to ask you to take your hymn books and let's turn to hymn 38. And the hymn that we're going to sing in our closing is How Great Thou Art. Absolutely love this hymn. It is rich. It is passionate. It is a great, great hymn. Let's stand together and let's sing this place. The testimony to God's greatness. Oh Lord, my God, with thy unstore. I see the stalls, I hear the rolling thunder. How throughout the universe display Then sings my soul, my Savior God to thee, how great thou art. How great thou art , and sinks my soul, my Savior God to thee. How great thou art, how great thou art. On the third, when I see that God his son not spared me, sent him to die, I scarce can see. At all the cause my burden will be hearing Deep and I duty no we must My soul, my Fior God to me. How great thou wore, how great thou wore, and saints my soul, my sin. your God to be how great thou art how great thou art and let's really sing it out in the last here we go when Christ shall come his Shall of acclamation and take me home but joy shall come I shall have in humble adult And there proclaim my God how they thou are And sings my song, my Savior God to thee. How great thou more, how great thou more, and sinks my soul, my Savior God to be How great thou art Well, amen. It's been really good to be in the Lord's house. I hope that you've been blessed this morning. I do want to say that this evening we are going to conclude our series on the resurrection, and so we are going to conclude that in Revelation chapter 21. And we're going to see the end game of how God is going to make all things new. And so I hope that uh if you can be out for that, that you will be able to do that. And I think that you'll find it to be a blessing. If you're not able to be out, I hope that you can check that out online. I think it'll be a blessing to you during the week. I know a lot of us have family and friends in town, and so uh it's so good to have uh folks that have family members. that are here this morning. Uh my parents are here and I'm going to ask my dad to close us in prayer. Um Hope I don't uh put you on the spot there dad but um just thankful to have uh family in in town as well and so I'll ask my dad to close spread yeah to come up here because there's no mic down there And if you're visiting with us and you'd like to uh um like to connect, please do fill out one of those connection cards and put that in the box in the back. And we'll reach out to you. It's good to have you and hope that you have a blessed rest of your Lord's Day. Heavenly Father, we do thank thee for the first day of the week. We know that it's a scriptural principle that Sunday is the first day of the week and it's because of our Lord's resurrection. And I thank you, Lord, for your goodness. Thank you that when you raised Lazarus from the dead before that happened, you told Mary and Martha you're the resurrection and life. And if we believe that We have eternal life. Father, bless this congregation. I thank you for Pastor Joel, our son. We're proud of what he's doing for you. I thank you, Lord, for the people you've brought here, including the guest. Lord, help these folks to be a shining light in this community for our Lord Jesus Christ. And we ask this in his name. Amen.