I'd like to welcome you to our morning service at Anchor Baptist Church. And if you're visiting with us today, Or it's the first time that you've been here in a long time, we want to warmly welcome you. And today's a very special day because it's our last service for our missions emphasis month. And we have an international potluck in the back. So if you walked into the fellowship hall this morning, it's smelling really good. And uh we're looking uh so much forward to that. And uh so thankful to have the Summers family. And in fact, we're going to show a short video uh of their ministry, and then after that, uh Pastor Chris will come with a couple of announcements. And then we'll open our morning service. So, guys, if you could cue that up, and then Pastor Chris will come after that. But be not ye called rabbi, for one is your master, even Christ, and all ye your brothers. reading and if you have a bulletin I encourage you to take a look at that. We do have a lot coming up just in the next two weeks and following. We got our ladies' Bible study on the third at 7 p. m. Please uh make sure you swing by the bullets and board for the uh sign-up sheet as well as um the many other signup sheets that are back there. Uh we also got the Baltimore Rescue Mission coming up on November 8th. That's just two weeks uh two weeks from now. And that's men and women are encouraged to come along to uh to that. And we have our men's breakfast and Bible study November twelfth. There's also a sign up sheet for that. Our senior luncheon will be on the 17th. If you want to notate that as another sign up back there, as well as our team bonfire at the Prisons home. And you may have also noticed back there we got our Leaders in Training Conference volunteer and food sign up. And I encourage you highly to go ahead and go back there as you make your way to the international Potluck to uh check it out, sign up. We need to know shirt sizes this week. So if you're planning to volunteer, at least put your name and your shirt size on there and then you can go back and put Okay. If you could please take your Bibles and let's turn to Together to our opening scripture reading, and that is in First John chapter four. Again, that's first John chapter four. And as we are focusing our attention on the scriptures this morning, we're going to focus on having a heart that is key. continually focused on God's goodness, how important it is that we feed on a godly affection for our Savior and how that channels into our First John chapter 4, verse 7, here's what the scriptures say. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God. God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. And this is manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son. Into the world that we might live through him. Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to be the This is the passage we're going to focus on this morning as we prepare hearts to sing praise to the Lord. Later on we'll look at the text that we will uh look at from Our preaching. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to take this time. Really use it in our hearts today. Father, we are so richly blessed to be called your people. We are unworthy to be called your people. Your people, we are sinners, we are unrighteous, but the work of Christ has paid in full the sin debt that we just have earned by We thank you for the grace of God that sent Christ to the cross to die for our sins, his triumph over death and the resurrection. We thank you for his perfect resurrection. Righteousness that is imputed to all who will place their faith in that finished work. I pray that you'd help us this morning to have a greater appreciation for the depths of the gospel. Help us to understand Its rich implications. Help us to understand what it means to walk in the light of the gospel and for the love of Christ to be channeled through us. I pray that you would stir up our hearts, develop in our hearts a godly affection for you and for your people. Father, be with those who can't be with us today. I know there are some who are sick There are some who have traveled. I pray that you would strengthen those who are physically infirmed. I pray that you would strengthen their bodies, encourage their spirits, as they may be very weary and discouraged. Young man who had a terrible accident, a student at Calvary Baptist just a few weeks ago. been a very difficult recovery for him. Father, be with those in our congregation who are grieving the loss of a dear family member. I pray that you would uphold And strengthen them. And Father, I pray that you would take the word this morning and you would minister to the specific needs of your people. Bless the preaching, teaching of your word. May all that is done done today, strengthen, encourage your people. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Thank you so much for joining us here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please open your hymn books to hymn number five. Please stand with me as we sing O4 ,000 Tongues to Sing. We'll sing the first, second, fourth, and fifth verse. Oh , for a property , like we get a place. Lord Parridham, my God and King Badvayapama My gracious master and my God last and we Here , Elinor, you 're not going to If I move on to that And over to him number one 177, our great savior. 177. Again, we'll sing verses 1, 2, 4, and 5. Sing out this morning. Víppään morat maito. Oh , friends may be bad, me like hello. Savish Navy Bhishma We Jesus, my children So that 's why I thought I 'd spell it. Valeluja See the guy that gave me Storm I think in my card , in my heart Seghapish. S now make things more and all in my He has me for Pedrunya a walk save walk. Great singing. Please be seated as we turn back to hymn number fourteen. Hymn number fourteen. Worthy of praise. We'll sing both verses. My heart overflows with praise to the Lord. I will let My voice is like No, no, no. My blessing is raised, my heart feels in love, it word is I went through my way. Take money and break forever and go and lose warning for his death. Worthy above my friend, you are worthy. Am I not working well alone? Great singing this morning. Scripture reading will be found in the book of Revelation. The book of the Revelation of Jesus Christ. Revelation chapter 2, verses 1 through 7. Revelation chapter 2. Verses one through seven. The scriptures say, Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus, right, These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand Who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks? I know thy works and thy labor, and thy patience. And how thou canst not bear them which are evil, and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars. And hast borne, and hast patience, and for my name's sake hast labored and hast not fainted. Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his Place, except thou repent. But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the the churches. To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life which is in the midst of the paradise of God. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his Hello, I think it's a very good thing. Man, thank you for that. Continue our singing, we'll open our hymn books to hymn number one hundred fifty six. But first we have special. Good morning. So this month we've been celebrating uh and really embracing the Missions Ephesus Month, but traditionally this month has also been used to emphasize a mission field much closer to home. And to that effect, I'd like Pastor Joel and Pastor Chris to join me up here on stage if possible. Yes, October is also traditionally Pastor Appreciation Month. Um, and uh this month this month the church is really come together to uh thank Pastor Joel and Pastor Chris for their ministry here. Um both have been called near and abroad. And uh What'd you say? Oh yeah, yeah. That would be appreciated. But uh both near and abroad here and uh um to be called elsewhere as well. And we just wanted to show their appreciation. So on behalf On behalf of the church, uh, we have a gift for both of you. Who doesn't love a good passport? 156 in our hymn books. 156. How can it be? We'll sing all three verses. Oh Sega Rap my I feel the wonder But when we At that I knew that I'll call it me, I'll carry me one. So I come with the father From there, I say to restill me all in my contradictory There could be me, all my Great singing. own. Please stand with me once more as we turn to our song in the blue book. Number sixty-five in the blue book. We'll sing all three verses, and if we don't mind Can we sing that last verse, A Capella? Sing out this morning. Great singing. God has wished for creation Making all the point of my clothes. Oh what I saw. Oh what I less on that stone. He exists and maybe know God has spoken for the strength. Reading out this one, Sweet Black Holy Other, and we 're not Teaching of centers of a free back report God as fruiters pointing out to Jesus Christ. Pointing us to Jesus Christing out, God has shouted the Favor Greatest one of God to men, word made by Christ con One of us without us then see the fire sweation Singing hen, singing God, God has seen your Praise the living word of God, praise the living word of God Amen. Please be seated. Rescue the perishing care for the dying , sat beneath from sin and the grave We for the Eric one land of the fallen , the Lambi, that the mighty to say Jesus is perfect for Jesus will say So they are silent and still means waiting, waiting up and I can shop to repeat. Plead with them earnestly, plead with them gently. He will forgive if they only leave Rescue the perishing care for the dying. Jesus is merciful. Jesus will save Rescue the perishing duty demand, straight for thy labor the Lord will provide Back to the narrow way, patiently wind, till the forwander a Savior has died Rescue the perishing care for the dying. Jesus is merciful. Jesus will say Okay, well our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back with their parents assistance. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles. Let's turn to the book of Revelation. We're in Revelation chapter two this morning. And I wanted to first of all say I really appreciate the church's uh expression And I will tell you that as the pastor of this church, I am very, very grateful to be able to pastor this church. And I I just I am a very, very blessed person. Um when we have missionaries come through, I I believe that many of the missionaries that come through Through our church, we are one of their absolute favorite churches they visit. And the reason is because we ask questions that indicate we're thinking and we're engaged in what we're being presented with. People are very hospitable and I know our missionaries see that. Their children come into our children's classes and they feel very welcomed. And the truth is that I'm very blessed to be able to pastor this church. And I'm thankful for each of you. And when I pray for you, I pray with gratitude. I really do. And so uh thank you for showing appreciation, but I want to say I'm appreciative of your faithfulness and for this body. Revelation chapter two is where we are this morning And we've been working our way through a storyline. The story that we're working through is the story of a church plant. And as we've been working our way through these various texts of scripture, Sometimes when we read the Bible, we don't understand kind of the chronological aspect of what we're looking at. The truth is that the Bible is not written chronologically for the most part. You'll come to a book of the Bible and the book that's right before it wasn't necessarily written, you know, twenty years or ten years or five years before that book was written. You have to dig into the details and you have to have to go to places like the book of Acts sometimes. You have to read a lot of history and put the pieces together to understand what's going on. And by the way, when you do that, a lot of times there will be some insight that you will appreciate far better after having dug into those those conversations and seeing what's going on to be able to understand the significance of a passage. The passage we're going to look at this morning was written about fifty years. Let that sink in. Fifty years after the church. Ephesus was originally planted. Now to put that into perspective, our church right here has not existed for 50 years. You understand that From the original group of people that started what was community Baptist in the wing where our classrooms are, which became Anchor Baptists later on, from that group There's only one lady, Carrie Teague, who is still living and a member of this church. There are a few other folks Folks who are still alive, they don't live locally, but from that original group, she's in her nineties, okay? And so the time period that we're talking about in this text of scripture Is actually longer than the history of this congregation right here. And for those of you that have been a part of this church for, say, 25 or 30 years, and there are a few Now, there's been overlap of people between those congregations. But the truth is that people have their children and their children grow up and they they move out of the area, all kinds of different situations. New people come into the kids. community. And so in this location, there has been a church for less time than the history that we're talking about. That's extremely significant, and I think it's extremely significant because of the way that John speaks about the maturity and the depth And the strength of this particular church. Let's read in Revelation chapter 2 and allow these details to kind of settle into our heart as we reflect on a very important topic. Revelation chapter 2, verse 1 says this. Unto the angel of the church at Ephesus, write these things, saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand. right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. I know thy works, and thy labor, and thy patience, how thou canst not bear them which are evil, and thou hast tried them, which say they are apostles And are not, and has found them liars, and has borne, and has patience, and for my name's sake, has labored and not Fainted. Now I'm going to stop there in the scripture reading though. We are going to look at the rest of this letter within the letter, the book of Revelation. We're going to look at the rest of it as well, but I want to start stop there so that we can understand some of the background because of what's going on here. So first of all, let me give you kind of a summary statement to help you appreciate what's going on in these Verses. The rich history of the Ephesian church did not make it immune to the devastating temptation that the Apostle John is going to address in these verses. It's a devastating temptation that every church, in every culture, in every generation, every single church has the potential to fall prey to what John is going to. address in these verses. Every single congregation is going to deal with on some level what he's going to address in these verses. By the way, when we read the book of Revelation, I want you to understand this book was actually written to a group of churches. And if you wonder why my arms kind of low, it's because I did something to my shoulder this week. But he did, he's writing to the church at Ephesus, but a s a group of churches that kind of spread out cyclically from the church at Ephesus. They were a part of the region Called Asia. Maybe you've heard me talk about that throughout this series. All of those churches are connected back to the church at Ephesus. And so before John gets into the content of the book of Revelation, talking about eschatology and things to come, he addresses those seven churches that are the recipients, the immediate recipients of the Book. And out of all those churches, the first one that he addresses is the oldest, and more than likely the one that was the root of all those other church players. He's warning this church, a mature church, a strong church, an old church, that they were in danger. We'll look at that this morning. Before we get into that, I want to ask three questions. The first question is what is this root this root problem, this fatal root problem? What's going to happen if the church at Ephesus or an individual fails to identify what he's talking about and then to address this problem? Thirdly, well what's the remedy to the issue? I'm going to answer those questions, but in order for you to appreciate the answer to those questions, you have to understand the other parts of this letter that John is writing, being moved by the Holy Spirit to write. First of all, let's talk for a few moments about the history of the church at Ephesians. We're reading uh over fifty years of history and kind of reminding you back to what's going on. When Paul went to Ephesus as a city, he was a vibrant middle-aged man. Now, what I mean by vibrant is is the guy traveled everywhere. a mid He worked really hard. He was passionate about what he did. When he was beaten and left for dead, he got back up. He went right back into the same communities where he had been driven out and left for dead Dad. The Apostle Paul was a focused man, he was a vibrant man, he was motivated, he was passionate, he was hardworking, he was principled. The Apostle Paul is the person who That God used with the help of Aquila and Priscilla to begin the establishment of the church at Ephesus. Nearly five years after that church was established, the Apostle Paul was able to go back to Ephesus Ephesus, and it says he was able to meet with the Ephesian elders and the deacons. That means that there were a group of men that were there at Ephesus who could be potentially qualified. and were appointed to official pastoral office. And so from that group of men, I would assume that some of those men would have been pastoring the church at A Ephesus, and some of those men would have been the very men that started these other churches that we read about in Asia Minor. After only five years, Paul is able to address these About ten years later, the church at Ephesus is going through some internal trouble. And so Paul sends back out of all the people that he worked with. Timothy was his closest associate. He sent him back to address those issues. And they were not easy issues. There were certain men in pastoral ministry that were not qualified, or they were not continuing to do the work of the ministry of appropriately and Timothy had to confront those individuals. Some of them had to be removed from office. He had to reestablish sound doctrine and practice. Nobody in this room would have wanted to be a part of such A difficult task. Yet God calls this man to do it, and Paul sends him. Shortly after Paul's death, and we're talking about probably about fifteen years or so, twenty years after the founding of Paul. of the church at Ephesus, he writes an extremely personal letter to Timothy. And he basically says, and your hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Jesus Christ. Don't give up. Be faithful. I'm about to die, and you need to carry on the work in my absence. But that's not the end of the story with this church. I mean, 20 years is a pretty long period of time in the life of most churches. If someone becomes a Christian, say at 20 years old, and they get married And they start having children, their kids are going to college in this time period. You understand that? And a lot can happen in that time period. A lot of turnover and transition, a difference of mindset can take root in a congregation in a twenty year Period. But what we see is that God in His mercy brings another very influential apostle, the Apostle John, to the church at Ephesus. And about 30 years after the church is found John writes a series of pastoral letters. We call them the Johannine epistles. And they're very personal, and they're written to people within the church that John deeply loved. Fifty years later, after the founding of the church, we read this book right here. I want to put this in perspective. The first generation of Christians at the church Ephesus, we're saved out of deep paganism. This morning in our Sunday school class, we talked, uh, John was able to talk about traditional religions in the context where he works in Africa. And some of the things that he shared with you, you probably were like, I never heard such a thing. I know people thought this way and believed these things. Yet you you may not realize this, but there's more people on the African continent by far than there are in this country, okay? So the way that we think as Americans is dwarfed by the way people think on the Asian continent and the way that people think on the African continent. Continent. And might I add, it's going to get a lot more of that in twenty years as we stop having children and families and we start seeing major populations. Declines in our Western world. Fifty years, the oldest people in that church could have been saved out of deep paganism and they could have seen their children. And their grandchildren and their great-grandchildren come to faith in Christ. It's sad to say this, but a lot of churches in America don't see this. How many of you say, my great grandfather or great grandmother, I know for a fact they were a vibrant Christian. Can anybody raise your hand and say that I I see some hands. That's that's that's tremendous. Anybody go beyond that? I can't I I don't really know the history and the background of my great-great-grandparents. But there were people in this church who could say that That's a rich history. That's an amazing thing to consider the passing on of the faith from one generation to the next. I want to go from the history now and kind of draw your attention to some of the privileges that this particular church church enjoyed. Some of these are privileges that every church enjoys, and some of them were very unique and particular to the church at Ephesus. For instance, this one is not one that we enjoy. At least not directly. We enjoy this through the scriptures. But the apostles John and Paul actually worked in that church for an extended period of time. Every time we read from the Apostle Paul's writings, every time that we preach out of the Johannine book, we're getting to actually get on some level their ministry, okay? But we don't have their passion. Pastoral ministry in a personal sense. These people did. This church, the church at Ephesus, was the direct recipient of at least eight New Testament books Ephesians, 1 2 Timothy, the Gospel of John, 1 2nd, 3rd John, and the Book of Revelation. Now that's not to say that they were the only church that received these. Books, but they were written to individuals who were pastoring that church or who were a part of that church for the season in which they were written. They received a lot of attention in that fifty year. They were directly instrumental in the founding of numerous churches. churches could be linked back on some level to the church at Ephesus. In our forty years associated of history, how many churches could we say that about? It's an amazing thing because everyone say, well, we have we have our hand in subministries through financially supporting, we lift all these missionaries. And that's true. But how many people have we sent out from our own midst who got saved, baptized, discipled, mentored, and sent out through this midst? Yet this church, a church in a pagan city at Ephesus, was involved in all his church plans. That's a stunning thing to consider. That is an amazing heritage. The church was personally acting, the Lord Jesus Christ is personally active in the church. And he talks about that. He actually reminds the people of that in the early part of this letter. Chapter 2, verse 1, he says Unto the angel of the church at Ephesus, right. That word angel means messenger. And it's likely that when he says angel, he's talking about the individual who prominently taught the Word of God week in and week out in that church. This is someone that the Lord Jesus Christ was actively, personally working in and through. And by the way, any gospel preaching Christian church that has the regular ministry of the word. That would be true of that particular congregation. We also see in verse number one, he was acting Preserving the congregation, he says, These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand. And the idea of holding the seven stars in his right hand, he's using an analogy He's speaking figuratively here, but he's basically saying, I preserve the church. Like it says in Matthew, I will build my church And the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Literally, God preserves the church from generation to generation through the ministry of the word, through the gospel going out, through disciples being made, through people instructing their children. He builds the church, he holds the church, he preserves the church, and he draws their attention to that. Also in verse number one, he talks about his literal presence in the assembly. Verse 1. It says, he walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. When we gather together as a local church We are personally indwelt by the Holy Spirit. But there is a unique sense that the Bible talks about in the gathering of the assembly He's working actively in our midst in a very profound manner. Something very special, something very sacred about gathering together as believers, and he's drawing their attention. And then in verse 2, he talks about how he's intimately aware what was going on in their church. He says, I know thy Works. Jesus is aware of the good, the bad, the ugly, the beautiful, the strong, the weak. He's aware of it all when it comes to his church He cares. He takes note. So this was a church of rich heritage. Rich opportunity. Some of this heritage is something that you and I cannot claim for our own congregation. And some is. I want you to notice that. There's a third dimension to this I want you to see, and that is the health of the church. Now if you've been a part of a congregation long enough to watch one generation rise up, them raise their kids and those kids go and do what they're gonna do. You will see that some congregations kind of link into the next generation very well and some of them they they they literally dissolve they fall apart Heart, some churches even cease to exist. You've probably seen both take place in your lifetime. And sometimes it's hard for us to even process But not just one generation coming and going and another generation coming and going. We're really looking at a third generation Of Christians who are now, they're the strong ones, they're the teachers, they're the ones who are doing the majority of the work. That first generation is very elderly. And probably may not even be alive anymore. And even that second generation, some of them are getting old enough that they're not able to do a lot of the things that they did before. So we're talking about the third generation. How many times do you see a child Church that is mature and strong and steadfast in that generation. It happens, but not enough. Yet I want you to hear the way that he describes the church. Listen carefully to chapter 2, verse 2. He says, I know thy works and thy labor and thy patience, how thou canst not bear them which are evil and hast tried them which say they are apostles And or not, and has found them liars, and has borne and has patience, and for my name's sake has labored and not fainted. What I want to do is kind of break down the little details. Of what he's referring to in these verses that kind of give us a picture of the maturity and the depth of this church. We know that this church had a long history, it had doctrinal purity, it had a ministry of faithfulness. They brought their books, they burned them before all men. They counted the price of those and found it was fifty thousand pieces of silver, millions and millions and millions of dollars worth of material. They burned it because they wanted to break from it. They had turned to Christ and they had placed their faith in the gospel. They wanted nothing to do with their former sinful lifestyles. It says so mightily grew the word of God and prevailed. It's pretty awesome, isn't it? That is a neat thing to see. If you've had the opportunity to see that kind of transformation in the lives of people, you're a blessed person to have we That was their story. Fifty years after that, he says, You have faithfully endured in the work of Ministry. The way he puts it is, I know your works, and that word works is referring to their ministry of service. They were a laboring people. If there was someone who was physically infirm, they came alongside and they strengthened that person. If there was a need within the congregation, people stepped up and they met those needs. Need. And it would have been in so many different areas. It's kind of a general statement, but he's saying, you are a ministering group of people after 50 years, multiple generations coming and going, they were a ministering church. They weren't a lethargic church, a dead church, a ministry church. He says, I know thy labor. And that word labor is a very unique word. It's a vivid word used in a lot of different contexts. Context in the New Testament. And in most of those contexts, it's used in connection to someone enduring a very difficult affliction. In fact, in several of the passages that I analyzed, they were referring to the Apostle Paul when he endured the beatings that he experienced in certain cities. So when he talks about their ministry and then their labor, he's saying, You're a church that has endured rigorous heart. Hardship. That might be why they were such a strong church. They'd endured such a thing. He then goes on to say, and your patience the word patience means that they were enduring Lots of things in life that we set out to do, we're excited about them, we're passionate about them, and then we get into the work and it's not as fun as we thought it would be and nobody seems to notice it the way that we expected them to and it's not as successful as we anticipated it and it starts wearing us down and we get weird you know what we do? We eventually kind of back out This church wasn't like that. They endured. I mean, honestly, could could the Lord Jesus say this about most churches? Not a chance. We ask our missionaries and the churches that they've been to on their furlough and how many of the churches that you've been back in that you love the people and they love you, could you could these things actually The second detail he says that they stood uncompromisingly on matters of holiness. We understand how difficult it is to just stand up and say, This is what I believe when we're pressed into a corner. When we know that it's going to cost us something. We're like coming to a point in our nation where it's actually starting to cost Christians something to be standing on the truth. It wasn't like that in most generations. We are not even close to the level that these Christians would have endured. In Christ are enduring in other parts of the world, not even close. He says you cannot bear those who are evil That word bear is the idea of carrying this heavy burden that wears you down. I think about Lot when he was living in Sodom, and it says his righteous soul was vexed. So like when he walks out his door and he starts walking down the street and he sees the chaos in his city, it just brings heaven And this man, he was falling apart inside his family, this hall for all practical purposes. Purposes. This church stood under the weight. That means they had a conscience. That means they had a sense of principle. That means that they were standing against the press that was going on in their society. The third thing is that they were a discerning and uncompromising church in matters of We know throughout the history of this church, there were periods where people got into authority who were leading the church who were not sound in doctrine, and Paul had to send Timothy to address those issues. But here, 50 years after its founding, it's a strong church. There's doctrinal purity. And the way he puts it in verse number two is he says, Thou hast tried Tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and has found them to be liars. And that word tried has the idea of there was a careful deliberation when someone makes a claim, I'm an apostle. I'm preaching the word of God. They didn't just say, no, you're not, or yes, we are. They stepped back and they said, let's look at this situation. Let's ask some questions. Let's analyze their claim and see if it stacks up against the truth. And when a person fell short, you have found them to be liars. The idea is the result of that careful scrutiny was they said not an apostle, no authority from Christ. We reject their message. That's discernment. Just discernment. They were devoted to a God-directed motivation. Verse 3 says, he says, It's for my name's sake You have labored and has not fainted. Labored, and this is interesting. He's actually doing a play on words here. You've labored, that means you've grown weary in your work, but you've not you've not grown or you have not faded. The idea is You've labored, you've gotten weary, but you've not gotten weary. You go, how is that possible? If you do anything of value, you're gonna get tired, but you'll continue. That's really what he's saying. So while they felt the press, and while they felt the difficulty, they endured. They pushed through it. They didn't quit. They didn't fall to the side. At this point in the message you go, how in the world could a church like this ever have Jesus say something negative to them? Because my life doesn't meet this standard of expectation. I don't know any churches that come to this level after 50 years. That's what makes his point so profound. That's what makes it so sobering. Because the point of the letter is not, I'm cheering you on. It's while I can cheer you on, there's something going on that's very Very dangerous. And I'm very concerned about it. It'd almost be like a person who's in great physical shape. They're not just running, you know, a mile, three miles, they run marathons. And they do it regularly. They run regularly. And if they go to the doctor, and the doctor looks at them and say, Your blood pressure is good. You eat healthy. Your weight is just right. You are a specimen of health for your age, but they don't know something. This person has a heart defect. That is genetic. It's got nothing to do with what they eat. nothing to do with how they exercise. It's invisible to the tests that they do. And what this person doesn't know is the next time they run a marathon, they're gonna fall. Have a massive heart attack attack. I know people that's happened to. So while they look like a specimen of health, in some ways they are In other ways, they're in big trouble. That's what John's saying in this passage. So what's the point? There's an aspect to congregational health that's far deeper and far more significant. than all these wonderful visible qualities. He's going to confront that problem. Verse number four, here's what he says Nevertheless, the strongest word in the whole verse. I said all these great things, but here is what I really am here to say. I have somewhat against thee. Thou hast left thy first love. When he says, I have something against you, he's saying, right here, right Right now, at this very moment, as I look at all the things that I could positively say about the church, you have this problem, it's going to kill you. That's what he said. say we need to listen to what he has to say here. He says thou hast left thy first love. Now when he says thou hast left thy first love, he's saying it wasn't always the same This way in your life. There was a time when this was not the way you lived. It's not the way you thought. It's not what was in your heart. When he says thou hast left thy first love, he's literally talking about the culture of the church. They had become a church that was doing everything right. On paper, but the motivation had changed. This is a tremendous danger for Christians It really is. You know how many people when they're young Christians they're passionate about the things of the Lord and I mean they stumble in so many ways, but when you interact with them, you're like, this person loves Jesus. They love the Lord. They say kind of goofy things sometimes the way they express themselves isn't the way the more mature Christians express themselves. And you kind of you you can understand what they're saying. But then after a while, that That passion begins to develop into maturity. But that maturity may not necessarily be sustained by the same thing as it grows in time. The fact that a person can expound the scriptures absolutely says nothing about the state of their soul before the Lord and its health. It really doesn't You can be dying spiritually. I don't mean you're spiritually lost, I mean you are dying in your health as a Christian. And you can get up and teach a Sunday school class with great Clarity. And you can teach the word of God in a way that really impacts people's lives. You can give great advice. You can be very discerning about situations. But what's going on Going on under the surface is as fatal to you spiritually in your growth as what's going on in the heart of a person that has that physical infirmity that the doctor hasn't seen. He says you've left your first love. The idea is that the person who should be number one in your life, the one that you love with all your heart and all your soul soul and all your strength. When you first understood I'm a sinner and I'm broken and I'm unrighteous and there's no reason that I should stand before a holy righteous God. And Christ paid it all and I and I feel the burden lifted off my heart because Christ paid in full my Sin debt, you don't love him anymore like you did. Now you may look like you do, but love is not a physical quality. Quality, folks. Love is expressed with our physical bodies. It's not a physical quality. It's a matter of the heart And this exhortation is multifaceted. Verse 5 he says, Remember from whence thou art fallen, repent, do the first work, or else I'll come into thee quickly, and I'll remove thy candlestick out of his place. Except I repent. Three words. Remember, repent. I guess do the first work isn't a word, it's a statement. But three facets. Remember You need to take some serious self-reflection and ask the question. Am I literally running on the fumes of 20 years? Or am I actually serving God with a real healthy, vibrant love for him right and here and now? That word remember has the idea of not just like do it once then you got It's like every single day you gotta do this. Repent means that the way that you're thinking is wrong and it's got to change. Your mindset toward these issues has got to change. And the way that it's written is this has got to become a part of the culture of the church. That you are part of. Do the first work means you've got to cultivate a healthy, vibrant walk with Christ. And this is something that has got to be a continual part of your daily walk. There is a sense to our service that doesn't matter at all. And I'm not saying it all doesn't matter at all. But I'm saying there is a sense to it which it doesn't matter at all. Doesn't give you a standing with God. It's literally just a byproduct of some It might be a byproduct of fear. It may be a byproduct of rivalry. It may be a byproduct of the fact that you don't want to be embarrassed because you don't do what you used to do. It's supposed to be a byproduct of love. It's supposed to be a byproduct of a healthy, vibrant walk with God that produces fruitfulness. And so here are the questions. What is the faithful root? It's a cold and complacent heart. What's going to happen if a church fails to heed Christ's warning? It will die. What's the remedy? There's got to be a change of mindset, a reprioritation on a vibrant walk with Christ that continues to shape the culture of the church. As I've reflected on this, I could probably go on for another hour, but I'm not going to do that, don't worry. There's a lot that the Holy Spirit can take here And start working on your heart. We're still enjoying those burning out fumes of that movement. Burning out quickly, might I say. We're still experiencing The benefits of it. It's amazing, but it's true. In our legal system, in our families, and the way that we work, all those things, what we've had in our culture that we are losing today is a Direct result of the fumes of that period. And we're seeing what happens when a generation doesn't have the source anymore. So we're seeing. You can see it in churches. Why do we need missionaries? Because there are countries and cultures where the gospel was once present, thriving, churches are being established, and churches are being established. out of churches that were established. And leadership was being raised up and it was literally transforming individuals, communities, and cultures. And then this happened. And guess what? We need missionaries now. It's happening in England. England used to be a powerhouse When it came to sending out missionaries, Scotland. How many missionaries that we read about in church history? They came out of Scotland and Northern Ireland. Great. Britain. Yet there's churches closing all over the place. And the truth is when it starts happening, it happens really fast. Things die slowly under the surface, and then they drop off the ledge really fast. That's the way things die. And so the exhortation in this text is don't let that be what happens to you. Don't Don't let that be what happens to this church. Don't let that be what happens on the personal level. The truth is that the generation following us If they see us talk about God and they see us talk about the importance of service and talk about the importance of the local church, but they see a bitter and critical spirit and they don't see a genuine love for God. Christ. They go, I don't want this. I don't know what it is. It's restrictive. It's harsh. I don't want it. Why would they want it? But when they look and they say, my mom and dad are the real deal, they love Jesus. They're flawed people, but they truly love Christ. Your kids say I want that. While everything going around around us in our culture is imploding, they say, Why would I want this garbage? I want the real deal. I want the truth. The sobering truth is it's possible to faithfully endure, stand uncompromisingly, have discernment, live a devoted, God-directed life, and be dying How hard we work, how carefully we analyze, how passionately we confront, it's not the whole picture. There's no substitute for a properly motivated Christian experience. Our foremost duty is to love the Lord our God with all our heart. Heart, soul, and mind. We cannot live in the history of the past or in the moments of our youth. Of your life of holiness without the love that produces it. So, what's the application? How is the Holy Spirit pressing your heart right now? Are you re are you responding to him? Are you letting him convict you? You say, Pastor, it makes me feel really uncomfortable. It does It's true. But until you have that hard conversation with yourself about what's really going on inside, nothing changes. Until there's a humbling of our hearts, change of perspective. A re-establishing of the tools that God has ordained to stir up the passions of our soul. Nothing changes. We've got to look at our lives. Honestly. We've got to allow the Holy Spirit to regularly confront us and change our mindset. We've got to take up the tools that God has ordained to continually stir our affections for Him. You cannot neglect the local church. You cannot neglect the ministry of the word in private. You cannot neglect the authoritative preaching of the word of God You cannot neglect the Spirit's prompting and working in your heart. You can't neglect the meditation on the gospel and its implications and its richness You cannot grow and thrive without faithfully actually serving in the capacities that God has gifted you to be able to serve his church. These are the things God uses. You know, a Christian that decides I'm going to withdraw from the church is a Christian that's going to have huge, huge spiritual problems. It's a Christian that's going to watch the next generation begin to fall apart. A Christian who is serving as God has fitted them is a Christian who might be getting tithed. Tired, might feel discouragements, but also their heart gets stirred up in those conversations. They get pressed and they get stronger and they get more mature. A Christian that regularly meditates on the word has a totally different perspective than the one who picks up their Bible when they have to because other people see it. We've got to deal with the heart And so I close with two scriptures. I'm just going to read them and let the word do its work. Here's the first one: Hebrews 10:24. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good work. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another and so much the more as you see the day approaching Number two, Ephesians 4 11. He gave gifts to the church for the perfecting of the same. Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come into the unity of the faith, that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro, carried with every wind of doctrine Speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things, according to the effectual working unto the edifying of itself and love. Of the Lord. Let it sink into your hearts. Let's pray. Father, may your spirit do his work, whether it be deeply painful, whether it be very comforting and encouraging. Whether it be a mild correction, whatever its work, may we respond to it appropriately Father, I love this church. I'm thankful for each person that is here today and those who have joined us on the live stream. I don't love them as much as you do, though. Father, may you work in their hearts for the health of their own souls and the health of the generation that will follow Follow them. May we grow together into Christ's likeness until you return. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The song we're going to sing in our closing is hymn 251 near the cross. I'd like to invite you to turn there. Let's stand together. And we're going to sing all four verses. And uh after that, I don't know who the folks are that are helping in the back, but if you need to go out right now to help get things set up, feel free to do that. 251 near the cross. Let's really sing it out and let's really reflect on it. Very, very important song for us to sing this morning. 251. Jesus gave me here the cross her oppression Flees to all my heavy stream flows from Calice Milton In the cross, in the cross, be my road. Till my asher tool shall find less be on the second Near the cross such family soul, while an mercy found me There 's a price and morning star shares its things around me Is the cross, in the cross, be my glory Till my nature soul shall find rest me on the river. Let's sing the last. And we come to the chorus, if you could drop out and we'll sing it a cappella as we reflect on it. Here we go. Holding trusting strength In the cross. Be my till my gather soul shall find Rash be on the great song to close on, isn't it? Uh brother Ralph Pridgin, could you please close us in prayer and also thank the Lord for the food? And then after that, I'm going to ask that if you are not in the category small children you go first. If you don't have any small children, go first. And then we'll let our families with small children uh go after you so that you will be able to get food without a And uh we are our parents will we the parents will do our best to keep our kids corraled. Um looking for to a great time of fellowship. If you're visiting with us today and you say, I didn't know we were having a potluck. I didn't bring any food, can I still say yes, you can stay. Don't don't feel like you can't. Um And uh if you could come by and uh just shake my hand. Well give me a fist bump because this arm's a little not quite ready yet. But uh uh you know, come by and greet me and uh good to have you with us. Ralph, please Please close us in prayer. Lord and Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day we can gather around your word. We pray that your spirit would move in us, bring remind us of our first love. Give us an opportunity to go through the week and say it was good to be here today. Now we pray for the food, Lord. We pray that it would nourish our bodies. We pray for the fellowship. We pray that we would be mindful as it would We eat these foods from different places that we're yoked together with those believers. And we give you the honor and glory in Christ's name. Amen.