I'd like to invite each of you to turn with me in your Bibles to Luke chapter 21 this morning. And the text we're looking at, we're going to read is verses 7 through 11, but we're actually going to look at quite a bit more than just those couple verses and the topic that we're going to address this morning is finding comfort in the second coming of Christ. Finding comfort in the second coming of Christ. I'm going to read the text. We'll bow together for prayer and then dig into this very important topic. It says, and they asked him, saying, Master. When shall these things be? And what sign will there be when these things shall come to pass? He said, Take heed that ye be not deceived. Many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ. The time draweth near. Go ye now, therefore, go ye not therefore after them. But when ye shall hear of wars and commotions, do not be terrified, for these things must first come to pass. But the end is not, by and by. Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and great earthquakes shall be in diverse places and famines and pestilence. And fearful sights and great signs shall there be from heaven. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to really help us to understand the importance of these truths. Father, as we think about this passage in front of us, I pray that you would give us a very special, special measure of attentive focus this morning. Father, strengthen us. Help us to understand the intent for which Christ gave these teachings. And Father, help us to see how what He said then is just as pertinent today. Help us to digest these truths. Help us to think often on them and help them to direct us to rest in your perfect care in our lives. I pray that you would give us a special measure of strength as we think about these truths today. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. How many of you have ever taught a Sunday school class maybe with junior high boys? And you're going, Oh, that was an experience. I see some hands already going up. And they ask you this question, and in the back of your mind, you're like Do you want the long answer or do you want the short answer? Have you ever been in a situation like that? Or maybe it's not junior high boys. Maybe it's one of your kids. And they come and ask you this question and you're like, okay, I could give you a real simple short answer, but I feel like there's a lot more that I can say about this, but I think for right now, what you need is this amount of information. Have you ever been in a situation like that? In fact the truth is sometimes wisdom as we get older is realizing what people need to know in order to actually do what they need to do and what maybe isn't necessary. in the moment for them at that time. And this would be an example of Christ addressing a topic that the reality is when he gets these questions, he could have sat there And he could have gone into a lot of information. But what Jesus chooses to do in this text of Scripture is to give the information that is most pertinent. at the time to the people that are there. And the reason he does it in this way is because this is something that is timeless for every period in history. We need what God gives these people in this moment. And so I'm going to summarize the text in front of us in the following way. God's personal care and his certain deliverance should bring all of us immense comfort. Now when I say all I mean believers Someone's not a believer, this doesn't bring comfort. This is a warning. This tells us that there is a day that we are going to meet our Maker. There's a day that Christ is going to come back and whether it is in the air or whether it is by us dying, whatever the situation We will one day meet the Lord. It is appointed unto man once to die and after this to judgment. And so when we talk about this passage, it really can go into two different directions. For the believer, it's comfort. For the unbeliever, it's warning. Do not sit back and ignore the fact that one day you will stand before the Lord. But the focus that I want us to look at this morning is how God wants us to find comfort, deep comfort. And the fact that he personally cares for us no matter what is going on in the world today. The truth is if all you spend time on is watching the news. Watching little video clips, deep diving into all these stories, you are going to be a miserable, terrified person. Because there is no end for horrible stories out there. And they're true stories and they're really happening. And if all your time is given to focusing on the horrible things in the world, you will live a miserable life. This passage gives great instruction for us in that situation. So, how can we find deep comfort? And rest in the personal care of our God. First thing I want you to do is I want you to notice the complex question that is asked to the people. Now I don't think that they understood entirely how complicated their question and all the different areas that this would go into was. But notice what it says in verse number seven. It says, When shall these things be, and what signs will they be when these things shall come to pass? Now in the minds of the people There was a reason that they asked those two questions. What was the catalyst for that question? Well, if we want to know, we need to go back to the verse before. And notice what Jesus says in verse number six. It says, As for these things which ye behold, the days will come in the which there shall not be left one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. Now, here's what's going on in this passage of scripture. We know that Christ has been having a lot of conflict with the religious leaders. They've been asking him questions, he's been asking them questions, he's been speaking in parables to them. He's been very blunt and he's been very very pointed and how he has critiqued their viewpoints and how he has gotten at the source of where their greatest problems lie. They're rejecting the Christ. And then we can see in the context leading up to this teaching that in fact these people, because their perspective is flawed and it is short-sighted, what they're most consumed with is the beautiful structure right in front of them, the temple. Now for some of these people, we need to realize that for most of their lives, that temple and the construction of the temple was a central feature every time they went up into Jerusalem. So it took literally 80 years for them to take the structure of Zerubbabel and to build upon it what is Herod's temple at the time. And so during that time period, every time someone would have come up to Jerusalem, they'd see a little bit more work's been done, a little bit more work's been done, and it looks a little bit more impressive. And this would have been a central talking point for lots and lots of people Jesus has just stated that that temple is going to be completely destroyed. By the way, it was. If you go up to Jerusalem today, you will not see that structure. The reason for that is because as Jesus predicted, in fact, it did get destroyed. But there are several layers to the questions that they're asking Christ. There are two. One, when will these things be? What things are they thinking about? Well, they're thinking about the destruction of the temple. When's that going to happen? But then there's a second statement that is made. And when will be the end of the age? Now here's what's interesting. Those questions are not necessarily answered in the same way. Because there could be several different streams that these people don't understand. And so they're concerned about when is the temple going to be destroyed? And number two, when is the end of all of these things? Well, what Jesus does is he takes a very complicated topic and he focuses in on what is most important for them in that moment. Notice the complexity of this topic. Look down in verse 20. And I'm just going to hit some of the highlights. He says, When ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh. Then let them which are in Jerusalem or Judah flee into the mountains. He says, they shall fall by the edge of the sword and shall be led away captive into all nations. Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. And then at the end of this whole section he says, and then shall they see the Son of Man coming. in a cloud with power and great glory. Now if you and I were to sit down today in an academic context in a class And we were to take every single component, if we were going to understand what Jesus is saying, we would not be able to just stay in this text. We would have to go into the book of Daniel. We would have to go into the major prophets. We would have to go into the book of Revelation. We would have to go into several portions of the epistles. And if in order for us to understand what Jesus is talking about, we would have to be very careful in analyzing each of these passages and seeing how they all fit together so that we could understand very well what Jesus is saying. Let me tell you, they didn't understand all of that. In fact, these people did not even understand that Jesus was about to go to the cross. They didn't understand the resurrection. There were so many things that they had no comp they did not have a complete comprehension of. And so when Jesus says these statements, they don't even get what he's saying. I want to say this at the beginning here. Prophecy is a very difficult topic. And I would encourage you to do two things. One is spend time studying prophecy. But two, be very careful that you don't become overly dogmatic and believe that you've got it all figured out. The more you study prophecy, the more you'll realize there's a lot that you don't fully comprehend. I could say that as a pastor who has studied the word for many years, and I could say, even the people that are much older than me who've studied many, many years, they'll say, there's lots of little pieces here and there. I don't fully understand. When we talk about prophecy, there are times that when a prophecy is given, there will be a near-term and a long-term aspect of this prophecy. In other words, There's something that's about to happen, and he predicts that. And when that comes to pass, as he stated, it actually is supposed to push them forward to look at something that is ultimately coming that is bigger than what they just lived through, that is very similar to what they just lived through, And so they live through an immediate circumstance that points them forward to a further circumstance. In fact, a lot of scriptures this way. This week when we were going through uh in our gospel time, we talked about the Passover. We talked about the brazen serpent. And you know what's interesting? In each of those situations, you have the Passover, something immediate is going on. But then God establishes this ordinance for the people, and every single year at the same time they're supposed to remember the Passover lamb. And this is what it did. It looked back at an event in their history that was very significant. But it also pushed forward to an event that was coming down the road that was even bigger and it was more significant than what they had lived through that they were not supposed to forget But that they were look to look forward to in the future. A lot of prophecy is written in those ways. There were immediate circumstances that caused God to give this information. They're immediate predictions that took place at that moment, and there are still things in the future we are looking forward to. The passage in front of us actually has those two elements to it. We see statements like, When ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh. Jerusalem will be trodden down of the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. Then shall they see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and with great glory. There shall be signs. Interesting. All of those statements are absolutely going to happen as Jesus has said. The question is When do they happen? And in what sequence do they happen as far as time goes? Do they all happen at the exact same moment? Or do they happen now? And then we have a gap of time, and then we have another event, and we have a gap of time, and he never explains all of those details. You know what's interesting about this? Jesus never answers that question You say, well, why is that? Because what he was most concerned about was not them sitting down and getting a timeline. It's about them understanding that the imminent return of Christ after his ascension is something that every generation of believers should live with an anticipation of. And the guarantee of the coming of Christ is something that every generation of believers can be comforted by, can be strengthened by, and one generation Is going to live through that event, and you don't know if it's yours or if it's your grandchildren's or your great-grandchildren's or a hundred generations from now. You do not know It is written in a way that it could happen today, or it could happen a thousand years from now And every generation is to live with that anticipation that Christ is coming soon. In other words, different events can have similar insights that strengthen the certainty of the ultimate fulfillment, but there's a little bit of difference in those things. I'll tell you that like this. The example that we're looking at here, when we look at Daniel's prophecy of the abomination of desolation, you know what's interesting? A lot of people that lived through an event that happened about 200 years before the time of Christ, they believe that that was being fulfilled when Antiochus Epiphanes desecrated the temple about 200 years before the time of Christ. And then the people that lived through the destruction of Jerusalem in AD 70, which would have been less than a decade after this particular book was actually penned. Maybe like 30 years after the events, 35, 40 years after the events that we're talking about, those people, as they were living through that, they saw all the armies coming around Jerusalem. They said, this is it, this is what he's talking about. The truth is when we go to the book of Revelation, we see that there's still something coming. It's going to be fulfilled perfectly. And the point that I'm trying to make is this. Every generation that lives in church history should live with an absolute anticipation. God has promised He will come. And I'm ready and I'm looking and when it happens, I'm going to live through the culmination of all that. But in the back of our minds, we ought to realize something. Every generation coming up to us has lived with the same anticipation. One of us, maybe in the future, maybe not, we don't know, is going to live through these things. But here's another point I want to make here. Christ does not systematically entangle each strand for the people. I think that's very interesting. The way that he presents it is pastoral rather than academic. And I'm not in any way suggesting that we shouldn't take time to dig deeply into scripture and try to work things out in our minds so that we understand them to the best of our ability. That's what wise people do. In fact, the scripture tells us that there are blessings that come to those who study the book of Revelation and dig into the truths that are there in that book. But what's very interesting is in our desire to figure out these details, we better make sure we don't miss the point that is meant to strengthen us in how we live on a practical daily life. His teaching drives to basically four realities. Let me mention them quickly. One is that suffering in every generation is real. Two, no matter the suffering, God preserves his people. Three, God will always give the grace needed to sustain people through whatever they face. And four, nothing will stop his second coming. That deliverance is absolutely certain. And so I think that what we should walk away with as we start thinking about this is that how we practically think about God and how we practically think about ourselves How we practically think about how he works in history is far more important than our ability to figure out every single little detail and systemi systematize these complex biblical prophetic timelines. We have to be very careful that we don't miss that. I'll put it in really simple terms. Let's say you're a Bible teacher. And you're failing as a husband. And you're failing as a father. But you can really teach prophecy. Guess what? You're not getting it. You're not getting it. The truth is we have to be very cautious that we don't get imbalanced on this issue. Second thing I want you to notice is this. The passage is emphasizing that the world we live in is a broken world. And he states it in a lot of different ways. Notice what he says in verse 7. He says, be not deceived. Many will come in my name, saying, I am Christ. The time draweth near. Go now therefore after them, when ye shall hear of wars and commotions. Be not terrified. Those things must come first. And come to pass, but the end is not by and by. Nation shall rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom, great earthquakes shall be in diverse places, famines, pestilence. Fearful sights, great signs shall there be from heaven. Now, there are several things that he's mentioning in these verses, and they're all emphasizing something. The world we live in is a broken world. It's not that perfect paradise that was created in the beginning. When God looked at the creation and said, it is very good, after the fall, it became corrupted by sin. In fact, in Romans chapter 8, which is a wonderful passage that emphasizes our future glory, and I tell you, Romans 8 is the greatest chapter in all of Scripture. If all you had was Romans 8 , you'd have a lot. You'd have a lot to dig into. But listen to what he says in verse 22. The whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. And not only they, but ourselves also. We groan within ourselves waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our bodies. Did you know that when Paul writes that in Romans 8, That is a perfect description of what Jesus is talking about in this text of Scripture, Luke chapter 21, 8 and following. For instance, he talks about how confusing the world is when it comes to what they believe about God. Verse 8, take heed that no one deceives you. Many shall come in my name saying I'm Christ. That's not just something that happened during the time of Christ, or during the first century in the early church, or in the second, third, and fourth centuries. That's a problem now. There are many people who go out and say, here is the truth, believe the truth, and they don't know what they're talking about, or they know that they're deceiving, and they're persistent, and they're persuasive, and they draw people to themselves. And that is one of the great terrible effects of living in a fallen world. People are saying, come here, here is the way to walk in truth. And it's not true. It's a lie, religious deception. Verse 9, he talks about national conflicts. When ye shall hear of wars and commotions, be not terrified. These things must first come to pass, but the end is not by and by. Nation shall rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom. Question. Has there ever been a period in history that that could not describe? I remember talking to my brother. He was in Europe and he was he was visiting. He loved going and visiting the castles and he's like, yeah, I look at the history of the castle. Five years after this happened, this person came in, he conquered the castle. And then he was there for twelve years, and this guy came in and he conquered the castle. And he was there for 18 years and then he this guy came and he conquered the castle. This guy came, he lasted three years, and it's just One guy after another guy after another guy. Why is that? Because people want to control and people want to take and people want the most lavish life possible. And so what does that do? That doesn't just work its way out in conflict in our interpersonal lives. And in our families, it moves all the way to the national level, and people will send troops to fight one another. Why? Because of greed Because of self-centeredness, because they want to work out a dispute that happened 300 years ago and it's still lingering in the minds of generations following what's gone on. All kinds of different reasons. We live in a fallen world. War and battle and struggle and death and suffering is a part of living in a fallen world. And there are some people that are crippled with fear when they think about what could happen. Don't think about what could happen. It could always be worse than it is right now. I promise you, it could. Why is that? Because it's a fallen world. But what does Christ say? Don't be fearful. Don't be fearful. But it's not just religious corruption. It's not just the conflicts that come in time of war, but even the creation itself. It's corrupted. Notice what he says in verse 11. Great earthquakes shall be in diverse places and famines and pestilence and fearful sights and great sound signs shall be from heaven. You know, when you look at this planet and you examine the various structures that we find on this planet, one of the things that you discover Is there's a lot of really bad and violent stuff that nature has produced over the history of this planet. Think about something like Mount Vesuvius. There were people living in a town at the base of that mountain. And guess what? Boom, just like that. They were killed. Anybody in here remember Mount St. Helens erupting? I don't remember it, but I know it happened. Just blew the top off of that mountain, and there's this big hole on the top of that mountain. In fact, when you look at the islands that are out in the Pacific Ocean, how'd they get there? Well volcanoes erupted from the the under the under the surface of the ocean. They came up and they pushed out, and eventually you have these islands. The reality is that when you look at go to the Grand Canyon, look at all the massive water that moved through there. Think about the places where they find these very old fossils. That show you there was this cataclysmic flood, Noah's Ark. Guess what? This is a fallen world. And there's a lot of horrible things that happen. Not just what people do to each other, but the fact that this is a corrupted, broken environment. There's a lot of misery. Try growing a garden and see how much stuff grows in your garden that you don't want there and how much of the good stuff that's growing in your garden that you do want there starts rotting. And if it doesn't rot, the birds get it. And you know what I'm talking about. What's a fallen world? And so he's emphasizing that. Third thing I want you know is it's also a painful environment Verses 12 through 17 he says, but before all these they shall lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and into prisons. being brought before kings and rulers for my namesake. And then he says his interesting statement. Settle it therefore in your hearts not to meditate before what ye shall answer. I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. Ye shall be betrayed both by parents and brethren and kinsfolk and friends and some of you shall they cause to be put to death, and ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. Well that doesn't sound very nice, does it? Let's just break this down a little bit. Godliness doesn't insulate people from trouble. I wish it did. I wish it was true that if I lived for the Lord, that that would protect me from every kind of trouble in this world. Now, I will say this. People who walk in wisdom are are protected from some pretty bad things because of their choices. But there's a side to this that you have no control over. There's a side to this where you could do 100% to the very best of your ability. I don't know if I should use the word 100%. To the best of your ability, you do the right thing. It doesn't work out the way you want it to. Godliness actually sometimes will be the cause of conflict. 2 Timothy 3. 12, he says, all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. But continue thou in the things thou hast learned. And he talks about various layers to this. He talks about religious persecution. Verse 12, they shall lay their hands on you and persecute you. Delivering you up to the synagogues and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my namesake. You know, we love our religious liberty in America, and I pray that it stays that way. But there are a lot of people living today that is not the case for them. They live under extremely oppressive, God-hating regimes. And there is no guarantee that that won't happen even in our own nation. And the truth is that there are times that the government that should protect the innocent actually oppresses the innocent. And especially those who stand in the way of a value system that is contradictory to those who run that nation. And so there are people all throughout church history that have suffered immensely for the cause of Christ We understand that on the national level, but you know, that's not just something that happens in the big picture. It also happens in our personal lives. Listen to the next thing he says in verse 16. He says, Ye shall be betrayed both by parents. And brethren and kinfolk and friends. Now just think about this. There are lots and lots of people that live under religious persecution. But there are a lot of people that live in places that it's a free nation. We can gather together and we can worship here and nobody's going to interfere with what we we are doing here. We can do it in good conscience before God. But all of us have families. Our families are supposed to be healthy, vibrant places. Places where mom and dad love one another. They have a great relationship. They relate properly to their children. Their children relate properly to them. They love God. They work together. They are raising up their children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And you know what? There are some houses, that's exactly how their houses run. But there's a lot more that don't run that way than do. And I'm not just talking about out in the world, I'm saying even in the church, there are times that people who are trying to do right can have conflict that goes all the way down even into their families. And there can be times where a mother or a father or a child to a parent or a husband to a wife or a wife to a husband because of one's commitment to Christ And another's disregard, there can be very, very painful, very hurtful persecution. And so he addresses that. In verse 16, he also goes on to say, some of you, they shall even cause to be put to death. You can see that there's various layers of this. The government can do it, the family can do it, our closest friends can do it. We could even lay down our lives. In verse 17, he even goes on to say this, you shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. Sometimes a person doesn't give you grief to your face. But behind your back, it's pretty vicious. And he says there are people that will serve Christ and do what is right. And there are people around them that despise them. They hate them. They're doing everything in their power to make their life as miserable as possible. What's the point? That's the way it works in a fallen world. Now, why do I bring this up? Well, because Jesus did. Why did Jesus bring it up? Because that's the way the world works. If you thought becoming a Christian was going to give you an escape from all the different problems that come up in the world, you're wrong. It's not true. But that's not the end of the story. Because there's a fourth thing I want you to notice. And that is a gracious deliverer. In verses 18 through 28, he says a lot. I want to focus on some highlights. He says, there shall not And hair of your head perish. Now some of you are going, there's no hair to perish. It's a figure of speech, folks. What's he saying? Despite all of that stuff, I'm gonna take care of you. I'm going to take care of you. You say, even if my government goes crazy, I'm going to take care of you. Even if my family turns against me I'm going to take care of you. Even if I know that there are people around me, maybe in my work, maybe in my community, whatever it is, they are viciously antagonistic toward me. He says, I'm going to take care of you. I'm going to look out for you. He says, not a hair of your head will perish. In your patience possess ye your souls. That's an interesting statement. He says in verse 28, when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, lift up your heads, your redemption draweth nigh. When life gets really hard and really painful, don't sit there and have a pity party and get angry at God or feel like you can't get back up. Remember, God will take care of you. He will give you what you need. And when it's time, he'll deliver you. There are two sides to conflict. In fact, I think of 2 Corinthians 4, it says, our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us. a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, while we look not at the things that are seen, but at the things which are not seen. The things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. You know, we can live with everything being focused on the immediate temporal pressure that we feel. And if that becomes the the whole focus of our attention, we will fall apart. Or we can step back and we could say, that's real, that's there, but there's a little more to this story than what I'm feeling now and what is going to be a temporary season of experience. There's a big picture and there's a great God who is working in circumstances in a way that's bigger than me and it's more significant than what I'm feeling, and I've got to have a fuller perspective of how God works. He gives this word of encouragement in John 16, 33. These things I have spoken unto you that in me you might have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I've overcome the world. Jesus doesn't diminish the fact that people suffer. He simply emphasizes that's only a piece of the story. That's not the whole story. In verse 18, he says, God will preserve you. There shall not a hair of your head perish. In verse 19, he says, God will reward endurance. And your patience possess your soul. In other words, God protects you and God preserves you, and whatever He permits is meant to strengthen you mature you build out your perspective make you more effective in what God is trying to accomplish God doesn't waste any struggle in your life Christian All things work together for good. That's the idea of what he's saying. He will give a measure of grace in the moment. This is a fascinating statement. Verse 14. Settle it therefore in your heart, not to meditate before you shall answer. I will give you a mouth of wisdom which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. That's such an interesting statement. Anybody in this room one of those people that when you have something coming up and you know you're gonna have a tough conversation That you check every single box and dot every single I and cross every T and you consider every potential way that that conversation could go. Anybody like that? I'm kind of like that if I had to be totally frank with you. I try to figure out, well, if they say this, I'm going to say that, and I gotta be ready for this, and I gotta be ready for that. And we can obsess over that. And you know what Jesus says? Don't do that. If there's anything I've learned in life, everything you plan for, there's only gonna be one outcome. It's often the one you somehow forgot about. Okay, it's just the way that it goes. So you plan within reason, but you leave it up to God. You trust him. He's going to give you what you need in the moment. So don't obsess over all these things that you're going to say or do if you happen to be in such a situation. Just do right. Focus on what's in front of you. Love Jesus, and when the time comes, you'll walk through that exactly how he wants it. That's the idea. He'll give you that measure of grace you need in the moment. And in verse 27, he'll deliver you forever. Then shall they see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. And when these things begin to come to pass, look up, lift up your heads, your redemption draweth nigh. Now here's what's really interesting. That passage has strengthened 2,000 years of Christians who did not live through this And we might be another one. But there will be a generation who's not only strengthened through this leading up, but they will see him do it. And the fact is, whether we're the generation that lives through it, or whether we're like that other 2,000 years of church history, God can use this to give us strength. How do we apply the text in front of us? I want to give you some final simple thoughts. The first is this, we've got to be prepared for suffering because it's a fallen world. Folks, don't raise your children in a way that insulates them from everything. Now I'm not suggesting you put your kids to the fire just to cause misery I'm not suggesting that we should expose them to evil things. What I am suggesting is you should prepare your children to face the real world that they live in. You help them to grow, you help them to mature, you build out their perspective, you give them opportunities to become stronger And so one of the things that God does is he gives us texts like this to say, you need to think like an adult. Who has a Christian worldview because the world you live in is not a nice world, it's an evil world. It's not a perfect world, it's a broken world. And so you need to be prepared. Suffering is a part of living in that world. Two, when it comes, it can come in a lot of different ways, and you can't predict it. In fact, aren't you glad that God doesn't tell you what's gonna happen ten years from now? Some of you are living through circumstances you're like, if I was an 18-year-old and I knew this, I would have taken a whole different path. Why didn't God give you that information? Well, because he didn't want you to take that path. He wants you to do what you did. And he's going to give you what you need to be where you are today. And so what does God do? He gives us what we need for today. And he gives us what we need to prepare us for the future, but he doesn't tell us what's there. Suffering can come in a lot of different ways, but God will be faithful through anything we face. Thirdly, we've got to arm ourselves with an eternal perspective. What is different between the way you suffer and the way that your unsaved neighbors suffer? I mean when it comes to the physical aspects of it, nothing. But what about how you process it? As a Christian, we should process things very different in the world around us because we have an eternal perspective. Fourthly, we can't allow ourselves to miss the big picture by obsessing over the difficult secondary issues we may encounter. I'm not saying this to any way diminish our need to be rigorous in our teaching and our study. That's not what I'm suggesting. What I am suggesting is this. In your rigor, don't miss the most basic and most important areas of life. We've had conversations with our with our interns, and one of the things that I've told them in our teaching times is that I'm a Christian before I'm a husband. I'm a husband before I'm a father. I'm a father before I'm a pastor Because the reality is there's got to be an order. And you know what? I love and I'm thankful for every single one of those things. But things have to be set in order correctly. And if if somebody feels if it's all about being a pastor, but they're not being a got a godly husband or father, guess what? That's a huge problem. Somebody's a great provider, but they're not discipling their children, or they're not ministering properly to their spouse. We get focused in on this area and we neglect these very important areas. This becomes something we self-absorb in. This can happen to any of us. In fact, it will happen to us at times And what do we need to do? We need to continually remind ourselves of the big picture and what's most important. And so don't miss that when we look at this text. Jesus teaches this with a pastoral rather than academic focus because that's what the people needed. We've got to walk by faith. God's provision is daily. No matter what we encounter, His grace is sufficient for that moment. And even if we think maybe He won't give us that supply, we're wrong. He will Whether it's a conversation that's hard that we need to have, whether it's the strength to endure a difficult situation, whether it's the wisdom to handle a situation that we've encountered, whatever it is, God's supply of grace is daily and he'll give it. He has promised to preserve us. He even does it when we doubt him. He even does it when we waver. You know what amazes me? You look at the story of Abraham's life. Do you realize That just a few months before Sarah became pregnant with Isaac, when they went down to Gerar, what did Abraham say? That's my sister. You know what God did? He intervened. In his mercy and grace. Even when we stumble, we should be thankful that there are times that God works despite us. And let's remember his deliverance is certain. I hope that as we walk away from this text you find deep comfort and you rest in his care. Let's bow for prayer. Father in heaven, we are so grateful that we serve a God who loves us deeply. Who has provided a complete salvation? Our sins have been paid for Our position is secure. We've been given eternal life. We will enjoy you forever. And we thank you that as we navigate this fallen and broken world, you will and you do provide everything that we need in yourself. to deal with the challenges of life. If somebody in this room right now or somebody on the live stream this this morning is struggling with trust, may you strengthen them If they are weary, may you lift them up. May we recognize that Christ is coming. We need to be ready and we need to take comfort in that future. coming. Pray that you'll bless each family that is here, each individual. May you lift them up and strengthen them through the ministry of the word. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.