All right, well let's go ahead and we'll get started with a word of prayer, and then after that we will get into our study tonight. We are in 1 Corinthians again. So let's bow together for prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for the opportunity to gather this evening, to open up our Bibles, to study your word together. I pray that you would speak to our hearts in a very special way. Help me as I work my way through this passage of Scripture and as we dig into some very important concepts related to the cross. Help us to have tender hearts to it. Help us to be grateful and humbled by the work that you have done on our behalf. We thank you that 2,000 years ago, Christ suffered and bled and died so that our sins could be forgiven and we could be reconciled to you. And I pray that that would be something that is at the center of all that we do as your people. May we live cross-centered lives. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, let's uh take our Bibles out, turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and we are reading verses 18 through 25 together. 1 Corinthians 1, 18 through 25, and this is part two. Uh my plan is not to go to part three, but you never know. We'll just see what happens. Uh such an important concept for us to deal with this evening Here's what the scriptures say, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. Unto the Jews a stumbling block, unto the Greeks foolishness, but unto them which are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Now, if you can remember back to last week, we summarized this passage in the following way. Paul understood that the Corinthians' contentious spirit was rooted in a diminished view of the cross. Therefore, he took great pains to call them back to glorying in it. Now, if you remember, the book of 1 Corinthians is one of the most practical books in the New Testament. It's also a practical book because the church at Corinth was a troubled church. And they had all kinds of issues, but at the core of those issues, Paul believed was a misunderstanding of the gospel. Now he's not suggesting that they weren't Christians. It's possible for us to be a genuine believer. We place our faith in the finished work of Christ and his resurrection, and we believe those things intellectually, but we don't understand them fully, or they've not gripped us to the extent that they should And the result of that, a diminished view of the cross or a diminished view of the resurrection is going to translate into an unhealthy perspective and unhealthy practice as Christians. So Paul is really hammering out this issue of the cross. And then by the end of the book, he's really going to hammer the issue of the resurrection. Because when we talk about the gospel, it's not just the death of Christ. It's the death of Christ on the cross, and it's not just the death of Christ on the cross, but it's also the resurrection of Christ from the dead. So we're talking about both sides, both the triumph of the cross and the triumph of the empty tomb. And so as we look at this passage, we're going to be challenged to glory in the cross. And I've done a lot of reading this past week on this topic of the cross. And one of the things that's really, really hit me as I think about what was written about the cross is how much of an offense the cross was to people living in the first century. We have to remember that the cross was an instrument of torture for these people. When they saw someone hanging on a cross in their mind that is a person who is being judged by the law and is cursed because of some horrific crime that they have committed. And when we talk about not just Roman culture and Greek culture, but we talk about Jewish culture, the Jews viewed that as one of the most horrific ways a person could die as well. If you go back to the Old Testament, And you talk about Deuteronomy, it says, anyone who hangs on a tree is cursed by God. And so it when they think about someone being nailed to a cross, In their mind they say that is a symbol of that person being cursed by God Himself. How in the world could that be a triumph? How could that be something that brings salvation and reconciliation? So you can understand how in the Roman minds In the Greek mind and in the Jewish mind, the cross was a massive offense. So the concept of the cross being an offense isn't a modern-day thing. It's an all-of-history thing. And so we get back to the things that Paul communicates in these verses. The first thing we looked at last week was that a healthy view of the cross combats divisive spirit in the church. Verse 10 he says, I beseech you, brethren, by the name of the Lord Jesus, that you all speak the same thing, that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. Now, it is from that concern of unity in the church and a lack of divisiveness that Paul's going to get into this issue of the gospel. And that's a very common way that Paul addresses problems. He doesn't just deal with symptoms. He deals with the core. He deals with the root. And so we talked about that. Second truth that we saw is that a person's attitude towards the cross determines their relationship to God. In verse 18, he says that the preaching of the cross is to them that perish Foolishness, but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. You see, there are two different attitudes. towards the cross. One is that it's God's wisdom, God's power, it's for our good, and those are those who have responded correctly in faith to the gospel and they've been saved. And then on the other side you have those who say it's foolishness. It's weakness. They are those who are not saved. And so he splits the world into those two different groups. Those who perish and those who are saved. And by the way, those who are perishing have not yet perished. They can be saved from their sin if they will repent and believe. But the singular focus of the text is not so much on what's going to happen to a person, but the cross itself. The cross is the dividing line, according to Paul, in this text. And so we saw the two different attitudes, one of foolishness and one that sees it as the power of God. And then the third thing that we talked about last week was that God saves people through something that the world mocks. Look again at what it says in verses 19 through 21. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. That's such an interesting statement. So what Paul's basically saying is as he quotes Old Testament scripture, Is that God's plan from the Old Testament and his plan that he accomplished in the Gospels when we read about the life and ministry of Christ, And what Paul glories in the cross, this is something that people who believe they're wise, people who believe they're prudent, people who believe that they have understanding, throughout history, those individuals would say the cross is nonsense. It's foolishness. God says, I'm going to destroy that wisdom. I'm going to demonstrate that that wisdom is flawed. I'm going to do it because I'm not just going to talk about it as a theory. I'm going to actually accomplish redemption. The cross isn't just a theory. It's something that actually accomplished something. And so he goes on to say, where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. And I mentioned this last week, but in the context, when he says foolishness of preaching, he's not just saying that preaching is this foolish way of communicating truth. That's not what he's saying. He's talking about a very particular message. The message of the cross. And so Paul gloried in the cross. We talked about that in several different passages. He celebrated the superiority of God's wisdom. And we really left off with this final thought under that subpoint. The cross literally dealt with the wrath of God against our sin. And I want you to see how the Scripture talks about this issue. And this is not a small issue in Scripture. This is an issue that is hammered over and over and over and over again. Listen to what it says in Romans 5. 9. He says, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath. Through him. Notice the words justified. We are put right. The word justified is a term that is used in a legal context. So When we talk about salvation, there's actually a lot of different aspects to salvation. We could talk about it in a relational sense. We could say that We are separated from God. We don't have communion and fellowship with Him. We're not His children, so we could talk about salvation in that kind of a sense. We could also talk about it in a judicial sense. And that is where that word justification is used. And then he talks about the fact that it is Christ's blood. that allows us to be justified. You say, well, what's the purpose of his blood? The purpose of his blood was to wash away our sin, to cleanse us. from our sins. Think about John the Baptist. He says, behold the Lamb of God who taketh away the sins of the world. Think about 1 John 1, where he says that we are cleansed by the blood of Jesus Christ. He says the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us. from all sin. So some passages of scripture talk about how our sin is taken away. Some talk about how our sins are cleansed or washed away. Some passages of scripture talk about how the reproach of our sin has been removed. That word justify is talking about the legal case against us being established or being removed. And then he later on talks about the fact that we are saved from wrath through him. It's kind of interesting, but when we talk about God's attitude toward our sin , We have to recognize that God does not look lightly upon sin. He's holy and he's righteous. So in Romans chapter 2, it says that as a person is unrepentant, they are treasuring up wrath against the day of the righteous revelation of God's judgment, where God is going to render to everyone according to their deeds. So if a person rejects the gospel Then they're going to face the full wrath of God that is against their sin. And as they live their life pushing away God's call of repent and believe, they're literally building the case for that final day. The cross and the blood of Christ literally saves us from that wrath. The question is, why? How does the cross have anything to do with us being saved from the wrath of God? It's because Christ is our substitute. And he died in our place. And literally our sins, as it says in Isaiah 53, were placed upon Christ Himself. Romans 5 10, he continues on. He says, If when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more being reconciled, we shall be saved from his life. So we see words like Enemies. But he says that we were enemies. Now we're not enemies. We're actually reconciled to God. And he talks about the fact that it is both his death. and his life that make this reconciliation possible. There's the cross and there's the resurrection. There is the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. And there is the righteousness of Christ. Both of those are necessary for us to be redeemed to God. Then Ephesians 2. 13. He says we were reconciled to God. Now in Christ Jesus, you who sometime were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He's our peace. Amazing statement. Even think about Colossians, where he talks about how we're supposed to get along with one another. He makes this statement, he says, let the peace of God rule in your hearts. And you say, well, what does he mean by the peace of God ruling in your hearts? What he's talking about is the fact that you're not an enemy of God anymore. You've been reconciled to God through the death of Christ. I love that statement. Made nigh by the blood of Christ, he is our peace. And so saving faith must rest in the actual content of the gospel itself. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them which believe. So, we've looked at three statements. We're going to look at a fourth truth here. Truth number four, we should never shy away from the preaching of the offense of the gospel. Now, I want to just say something here. We should not be overly offensive in the way that we preach the gospel. And I think sometimes people do this. I think sometimes They try to get into gory detail beyond what is necessary when dealing with a topic like this, or they hyper-fixate on a certain aspect. of the gospel message almost to have a shock factor with people. And that's that's not the way that Paul preached the gospel. But when Paul preached the gospel, he was very clear. Jesus is God in flesh. Jesus is God in flesh, died for your sins, shed his blood, he became sin for us who knew no sin. He became cursed. for us so that the curse could be removed from us. He's very clear about those things. He didn't shy away from preaching the resurrection, though there were people who mocked the resurrection. And we need to be like that as well. The gospel by nature of what it is, its exclusiveness, what it says about Christ, what it says about what he did, there are elements in the gospel that the world mocks at. It's just true. And we shouldn't be afraid of that He says in verses 23, 24, and 25, he says, We preached Christ crucified. Unto the Jews a stumbling block. You say, well, why did the Jews who had the Old Testament Why did that cause them to stumble? That word stumbling, stumbling block, literally means it was an offense to them. You say, well, why was it an offense to them? Because when Jesus was nailed to the cross in the minds of those people, he was cursed. You know where they got that idea? From the book of Deuteronomy. Because that's what it means. In fact, in Galatians chapter 3, he says that the curse of the law was removed because Christ became a curse for us. We'll come to that passage. in just a few minutes. But the Jewish people of that day were offended by the cross. In fact it's interesting. You can read some of the things that some of the rabbis wrote. You can look at some of the conversations between some of the early church fathers. second and third century pastors and Jewish rabbis and how they talked about the cross. And you can see the way that Christians believed Christ was crucified, why he didn't all those things. And how Jewish rabbis responded to that. And it's very intriguing because it shows you the two different mindsets and how the Jewish mindset was offended by the cross. But the Greeks, it wasn't that it offended them. It was nonsense. They said, there's no logic here. There's no reasonableness here. You're telling me that this is a triumph and I see I see misery and pain and suffering. and cruelty and agony. How in the world can that be something that is a triumph? Foolishness. But unto us which are called That word called is interesting. He's talking about the church of God. In fact, when we talk about when we use the term church, Ecclesia, okay? You may not realize this, but that word ecclesia, part of that word, part of the root of that word, is called out people. Okay? So he's referring to the church of God here. He says, unto those who are called the church of God. Okay? It is the power of God and the wisdom of God. He says the foolishness of God is wiser than men. The weakness of God is stronger than men. Let me make a couple of observations here about what Paul's saying. The first thing is this: Paul was completely unfazed by how people received the message. He wasn't timid about it. He didn't go into a synagogue and go, you know, I know that these people that I'm about to talk to, the cross is very offensive to them. And so I'm going to just kind of ease into it a little bit. I'm going to talk about the commonality that we have. Actually, he did talk about the commonality. He went to the Hebrew Old Testament and he laid out from the Hebrew Old Testament Who Christ is, what he did, why it mattered, all of those things. He preached the gospel straight out of the Old Testament But he wasn't going to trim that message. He wasn't going to cut it down. He wasn't going to try to make it a little bit easier for people to respond to. He was just going to speak it straight. Let it land where it's gonna land. Verse 23. Verse 23, he knew that the cross is offensive, the stumbling block Verse 23, he knew that the cross was nonsense to the Greeks, and that Greek means the Gentiles, okay? Anyone who was not Jewish? Maybe he put even Hellenistic Jews in there because they had embraced Greek culture. He said it's nonsense because this is a very sophisticated people. These are a people who were with loved reasoning and rationalization and arguments, philosophical people Think of Socrates and Plato and those kinds of individuals. The Greek thought was very sophisticated and philosophical. But he was convinced that true believers glory in the wisdom and power of the cross. To him, this is how he could tell someone was truly a Christian. Because instead of them seeing it as an offense, they saw it as something to glory in. Instead of them seeing it as something that's nonsense, they saw it as something that is God's wisdom. He was convinced. And I want us to think about this for a minute. That word power is indicating that the cross actually accomplished something that was effective. So it's not just that the cross teaches us about God. I mean it does, don't get me wrong. But it wasn't about Jesus being a mortal example, or about Jesus showing the world how much he loves them. Or Jesus being this person to follow. Though he is, don't get me wrong. Those things are all true. He is. But the cross was about actually accomplishing something for your redemption. Listen to these verses. Hebrews 7. He is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing that he ever liveth and maketh intercession for them. For such an high priest became us. Talking about how he, God, takes on human flesh. That's who Christ is. He took on flesh. He became us. who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, made higher than the heavens, who needeth not daily as those high priests to offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins and then for those of the people. But here's the key. This he did once when he offered up himself. Wow. Jesus literally became the sacrifice. So when you think about the Passover story and the Passover lamb and how the Passover lamb dies so that the firstborn can live And the Passover lamb's blood is laid on the lintels of the door so that the angel of death would pass by instead of take the life of the firstborn. Literally, that Passover lamb dies in the place. Of the one who is going to die under judgment, Jesus is the Passover Lamb. Or when John says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Or on the Day of Atonement, Yom Kippur. There were two goats that they would have that would be there on that day, and one would die And its blood would be sprinkled on the mercy seat, which is the place where God would meet with his people. And interestingly, when the Bible talked about people entering into the Holy of Holies, it said, if you don't enter the right way, God's wrath will come out against you. You will die. This is no small thing. Pastor Josh talked about this just this past Sunday night. They could not move the Ark of the Covenant by touching it, lest they would what? They would die. He clearly states it. And so the fact that that blood is sprinkled on the mercy seat is an indication that God is showing mercy rather than breaking out in judgment. And so one of those animals dies and its blood is sprinkled, and one , the sins of the people are placed on that animal, and then he's sent away. Christ is pictured in both of those things. He takes our sin away and he literally dies as our substitute. His blood is shed so that we can receive mercy from God. And so, like he says in this text, he offered up himself. Amazing statement. Isaiah 53, 10, it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. Thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seed, prolong his days. The pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. So the text is so clear. God puts our sin on Christ. And Christ bears our grief. Why our grief? Because we have paid, he is paying the price for our sin. We go to 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He says, He hath made him to be sin for us. Though he knew no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Galatians 3. 13, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. Amazing statement. He took the curse that we deserve for our sin. He's our substitute Who is the one who cursed him? Well, the text goes on. Curse is everyone that hangeth on a tree. A direct quote from Deuteronomy that tells us that if a person hung on a tree, they were cursed by God. Interestingly, as Jesus is hanging on that cross and he's dead, and they're going into the Sabbath, they would remove the people from the cross, going back to that Deuteronomy text. It was a rabbinical tradition. Because they didn't want to leave them hanging on the tree through the Sabbath day. 1 Peter 3. 18, Christ also once suffered for sins. The just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened in the spirit. The reason I read these passages is to say this. Christ actually accomplished redemption for us in his sacrifice. But then we see the wisdom side, and this is also interesting for us to consider. It's the only way that God could reveal what Adam, or that God could resolve what Adam had broken. And we talked about this in our class last night, and we've actually kind of looked at this in a couple of parts because we talked about our relationship to sin, and then we've talked about how that changes after a person is saved, and then how Christ addresses those issues as the second Adam. It says in 1 Corinthians 15, he says, since by Adam, or by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Romans 5:14, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression. Who is the figure of him that was to come. Also is so also the free gift. If through the offense of one many died, much more by the grace of God and the gift of that grace, which is by one man, Jesus Christ, has abounded unto many. By one man's disobedience, many were made sinners. By one man's obedience shall many be made righteous. And so he deals with this issue. He is righteous and therefore can address our sin problem in three ways. He deals with the wrath of God, propitiation, satisfaction. 1 John 4. 10. He loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Romans 3. 24, we are justified freely by his grace through the redemption in Christ Jesus, whom God hath sent forth to be propitiation through faith in his blood. That he might be the justifier, that just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. He deals with this issue of justification, our legal verdict. Now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe. And then we have the triumph of the cross, the eternal life. 1 Corinthians 15, 22, as in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive. Every man after his own order, Christ, the first fruits. The lengthy passage, but here is the point. The cross actually accomplished our redemption. The cross was the only way it could be done because the way that God planned it dealt with every single aspect of what was lost in the fall. The offense the legal problem and the death so that we can have eternal life. It is all bound up in the Lord Jesus Christ. So the question is, well, what does that matter? It matters because there are certain elements of the gospel that are non-negotiable. If you're a Christian, you have to embrace, I don't mean you have to understand this fully. I don't mean you have to be able to articulate it like a theologian. The truth is that theologians over at church history have argued about these things, how to how to explain certain concepts. And sometimes what they were arguing about was something that was essentially an academic discussion. But there are certain elements that are absolutely foundational bedrock to what we call the gospel. First, the full deity and humanity of Christ. You do not have a Savior who is qualified to save you if he's not God in flesh. Secondly, the cross and what it accomplished. You do not have a gospel if you don't have the cross of Christ, where Christ dies in our place so that we can be redeemed back to God. Where the emphasis is on his sacrifice and his work for us, not our work for him The literal bodily resurrection of Christ. If you have a Christ who has died, but he's not risen from the dead, then you don't have the gospel. You see how all these pieces are so important? The person who's qualified, what he did negatively, he dies. What he does positively, he rises from the dead. And that fourth one is as well, our inability to contribute to our salvation. It's all God's work, not our work. By grace. We are saved through faith. It is not of ourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. We must articulate each of these points of the gospel. Even if we know that it's going to be an offense. Again, I don't think that we should go into a context trying to debate and argue and fight with people. But we have to go into a context knowing that there may be some tensions, some misunderstandings, some pushbacks. We've got to stick to the text of Scripture. And let the word of God speak for itself. Don't deviate on any of these points. Don't deviate on the person of Christ. Don't deviate on the nature of the cross. Don't deviate on the resurrection. Don't deviate on, well, you know, you do your part, God does his part, and then we're all good. No, no, no, no, no. Salvation's a gift. It's by grace alone. We've got to articulate the gospel correctly with clarity. So the question I want to leave with is how do we apply what we've learned this evening and also talked about last week? First application We need to discern the root cause of our bad behavior. You say, hold on, we've been talking about the cross. What does this have to do with our bad behavior? Well, why did Paul bring this up? He brought it out because he was concerned, verse number 10, that these believers had divisions in the church. In fact, it's interesting when we look at the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says, you will know a teacher's teaching by the fruits that it produces. So when you interact with people who have all this carnality and all of this sinfulness , And it does not seem like it's being dealt with appropriately, you should pause and ask the question. Is the problem maybe what's being taught Or are they being taught the right thing, but they're not internalizing at all? Okay? The point is that Paul realizes if I'm going to address these practical issues, I've got to go to the root, and that is where the gospel is. A church that is centered on the gospel, and that is the heart and soul of everything, not the moralism But the gospel. Guess what it's going to do? It's going to produce a soberness. It's going to produce a humility. It's going to produce a graciousness. It's going to produce a desire to reach into the lives of people It's going to produce a merciful spirit, a willingness to resolve disputes. Those are the real-life consequences of a gospel-rooted-centered church context. And a church that's all about preaching moralism, guess what? You're going to have that. Where everybody wants to fight and bicker and complain and dispute, guess what? There's a huge problem at the root there. Secondly, a diminished view of the gospel will always lead to ungodliness. It will always lead to ungodliness. And in fact, there's a mindset sometimes that people, and I and I know this because, I mean, I've talked to lots and lots of pastors, people in ministry. And sometimes when people see that there's worldliness in the church context, in their minds are like, we gotta call this out more than we've been. And maybe, you know, if you've been silent on an issue and it's in the text, then you've got to ex you've got to address it. I mean, that's is that simple? That 's true. But the way that we address these kinds of issues is not, I'm always digging at the fruits. I've got to get down to the heart. And a diminished view of the gospel is always going to lead to ungodliness. And so when it comes to how we raise our kids, When it comes to how the preaching is done in the church context, how we do our Sunday school classes, how we do discipleship, all of those things, the gospel's got to be at the core of that. Thirdly, if the gospel we preach has no offense, we need to take a serious look at the message we are preaching. Again, I'm not talking about us being purposefully offensive for the sake of being offensive. Okay? Just being angry and contentious. That's not what I'm suggesting. What I am suggesting is that if we're going to preach the gospel with precision, there are going to be people that say that's a dumb message. I don't agree with that. Okay? I mean, that's what God said. It wasn't my idea. I'm just like 2,000 years removed from this. I'm just telling you what he said I'm not saying this because I came up with this idea. I'm saying it because that's what he said. Someone says, oh well, you know, if you didn't say it like that, you could get more people to become Christians. I mean that's the whole thing about the progressive movement. The whole progressive Christian movement is let's remove the sting of certain things in Christian theology, and if we can remove those things, then people will be cultural Christians. Cultural Christians. Is that real Christianity? I mean, is Richard Dawkins a Christian? He said he's a cultural Christian. What is he saying? I like Christmas. I like Christmas carols. I like going into a cathedral and seeing candles and and hearing beautiful music and I think that some of the traditions of Western civilization are beautiful and wonderful. But I don't believe in God and I hate the God of the Bible. But I'm a cultural Christian. Now listen. He understands the offense of the gospel. And by us watering it down, we're not going to reach Richard Dawkins. We're not going to do it. So we shouldn't try to trim and cut to try to reach someone who has such a mentality. Because it's ultimately rebellion against God. And so we've got to be careful about this issue. Fifthly, we cannot reason people into the kingdom. Now someone might say, hold on a second, hold on. Isn't preaching by virtue of what it is reasoning? Yes. But it is a reasoning that is oriented towards the reasoning of the text in front of us. So if we're talking about expositional preaching and teaching, what we're basically saying is, I didn't sit down and say, what topic do I want to talk about tonight? And I sat down and I was like, oh, I don't know how to do. I want to talk about the cross. What do I think about the cross? Well, I think this about the cross and I think this about the cross and I think this about the cros Also miss and this and this and this Now, where can I find the proofs for what I just wrote down? Hate to say it, but that's the way a lot of people preach and teach. Okay? It's true And the fact is that some of what they say might be true. Okay? It may be because of their Bible knowledge That they picked a good topic and that the principles that they laid out are in fact true. But do you see the tremendous danger there? It might be, it might be that the topic they addressed is true. And it might be that their logic is sound. But when you take a text of Scripture and you simply work your way through it and you work your way through the way that the Scripture reasons through the issue, guess what? That's God's wisdom, not Our wisdom. And there's a huge difference. And so the idea is: do I need to sit down and figure out how I can convince somebody to become a Christian? Or do I need to let God do that as I just give them the word? There's two big differences. One is I'm the one who did it, the other one is God's the one who did it. And he's the one who truly saves, not us. And that's the point that Paul is making when he says, I didn't come to you with enticing words. I mean, Paul was a logical guy. But he said, I didn't come to you with this philosophical approach that was going to convince you through Greek philosophy to become a Christian. He said, I preach to you The whole counsel of God, and I let the Spirit of God work in you. Fifthly, we need to have an unwavering conviction in the power of the gospel and then preach it honestly without compromise. The reason that a lot of churches soften their message, to put it the simplest way I can, they do not believe in the power of the gospel. Now they will tell you they believe in the power of the gospel. But if you believe you have to make amendments, then you don't believe in the power of the gospel. It's that simple. But if you say what God said is true, I'm simply going to stick with what he says. I'm going to present it the way that he presents it. And I'm going to let the Spirit of God do what he's going to do. You believe in the power of the gospel. Lastly, we must glory in the power and wisdom of the cross. That's where we need to land. As Paul said, woe is me if I preach not the gospel. He says, my glorying is in the cross of Christ. And that's where we need to be. May God help us to live in that kind of a way. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the text that we've been dealing with these past two weeks. Father, help us to realize how essential it is to have a thoroughly biblical view of this aspect of the gospel, the cross of Christ. Father, help us to preach it, to love it, to glory in it, and to see you convince others how they can be saved from their sins through the death and resurrection of Christ. We ask that you bless our time together as we fellowship and as we spend time in prayer. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.