One hundred and nine out of our blue books. Uh our triune God. One hundred nine. We'll sing the first and the last together, please. Great car. You chose us at your and made us here with Christ your son, but sovereign grace the Lord. Because we are working on and face his savings on. Give honor to the Holy Ghost until of us three and one. Securing spirit forgive by God who chose to trust us on We praise you for your care unseen and how peaceful. You chelter and such your arc so Until we stand copy for the Lord, yes, throne of God, where they can sight will be taken to your road. And with this saving son, give on earth the policy for the brain one. Does anybody have a problem with what we just did? We only sang about two members of the Trinity and there are three verses. So I think I th I feel I I feel like it would only be appropriate to sing the second verse as well uh as I think about it. So our triune God, there are three verses for a reason. So let's sing The second verse, here we go. Beloved bleeding son of God are saving sacrifice We praise you for your priceless blood that purchases And you we are redeemed by God from sins of first disgrace. Now as his children will receive a laggard seek of praise. Hallelujah to our God And praise his saving son, give honor to the holy ghost, adore the three in one Very good. Now that is complete. All right. Well, if you have your Bibles, I want to encourage you to turn with me. me to the book of Deuteronomy and this is a topical series. I know that typically I don't do a topical series on uh Sundays We go verse by verse and chapter by chapter through a book of the Bible. But we're dealing with a topic that's so very important, and that is the topic of our family lives. And the passage that we're going to look at today, uh this evening, and the topic that we're going to deal with actually is going to get into every area of life. So maybe you've already raised your kids Maybe you're a grandparent, maybe you're not married and you don't have any children at the moment. Whatever your situation, we are going to talk about a lot of practical things related to the topic of worship. And then I want us to move into specifically this issue of worship within our homes. And so I hope that this topic, this study that we'll do this evening And I always refrain the right to go into a second part if uh that's where it ends up. But uh this is a very, very rich topic. And I'm not gonna be able to get into it to the depth in which I really like to, but I think that what we look at will be helpful. Deuteronomy chapter 6, and we'll read verses 1 through 7 together. It says, Now these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments which the Lord your God commanded to teach you That ye might do them in the land wherein ye go to possess it. Thou mightest fear the Lord thy God to keep all his statutes and his commandments which I command thee Thou and thy son, and thy son 's sons, all the days of thy life, that thy days may be prolonged. Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it That it may be well with thee, and that ye may increase mightily, as the Lord God of your fathers, hath promised thee in the land that floweth with milk and honey. Here, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God With all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. These words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart, thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, thou shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house When thou walkest, and when thou risest up. Now these verses obviously are written to the nation of Israel under the Old Testament system, okay? But what we see consistently in the scriptures is that the principle that really underlies this particular command from God, that number one, we're supposed to love the Lord with all our heart, soul, and mind. And then we're supposed to teach our children really the ways of the Lord diligently in all that we do as people. We see that the principle that underlies this particular passage of scripture It just comes up over and over and over again in the scriptures. When we were going through Ephesians chapter 6 and we're talking about the just a simple statement, bring up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. That's exactly what this particular statement is. This is explaining what it means to bring up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. So this is a very important principle that we're supposed to follow as God's people. Now what I'd like us to do tonight is I'd like us to look at one aspect that actually is really a foundational aspect to this particular principle. And that is the importance of what we would call family worship. Now, when we think of family worship, I'm not just saying we open up the Bible at a certain time of the day, we read a verse, we sing a song, we pray, and then we've done family worship. I want us to talk about how we have a responsibility to teach our kids how to think about God, how to relate to God, how to live in the light of their position as believers. How to actually worship God. And in in order for us to do that, we actually have to spend a good bit of time looking at this topic of worship. What is worship? What are the different dynamics or aspects to worship. And then how does this relate to the issue of family worship and teaching our children how to worship the Lord? So first of all, let me give you a summary for where we're going tonight. A parent's weightiest duty is to teach their children how to approach their creator Through the redemptive work of Christ, and then how to live practically Christ-centered lives that are a continual expression of that heartfelt worship Our job as parents is to teach our children how to relate to God, how to come into his presence through the work of Christ, and then how to live in the light of the position that they have as believers. Well, how do we do that? That's the question that I want to answer this evening. So, first of all, I want to talk about the importance of worship in the Christian life There are several historic confessions or creeds, and the way that they start is what is the chief end of man? I don't know if anybody ever heard this. Maybe you grew up in a denomination where you learned those things, but the chief end of man is to uh that that God uh created us to worship him and to enjoy him forever, and that is Basically saying we were created for God to display his glory and to enjoy him in relationship forever. There are several scriptures that I think really demonstrate what is laid out in that statement. For instance, Colossians 1. 16. By him were all things created that are in heaven and earth, visible and invisible, whether there be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him, and here's the key word. For For him. Revelation 4. 11. Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory And honor and power. For thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. Romans 11, 36. I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago in one of our sermons. It says, of him and through him and to him are all things. To whom be glory forever. Amen. We are supposed to live God-centered lives that display his glory as expressions of worship. And I would even say that the first sin in the garden was really all about a worship problem. Okay? Let me read to you what it says in Genesis 3. 5. When Satan comes to Eve and he says, did God really tell you not to eat that fruit? And by the way, did he say something bad was going to happen to you? Listen to what he says. He says, God does know that in the day you eat it thereof, then your eyes shall be opened. And listen carefully to the next statement. You shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, pleasant to the eyes, and desirous to make one wise, She took the fruit and gave it to her husband. You know what the key part with that of that was? You will be like gods In other words, you're the creature. You need to step up and you need to take a different role in this whole creation. That's really what he's saying. He was tempting her with that thing. God doesn't have the right to tell you you can't do this. That's really what he's saying. It was actually a worship problem. In fact, when we go to Romans chapter 1, verses 21 and 25, we know this passage of Scripture where it talks about how God gave up man to his own devices, and listen carefully to the way that it puts it. It says, when man knew God , they glorified him not as God. That's a worship issue Neither were they thankful. That is an expression of worship. I mean, when we sing praise to God, one of the things that we're doing is we are expressing gratitude. as a form of worship. When we are talking about his glory and his power and his goodness and his love and his grace. We express this through song or through the preaching of the word. What are we doing? We're worshiping him. They did not glorify him as God. They were not thankful, but they became vain in their imagination. Their foolish heart was darkened, professing themselves wise, they became fools. And here's the key. They changed the truth of God into a lie. and worshipped and served the creator more uh the creature more than the creator. Really, the fundamental problem that we see in the world today goes all the way back to mankind saying, you know what? I'd like to take the role that God has. I'd like to be my own boss. I'd like to get my own glory. I'd like to rule my own destiny. That is a worship problem. Worship's a big deal. In fact, when we talk about worship, we need to recognize that worship isn't about us. It's about him. It's really, really important. Second part that I want to show you is this. We need to actually understand the concept. What is worship? If somebody was to ask you, hey, can you define worship? Right here on the spot, I'm not going to ask anybody to do that, okay? If somebody was to say, can you define worship? You know, what would you tell them? Well, the word that we use for worship actually has the idea of to bow down or reverence. And in in the in the ancient world where you had kings and you had rulers and people who had tremendous authority. Someone who is a subject to someone in authority, a lord or a king, they understood that that person may have the power of life and death My life could literally be in their hands and they would bow down in reverence and in awe to that particular individual. And so that's really what the word worship has the sense of. It is recognizing that this person has authority. They have power. And I'm humbling myself in their presence. You realize when we come into God's presence and we worship it, that's the attitude we should have. Now that's not the only dynamic to worship, but reverence is a major part of how we should feel when we think about God. Worship, here's the definition that I put. By the way, I didn't read this anywhere. You might quibble with what I said, but I'm going to give you what the way I believe as I look at the scriptures will be a good way to define worship. Worship is a disposition of the heart that moves an individual to express humble gratitude through active submission to a superior, and the superior is God. So notice it's about the heart. Okay? Worship is not starting with action. Worship starts with disposition. And disposition moves to behavior and action. And it's important for us to see it that way. It's about expressing humility. It's about expressing Gratitude. It's not about me, it's about him. Very, very important. And there are several elements to worship. For instance, You and I are both physical bodies, and we are immaterial beings as well. We have a brain, a mind, okay? We have a heart, a soul, an immaterial part of us. There's a part of us that relates to God. So we're not just an immaterial spiritual being. We have a physical body. And so God has given us a body, and He's given us body, soul, and spirit. Put us together into one person. And we talk about worship. We're expressing with our whole person praise to God. And so that means that all three aspects of who we are need to actually be involved in this thing called worship. For instance, let's start with the mind. In fact, if you were to think about it, where does worship start? A lot of people say it starts in your emotions. That's wrong. It doesn't start with emotion. Not saying that emotion should not be a part of the equation, but that's not the starting point. The truth is that there's some music that it doesn't matter what the words are saying, it's gonna make you feel a certain way. Because it affects you emotionally. Worship doesn't start with emotion, it starts with the mind And by the way, not only does it start with the mind, but it is something that's produced by the Holy Spirit within a person as their mind is being engaged. It is not possible. For an unbeliever who doesn't have the Spirit of God, who doesn't understand the gospel and the truth, to worship God in spirit and in truth. It's not possible because they don't have that capacity. So it begins with the mind processing facts concerning the one who is being worshipped. In fact, one of the great examples of this is in Colossians chapter 3. It says, let the word of Christ Dwell in you richly in all wisdom. And then it says, speaking to yourselves in Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs Singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. The the parallel passage is in Ephesians chapter five where he says that we're not to be drunk with wine, we're in his success, but we're to be filled with the Spirit. And then he says, Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. So you see the connection between the Word of Christ dwelling in you richly, the Spirit of God filling you, and then it being expressed in song. Where does it start? It starts with the mind. And it starts with the Spirit of God working in the mind. In fact, when we talk about illumination, we're It is not a bibliology class, but if we were talking about bibliology, we would say that one of the one of the things we study is that there is a work that the Spirit of God does to illumine the Word of God. That means as I read the word and as I study the word and as I see what it's saying and I understand the context, those truths begin to take root in me and they begin to press into my soul. Illumination isn't that God just zaps a feeling into me. Or that God just like pops a thought in my head. Illumination is he takes the truth and he drives it home. It's like a person who's giving the gospel. And as they're giving the gospel, someone's hearing the gospel message, and it's just like blank stare, blank stare, blank stare. And all of a sudden, their disposition changes and they look at you like This is serious. And you're like, why did they what what changed? The Spirit of God started making it sink in. And all of a sudden it started really sinking in and they started thinking about implication. That's what illumination is. And so when worship begins with the mind, illumination presses to a worship-filled response. So mind processing the facts concerning the one who's worship. Number two, the heart You can make a, I think you can make an argument that we talk about our heart. It's both our mental capacity and the emotional side of us. Okay, you can't really separate those two. The heart is how I feel and how I think, and they're they're they're they're connected together. But the idea is that my thinking moves the affection, stirs us up. So when I think about the gospel and I begin to understand what Jesus has done for me, and I begin to understand how unworthy I am of that work. And I understand the weight of my sin and the weight of God's grace. If I really understand that there is no way that as a saved person I can look at that stone face and say, I don't care. I mean if you could do that, there's a huge problem. Huge problem But when you start hearing these truths and you start reading these truths and they start settling into your heart, it moves you emotionally. And so what is worship? It's the mind affecting the emotions, and it ultimately moves to physical response. And this is where the Holy Spirit works. The Holy Spirit Stirs up the affections of our hearts. One of the things that I'm so burdened about when I think about our Sunday morning worship service is And this is from the opening scripture reading down through here's our theme of worship and here are the songs that we're going to sing. In my mind, I go, you know what? My desire is that the truth will be magnified And that as the truth is magnified, it stirs our affections so that we walk out of this place saying, I have worshiped God, I have been encouraged in the Word, and I'm ready to face whatever's out there. I'm ready to do this. That's the idea. And then thirdly, there's physical response. The heart presses the worship to heartfelt action. And that action can go out in a lot of different ways. But that action, if truly motivated by the Spirit of God as a result of the truth being processed, it is going to move in an obedient response. And interestingly, in the Ephesians and Colossians passages, both of those passages, he goes from letting the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, and then he goes into husbands, love your wives. Wives submit to your husbands. Children obey your parents to the Lord. Fathers don't provoke your children to wrath. Bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Servants, obey your masters. Masters, be gentle with those under you. And you have a higher master, and that is God. Why does he go into all those areas? Well, because that's an expression of worship. My thinking and my emotions go into action. Very, very important. I want to give you an example so you can kind of see this play out. Go to Nehemiah chapter 8. And by the way, the reason I'm going to this passage is primarily because it's what I read this morning. And as I was reading it this morning, as I was thinking about this particular topic, I said, man, this so clearly shows you what worship is. And how worship works. I want you to see it. So in Nehemiah chapter , you have the Jewish people, they've been in exile. They come back to Jerusalem and they're rebuilding the walls. And we know the story. There are people that have been humbled. And they're having some problems. There's a lot of injustice going on. In fact, in the ver in the chapters before this, what we see is that some of the more wealthy people were abusing the less wealthy people. And the way that they were doing it is they were making them mortgage their farms so that they could actually pay f uh buy food so they could feed their families. Some of them were even putting their own children into bondage so that they could actually pay for food. And Nehemiah said, how in the world After everything that we've experienced as a nation, how do we end up in this place? And so Nehemiah chapter 8, this is what they do. After Nehemiah addresses that issue, it says, They read in the book of the law of God distinctly. And gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. Don't miss that. They read distinctly, gave the sense, and caused them to understand the reading. The idea is that they read the scriptures and they had to even translate what they were reading because most of the people did not speak Hebrew. Don't forget, they have lived in exile. The older people are speaking Hebrew, but some of the people did not speak Hebrew. So they're reading the scriptures in Hebrew. They're having to actually translate the scriptures to these people so some of them can understand. And by the way, it's from children who had understanding all the way up to the old. And when it says that they gave the sense, that really means that they expounded the scriptures. So they read it, they translated it, and then they explained it. It's like preaching, and that's what preaching is. It is expounding the scriptures. And then it says it caused them to understand the reading. So they even went beyond expounding the text to applying it to the people. You say, well, how's that worship? Well, that's where worship starts. If that doesn't happen, you don't get the rest of the passage. Then it says this: Nehemiah, the Tirshapha, that means he was the governor, Ezra the priest, the scribe. And the Levites that taught the people said unto all the people, This day is a holy day unto the Lord your God. Mourn not. You know why they were crying? Because they're reading in the law about all the terrible things that they've done. And how God's going to judge them. And by the way, that's exactly what they had just experienced. And so they're weeping. And it says all the people wept when they heard the word of the law. That is an emotional response. They hear the truth, they process the truth, and they're convicted by the truth. That's what preaching's supposed to do. But that's not the only potential response of preaching, It says, then he said unto them, Go your way, eat the fat, drink the sweet, send portions unto them for whom nothing has is prepared. This day is holy unto the Lord, neither be you sorry, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace, for the day is holy, neither be ye grieved. And all the people went their way to eat and drink and To send portions and to make mirth because they had understood the words that were declared unto them. This is a tremendous example of how preaching works. So someone gets up, they read the scriptures, that's the authority. They expound the scriptures. They explain to you what it means And then they apply the scriptures, and as it's read and expounded and it's explained and it's applied, all of a sudden you start going, I fall short. I fall short. And you you respond in your heart. And sometimes Sometimes you have to reach out and say, hey, you know what? I'm struggling with this. I had a lot of people reach out to me this past week. after this uh past Sunday sermon. Good. It was good because we had very constructive conversations about so many different things That is what preaching is supposed to do. Someone says, I have a question. I don't understand. Hey, I want to apply this, but can you talk to me about practically how to do that? Can we do that together? That's the kind of thing that these people are doing. They're feeling grieved, and so Nehemiah and Ezra and the Levites are going around and they're having conversations with people and they're saying Here's the negative, but here's the positive. And all of a sudden they're pointing them to the positive. And so they see the hardship and the And then I see the bomb. And by the way, when we preach the gospel, that's exactly what happened. I feel the weight of my sin in the law, and then I experience the joy of God's grace. That's what we do. And so what we see is by the end of the story, they went from hearing, convicted, grieving, rejoicing. And it's because the word was working in their heart. That is what worship is. Worship starts with the word And it affects the emotions and it ends up moving into actual action. Colossians 3. 16, I mentioned it. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and in hymns and in spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. I tell you that the closing hymn is always sung better if the preaching's been sound. It's true, I promise you. It is always better than the songs that were sung before the preaching. And you know why that is? Because people's hearts are full. They're full. If the truth, if it's been expounded, people cannot help but rejoice in it And express it. And that's what Colossians 3 is saying. When the word dwells in you richly, it produces teaching, admonition, and singing. That's the order of worship. And so I want to mention, I'm going to do this briefly, different categories of worship just so that we can appreciate this. Coming to this building and assembling with the congregation is not the only way we worship. It's a very important part of our worship. It's a commanded part of our worship. But it's not the only aspect of our worship. And it's important that I mention this. First of all, there's private worship. Now the Bible never says, here's how many chapters a day you're supposed to read, and here's how much time you're supposed to spend in prayer, and and in and here's a song that you should sing during your time of reading and pray. It it doesn't do that. But what we do see is a pattern that godly people follow. Let me give you some examples of what we're talking about. Psalm 55, verse 17. Here's what the psalmist says. Evening, morning, and at noon will I pray and cry aloud and he shall hear my voice. Do you get the impression that the psalmist had a pattern of private worship? I would say yes. Psalm 63, 1. O God, there are my God. Early will I seek thee, my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. Why do you say why do you think he used the word early? Because that's how he starts death. Psalm 143, verse 8. Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning. How do you hear God's loving kindness? Does he talk? to you? They just put a feeling in your heart? No. You read the scriptures, and that's how you hear his loving kindness. You read about who he is, you read about what he's done, and he convinces you of that as you read it. That the Spirit of God presses that onto your heart and you it resonates. He says, Cause me hear your loving kindness in the morning. For in thee do I trust. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk. For I lift up my soul into thee. How does God cause you to know the way you should walk? Oh, he just puts this impression in my mind. No, he doesn't That's total mysticism. That's nonsense. You live your life that way, it's going to be very, very difficult. He causes you to know the way you should walk because you read the precepts and the commands of his word. And that guides the decisions you make. That's wisdom. That's godliness. Psalm 119, 147 to 49. I prevented the dawnings of the morning. And cried, I hoped in thy word. Mine eyes prevented the night watches, that I might meditate in thy word, hear my voice according to thy loving kindness. Quicken me according to thy judgments. When he says, I prevented the dawning, means I got it before it was light. When he says, my eyes prevented the night watches, he said, while other people were sleeping, you know what I was doing? I was reflecting on the word of God. It's private worship. There's no law given, here's how you do it. But the pattern is there. People who walk with God have a regular practice of getting up, getting in the word, or having a period of time in their day that they commune with the Lord. They read the Word. They pray, they meditate on the scriptures, they reflect on it, they allow God to work in their heart. A second aspect is family worship. This is what I'm going to dig into next week. Psalm 78, 2. I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard and known. Who taught us? Oh, our fathers did, which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children. Showing to the generation to come the praises of the Lord, his strength, his wonderful works that he hath done. For he established a testimony in Jacob. He appointed a law in Israel which he commanded our fathers that they should make them known to their children, that the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born, who should arise and declare them to their children. Do you see that pattern? Just like David had a pattern that he got up early and he stayed up late and he was in the Word and he was meditating, reflecting. The scriptures give this pattern. Fathers teach your children. And it's not just fathers. Mothers, you can teach your children too. We're a team. My wife and I are a team. We teach the Word of God to our kids. But it is our duty. I I think about the statement about uh Abraham. I skipped it, but I will go back to it. Genesis 18, 19. God says, I know Abraham, he will command his children and his household after What's he saying? He's saying, I know he's going to teach his family. He's going to shape their thinking. He's going to point them to the Lord. Corporate worship, Hebrews ten twenty-four. Let us consider one another to provoke and to love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together As the manner of sum is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. We have private worship, we have family worship, we have corporate worship, and then Living the Christian life. Colossians 3. Servants obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye service as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart fearing God. Here's the key, whatsoever ye do, do it heartily. That means from the heart as to the Lord and not unto man, knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance. For you serve the Lord. I think it's important before we talk about how we train and teach our kids when it comes to this issue of worship to make sure that we understand the topic itself. That we understand what it is, that we understand the order of worship, that the focus is on biblical thinking, so that our mind is guiding our emotions, So that our emotions are flowing out of right thinking, not driving our thinking. It's being guided by our thinking. And that it results in action Expression and song, response and decision, service of others. And then worship is not just about my quiet time with God Me opening the Bible with my kids. Me sitting in a pew on a Sunday morning. Worship is also about what I do in my workplace. How I labor, whether or not I'm a trustworthy person, do I do my work motivated by a fear and a love for God? This issue of worship is so, so very, very important. So, Lord willing, next week we're going to talk about part three, teaching our children how to worship. And I want to go into a lot of very, very practical things, and I hope that they'll be an encouragement to you. Let's be out for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to apply what we've heard tonight. Father, I thank you for this topic of worship. Help us to recognize you created us to know you and to love you and to glory in you. And I pray that you'd help us to recognize that our worship has to be guided by truth. It has to flow from the truth. Our emotions should be led by the truth. I pray that you would help us to think clearly about these matters. To be a worship-filled people who truly are passionate about your glory, who live humbly in service to you. Who pour out before you our hearts on a daily basis, who guide our children in the fear of the Lord. We ask all of this in Christ's name, Amen.