Turn to the book of Revelation, and we're going to be in chapter 19. The text we're going to read this evening is chapter 19, verses 1 to 7. But really what we're going to be doing is we're going to be looking at details that are related to the topic that we find in Revelation 17, 18, and then drifting a little bit into chapter 19. And the topic we're going to be talking about is the topic of Babylon. And we're actually going to look at this in two parts. We're going to start tonight with some introductory material. And then next time we get together, we will get into some of the details that we find in chapter 17 and 18. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading the text. And then we'll comment on the main purpose statement, and then we'll look at some details related to this topic. Revelation 19. 1 says this. After these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven saying, Hallelujah, salvation and glory and honor and power unto the Lord our God, for true and righteous are his judgments. For he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand. Again they said, Alleluia, and her smoke rose up for ever and ever. And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen. Hallelujah. And a voice came out of the throne saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants, ye that fear him, both small and great. And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thundering, saying, Alleluia! For the Lord God, omnipotent, reigneth Let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready. Really, this section that I read to you tonight, Revelation 19, 1-7, is a song of praise to God. That's coming immediately after the destruction that is mentioned in chapters 17 and 18 of a city called Babylon. And the way that he refers to this city Babylon is, well, it's pretty graphic, just to be honest with you. There's some people that if they read that text, there'd be a couple of terms used there that might make them blush a little bit. The reality is that when God talks about Babylon, he talks about this city and the system that's associated with that, he views it as a woman who is immoral. who is promiscuous, who is involved really in prostitution. And so he uses some very strong terminology. And what's interesting is when we comes to chapter 19, he's praising the Lord, this text is, because God is going to take that system. And that city and everything that that system in that city has really affected for many, many generations, and he's going to remove it. But what's interesting is he's not just removing it for the sake of removing it, but he's removing it to replace it with something that is far better. In fact, it's interesting how this little section ends. It says, let us be glad And rejoice and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready. So basically what he's saying is we're removing someone who is causing immorality and we're replacing it with something that is glorious. And that is beauty, that is beautiful. There is this marriage supper of the Lamb that's going to take place. So what is the purpose of this section? Romans 17, 18, and then the first part of 19. Well, it's to communicate that one essential aspect of the Lord Jesus returning to establish his kingdom will be the appropriate destruction of an evil worldly system. that has dominated human history in opposition to God's rule and his people. In other words, if God is going to establish his kingdom If he's going to establish his rule, then he must remove what is keeping his rule from taking place on this earth That makes sense. In other words, you have to bind the strongman if you're going to take the city, if you're going to use another illustration that's used in the Gospels. Jesus is going to remove that system and he's going to replace it with the proper system. In fact, when we look at this text, we see that God wants us to rejoice when he'll remove this evil worldly system that opposes his rule. And so with that in mind, we're going to look at this concept of Babylon, a city that is referred to in this text. We're going to try to answer the question, what exactly is he talking about? But really what is the root of the problem that we find in this city called Babylon? That it's going to rise to preeminence during the tribulation. It's going to do a lot of destruction during the tribulation and ultimately is going to be destroyed when Christ comes to establish his kingdom rule. Well, the first fact that we need to look at is we need to understand the heart of this thing called worldliness. In fact, when we talk about this city Babylon, Babylon is really a picture of what worldliness ultimately is. Look down in verse number one at what he says. True and righteous are your judgments. For he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with their fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand. Then we skip down and he says, Let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready. What we see is a contrast between the purity of Christ's church and the prostitution of a world system. That is really what this passage is all about. He is setting these two things in contrast. We have this lovely, beautiful relationship between God and his people It is pure, it is wholesome, it is right, it's what God intended for mankind. On the other side, we see a system that really represents the exact opposite of the purity of that wonderful marriage relationship. It's really a prostitution. That's the way that he refers to it. And so we talked for a moment about this world system. We're going to look at a good number of scriptures. as we deal with this. And then what we're going to do is we're going to see that this discussion that's dealing with worldliness in the system is going to be laid out in the kind of things that we see in Babylon. First of all, the world. The world is a system slash a kingdom that is in rebellion against God's rule. If you go with me to Ephesians chapter 2, verses 2 to 3, here's what the text tells us. In times past, ye, and he's talking about Christians before their conversion, he says, ye walked according to the course of this world. Now, when we think about a course, we think about a path. I remember when I was in high school, surprisingly I used to run cross-country. It was a very short-lived endeavor. I did not enjoy the sport very much. That's why I don't run very much now. But I did. I ran cross-country. And one of the things that we always did when we ran cross country was we would actually walk the course Before we ran the race, if we could do that so that we would understand the layout, we would understand where all the downhills were and where all the uphills were and where you're running through a wooded area and it was nice and shaded and you didn't have that intense Florida heat burning down on your back. And we'd talk about all the different places. That's going to give your knees trouble. That's going to and we would talk about that. It's a course. It's a path that you would run down. And so you'd run down that path to finish your race. He's basically saying that the world, this system that's in rebellion against God, has a path, a general way that people walk and run and live and think. And he says, before you became a Christian, you walked on that course. According to the Prince of the Power of the Air. It's a reference to Satan. The reality is that the leader of this system, the one who is ultimately in charge and who is guiding all of these things that are going on is Satan himself. In other words, you were walking in a way that was doing his will. The spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. We see that the source really of what's going on in the world is Satan himself Among whom also you had your conversation in times past. Conversation meaning the way that you lived, your manner of life. In fulfilling the lusts of the flesh, the desires of the flesh, and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath. We see from this text that there is a road or a way of life that is characteristic of this system We see that there's a ruler of this system. We see that this system has values and tendencies. We see that there's a way of thinking that is characteristic of the world, rebellion. God's values, his commands, his authority, they're rejected, and self-expression is elevated. By the way, isn't that how our culture today thinks? Nobody cares what God says. Nobody cares what the scriptures say are morally right and wrong. It's all about expressing yourself. It's all about self-awareness. It's all about your own truth, your own values, what you want to be, what you want to do. Folks, that's the epitome of worldliness. We see this concept of blindness, living for what is temporal, even offensive to God. We see this concept of being dominated. In other words, people's own fallen nature is what dominates their minds. It's what dominates their heart. It's what dominates what they do. It's what dominates what they're living for. This world system is blind It's rebellious, and it's dominated by the flesh. And ultimately Satan is the one who is guiding this system. And what we see is that this world system is seen in this city of Babylon Secondly, we see that Christ warned his disciples that the world system will hate his people, and the truths that these Christians are going to embrace, and the truths that they're going to teach, and the truths that they're going to represent. John 15, 18 to 20 says this. If the world hates you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you're not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. Remember the word that I've said unto you. The servant is not greater than his Lord If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they have kept my sayings, they will keep yours also. And he says later, they're not going to keep my sayings. And they're not going to keep what you believe. He's saying this world hates you. This world hates me. This world hates what I stand for. It hates what I say. It hates my authority. Simply put, this world system puts self-promotion, self-ease, self-expression ahead of a God-centered worldview. It's all about me That is what the world is epitomized by. We then see another scripture where it talks about a warning for us as Christians not to be allured by this system. It is very possible for Christians to be worldly. In fact, if there was ever a worldly generation of Christians, it's the one we live in, folks. It really is. You read the works of old pastors and old theologians and people who lived hundreds of years ago, and you read about how they viewed the worlds that they lived in. How they viewed society, how they viewed the worship of God, how they viewed their work, and how they viewed their home life, what you will discover is that we are probably the shallowest generation of Christians that has ever existed. I hate to say that, but it's true. We are a worldly generation of Christians. The world has gotten into our hearts a lot more than we'd like to realize. And in 1 John 2, verses 15 to 18, he says this. Love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life. It's not of the Father, but is of the world. The world passeth away in the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. What does this passage tell us? It tells us that we're not to love this world system. This world system hates us. This world system wants to destroy God's work in our lives. It tells us that there are ways that our heart is drawn away by this world system. Drawn away and dominated by material things. He says all that is in the world. He's talking about stuff. Piece of property, a location, amount of money, a vehicle, a house, technology, whatever it is, there are things, material possessions that lure us And capture our hearts. He talks about being drawn away and dominated by our physical desires. He says, the lusts of our flesh The lust of sex, the lust of food, leisure, chemical substances. The reality is that we can crave things that ultimately are demonstrated we're dominated by our fleshly desires. Drawn away and dominated by the things that we can see, the lust of the eyes. In other words, we are drawn away by discontentionment, greed, covetousness. Dominated by our image, the pride of life. Lots and lots of Christians are dominated by these things. Position, education, how we look, our power, our wealth. We are very much dominated many times by our image And I asked the question, have these things lured us and dominated us? The last thing that's interesting about that passage that he says is he says that they went out from us, but they were not of us. Worldliness is often rooted in a false religious system that ultimately uses religion as a tool to get what people want in this world. Now, what's really interesting as we get into this passage dealing with Babylon is that we'll see that Babylon is not a city that is represented by this non-religious system. What's interesting is that Babylon is going to be a religious center. It's going to be a place that uses religion to accomplish its own agenda to get material things. And folks, that is something that has been really a use of religion, an abuse of religion throughout human history. Let me give you some examples. Think about this man named Balaam that we read about in the Old Testament. Now you ask me, who was Balaam? That's a great question. Sit down and try to figure out who this guy was. But I'll tell you what Balaam was. He was a man who tried to use pagan idolatry to get stuff. That's really ultimately what he was. He wanted to use pagan religion to get stuff. And so the reason that the Moabites called this man And say, we want you to curse God's people, and we're going to give you money to do it, is because they knew that this was a man that tried to use religion to get stuff. We think about the Jewish syncretism that took place in Israel throughout a lot of its history. One of the most interesting stories in the Old Testament. Is a story about the Jewish people going into battle, and you know what they brought into battle? The Ark of the Covenant. You know why they brought the Ark of the Covenant into battle? Because they believed somehow they could manipulate God to get what they wanted. By bringing the Ark of the Covenant, which represented God's presence amongst his people, they could go in and they could defeat the Philistines. In other words, they could use God like he was a genie in the bottle. Folks, that's exactly how the religions of the world that were right around the Jews at that time thought. They were taking truth, blending it with lies, and what did they have? This syncretistic religion. We see Jewish legalism during the time of really the birth of Christ and Christ's life and then his crucifixion. You know what's interesting, who were the people in Jerusalem that were stirring up the crowds to crucify Christ? The high priest? The Sanhedrin, the religious leaders, the elites of their city, the people who studied the law, the scribes, the Pharisees, they were the ones who wanted to kill Christ. Why is that? Because they were really in that position to use religion to get stuff. It's very interesting. They were plotting. They were scheming. They were saying, if we don't get rid of this man, we will lose our place. You see, this is the problem that we see throughout human history. We think about Roman Catholicism in Europe during the right time right before the Reformation. And some of those popes, read the history, folks, and see what went on in Rome during that time. Martin Luther was a monk that was well, he knew that he didn't know the truth and he wanted to know what the truth was. And it says that when Martin Luther went to Rome and he saw the incredible wickedness in that city, he was just blown away. He was devastated. He didn't know what to think about it. The fact is, this is a problem. We even come to our modern era, and I'm convinced that the most prevalent form of Christianity in the 21st century Is what we call prosperity theology. It really is. When I lived in Africa and I was a missionary over there, the most common form of Christianity that I came in contact with in my city and in that country was prosperity theology. And just about every missionary that I know who I'm friends with that works in Africa or works in Latin America or works in Asia In fact, people working in the United States turn on TBN, what do you see? Prosperity theology over and over and over again. Name it, claim it. God wants you to be healthy and wealthy, and he wants you to have money. That's what people are preaching and teaching. That is the primary way that we hear the gospel presented in our generation. And you know what that is? It's a prostitution of the truth. In fact, when he talks about Babylon, he's talking about just another one of these ways that people have used religion to try to get stuff. They went out from us, but they were not of us. We then come to a second fact. And this is a very important thing that I think I need to state. We need to humbly acknowledge that the specific interpretation of Babylon is fairly complicated. Look down in verses 3 to 7, he says this. So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness, and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet-colored beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a gold cup in her hand full of abominations, and filthiness of her fornication Upon her forehead was a name written Mystery. Mystery, interesting word. Babylon, the greats, the mother of harlots. And abominations of the earth. And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And when I saw her, I wondered with admiration. The angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and the ten horns. It's interesting. When I'm studying passages like this, I look at a lot of different commentaries. You know what's really interesting? There's a lot of different ideas about what this is talking about. And so what I'd really like to do is I'd like to kind of first of all think about in the immediate situation the people that receive this letter, the book of Revelation, the revelation of Jesus Christ. Those individuals that were in those seven churches in Asia Minor, when they heard of Babylon, what do you think came to their minds? Well, these people living in the first century likely thought that John was using the term Babylon to be a symbolic reference to Rome. In fact, this has been really the most common, probably, understanding of Babylon throughout church history. One of the reasons that I say that is because in 1 Peter 5. 13, this is what Peter says. The church that is in Babylon, elected together with you, saluteth you. So doth Marcus, my son. Now when he writes this letter and he makes that reference, he's not in Iraq, in Babylon, where the physical city that Nebuchadnezzar was king over was. You know where he was. He was in Rome. In other words, when Peter used that term Babylon, he was using it for Rome. But he was basically saying that Rome is symbolic of a city that has been very evil and has really been known all throughout human history for having a problem. It's always been a city that has been set in rebellion against God and a city that has caused God's people trouble. In fact, I'm not going to get into this tonight, but next time we get together, I'm going to look at how the term Babylon has been used throughout the Old Testament. And I'm going to show you that that location has really been a very notorious location. And it's been a very influential location. And so we need to understand that when this is written in the first century, those Christians more than likely believed he was referring to Rome as a place that was like Babylon. The second thing that we need to realize is that people living through intense years of persecution up until the Edict of Milan when Constantine basically made Christianity legal in Rome and in the Roman Empire, uh people throughout all that time would have been convinced. That this is a reference to Rome, and you know why that was. Because Rome was a city that had a Colosseum, and Rome was a place where terrible persecution of God's people took place. There were Christians that recognized that their friends and their family members and their pastors were being sent to that Coliseum. They were being shredded by lions. There are people that when they read that they said that Babylon is most definitely referring to Rome. A city that is really the seat of the religious persecutions that we face. We then come to the time period of the Reformation. You know what's really interesting? The view really doesn't change a whole lot, but there's a slight tweak to it. The Reformers saw Babylon as a reference to not just Rome, but the Roman Catholic Church that dominated all of Europe during the time of the Middle Ages. In fact, it was during the time of the Reformation that there was a Counter-Reformation, and during the Counter-Reformation, there was an intense persecution of those who were Protestants. And those who were Baptists and those who were basically not affiliated with the Roman Catholic Church. And so during that time period when people opened up their Bibles and they read the book of Revelation, they said, This Reference Babylon is definitely referring to what's going on in Rome. In fact, I would say that most modern Bible students tend to view it the same way. But I want to say this. I don't think we can be absolutely dogmatic that that's what it's referring to. Sorry to throw you off there, but let me give you some reasons why we should at least pause. Rather than be dogmatic about Babylon being a symbol of the description of Rome. First of all, I want to say this: every generation has a tendency to read current events into the book of Revelation. It's true. In fact, if you were living 500 years ago or you were living a thousand years ago, you would be talking about the events of your time period. And you would be saying, this event is a clear indication Jesus is coming again. That person right there who's in power, I bet he's the Antichrist. That city, that religious organization that is so powerful and so dominant and so destructive to God's people and the church, that must be Babylon. Do you understand what I'm saying? Well we do the same thing today. The reality is every time Russia gets in the news, what happens? We wonder where Russia is in in the in Revelation. Every time we hear about Iraq and Iran, what do we do? Where is that in Revelation? Well, it may very well be that we're correct today, but there have been a lot of generations of Christians who read the news into the book of Revelation. We need to be cautious that we don't recognize, but if we do that. Secondly, this, the term Babylon, not Rome, is used I know that is kind of obvious, but it really is. And not only does he use the term Babylon, but he describes things like the Euphrates River. Last week we talked about the fact that the Euphrates River is going to dry up so that the armies can go and they can meet the Lord. Well, where are they going to be coming from? Well, they're going to be coming from somewhere near the Euphrates River. In other words, they're going to pass through that area to go into the place where Jerusalem is today, and they're going to be waiting to meet the Lord Jesus Christ when he returns. Why? Because they want to overthrow him. And so the reason I bring this up is to say this. Perhaps it's not talking about Rome. Maybe it's really talking about the physical city of Babylon, which is very similar to what the Christians experienced there in Rome at that time. I also want to mention this. The final events leading up to the second coming of Christ really are focused not in Europe, but in the Middle East. In other words, when we talk about end times, we don't have talk about America. We don't have talk about Europe. We have talk about Israel. That is the center of focus. That is the center of attention. And so I bring those things to your attention just to simply say, wow. It is true that most Christians throughout human history have seen this to be a symbolic reference, Babylon, to Rome. That may not be the correct understanding of it. Let me give you a couple of possible explanations about what it can be referring to, and I will kind of leave it to you to kind of figure out what you think yourself. First of all, symbolic Babylon, a reference to Rome, the city of Rome and the Roman Empire that will revive in the tribulation. The reason that we come to this is because of that 1 Peter reference where clearly he uses Babylon to describe Rome where he currently is at the time. We also think of it possibly being a spiritual Babylon. In other words, the re-establishment of Rome and the re-establishment of the power of the Roman Catholic Church. The truth is that that may very well be what takes place. A lot of Bible scholars, definitely from the time of the Reformation up till today, would have taken that kind of a view of this passage We also have a possibility that it's a spiritual Babylon, a Gentile city that will rise to power during the tribulation and will be the center of worship and financial prosperity. But let me put to you what I think, and I hold this gently, what I think it really is. I think it's a literal rebuilding of the ancient city of Babylon. And this city is going to be the center of political power and economic power and a world-dominating religious system. And when I say I hold it gently, I say it, I hold it gently. Perhaps it is Rome. But I will tell you this. He talks about the Euphrates River. He talks about the Middle East. He talks about a city, a little city. And there are passages that would lead us to believe that may very well be what he's talking about. But I want to make this statement that I think is very important. No matter where you come down on the discussion of Babylon and what it represents. What it has done and how God will deal with it is absolutely certain. This city, whether it's Rome or whether it's a rebuild of Babylon, whatever that is. It has caused tremendous grief for God's people. It has been a center of persecution. And during the tribulation period, it will be a center of persecution. It is a place that God is going to deal with in a very abrupt and a very straightforward manner. He is going to remove that city and what it represents. And he absolutely has to do it in order to come back and establish his kingdom rule. Let me give you these final observations. Babylon most certainly is a representation of the world system that is in opposition to God and his people. Whether you're talking about Babylon being Rome or whether you're talking about it being the city, it most definitely represents a system that is in opposition to God. A system that hates God's word, hates God's people, and is resisting God's will in the world. It is most definitely a system that is after your heart And ultimately wants to destroy you as a Christian. In spite of all the suffering that this system has inflicted on God's people , It one day will be justly judged and removed to pave the way for Christ's coming kingdom. In other words, this morning we talked about those Christians in 1 Peter. They were going through tremendous persecution and suffering, so much so that they didn't want to identify with Christ in their baptism. In other words, there was a hesitation to publicly state I'm a Christian and to live out the Christian life because they knew what it would cost them. But what do we see? No matter what it costs the Christian, that system that is bringing opposition to God's will and ways is one day going to be removed. The last thing I want to mention is this. Don't settle for cheap substitutes to the precious relationship that is available to us. To the Lord Jesus Christ with God. Listen to what James says in James 4, 4-5. He says he adulterers And adulteress. Know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world's is the enemy of God's Do ye think that the Scripture saith in vain, The Spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? You know, it's interesting when we read a passage like Revelation seventeen, eighteen and nineteen. And we see the terminology that's used in our Bibles in reference to Babylon, we say, is that the appropriate reference to use? Yet how does God view friendship with the world? How does he view it? How does he view worldliness in his people? Well the text tells us he views it as unfaithfulness. I want to encourage you, as alluring as this world system is, don't settle for the cheap substitute. Don't settle for what this world can give you. Take the real deal. Live your life for the Lord Jesus Christ. No matter what it costs you, no matter how difficult it might be, live your life for the Lord Jesus Christ. This passage tells us that there's coming a day at the end of that tribulation, right before the Lord Jesus Christ comes at his second coming, that this city of Babylon It's going to be brought down. A center of religious confusion. A center of economic power. Something that's very alluring to people, something that really preys on their lust, and something that's very antagonistic to God's people. And what does it say? Don't settle for the substitute. God wants us to rejoice that one day he's going to take this world system that has so opposed his rule and his people, and he's going to destroy us destroy it. And when he destroys the system, he's going to replace it with his kingdom of righteousness. That's going to be a wonderful day Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and thank God that in spite of what his people may face and do face, he's going to win. He's going to accomplish his purposes, and one day we will be with him and his Glory. And that is a wonderful thing to consider. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for this text. I admit it's uh it's a little bit on the complex side. It's very heavy. But Father, we're reminded that there's a tremendous contrast in this world. A contrast between a cheap substitute that truly is offensive to you, this world system. And the real deal. The blessings of your eternal kingdom. A wonderful, deep, intimate relationship with the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. The one who has provided a plan of redemption through Christ. Father, I pray that we would be a people who truly are dedicated to you. Who walk in holiness, who glory in your presence and in your rule. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.