Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you had a great weekend. What a wonderful weekend celebrating the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. And uh this morning we're going to begin um studying the passage of scripture that we looked at this past Sunday. And so our focus will be on the resurrection. I know that that's really been the focus for a little while, uh, but I'm excited about this passage. Out of all the passages that detail the resurrection in the Gospels. Luke's account is probably my favorite, and it's primarily because of the conversation on the road to Emmaus. So I'm really looking forward to getting into this this week. If you have your Bibles, let's all turn together to Luke 24. That's where we'll be. And we'll start out by looking at verses 1 through 4, and then I want to kind of lay out a couple of introductory thoughts that I think will help us to appreciate what's going on in these verses. Here's what it says Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing spices, which they had prepared, and certain others with them. And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre, and they entered in and found the body of the Lord Jesus. Came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. And as they were afraid and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living amongst the dead? As I often like to do, I want to give you kind of a summary summation of the passage that we're looking at this week. So Luke 24 records the most significant events in all of human history, and he carefully verifies specific details for a reason, and that reason is to convince us that Christ alone is. Risen and he is the means of salvation. And so it's all about pointing us to Christ. That's really what it's all about. But what I want to do this morning is I want to talk about appreciating what the people who are going to ultimately testify to the resurrection, what they went through the week of the death and the resurrection of Christ. And so let me set it up this way. At the beginning of that week, uh the disciples were experiencing the incredible high point of Lazarus being raised to life. Now Lazarus wasn't raised to life the week of the crucifixion and the resurrection, but it was right before that event takes place. And so they're all excited. In fact, uh as they are excited, they go into the house and they're they're eating with Lazarus and they're having a meal, and then some strange things begin to happen. Things that would have caused the disciples to start going, what's going on? Well, Mary, Lazarus' sister, takes this very expensive perfume ointment and breaks it and begins to anoint the feet in the head of Christ. And the things that he is saying seem to indicate that he is preparing to die. And the people uh do not understand that. Well then kind of to add to that, they go into uh into that first week, the week of the Passover, and as they enter into uh there into the city, the people are crying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And the disciples are getting kind of a mixed message here. Christ says raise Lazarus to life. The people are excited. It seems like they're they're going to anoint him to be king. He's going to overthrow the Romans. But then he starts talking about his death. And he starts talking about three days later he's going to rise from the dead Then things begin to get worse because Jesus goes to the upper room and there in the upper room he begins to wash the disciples' feet and he talks about his death and he says, one of you is going to betray me. And the disciples start to get uneasy. What's going on? Well that night the Lord Jesus Christ was betrayed by Judas. And and Peter rises to his defense and he pulls out the sword and he tries to defend himself and he cuts off One of the men's ears, and Jesus rebukes him and he says, Don't do that. And he restores the man's ear. And all of a sudden, the disciples are watching Jesus being taken away. And that's just the beginning of their troubles. Because throughout that night, Jesus stands on trial, mock trial, I would put it that way, before six different tribunals. Six different trials. And in each of those trials, he is viciously, viciously verbally attacked, he's mocked, he's spat on, he's beaten, and he is reviled. And the disciples are in utter dismay. In fact, by the end of this story, Jesus is mercilessly beaten. All the disciples have run to hide. Peter, the most bold of all his disciples, decides to deny that he even knows the Lord three times, then he runs away, and he's very broken. And what do we see? We see that Jesus is crucified. And when Jesus is crucified, it seems like this is the end of the story. And so the disciples are terrified. The disciples are going through all kinds of fear and anxiety because they could be the very next ones And after all this, three days later, these ladies go to the tomb, and when they come to the tomb, what do they find? It's empty. I mean, put yourself in the shoes of these of these men and these women. If you'd had been in their shoes, I I I can only imagine how you or I would have felt. We would have been emotionally drained. The high points, the low points, the excitement and the anticipation, and then complete devastation. And so I want to pick up and what the Bible says in these verses so that we we notice some of the details because this sets up the rest of the chapter, which is full of rich detail that's pointing us to why we need to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Here's what it says. I read through verses 1 through 4. I'm going to pick up in verse number 6. He's not here. He's risen just as he said. He has gone before you into Galilee, saying, remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified. And that word must is important. And the third day he will rise again. And they remembered his words and returned from the sepulchre and told these things unto the eleven and to all the rest. It was Mary Magdalene and Johanna and Mary, the mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told them these things unto the apostles. And their word seemed unto them as an idle tale, and they believed them not. Then Peter ran into the sepulchre, stooping down, and beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass. So what are the details that we should pick out from these verses? Well the first one is that the tomb was empty. So when these ladies come to the tomb anticipating that They're going to anoint the the this body that's been laying in the grave for three days. They discover that there's no body, that the stone's been rolled away. And somebody tells them, an angel, two angels, say he's not here. He's risen. Why are you looking for the living amongst the dead? This is very confusing for these women They remind them that Jesus had protected this. And as they start talking about what Jesus has said, these ladies are listening. They're going, yes, okay, we remember him saying these things. And so he is there they're basically saying the words that he gave you, they have been fulfilled. Why are you looking for him here Well, so the ladies obviously they need to tell somebody about this. So who is the most logical person to tell? Well, let's tell the the remaining disciples. And so they go to the eleven as they tell them these things. The eleven say they don't believe it They believe that these are just idle words. And so some of the disciples, Peter being one of them, decides, I'm going to go back to the tomb, and I'm going to verify if what these ladies are saying is true. And that's exactly what happened. And when he came to the tomb, he found out that their story was true. The stone had been rolled away, the tomb was empty, there was no evidence of the Lord Jesus there. And all of a sudden, Peter and the disciples are perplexed. They're not sure how to take these things. You might say, well, well, Joel, what do we take away from this story? Well, obviously we're going to be looking at the entire section. This is just a piece, so to stand alone is a little bit challenging. But here's what I want to leave you with. These people, the disciples, are in no way in a position to boldly proclaim a lie. They're just not. They're afraid, they're worn out, they're anxious, they're doubtful, they're perplexed. These were all the kinds of words that we'd use to describe these disciples. Yet by the end of the story, they're going to be the prime witnesses of the resurrection of Christ. They're going to be preaching the gospel at Pentecost. They're going to be preaching the gospel to the uttermost ends of the earth The gospel is going to spread all throughout the Roman world, and it's going to spread because of the power of the resurrection. And so I leave you with this simple fact. To appreciate their witness, we have to appreciate how much up and down went on that week of the resurrection and how they even responded. to the things that they had experienced. I'm really looking forward to digging into this text the rex rest of the week and I hope that you will find that these uh lessons to be very encouraging. Uh Lord willing tomorrow we will record another episode And we'll keep moving our way through this passage. And I pray that it's a very encouraging study for you this week. Have a blessed rest of your day, and uh Lord willing, we'll talk again tomorrow. Bye now.