Please take your Bibles and turn to 1 John chapter 1. 1 John chapter 1 and the plan is that we will begin a series that will take some time. I will not tell you how long. I won't be so bold as to do that. But we will be studying the book of First John. And I love the book of First John because it has a wonderful balance of so many things. First of all It's written from the perspective of not just an apostle, but a pastor. And out of all the apostles, he was probably the most loving and compassionate of those men. Of all those men, he was the one who probably was the closest to the Lord Jesus and the most in tune with his heart for the people. John wrote a series of letters, and this is the first one that we will be looking at. And so not only is it pastoral, but it there's a lot of rich doctrine in it as well. And that rich doctrine is connected to some very practical applications. So as we study the book of 1 John together, as we look at it verse by verse, I believe we'll walk away with a great Host of things, doctrine, practice, hearts, those things will all be communicated as we study the Word of God together Because this is our first sermon in this series, it's introduction. But I don't want you to think that because it's introduction, it doesn't have some very important truths for us to grab a hold of this morning. Let me read the text again together. We'll bow our hearts in prayer and then we'll dig into this text. 1 John 1 verse 1 That which we have seen from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of life. For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and show unto you that eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us. That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ And these things write we unto you that your joy may be full. Let's bow together for prayer as we ask the Lord to stir up our hearts this morning, stir up our affections. Help our minds to be focused. And as we also mentioned some of the great needs within our congregation, let's bow together as one heart and ask the Lord to work in these issues. Father, first of all, we ask that you would open our eyes to understand these glorious truths that we find in this text I pray that you'd stir up the affections of our heart, that we would not only have understanding with our minds, but our hearts would be moved by truth. And I pray that you would soften our wills, that whatever applications come out of this text, our hearts will be inclined and purposed to respond correctly to truth. I pray that as I open up the Word of God, you might guide my thoughts and help me to present things in the most accurate and simple way possible so that your spirit Has plenty to use in the hearts of each of us here this morning. I pray that as we are gathered together, we won't forget those who in our midst are going through great difficulties. There are health needs that in this congregation are very severe and that are very heavy on the hearts of the individuals who are going through those difficulties I pray that you would strengthen their bodies as they go through various health problems. Be with those who are part of this church, but they cannot physically be here today because of their health. I pray that you will work in their lives and strengthen their bodies. Most importantly, we pray that through these times you might strengthen their hearts. that you might guide their thinking, and that you would draw their attention to yourself, that they will find strength rooted in you that they will depend upon your grace, and that through these difficult times you might continue to mature them in their walk with you. I thank you for every guest who is here today. I thank you for, in your providence, bringing them to be with us. I pray that this service might be used mightily in their lives And I pray that you will strengthen those who are believers and visiting in our midst, and those who do not yet know the Lord Jesus as their Savior. They've never turned in repentance and faith to Christ. that through this passage you might begin a work of planting a seed and drawing them to understanding and faith in the Lord Jesus. Father, we pray for this church that you would strengthen it and help it to be a healthy and thriving local assembly I pray that you would strengthen our families. And I pray that as we've had wonderful times together, the ladies on Thursday and the men on Saturday, That the work you've begun in our hearts will continue day by day. And we will see lasting fruit in our lives and in our families and in this church because of the work that your Spirit is doing in us and through us. We pray again for your blessing in this passage, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. You know, we live in a generation that is not different than any generation. Now, I know that technology has made things very difficult in some ways for us. It's also made it very easy for us in some ways. I know that some of the temptations that we face are very glaring and they are great. But as Solomon said, there is nothing new under the sun. The expression of humanity might change from time to time, but what's inside doesn't change You know, we tend to get in our minds that we are living in a generation where there's a greater attack on the Christian faith than there's ever been. That's really not true. There have always been skeptics in every generation. There has always been time for doctrinal controversies. And when we come to this passage of Scripture, what we learn is that even in the early church, the person of Christ was under tremendous attack. The nature of his ministry. You realize that when John writes this letter, he's writing as somebody who lived and walked and ate with the Lord Jesus Christ. There were people who were denying the incarnation, if you will. They were denying the humanity of Christ during the generation that his disciples lived in. You might say, well, why does John take so much time to talk about the Lord Jesus Christ as a real physical person who he walked with and he talked with and he ate with? It's because we need to understand who Jesus is. We need to understand who he is theologically. We need to embrace who he is, and the reason is because who he is is connected to the vibrancy of a Christian life If we reject who Jesus is, we don't have eternal life. If we don't abide in Christ, while we possess eternal life, we will not taste it. on this side of eternity to the extent that God desires us to taste that. We will not have Christian joy in its fullness. We will not have unity amongst ourselves as God desires. We will not have clarity and we will not have stability. We will not draw on the grace of God like He intends if we don't understand theologically who he is, embrace it, and live in the light of it. So when John writes this book and epistle, he begins with some really interesting statements. He says, We have heard. We have seen with our eyes. We have looked upon the ideas. We've examined. We have processed. We have talked about, we have meditated upon. Please understand that when John and the other disciples left that feeding of the 5,000, they had a lot to talk about. When they went to an empty tomb and they were gathered in that upper room, they were discussing what had just taken place When Jesus was in the Garden of Gethsemane and he was in tremendous agony and turmoil, those individuals probably looked at each other and said, What is going on? Are we missing out on something? We don't get it When Jesus at that final Passover breaks the bread and gives it to them and says, Take, eat, this is my body that is broken for you, and drink this cup, it is the New Testament or the New Covenant in my blood. They didn't get what he was saying, really. So why so much emphasis on handling and hearing and examining? It's because John is trying to emphasize to his audience that the person that is at the heart of your faith The person that has brought you to possess eternal life, the person that strengthens you is not a myth. He's a real person. And what that means is that there were individuals who they were interacting with who were giving them the impression that that was the case. Well, let's move forward two thousand years and ask ourselves the question. Is there anything new under the sun? But you know what's different? We don't have any eyewitnesses in our midst. And so the man who is dead is speaking to us this morning. By the sovereignty of God, writing these words, preserving it for us, we have John speaking to us this morning. John really had three purposes in this section. The first one is he wants to establish the reality of Christ's earthly ministry, and we're going to focus on that this morning. Secondly, he wants to establish that he is uniquely qualified to address the nature of who Christ is and the significance of who Christ is. And third, he wants the people that he's writing to to understand what is the whole purpose of this letter. Why is it that you are so burdened about me? What is it that you have seen in my heart and in the way interact with people that has moved your heart to write these words? John really wants to establish all three of those things. And we will look at one of those this morning. The first one is the reality of Christ's earthly ministry. You know, I think sometimes we take for granted how much there is question in the minds of especially young people. Of an issue like this. There is a mentality amongst people that there is science, there is history , there is math. Religion. Math and science and history are true, and religion is in the realm of We could say mystic. Is there not a thinking like that today? Very prevalent. Very prevalent. And so in fact many people are saying, okay, as long as you keep religion in this little corner and you keep it in the perspective that we like. then you can embrace it all you want. But the moment that you want to say that this actually is history, well, I don't know that I want to admit that. And so the truth is, one of the ways that the Christian faith is being undermined, especially with our younger generations, is that people are being given the impression that that's just a myth. You know, in every culture, they have some stories that they told. And that's just one of them. But I want you to consider what John is saying John is saying Jesus Christ was a real man. And I knew him personally. I ate meals with him for years. I listened to him teach and preach. I asked him questions. I saw his heart. I witnessed miracles. I know he rose from the dead. And what I'm telling you is I stand as an eyewitness. And not only I stand as an eyewitness, but all those individuals who he called to be his disciples stand as eyewitnesses. That's why he says, that which we have heard, that which we have seen, that which we have looked upon, that which we have handled. The life was manifested. We have seen it. We bear witness of it. I don't want you to get the impression that the Bible is just a storybook. This book is history. It's just as true as the evidence that's presented in a court of law. We have a case, and so a lawyer says, This is my first witness, and that witness is cross-examined. Please understand that when we read our Bibles, we are reading the witness accounts of someone on the stand. And not only were they willing to, we could say, pledge this is the truth and nothing but the truth, but they were willing to die for what they said is the truth and nothing but the truth. Notice what John says in John chapter 1. Listen to how he starts that letter that he's writing. Really, it's a gospel. He says in verse number one, in the beginning was the word. The word was with God. The word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him, and without him was nothing made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of man. Now listen to the next statement. And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. All of a sudden he's going from theological propositions, if you will, to something very practical. That person came into the world. And people who rejected him saw him and thought about what they were seeing and they listened to his message and they made a judgment about what they were hearing and what they were seeing. He says later on he came to his own, and his own received him not. So there were people who literally rejected the Lord Jesus Christ and his presentation of who he was. In verse 14, he goes on, the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. Now he's talking about himself and the other disciples. And he says, and we beheld his glory. The glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Do you see that John is really emphasizing that he is an eyewitness? He's writing this document to people to convince them that Jesus is the Son of God and to convince them of the implications of that. So that they will embrace that, they'll believe it, they will receive eternal life. He then goes on to say this. John bear witness of him And cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake. He was coming after me, preferred before me. He was before me, and of his fullness have all we received in grace for grace. Let's not fail to remember that what we hold in our hands, this book, is a book of history. Let's go beyond calling it a story, though we can use that term technically, but it's a history. It's a record. It's a witness. Jesus Christ was a real person who walked on this earth, and John is saying, I saw him, I walked with him. And I want you to understand that because there are huge implications. that flow out of you embracing that reality. The second truth that I want to see this morning, and really John is going to emphasize this in the book. is that Christ was the fulfillment of numerous Old Testament prophecies and pictures. When he came unto his own, he came to a group of people that had as their Bible the Old Testament. Every single year they celebrated the Passover. And there was a picture in the Passover that was being demonstrated year after year after year On the Day of Atonement, when there was a sin offering, when there was a peace offering, whenever the law was read, there were so many Statements that should have convinced them that when this individual was standing in their midst, he was the fulfillment of that. Listen to a couple of them. In Genesis 3 It says this verse 15, I will put enmity between thee and the woman, between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Right after Adam and Eve sin at the fall, they've experienced death and separation from God. They're beginning to experience the consequences, the immediate internal consequences. Of sin. They're afraid of God. They don't want to speak to Him. They make excuse. All kinds of things that we can pick out of that text. What does God do? He gives them a promise. He says, Yes, you have died spiritually, but I have pursued you, and that is not the end of the pursuit. I'm going to send someone of the seed of the woman who will crush The one who has deceived you. That's what he's saying. And the rest of the Old Testament is the unfolding of that promise. And what is the New Testament? It is the history behind the fulfillment of that promise. In Isaiah 9, 6, it says this: unto us a child is born. A son is given. The government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom, to order it, to establish it with justice and judgment from henceforth even forever. They should have been anticipating this individual, but they weren't. In Isaiah 28, 16. It says, Behold, I lay in Sion a foundation, a stone, a tried stone, a precious cornerstone, a sure foundation. And what does Peter say? That stone was rejected. It was rejected. In Isaiah 53, we meditated on this last Sunday evening. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Surely he hath borne our iniquities and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. He was wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. Verse 11, he will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied By his knowledge my righteous servants shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. The Old Testament is full Of wonderful truth. When Paul went out and preached Christ, you know what he did? He went to synagogues first. He opened up the Torah. He opened up those scrolls. And he began to expound to them these texts. And say that individual that I threw people into prison because they embraced. By the way, Paul saw Christ's ministry. He was a part of the Sanhedrin. Did you ever contemplate that? He was a witness. He plotted. He was probably one of those who said, crucify this individual. We've got to get rid of him. He's an evil man. Paul was an eyewitness, not as a disciple, but as an antagonist. And when Paul expounds the scriptures, he's looking people in the eye and saying, I know where you are because I was there. And that individual that I hated and I loathed, I despised him, he is the fulfillment of all these texts. John is trying to emphasize Jesus was a real man, and he is the fulfillment of those and so many more Old Testament texts We then come to a third truth. Much of the New Testament is really nothing more than an eyewitness account of the ministry of Christ. Huge portions of our New Testament are eyewitness accounts. They are records of Christ's ministry and the implications of it. These eyewitnesses carefully interviewed others, and they set out a record of an orderly account to defend the reliability of the gospels. Think of the story, or think of Luke chapter 1. Let me just draw your attention to what Luke writes to an individual called Theophilus. He says, as much as many have taken in hand to set forth in order, a declaration of those things which most surely are believed among us. Even as they delivered them unto us, from the beginning were I witnesses and ministers of the word. Catch what it says. It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee, in order, most excellent Theophilus. that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. You get what he's saying? He's saying Matthew has written Mark has written, John has written, and I not only am an eyewitness, but I sat down with all these individuals, and I got A very thorough account. From the beginning to right now, I have recorded as a historian, as a doctor, in a meticulous way. All those details. And what I'm writing to you is meant to strengthen and fortify your confidence in the reliability of this testimony. That's what he's saying. And yes, the Holy Spirit was guiding in that process. And so as he writes down, he's not only writing as an eyewitness. As a historian with the meticulous nature of a doctor, but he's writing under the inspiration of Scripture. What an amazing thought 2 Peter chapter 1, listen to what Peter writes, verse 15. He says, I will endeavor that you may be also after my decease to have these things always in my remembrance. Well what is he talking about? He's saying from the time that I began teaching you to right now, all those years I want to record those things down because I'm about to die. My ministry is about to come to a close. But I want you to be able to continually go back to that. I want that to be preserved not only for you, but for former of future generations. All the way to us. And so what does he say? He says We have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus. Don't miss that statement. We were eyewitnesses of his majesty. We saw it. But don't miss one of the next things he says. No prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. Now I know how this is typically presented. But I think we actually don't understand what he's saying. While I was an eyewitness, what I'm writing to you is not just my perception of those events. It's not just my interpretation. I saw it, but I'm being guided by the hand of the Spirit of God. He says, the prophecy never came in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. You say, Pastor Joel, why do we start here? And I'll tell you, it's because the doctrine of Christ is the center of our Christian faith If we don't understand who Christ is, then we don't understand our faith at all. If we reject who Christ is. We don't have life. We are not believers. We are not in Christ. We have to embrace who He said that He is. Let's not forget that Christ was rejected and crucified in part because people understood what he was saying. And they wholeheartedly rejected it. And that's why we start here. If Christ is just another man, then eternal life It's a myth. If he's just an ordinary man, or if he himself is just a figment of people's imagination, it's like the boogeyman or Santa Claus or something like that. We don't have eternal life. Our faith means nothing. And so we begin with this statement. He is a real man, a real individual. He's the fulfillment of those prophecies. Many false doctrines begin with an attempt to undermine the person of Christ and the nature of his work. That was one of many of the many issues that John was concerned about when he sat down and he wrote this epistle to these Christians. He knew that their problems, their church-related problems, were in part connected to false teachers who had been undermining their understanding of who Christ is. Their understanding of those doctrines that are connected to that. And so we start at this place. But this is the point that I don't want us to forget. Fellowship with God, fullness of joy, communion amongst believers, power over sin, all of those things, and I know we want them They're all connected to the nature of Christ. And not only the nature of Christ, but the fact that we have union with Christ. You cannot have victory over sin apart from being in Christ. You can't. You will not have unity amongst believers. Outside of that position in Christ. You will not have joy and fellowship like God intends and like He wants, and like John himself was burdened for those believers, apart from your union with Christ. It will not happen. So, why do we start there? Those are the reasons. So, I want to draw to a very simple conclusion. How do we respond to the fact that Christ is a real man That He is the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies. He is God in the flesh. How do we respond to that? I want to begin by this statement. Realize that this book is not a storybook full of myths, made by individuals hundreds of hundreds of years ago. But these are real live records of what God did in human history This is a carefully recorded history written down by eyewitnesses who later would die as Christian martyrs holding fast to their testimony. You know, we as humans are prone to lie, aren't we? But will you hold fast to a lie that's gonna cost you your life? No. I mean look at Paul. Paul is one of the greatest examples, one of the greatest proofs, validations Of the genuineness of the Christian faith, a persecutor of the church, an intense hatred for Christ and Christ's people. Yet he end at the end of his life, he says, For me to live is Christ and to die is gain. I'm in a fix betwixt two. Whether to be with my Lord, which is far better, or to stay with you for your benefit. The time of my departure is at hand. I've fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. This individual, he he wasn't dying for a myth. He was fully convinced of the reliability of these things. A third thing, you cannot stay neutral when it comes to Christ. You can't You know, we live in a day where we think everything is relative. Like, okay, that's your truth and this is my truth. Well, we might both be wrong, but if we're embracing things that are not able to be reconciled, we can't both be right. It's that simple. And when it comes to Christ, you have to make a decision about him. You cannot be neutral on Christ. If you choose to embrace who he is. as your one and only sin-bearing substitute, or you reject him, and there are eternal consequences. Lastly, we need to realize that every blessing that we desire in Christ, that John will expound in this epistle, begins with understanding Christ and embracing that witness. You know, in our congregation this morning, I don't know what 's going on in your soul There may be folks here that say, I have no doubt in my heart who the Lord Jesus Christ is. I have embraced fully, with confidence, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, that He came in the flesh, He died on the cross, He was crucified, He bore my sins, and I stand righteous in Him. I believe that he rose from the dead triumphantly. And I believe that I have eternal life because he has triumphed over death. But not everybody here might have that confidence. We may have some that say, I'm undecided. I don't know. You know, I've had some conversations with some friends and I think about this and we have this friend at school and that friend at school. They come from this area of the world. They come from that area of the world and this person doesn't believe in God. And we have all kinds of conversations that go on, secretly or not secretly, behind the scenes, and maybe you're undecided. I'm going to call to your attention. This is reliable. This is truth. This is a trustworthy testimony from an eyewitness recorded for us as history. You might say, I've embraced Christ, but there are times that doubts come into my mind May I encourage you to come back to this text, to go back to those scriptures and read through them and consider. The profound the very profound statements that Peter is making and that Luke is making and that John is making. These individuals are making non-negotiable statements of fact And either they are bold-faced liars or they are speaking truth. May I invite you to look deeply at this truth, whether it is to strengthen you. Whether it is to cause you to look in more look more deeply, whether it is to press against the doubts that are creeping into your heart, I invite you to examine this text. And as we dig into the book of 1 John, I believe that this is going to be a very enriching study. It's going to strengthen our souls. It's going to be right exactly what we need to be vibrant Christians Growing in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. Let's bow our hearts together for prayer. As uh our piano player comes. We're not going to sing an invitation hymn. Rather, I'm going to ask my wife to quietly play a hymn that we know. Hymn 382, Nearer Still Nearer. I don't want us to sing because I want us to reflect. I want us to be able to think about what we've just heard and let the Spirit of God Impress upon our hearts the decisions that we need to make. It may be that as we are quietly reflecting on this, God would tug at your heart. You want to come forward and Spend some time in the Lord with prayer. With the Lord in prayer. It may be that you want to kneel there in your your seat And say, God, strengthen my faith. God, give me the tools to reach into the heart of a friend who is a skeptic. I really love this individual. They're a dear friend. And they don't understand that the Christian faith is built on fact. It's reliable. I don't know how the Lord might minister to your heart, but I know that he will. And so as we sit here quietly, as the Lord might lead you to come forward, to kneel there in your seat. Or just to quietly pray, may God do that work in us