I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to the book of Romans. We're looking at Romans chapter one this morning, and one of the things that I want to do as we're going through our missions emphasis month is I want us to look at several principles or several different marks that are extremely important in any local church. If it's going to be a church that's missions-minded. Now we talk about missions. There are a lot of different ways that we could approach this issue of being motivated to be involved in missions. In fact, I think in a lot of churches, there are two very, very common motivations that I think that are very dangerous. The first is this issue of emotionalism. When we talk about emotionalism, what I'm saying is this. We present the needs and the opportunities in such a way that rather than our minds being engaged theologically and the Holy Spirit really pricking our conscience and pressing our soul And there being this lasting, long lasting motivation to go out and do what is actually a very difficult work. We stir up people's emotions and in a moment They make a commitment, they're ready to do something that only a few months later or a few weeks later will soon be forgotten Another motivation that I think that many churches use is really this manipulation that pressures people to give and really to be a part of this. And so there's actually kind of this twisting of the arm. I want you to realize that neither motivation is really an appropriate biblical motivation. What we need is we need to be engaged in theologically. We need to see what the Bible says. about our position in Christ, the glories of the gospel. We need to recognize the plight of the world around us, the responsibility that we have as individuals. And as the Word of God presses on our souls and we're confronted with truth, my prayer is that we will walk out of this place, having been changed not just because of our emotional moment in this building. But something that really sticks with us. The reality is that when the Holy Spirit does a work in a person, whether it is to bring them to faith in Christ or whether it is to press them in a specific direction and ministry, he doesn't abandon them. He continues that work. In other words, he accomplishes it to its fullest to the end. He continues it over and over and over again. In fact, it's interesting when we talk about a person with this sense of calling into the ministry. I think a lot of times what people mean by that is, do you have this emotional stirring of your heart? Well the reality is there are lots of people at a missions conference that can feel that and say, I want to go to this place. That's what we're talking about. We're talking about God putting something in your heart that He will not let you leave. He won't let you turn away from it. He grips your soul in such a way that every time you begin to drift, he pulls you back. He confronts you in that position. We talk about as God calls you to work. What we're saying is he continues to howl me over that issue and to motivate me and to stir me up and press me in that way. Well, I am I really believe that as we look at these various topics and these different passages of Scripture that we'll address over the next month, that this is really what God uses to give us that sense. The things we will talk about are the very things that God will use to grab a hold of our attention, not just so we say, oh, I'm going to give more to missions and I think about it in one service and I forget about it. Or, oh, I think God wants me to go to this particular place and do this particular work, and then we forget about it. But it's something that God grabs hold of our souls and he doesn't let us go on that matter. It's extremely important that we take that spirit into the various topics we'll address. And so the first of the marks that we're going to talk about this morning is the mark of gospel clarity. I want you to recognize that for a church to be missions-minded, it has to, it has to, it has to have gospel clarity. I want you to realize that the most fundamental thing that makes something a church is that the gospel is expounded and people have responded to that message in repentance and faith and they are new creatures in Christ. In other words, if there's not gospel clarity in a place that we call a church, it is not a church in the biblical sense If a church is going to be missions-minded, it's going to be motivated to take the gospel to the uttermost parts of the world, it has to have gospel clarity. It has to have gospel clarity from the pulpit. It has to have gospel clarity in the Sunday school classrooms. It has to have gospel clarity in our homes as we lead our families in family worship. It has to have gospel clarity when we engage people in our culture. When we talk to people on the streets, when we invite people into our homes, gospel clarity has to be at the heart and soul of a missions-minded church. So I asked this question this morning. How do we have gospel clarity? Well, I invite you to Romans chapter 1, which I believe is one of the most wonderful passages we will read in our Bibles. In fact, this morning as we open up this text, as we dig into the wonderful truths that we find in Romans chapter 1, I believe that I won't even be able to scratch the surface of the things that could be said, the things that I want to say, perhaps the things that should be said. But rather what I'd like us to do is get the full sense of what's before us. And let the Spirit of God take these truths and drive them into our hearts so that when we walk away, it doesn't walk away from us. Romans 1, verse 1 says this. A servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God, which he promised afore by his prophets in the Holy Scriptures concerning his Son Jesus Christ, our Lord. Which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh, and declared to be the Son of God, with power according to the Spirit of Holiness, by the resurrection from the dead. By whom we've received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith among all nations for his name, among whom also ye also the called of Jesus Christ. Verse 14 says this, I'm a debtor, both to the Greek and to the barbarians. Both to the wise and to the unwise, so that as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are in Rome also. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to fa, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. Now when we come to this wonderful text in front of us, I think it's important for us to just stop for a moment and ask what's the main point that Paul is communicating as he opens up this letter to the church at Rome. Well, the purpose of the opening of Paul's letter to the church was to establish gospel clarity as the foundation and root of his appeal for a unified missions partnership. to establish local churches in Spain. Now when we read the book of Romans, one of the things that we realize is that Paul's point in writing the book was actually to tell this church, look, I want to come and I want to visit you. But I'm not just coming to visit you so that we can fellowship. I want to strengthen you as a body of believers. And then as I strengthen you as a body of believers, I want to see you get behind a mission that God has laid on my heart. And that mission is to take the gospel to Spain. As far as I know, there is no gospel preaching work in the regions of Spain, and I am deeply burdened to take the gospel there That's really what the whole point of the book of Romans is. In other words, Paul recognizes if the church is going to be stirred up If it's going to be motivated, if it's going to be empowered to be a part of this partnership, they've got to have clarity in the gospel. That's what it's all about. If they don't have clarity in the gospel, they will not be a part of this work. In fact, they won't be unified. They'll be divided. They won't be motivated. Paul addresses the heart and soul of the roots and the foundation of what will make this a strong partnership. And so we see in this text that God wants us, like he wanted Rome, to be a church with gospel clarity I think there's no way you can walk away from this text and give it any serious and careful consideration where you won't say that's what God wants. God wants me to play a part in a gospel-centered church that has gospel clarity. And that is the root and that is the foundation of everything that we do and everything that we are as a church. And so the question we ask today is how can we be a church that is like that? Now I'm not posing this question because I believe we're not, okay? I'm posing the question because there never comes a point where we can't work more on the clarity of the gospel. There doesn't come a point where we should stop getting over the glory and the weight of the gospel. There's never a point in the Christian experience Where we say, I figured it out, I've plumbed the depths, I'm where I need to be, I don't have anywhere else to go, I don't have any more to grow. That should never, never happen in the church. That should never happen in our Christian experience. And so I want us to look at just three very simple yet extremely important statements of fact That have to be here present with us and have to continue with us if we are going to be a church with gospel clarity. The first word that I'd have you write down if you take notes and write down things is the word doctrine. And I'll put it like this. We must be clear about the fundamental principles that form the content of the gospel. Let me say that again. We must be clear about the fundamental principles that form the content of the gospel. If I asked you today, what must someone do in order to be saved, what answer would you give? What scriptures would you go to? Would you say there's anything a person can do in order to be saved? What has God done for them so that they can be saved? The way that you answer that crest question, the things that you mention or the things that you don't mention, the scriptures that you don't go to or the scriptures that you do go to have a lot to do with what you understand about the essentials. the fundamentals that formulate the gospel. And I want you to realize when I use the term essential, and when I use the term fundamental, what I'm saying is this. You do not have a gospel if you leave out one of these things. In other words, it's the essence of what makes it the gospel. It's foundational, it's fundamental. If you don't have this, you are presenting a message that doesn't save anyone. That's extremely important for us to recognize. And so we look in verses 1 through 4 at several things that Paul says that are absolutely foundational principles that formulate the heart and the soul, the essence of what we call the gospel message. Notice what he says. I'm a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel, which He promised afore by his prophets in the Holy Scriptures, concerning his Son Jesus Christ, our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh, declared to be the Son of God, with power according to his spirit of holiness. By the resurrection from the dead, by whom we've received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith among all nations for his name. Now, there are several very important statements that Paul makes in these four verses. These statements are statements we must understand. And not only what must we understand, but we must be able to articulate them. And not just that we must be able to articulate them, but we must articulate them if we're presenting the gospel to people. In other words, we cannot be uncertain or unclear in any way when it comes to these fundamental issues of the gospel. And so I want to start with the first statement that should grab our attention. And that is the statement that it is the gospel of God. In other words, the message is God's story, not our story. In fact, one of the things that's so very interesting about the way that we hear the gospel being presented in our popular environment today is that people emphasize the gospel as if it's a story about you. Or a story about me. But let me tell you something. The gospel story is not about you and it's not about me It's about God. Now I'm not saying that it has no implication on your life. We wouldn't be talking about it if it didn't But the reality is it's a story that really goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden when mankind sinned in the garden And from that moment until the cross, we have this unfolding story, not about you and not about me, about God. It's God's gospel. In Ephesians chapter 2, verses 4 to 9, it says, God is rich in mercy for his great love, wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, he hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you are saved and hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That in the ages to come ye might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. And notice what he says here, it's so important. For by grace are ye saved through faith. And that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God Not of works lest any man should boast. In other words, the gospel is not about what you do for God. It's not about what you tell God you're going to do for him. or what you hope to do for God, or how you hope to change yourself in some way. The gospel is not about you reforming yourself and you presenting to God anything. It's not about you standing before God and saying, do you see what I've done for you? Doesn't this make me acceptable? The gospel is about what he did for you. In other words, when we stand before God, we don't stand in any way in our own strength or in our own righteousness or in our no our own goodness or in our own worth. We stand entirely righteous in the righteousness of Jesus. We stand forgiven in his cross. We have life because of his resurrection. In other words, the gospel Starts with God. It's about God. And it ends with redounding to his glory and not our own glory. None of us can boast in anything in connection to the gospel. It's his story, not our story. Our story is how he reached into our life and showed us what he did for us. It's not about what we do for him. We come to a second very important statement, and that is in verse 2. It says it was promised before by his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. The gospel is the fulfillment of Scripture. In fact, in Galatians chapter 4, verses 4 to 5, he says, when the fullness of time was come , God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And I highlighted this, I bolded this. It was in the fullness of time. What does that tell you? That tells you that God was working in circumstances to bring to pass something he had determined to accomplish In other words, he said, This is that moment in history that I'm bringing my son into the world through this woman, Mary. In the fullness of time, God's events were moving to that moment. And Romans 5, 6 it says, when we were without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. We have the same sense of the fullness of time in due time. God is working behind the scenes to accomplish his purposes. And so we recognize when we embrace the gospel, we're embracing a message that's not just a New Testament message, but rather it's a New Testament message that explains what the Old Testament was always talking about. In other words, every time Paul went into the synagogue and he preached the gospel, he went to the Old Testament. He didn't have a New Testament to preach. And he says, here is the promise in Genesis. Here's the promise in Isaiah. Here's the promise in Micah. And he's laying out a case and he's saying Jesus of Nazareth, who you crucified, who rose from the dead, is the absolute 100% only fulfillment of the Old Testament prophets. What do we see? We see this continuity between Old and New Testament. We see that the gospel is the fulfillment of God's purposes of redemption. We also see a third truth, not second, third. The gospel is centered on a one-of-a-kind, unique person, the Lord Jesus Christ. In verse 3, it says, concerning his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Now I could pause and I could probably preach an entire message on every single one of those three words. Jesus emphasizing his humanity. Christ emphasizing his connection to the Old Testament prophets, Lord emphasizing his deity. But the reality is this, the Lord Jesus Christ was a unique person and there has never been and there will never be a person just like him. He is one of a kind, none like him. What an amazing, amazing thought to consider. In fact, in John chapter 1, verse 1, then verse 10 and 11, and then in verse 14, the scriptures lay out the uniqueness of Christ. The fact that there is none like him, there never will be, there never could be. There's only one Lord Jesus Christ. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. The Word was God. We see that he has in his full essence the Godhead. He is deity. He is God. He is eternal. He is creator. He is sustainer. By things, by him all things consist. And the reality is the Lord Jesus Christ is fully God, not in part, but in every single word of the sense. He's God. In verse 10 it says, he was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. In other words, God took on flesh at a point in time, in the fullness of time, at the right time, in God's perfect time. God enters into his creation, not just as creator and sustainer, but as one who is actually laying aside his glory and his grandeur. And he takes on human flesh. In verse 14 it says, The word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. The glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. In verses 3 and 4, it's interesting how Paul addresses both aspects of the person of Christ. In verse 3, he talks of his humanity. He was of the seed of David according to the flesh. And then he talks about his deity in verse 4, declared to be the son of God with power at the resurrection. And it's not that he became the son of God at the resurrection. He was always the Son of God. He is the eternal son of God. But at his resurrection, people said, now we know for a fact he is who he says that he is. He is God in flesh. Folks, one of the reasons that there are people not being saved through the preaching of the gospel in some context is because people do not talk about the uniqueness of Christ. Folks, if you reject the deity of Christ, if you don't believe that God is three in one, you do not have a gospel. You do not have a gospel. You have the plot Father's plan of redemption. You have the Lord Jesus Christ executing the plan. You have the Spirit's work and regeneration. And conviction that brings us to repentance and faith. The reality is you have zero gospel without an understanding, a recognition, and embracing of the uniqueness of Christ and His person and the Godhead. You do not have it. It is an absolute non-negotiable. We have to recognize that if we embrace a Jesus that is less than the Jesus of the Bible, we haven't embraced Jesus as he is. We've embraced an idol. A figment of one's imagination or someone else's imagination. We come to a fourth very important principle. The gospel is centered on the redemptive work of Christ. He says it was by the resurrection of the dead. Now, let's think about this for a moment. If there's a resurrection, that means that there was a death. And if there was a death, then that means there was a reason for the death, and there was a way for the death. And so we need to understand that the implications of that statement involve who is Jesus, what did he do? How did he die? Why did he die? What were the implications of his death? In other words, this is at the center and heart of the gospel. We have to talk about the cross. We have to talk about the blood of Christ that was shed for the remission of our sins. We have to talk about the fact that God in flesh physically died and experienced death. He went into that grave, and for three days he laid in the grave and he rose triumphant from the dead. If there's no death on the cross, if there's no shed blood, there's no remission of sins. If there's no resurrection, we are not saved. And so in 1 Corinthians 15, Paul says it this way in verse 3, Christ died for our sins. In verses 2 Corinthians 5, 21, he says. He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Isaiah 53, 5 and 6, he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace is upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. How we like sheep have gone astray Straight. We've turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. The simplest way to put that is this: Christ Died for my sins. That's what he's saying. Verse 11: He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. We use the term propitiation, it means that God's wrath was satisfied. In other words, what his holiness and his justice demanded, it was fully and completely satisfied in the death of Christ on our behalf. Very, very important. We cannot skip over the death of Christ and its implications. But then we have the resurrection. In 1 Corinthians 15, 17, he puts it this way: if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain You're yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable But now in Christ, now is Christ risen from the dead, become the first fruits of them that slept. Since Adam came death, by man also the resurrection of the dead. For in Adam all die, even so in Christ. Shall all be made alive. Folks, every person that is going to stand righteous before that judgment someday is standing righteous in Jesus. There is no, there is no person who will escape that judgment apart from the righteousness of Christ in that wonderful position. We have a fifth. The gospel commands us to repent and to believe. In verse 5, he says it's for obedience to the faith. I want you to realize that God doesn't suggest that we trust in him. He commands us. He commands us. In other words, the greatest fist in the face of an Almighty God The greatest rejection is when the call of the gospel just lays out our brokenness and our fallenness and our complete inability to stand righteous before Christ. And we say, in some way, God, here is something for you that I hope you accept on my behalf. That is the greatest offense one could ever give to a holy God. We like to categorize sins. We like to think about how some sins are more serious than others. I will tell you, there is no sin save the sin of the rejection of Christ. His command to repent and believe in the gospel that condemns someone to eternal destruction. It's the rejection of Christ. In Acts 17, verse 30, he says, at the time of this ignorance God winked at. But he now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. Because he's appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. It doesn't sound like a meek suggestion, does it? It sounds like a very blunt Commands. Embrace the Son. In fact, in Psalm 2, it says, kiss the Son lest he be angry. And the reality is, God will judge the world when they reject his son. We talk about repentance, it's that humbling of the inner man. convincing us of our sin, the righteousness of God, our brokenness, the judgment to come. It humbles our hearts, it recognizes we have nothing to give to God. We have no righteousness that He'll accept. There's no good thing that we've done that He says, Well done, I accept it. We see that we are without hope before the hands of a holy and righteous judge. And we recognize that apart from the gospel, we have nothing. And what is faith? It's trust in his provision. As the heart is humbled by the work of the Spirit. As we see our brokenness, and God says, here is the only hope, we embrace it. Folks, that's how people are saved. You might be sitting here this morning and you say, I thought salvation was about praying a prayer. I thought it was about walking an aisle. I thought it was about filling out a card. No, folks, salvation is about a broken sinner turning to the Lord Jesus and trusting in his provision on the cross. And you cannot, you will not do it apart from his gracious work in you. You cannot come to that point apart from the preaching of the gospel. And the conviction of sin through the preaching of his law, his holiness being dropped in your presence, and your eyes being opened to see something that you've rejected and ignored That's how people are saved. There's one final thing I want to mention. This is a gospel for every kindred, tribe, and nation. He says in verse 5: it's among all nations. Psalm 96 it says, Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day, declare his declare his glory among the heathen and his wonders among all people. For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods, for the gods of the nations are idols. But the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness, fear before him all the earth. I ask you a question. Does that not touch your heart? We have a compelling reason to be burdened for the nations. Because the gospel is not just for you and me. It's for people from every kindred and tribe and nation. Lastly, I mentioned under this point that the gospel magnifies the greatness of God. It says in verse 5, it's for his name. God's holiness cannot excuse sin, and we see that in the preaching of the gospel. God's justice that is satisfied in the willing substitutionary death of Christ, we see it in the gospel. God's love that's immeasurable, free, and full of grace. We see it in the preaching of the gospel. God's mercy that looks down on sinners set at enmity against God. We see it in the preaching of the gospel. God's patience that worked in history through broken instruments to accomplish his plan of redemption, both in the general sense and in the personal sense, we see it in the gospel. God's power that takes rebels spiritually dead, morally bankrupt, and regenerates them and humbles them and presses their affection to walk humbly as disciples. We see it in the gospel. And so we have to be a church, and we have to be families, and we have to be individuals that have a big picture view of the gospel. We understand the essentials. We understand the fundamentals. We glory in these things and we proclaim them. Secondly is the word burden. We must be gripped by the burden to proclaim this gospel. And we see that Paul expresses this in verse 8. He says, I thank my God through Jesus Christ. For you all, that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world for His of His Son. That without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers. Verse 14, I'm debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise, so that as much as in me is, I'm ready to preach the gospel to you that are our Rome also. Do you not sense the burden and the weight of Paul's view of the need to proclaim the gospel? It's there. Four simple statements. I will not develop them in depth, but I'll mention them so that you see them. First of all, Paul was overjoyed by their passion to proclaim the gospel in verse 8. He says, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all. In the context, he says, because your faith is known throughout all the regions. They weren't quiet about their faith in Christ. He was joyful because they proclaimed it. Secondly, Paul prayed fervently and often for their ministry to be effective. In verse 9, he says, It's without ceasing that I make mention of you always in my prayers. He wanted the faith that was known to be a faith that impacted people. He wanted them to be drawn to the truth. He wanted churches to be established, disciples to be made, and he prayed for them that God would help their ministry to be effective and to work in people. 3. Paul is gripped by an overwhelming sense of indebtedness to preach the gospel. In verse 14, he says, I'm a debtor. I was talking to my children one night in our family devotions about this verse here, because I was thinking about it in preparation for today. And I said, if somebody's a debtor, that means that they owe money to somebody. And until they pay that money, they're going to feel this sense of responsibility , this sense of guilt, this sense of I've got to resolve this debt. And Paul felt that way about people. He felt this sense of indebtedness to proclaim the gospel to people that he knew were unwise. People that he knew would reject it. People who he knew would not embrace the message. People who would become angry when they heard the message. He was in Fourthly, Paul was diligent in proclaiming the gospel wherever he had audience. In verse 15, he says, As much as in me is, I'm ready to preach the gospel to you that are in robe also. What do you give all of your attention to? Well, Paul gave everything he had to the preaching of the gospel. Whatever you put in that category. Whatever drives you, whatever motivates you, day in and day out, when your feet hit the floor, this is what you think about when you pillow your head, this is what you think about. Paul was diligent and he was ready at all times to pray. And I have a third and final truth I want to mention, but that's the word boldness. We have to believe in the transforming power of the gospel. You know one of the things that I want you to realize is you can know the gospel, you can be able to articulate the gospel, you can feel a sense of burden to preach the gospel, and you can keep your mouth completely. It's true. I've done that. I've done that a few times. Okay. I got a little book bag with me, and I got in that a bunch of gospel literature where I'm going to set up some gospel studies. And I see somebody. I have the tools needed to give them the gospel. I have the resources available to give them the gospel. I feel compelled in my heart to give them the gospel. And for some reason I shy away. Anybody ever been there? I don't don't you don't have to raise your hands. Anybody ever been there? Hey, I'm a pastor, I've been there. I was a missionary, I've been there There's nobody in this room that has felt that tug on your heart that hasn't at some point kind of shrunk back. And I asked the question, why? Why'd you do that? Why did you hold back? I don't know what your answer would be. Probably the answer could be different things at different times. But I want you to see what gave Paul the boldness to speak. He says, I'm not ashamed. That's really important. Verse 16, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. To the Jew first and also to the Greek. For therein the righteousness of a God is revealed from faith to faith. As it is written, the just shall live by faith. There were four things that Paul states in this text that compelled him, that motivated him. To be bold rather than fearful. In fact, the reason that Paul was so motivated and he acted on it is because it says he wasn't ashamed. So here's why Paul wasn't ashamed. The first reason he wasn't ashamed is this. Because he understands that the gospel saves people. Now it doesn't mean that it saves everybody. Okay? There are countless people you'll give the gospel to. They're people you'll pray for. They're people that you deeply love. And you will labor in humility and in grace and in mercy to reach that person with the gospel. And their hearts are cold and dead to it. And that is so, so very discouraging. But I want you to realize that it does save people too. He says, It, the gospel, is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth You know, there are Christians today who I really believe this is true. They don't proclaim the gospel because they've lost confidence in its power to save people. I'm serious. One of the reasons that we shrink back, we have embraced it ourselves. We believe that it saved us. We believe we stand righteous in Jesus. We love the gospel, we love Christ, but we've lost confidence that it'll save that person I'm about to talk to. Folks, God's gospel is powerful. It saves. And we've got to believe that and be convinced of that. And the reason that Paul had such boldness is because he said, it is the power of God unto salvation. He believed it. Secondly, it reveals God's righteousness. He says, Therein is the righteousness of God revealed. I am convinced that there are many, many Christians that do not proclaim the gospel because we've lost a sense of conviction that God is righteous and we're not. Have you ever been listening to someone talk who is blasting the Christian view of, and in your mind you feel like you can't say a word about it because you feel intimidated? Okay, anybody ever been there? Don't raise your hand again. But you ever been there? You're sitting in a college class. And a professor gets up and he just slams Christianity. You know, somebody gets up. I mean, think about this whole Supreme Court thing. Okay? I don't know if any of you are on Twitter, but if you're on Twitter and you see what people are saying about this woman who is a mother of seven kids, okay? Five of her own and they've adopted two. She is a hero. Okay, how many of you would say I I could raise seven kids, homeschool them, go to law school, my could you do that? I'm a dad of five. I can't imagine. This is an incredible woman, no matter what you think about her politically. She's an incredible person. But people despise her, hate her because of what she believes about marriage. Can you imagine that? Why is that? Because they believe it's evil. In other words, we've got to defend God's righteousness. We've got to defend that what God says is true is actually true. We feel that in our hearts. We get backed into a corner, and I want you to realize he says in the gospel the righteousness of God is revealed. God is just to condemn those who reject him. He's absolutely just in it. What God says is right and what God says is wrong is right and wrong. There's no exception to that. God wasn't mistaken. He isn't floating around going, oh, maybe I'll rethink that right there God's not learning anything new about righteousness. What he says is true. And you know, when we have this firm conviction that God is righteous and we're not , And we don't have to defend God. We can just tell people what's true and what's right. All of a sudden we have much more boldness to proclaim the gospel. Because in that message the righteousness of God is revealed. And fourthly, it has a verifiable maturing quality to it. Thirdly, He says it's from faith to faith. There are Christians who don't proclaim the gospel because they don't know what it's like to disciple a young Christian and see their faith grow in depth and maturity. Let me tell you that when you work with young Christians, it stirs up your affections for ministry. I promise you it does. When you see a young Christian who has such infant faith, They know they're a sinner. They know that Christ died for them and rose from the dead, and they stand righteous in Jesus. And apart from that, they don't know a whole lot. But they want to learn. They're hungry. They're devouring the truth. They're learning all these very basic fundamental things. And they're just soaking in every moment of it. When you're not regularly with people like that, you lose a sense that that's actually what happens when people get saved. It's true. When he talks about it being from faith to faith, I think that what he's really emphasizing is the fact that we mature in depth. And the maturity of our faith grows and it is strengthened over the course of our Christian experience. That's what sanctification is. That's what it means to grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. Lastly, I mentioned this: it gives life to someone who's dead. He says that the just live by faith. There are Christians who don't proclaim the gospel because they don't really see the people around them as spiritually dead. It 's true. We don't see that people are dead in trespasses and sins. We don't see that this gospel is the only thing that can give them spiritual life. And until we get back to that conviction where we sense it and we believe it and we live in the light of it, we're going to shrink back. I conclude with this very simple statement. God wants us to be a church with gospel clarity. That's how we'll be a missions-minded church, folks. It starts here, it's the root. It's the foundation. It's the heart and soul of what we must be if we are going to do what he wants us to do. And so I ask these three questions. Have the scriptures revealed to you that you've gotten over a sense of the beauty and greatness of the gospel? It's possible it's where you are today. I want to encourage you to take this afternoon to get alone with the Lord. Go back over this passage, let these wonderful truths settle in your heart, and let it awaken your passion to God's glory. You know, Sunday is a day that we should set aside to just focus on the Lord. It is a lost, a deeply lost discipline in our nation. It really is. As soon as we hit these doors, it's like, where's my food? Where's my food? Coming back in the evening is like, I gotta cut my grass, man. I gotta get together with my friends and family members. Whatever happened to the Lord's day If we've lost the sense of the greatness of the gospel, maybe we should take a few hours this afternoon to just meditate on it. Instead of watching football. Let's think about the gospel. And I love football, don't get me wrong. Let's think about the gospel. Let's think about what really matters. Where our passion should really lie. Secondly, how have the scriptures exposed a shallow and immature understanding of the gospel? Well, I want to challenge you to purpose to be a diligent student of the gospel, reach out to godly, spiritual, mature Christians. Let them spend time helping you expand your understanding of the gospel. Folks, I love, I mean this, I love talking to people about the gospel. I really do. There's nothing more delightful in this world than being able to handle these sacred truths that give us a standing before God. I love talking about them. I love sharpening and honing in the explanation of how we deal with giving people the gospel. And I'm not the only one here that's like that. I know that for a fact. Get around people that can help you and sharpen you and build you in your articulation of the gospel. And three, I asked this question: have the scriptures shown you that you're not a Christian? It's possible as you sat here today in your mind, being a Christian was about signing a card Walking an aisle, getting wet, making a statement. And today we've seen from the scriptures that it's about repentance toward God and trust in what He did for us on the cross. There's no mixture of I did this and God does this. He did it all, and I embrace it as a gift. And I ask you today: is it possible that somebody sitting here says, you know, I do not Believe that I'm saved. And I need to get the questions I have answered. I want to challenge you, don't leave the service without reaching out to someone who can take you through the scriptures and show you what God's done for you so that you can respond to it. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father in heaven, unquestionably the text before us is one of the richest and most glorious texts in the Bible Help us to not get over the greatness of the gospel. Help us not to shrink back in fear. But help us to be motivated to proclaim your glories so that people can humbly trust in your finished work. Father, help us to get back to a conviction that you are righteous, a conviction that you save, a conviction that people are spiritually dead and are made alive for the preaching of the gospel. Father, help us to get back to being overwhelmed by the miracle of Christian growth. I pray that we would be a church that these truths resonate deeply with. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen