Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchor in the Word, Morning Reflection. We've been working our way through an important text of Scripture, Luke chapter 9, verses 46 through 50. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to encourage you to take it and let's turn there together And we're talking about the danger of pride in ministry, selfish ambition. And so this morning what we're going to do is we're going to look at how Jesus addressed the problem. that the disciples were having internally in in their group. And so let's read the text together and then we will dig into this topic which is very, very practical. Here's what it says. Then there arose a reasoning amongst them, which of them should be the greatest. And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart, took a child and set him before him. And said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this child in my name, receiveth me. Whosoever shall receive me, him that sent me. He that is the least among you all the same shall be great. John answering said, Master, we saw when casting out devils in thy name, and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us And Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not, for he that is not against us is for us. Now let's get back into the text and notice that Jesus chose to not just ignore what was going on amongst the disciples, but he decided to confront it head-on. Notice the way that he puts it in verses That Luke records this in verses 47 and 48. It says, Jesus perceived the thoughts of their heart, and he took a child, and he set him by him. And he said unto them, Whoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me. Whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me He that is the least among you all the same shall be great. Now I'd like us to actually look at this in two parts. The first part is what I want us to notice about the fact that Jesus didn't ignore what was going on amongst the disciples. The second part is I want us to kind of break down the illustration that he uses. So Lord William tomorrow we're going to talk about that But I want us to think about this concept of the fact that Jesus didn't just ignore what was going on. It says in Isaiah chapter 55 that the word of God is powerful. In fact, this is the way he puts it. He says, so shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void. It shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper, and the thing whereunto I send it. I think about what the scriptures say in Hebrews. It says that the Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit. and is a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. The reason that I draw your attention to those two verses, or another one, faith cometh by hearing. And hearing by the word of God. How can they call on him whom they've not heard? How can they hear without a preacher? Why do I bring those verses to your attention? Well, it's simply to say this. God 's Word has the power to change people, even if it's coming through a soiled tool. And the reason is because of the inherent power of the Word of God. God spoke to Balaam through a donkey. I think about what Paul says in 2 Corinthians. He says that we have this treasure, the treasure of the gospel, the ministry of reconciliation. We have it in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. So even when we are f even though we are flawed people , God can still work through us. In fact, this is very important. Sometimes people get in their minds that the only way that God can use them is if they are sinlessly perfect. Or sometimes people will get into their minds that that their sin has been excused by God because he for a period of time is working through them in spite of the fact that they're really not being consistent in their personal lives. Now the reason I bring this up is to simply say this. God's word works, no matter who's bringing it to us But there's another side to this that is extremely important, and this is at the heart of why Jesus deals with the matter at hand. And that is that God is very patient with us, even when we are not in the place that we should be. But He cannot and He will not allow us to continue in such a state indefinitely. It is dangerous for us to be in such a state for a prolonged period of time. You know, think about the scriptures and what it says about pastors and deacons. It says a bishop or an overseer must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, apt to teach. He goes through all of these biblical qualifications. He says the same thing about a deacon. Why is that? Well, God expects those who are his servants, who are communicating the Word of God, the instruments that are there presenting the Word, He expects them to be clean, He expects them to be consistent, He expects them to be blameless. And so God may allow a person to serve him when they are not in the right place for a period of time. But that is nothing more than his grace, nothing more than his mercy. And he will not allow that to continue indefinitely. A pastor Could be serving the Lord faithfully and he's doing the work well, and after a period of time he begins to become very imprincipled in the way that he's conducting himself. Or he begins to be very pragmatic, or he begins to allow pride pride to come in. And what the Lord will do in some of those situations is he'll start working on that heart. He'll start bringing situations to bear so that this man who is becoming proud And maybe he's becoming self-reliant, a person who's beginning to do the work pragmatically rather than in a principled manner. He he works to get their attention through circumstance, through the preaching of the word, through a friend, through a church member. And what is God doing? He's saying it's dangerous for you to do the work of ministry in pride. It's dangerous for you to do the work of the ministry pragmatically. It's dangerous for you. To do the work of the ministry without your heart being clean and pure. And so we see that. But it's also dangerous for those who are under the shepherding care of such an individual The fact is, if you're a dad and you're teaching your children and you're not walking with the Lord, guess what? You're not just in a dangerous place personally. It's affecting the way you teach your children. It's affecting the way that you mentor them, the way that you guide them, the way that you discipline them. The things that you allow and the things that you forbid. It's affecting that. It's the same is true for a pastor, the same is true for someone who is in a shepherding role of any kind. The fact is, it's not just dangerous for us, the ministers, but for those who are under the care of such ministers. And ultimately, it will be detrimental to the cause of Christ. When God's work comes under uh uh with the world's eye, you might say, and the world says, look at you Christians, you're inconsistent, you say these things, you say you believe these things, and this is the way you actually live, and this is the way you actually practice. What is that ultimately doing? It's it's it's detrimental to the cause of Christ. So the fact is Jesus could not just allow his disciples to sit there indefinitely in this position where they're going back and forth in selfish ambition and pride and arrogance and having this entitlement. He couldn't continue to allow them to do that. He has to confront them. And so what does he do? He sets a child in front of them. He brings this child and he uses the child as an illustration. And so tomorrow what I'd like to do is I'd like us to examine the way that Jesus uses this child to give us an illustration of how we need to think. As ministers of the gospel, whether it is I'm a husband who is ministering to my wife, whether I'm a father who's ministering to my children, or a mother who's ministering. to my children or or someone in the church is ministering to someone in Sunday school. Whatever the capacity of ministry, we need to look at this example that Jesus uses. We need to learn from it because ultimately it is there, not just for the disciples, it's there for us. And so the takeaway this morning is. If we have become unprincipled, if we become proud, pragmatic, we're compromising in our own hearts, I want to warn you and encourage you, as a brother who loves you. That the Holy Spirit of God will not leave you in such a state. He's going to deal with you. He's going to confront those issues. And so may we humble ourselves in the sight of God that He might lift us up in due time. That is the encouragement. If this has been a challenge to you this morning, I hope you share that. And uh pray for us this week as we uh continue the Lord's work and following up with people that came to the Asian Bible School, and as we continue through the challenges and the busyness of summer And uh look forward to Lord willing getting back into our study tomorrow. Have a blessed day by now