Well, good evening. Good to see each of you. Hope you had a restful afternoon. And we're looking forward to a good service tonight. Also, we have a business meeting. at the end of the service. So we're looking forward to just a wonderful time of fellowship together. And let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we'll get started. Father, thank you again for the opportunity to gather on this Lord's Day. I pray that you'll bless our time together of fellowship. Pray it'd be very sweet, very Christ-centered, encouraging. Pray that the preaching of your word would be helpful to each of us this evening. As we share testimonies and as we uh pick songs that we uh we love, I pray that this would just be just a wonderful time together. We ask for your blessing on this time and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, that was quick. Wow. Okay. Well, good evening. We are going to start the song services off this evening by turning to page 93 in our hymn book. As soon as I get my glasses on and I can see the page numbers. I'll get there, page 93, or look up on the screen. Glorious things of thee are spoken. Stand with me as we start off the services. All three verses Sing it out, make that joyful noise. Why are you things up here spoken by your city? His work cannot be broken, for his own abord, on the rock of Highness Valley. That can shake thy shore repose with salvation falls around it. Thou may smile at all thy clothes. See the The living waters ringing from eternal love Well supply lies and daughters and all fear of one We do work and make such a whatever everything which I go to give. Whatever fails from age to age now each habitation to the cloud and fire up here for And of the bring showing that the Lord is near , just writing from their bad thing. Oh, the allergies were making it hard. to hit that F. Alright, now we're turning to page 108, just a few pages over. Oh goodness. Yeah, I think we've uh when the weather turns warm like this and the sun pops out, I tried to tease the kids yesterday that I sucked up all the pollen as I was mowing and bagging it, but I think it's been replaced So my father planned it all. Sing out. What of the way beloved and darkness? Shadows fall, I know we're here. My mother clad it all I sing through the shade and the sunshine, I'll trust him whatever big fall. I think or I cannot be silent. My father planned it all. Fire may be sunshine tomorrow. Shadows may break in leaf. It will be the way. Teaches as I've others plan for me I sing through the shade in the sunshine I'll keep them whatever before I sing for I cannot be silent My father planned it all on the last A day of light and gladness, on which no shadow will fall , since this at last awaits me. My father. I sing through the shade and the sunshine I'll trust them whatever before I sing for I cannot be styled my father planned it Go ahead and have a seat, but turn over one page to 109. Great is thy faithfulness Keep singing out, sounding great. Great is thy faithfulness, O God, my Father. There is no shadow of turning with me touching just both by your passions, they fail not. I thou hast been the forever Great is thy faithfulness, great is thy faithfulness. Morning, my morning, new mercy like sea, call I have needed my hand. Greatness thy gracefulness , Lord unto me Summer and winter and spring. Summer and stars in their courses of Join with fund. Mercy and love Great is thy faithfulness. Is thy gratefulness for living demoring the mercy I came while I have needed thy hand And I please that endure I know your presence to die straight for the case. I'm going to go to our tomorrow listen to mine with ten thousand designs. Great to my faithfulness. Mercy might be all I have needed. And everybody break in for that Lord and Jeremy. Amen. That's good singing, folks. Okay, well on Sunday nights we'd like to take a few moments to give you an opportunity to share testimonies of God's I'm gonna focus on the kids, but now the adults are jumping in here. Uh let's take Joel Okay and let's see, young lady with the purple shirt, yes. Thirty nine in the blue book. Oh man. You guys are going Okay. Brother Cynthia. 495 in the red book? Okay, and I will take Tori. Thirty in the hymn book. Okay. All right. Okay, good good good. Okay, so sixty-five, let's go to page sixty-five. And let's see. Yeah, we just got a few minutes here. Page 65. Page 65. Didn't we just sing that? I was gonna say, yeah. God has spoken the third verse, right? Okay, last verse in the blue book Page 65 God has shall to prove the Savior greatest word of God to men Word made flesh Christ took our nature, one of us without our sin, Jesus' highest revelation, seeking him is seeing God. God has shouted through the sacred. Praise the living word of God. Praise the living word of God. Oh, that's a good verse. And I'm glad that the pastor called his own son down on just one verse. Okay, now we're gonna go to page 39 in the blue book. Let's see. Uh yeah. I'll fake it. I know this one. The first verse, page thirty-nine. One day when heaven one day. Filled with praises one day when sin was as black as could be Jesus came forth to be born of the virgin with the My example is he living, he loved me, dying, he saved me, buried, he carried my sin far away. Rising, he justified , really forever. One day he's coming, oh glory us. Alright, now we're going to go to page 495. That number sounds very familiar. 495. Yes, indeed. Count your blessings at the Easter season. Page 495, first verse. When upon life's billows you are tempest called. When you are discouraged, thinking all is lost. Count your many blessings, name them one by one. And it will surprise you what the Lord has done. Count your blessings, name them. Name them one by one. Count your blessings. See what God hath done. Count your blessings. Name them one by one. All right, and now all the way back to page thirty. Yeah, we know this one. All hail the power of Jesus' name. But now this one's a little bit different. So uh pay attention to the piano and read the words a note. Okay, the power of the Angel prospect down, the Angel prospect off, break for the royal dying. Yah and him , brown, brown him , brown him and brown him more. Same with me on the second because the sea of Israel's race He rise up from the fall He rise up Combien you buy impress and pra Power this power Crown him, crown him, crown him and crown him, Lord, of all now on the last , all that with Take the draw, we had to speak with, we had just make off, will join the ever. Brown him, brown him , brown him and proud him. What Amen. Have a seat. Take our Bibles together, please, and let's turn to Ecclesiastes chapter 3. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, and we are Again, back into our Ecclesiastes study. And if you remember the last passage that we dealt with in Ecclesiastes was the passage that talks about to everything there is a purpose and there is a time under heaven. And it was one of the most well-known passages in the Bible. In fact, even people that are not Christians in our culture even are aware of this passage, or they've heard it alluded to before. Well, this passage that we're going to look at tonight is another familiar passage, not as familiar as the one at the beginning of the chapter, but it's also a beautiful, beautiful section of scripture. So Ecclesiastes chapter 3, we're looking at verses 10 down to 13 together tonight. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verses 10 through 13. And the topic we're looking at is the comfort and the complexity of divine providence. Ecclesiastes 3. 10 says, I have seen The travail which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised in it. He hath made everything beautiful in his time Also he hath set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. I know that there is no good in them but for a man to rejoice and to do good in his life, and also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor It is the gift of God. Now, when we look at this passage of Scripture, I want to give you a summary that goes like this. Life is challenging and it's very full of struggles, yet God is accomplishing good even When we do not understand his ways. Because of that principle, we should learn to enjoy his good gifts and trust him to do what is right and what we cannot control or what we cannot understand. In fact, one of the things that we see about the Book of Ecclesiastes, what makes it really wisdom, is that Solomon is saying, you know, there are some things in life that you can't fully make sense of. There are some things in life, there are experiences that we will go through that we can make sense of some of it, a small portion of it, maybe the majority of it, but there will always be certain elements to the The the circumstances that we walk through that we will not be able to fully grasp. We won't be able to understand. We may not be able to get really good answers. And that's part of what Solomon is expressing in this passage. There are times, there are situations where we look at them, and even on the other side of them, we can't fully make sense of them. Since that is the reality of the world we live in, we've got to learn how to live in a world that has questions like that. It's kind of interesting. Today we were having lunch and and we were talking about a comment that Tori made on the radio and he said something to this effect. He said When a person chooses to take the COVID-19 vaccine, they are exercising faith just like a person exercises religious faith. Something to that effect. Is that right? And people said, well, what are you talking about? How can you make that comparison? He's 100% right. People are either going to choose to embrace it and take the vaccine or choose to reject it based on their looking at the facts. And guess what? No matter how you look at it, There's going to be an element in which somebody's going to make a decision and they don't know what's going to happen when they get the vaccine or they don't. And they will not know until it happens. They have to make that decision based on the evidence that's sitting in front of them, but that evidence is not going to give them all the confidence they need to make the choice. You know, there are lots of things in life that are that way. We make lots of decisions, and we make those decisions based on what we believe is enough evidence to make the step of trust. I want you to realize that we talk about God's providence, there is a side to this that we don't fully understand. There's a side to how God works in the world that even if He gave us all the information that we could handle, we still would not be able to fully make sense of it. Yet we know that we serve a God who's in control, he's working in our lives, and he's He is fully trustworthy, and therefore we must trust him. This passage is dealing with that concept of learning to trust God as he works in our lives. And so from the text, we're going to see that God wants us to enjoy his good gifts and to trust him to do what is right with what we can't control and what we can't understand. First of all, what I'd like us to see from this passage is that life is tough, or life is challenging. Yet, even though it is challenging, it is a gift from God. Notice what he says in verse 10. He says, I have seen the travail which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised in it. Now that word travail is a really descriptive word. One of the passages in the Old Testament that I think of when I hear that word travail is what we see in Isaiah 15 It says, when he shall see the travail of his soul, he will be satisfied. Now that passage is referring to the fact that when Christ went to the cross, he suffered agony. Pain, not just the physical agony of the cross, but he fent felt the emotional agony of the cross. He felt the full weight of what it was meant. to be hated by the world, to go to that cross and to suffer pain and shame. When he uses the word travail, he's talking about agony. Basically, what Solomon is communicating in this passage is that there are seasons in life that could be described as agonizing. Travail. They're very painful. Yet at the same time, though, there are seasons in life that could be described as travail, agony, painful suffering. God gives us good gifts and we can still view life as a gift from Him. Let me show you a couple of things that I think we should pick from this first verse. The first thing is that life is difficult. The second thing is that life is a gift. Notice the way he puts it. He says, God has given. Even in our darkest and most difficult moments, we need to realize the fact that we have life is a gift from God. God is the one who gives life, and God is the one who sustains life, and God's the only one who has the right to end life. Life is a gift Life is precious, and he emphasizes that in this verse. The third thing that he emphasizes to us is that life experience is made Now this is a really express interesting expression. He says, God has given to be exercised in it. Now you might say, well, what does he mean by that phrase that we are to be exercised in it? Well that word exercise, if you look at the Hebrew, it's a word that is actually, it has a really full range of meaning. In fact, if you were to look up that word, you'd find lots and lots of places where that word is being used. But that word has a very interesting nuance to it. And I want to give you Two examples, two passages where this word is used, and I wanted to kind of help you to understand what he means by that life is tough. It's a gift from God, and he uses it to Exercise us. The first example is in Genesis chapter 18, verse 20. The example is God telling Abraham that his wife is going to have a child. Now I can't imagine what it would be like to be in Abraham's shoes. He's an old man. His wife is an old woman. She's not just an old woman who's beyond childbearing years, but she's never been able to have a child in all those years that they've been married. God comes to Abraham in Genesis 18, 27, and he tells him that he is going to have a child through his wife Sarah. And this is what Abraham says. It says, Abraham answered and said, Behold, now I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord. Which am but dust and ashes. Now the word that is the same Hebrew word translated in this passage, verse 10, is the word answered. But what's interesting about that word answered is that the rest of the verse tells us about the way he answered. In other words, the way that Abraham speaks to God is that this circumstance has made him realize he's nothing. This has humbled him, and he recognizes that it's only God that could do such a thing. Another example is in Genesis chapter 24, verse 50. This is when God sends, or when when Abraham sends his servant to Laban, and he's basically going to get a wife for his son. And so in this passage, we see in Genesis chapter 24 that Abraham's servant goes to Laban's family and basically just lays out, I want you to know the story about Abraham. God has given him a child in his old age. This is a miracle. This is God's hand. God's made all these promises to Abraham. And the reason that I'm here is because my job is to bring back a wife for his son so that God will be able to fulfill the promises that he made to Abraham that he's going to make of him a great nation through his child Isaac. Now, how would you like to be the dad who's getting that word? This is how Laban answers. Laban and Bethuel answered and said, Bethuel is actually the one, but Laban is the brother. Answered and said The thing proceedeth from the Lord. We cannot speak unto thee bad or good. Basically what he's saying is, you know what? God's in this. I don't have anything to say except to just quiet down and say, Go ahead, you can do it. That's basically what he's saying. The sense is that the circumstances are meant to humble a person, to recognize how great God is and how small they are. We see another example of this in Job chapter 42, where Job realizes who he is and who God is. He says, Job answered the Lord and said unto him, I know that thou canst do everything. And that no thought can be withholden from thee. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore I've uttered that I understand not things too wonderful for In all of these passages, the people that are speaking to God or to individuals about God have been humbled by some kind of event in their life. And they're expressing to God or to another individual their humility. What's the point? The point is that one of the things that God does in our lives Is he allows us to walk through tough valleys so that we will see who we are. Life is meant to bring us to the humble realization of what we really are and who he really is. Literally, it's meant to bring us to an end of ourselves, to root out that constant compulsion to self-exaltation. God wants us to turn from slaves to our own impulses and appetites. To be humble servants of him. And so what he's basically saying is: life's a gift, but life is hard. And life is hard so that you'll be humble and you'll recognize that you're a creature. Who's responsible to the Creator? The second truth we're going to find in this passage is that in spite of the challenging nature of life, God is working to accomplish good. Look at what he says in verse 11. He hath made everything beautiful in his time. Let me read that again. Again, he hath made everything beautiful in his time. I want to ask you a question. Do you Do you believe that? Do you believe that God can take whatever you have walked through in life and He can make it beautiful in His time? That's what the scripture says. It doesn't say that we hope God makes everything beautiful in his time. He makes some things beautiful in his time. He says, We know that God makes everything beautiful. In his time, God is not just the creator, but he's also the preserver. In other words, he's actively moving those seemingly pointless and random moments in our lives toward some kind of good end. God 's power will always triumph in all circumstances. He makes everything beautiful in his time. I wrote this statement down and I want to read it because I don't think I'll remember really the weight of what I wanted to communicate, but I'll put it this way: The beauty is not in what mankind does, obviously. It's not in how we respond, because many times we don't respond well in circumstances. It's in the skill with which God is able to take the broken and painful pieces of our lives and pick them up and put them together in a way that is real, beautiful, and it brings glory to Him. It's like a mosaic. When you stand at a distance and you observe a mosaic, all of those little pieces fit together to to give us something beautiful to behold. But if you were to take each individual piece and you were to just set it down and examine it, it would just be a jagged piece of something that doesn't have any beauty. But as soon as that piece is put together with all the other pieces that are jagged and not beautiful. And the person who is the craftsman, the artist puts it all together, and then you step back and you examine it, what do you see? A thing of beauty. That is how God works in our lives. The individual circumstances in and of themselves can be very difficult, very painful. Painful, not beautiful at all. Yet he takes those pieces and he puts them all together and he's weaving them together to make something beautiful that only he can make. We see in Ephesians chapter 2 it says that we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. Workmanship has the idea that God is literally actively involved in our lives and He is shaping us through the circumstances of the life that He's given us. We think of Romans 8, that he works all things together for good. I think of somebody weaving together pieces to make something that has beauty. And has good use. He does that in our lives. He changes us from glory to glory into the image of Christ by the Spirit of God. Second Corinthians chapter 2. And the question is, how does God do that? He takes everything in our life and he uses it to weave it together to accomplish something that in the end is beautiful. And it's only a sovereign God that can do such a thing. It is only an all-wise and all-powerful God that can do such a thing. Only God can take those painful and difficult circumstances of life and use them to accomplish good. And that's what Solomon is communicating. Here. God knows how to do it. There is no change or beauty without process. Strength, maturity, spiritual fruitfulness, they all come through the means of difficult process, the process of sanctification. And God knows when to move in the best way possible. It says that he does it in his time. If you and I were to control the circumstances of life. We would always make the wrong choice in the timing of events to move it to the best end possible. We would do it. When it comes to the people that we give up on, we would give up on them too early. When it comes to the circumstances that are getting to be changed Too much pressure, guess what? We would quit before we got to the point where we actually got the benefit out of the process. I remember when I was in high school, our coach, who was an Olympian, he knew what it was like to be a world-class athlete. He used to make this He said, you are not training until you are exhausted. When you're exhausted, that is when you begin to train. You say, well, no, no, no, I'm exhausted because I was training. He says, no. Exhaustion is what gets you to the point where you begin to train. In other words, you will not develop until you get to the point where you think you can't go any further. And then the person who is your coach, your mentor, your partner, they say, now it's time to push. Now it's time to learn. Now is when you grow. That's the way that God works. If we could control our lives, we wouldn't grow. We wouldn't mature. We wouldn't become what God wants us to be Because we quit in the process before the process accomplishes purpose. God 's timing is so critical to the beauty of circumstances that he uses. To get us to where we need to be, we have to let God do what he's doing. It's like in James 1 he says, let patience have her perfect work, so that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. You have to let God shape you and mold you through the process. You will quit, but He doesn't let you quit. And so one of the things that we observe in life is that when we quit early, guess what happens? We end up in the same circumstance, in another situation. Why? Because God's persistent. He knows where the rough edges are and how to chip them and how to smooth them. And so we have to learn how to trust him in the process. And so what does he say? He makes everything beautiful in his time. Truth number three. Though God is providentially working to accomplish good, his ways are still mysterious and beyond our full comprehension. Look down in verse 11, he says it this way, He hath set the world in their hearts, and then this next statement is so interesting. He says, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. Do you realize that God puts you in circumstances that you cannot make sense of and he does it for a reason so that you realize you can't make sense of them? It's true. You how arrogant we would be if we could figure everything out in life? You know how arrogant we are, even though we can't figure out everything in life? One of the best things that God can ever do for us is to put us in circumstances where we don't have answers so that we look up and we realize we are dependent people. Paul expressed this concept when he wrote about God dealing with the nation of Israel in Romans chapter 11. And here's what he says: He says, Oh, the depths of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. Who hath known the mind of the Lord? Who hath been his counselor who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again. For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. Now, I want you to realize that when Paul is expressing the depths of the riches of God, his wisdom, his knowledge, how unsearchable they are, he's not saying it as a lament. He's saying it as an expression of worship to God. In other words, as he looks at how God works and he says, I can't comprehend it. You know what he's doing? He's bowing his knee and saying, You're worthy of all praise. In other words, God brings us to the end of ourselves so that we'll worship him instead of ourselves. our own intellect, our own wisdom, our own strength. He brings us to the point where we realize he's God, not us. We cannot see in the midst of the picture sometimes what's going on. We can't make sense of it. Yet God is still at work. You know, Moses expressed this in Deuteronomy chapter 29. I remember when I was teaching Bible classes in Ghana, we would get all kinds of questions. And you know, you you'd you you you enjoyed interacting with these questions. And sometimes a person would ask a question, and I'd go, I cannot give you the answer to that. And they'd say, Well, why not? You're a pastor. And I'd say, here's the reason: Deuteronomy 29. The secret things belong unto the Lord. our God. But those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. You know what Moses is basically telling the children of Israel? There are things that God doesn't reveal. Accept it. What he did reveal, obey it. And what you don't understand, trust him with it. And basically, God allows us to go through circumstances so that we will realize he isn't obligated to give us all the answers. And we submit to him and we trust him. Proverbs twenty-five gives two very interesting parables that kind of Proverbs that kind of talk about this concept. I'm going to read them and I've got to kind of comment on them because I think I think this really expresses how great God's ways are compared to our own, how great his wisdom is compared to our own. In Proverbs 22, verse 2, it says this: it is the glory of God to conceal But the honor of kings is to search out of matter. The heaven for height, the earth for depth, the heart of kings is unsearchable. Now, I want you to realize that those two proverbs are actually meant to be put together because they are communicating one very simple truth. The first proverb says this, God is so great that he takes the most powerful people that live. The wisest people that live, the most informed people that live, the people that have all the counsel They have all of the information. , They have all of the power, all of the strength. And you know what he does? He says, you have a privilege. To search out the depths of my wisdom. And you, the most powerful, most informed person on the planet, will not figure it all out. And then he says You and I can't even figure out the heart of the king. Pause and think about this for a moment The king who 's got all the information compared to you and me, it is their privilege to begin to scratch the surface of the wisdom and knowledge of God. God. And you and I, who don't have all the details that the king has, look at the king and say, wow, it'd be amazing if I could actually understand why he does what he does. What is he communicating? Is trying to communicate this. If you had all the information that the world could give you, you still would not figure it all out. Because of the greatness of God. If you and I cannot even begin to comprehend what goes into the heart of a person of high authority, the king, and the decisions that they make, how much greater can we not fully comprehend the ways of God And so God wants us to be a people who humble ourselves and acknowledge his greatness and we worship him. Truth number four, and this is really what drives to the conclusion of this passage. Since there's a lot we can't fully know or grasp, we should enjoy the good gifts of God and trust Him to do what is right. With what we cannot know. Listen to what it says in verse 12. He says, I know that there is no good in them, but for a man to rejoice and to do good in his life, all that every man should I'm going to summarize it this way. He says this be grateful for and enjoy what is good. I know that there is no good in them but that a man should Rejoice. Be a thankful person. Be a person who appreciates what God gives you. Even on our darkest days, there are still blessings that God has given us. That's true. Number two, do what is right. He said, Do good in his life. By the way, by the end of the book of Ecclesiastes, you know what he's gonna He's going to say, here's the conclusion of the whole matter. do Fear God and keep his commandments, because God is going to bring everything into judgment. In other words, enjoy the good of life that God has given you. Do it as right with what He has told you to do. Three, trust God with what's uncertain. I want to remind you again what he says. He makes everything beautiful in his time. No man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. Even though we know that in the end, God makes those things beautiful in his own way, he works it all together, we still, as we're going through it, can't figure out how he does it. Even as we look back, sometimes we may see in the big picture God's goodness, but we still won't understand all the details that were with woven together behind the process. us. Trust God with what is uncertain. And number four, realize that it's the goodness of God that allows us to be He says it this way. Also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of his labor. It is the gift of God. God. The fact that you and I can enjoy our lives, enjoy our families, that we can rejoice in good gifts is because God God has given them. Every good gift, every perfect gift it cometh from above, from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. And so Solomon's basically saying, It's true there's a lot in life you can't understand. It's true there's a lot in life that's Painful. But listen, God is big enough that He can take all these things, He can weave them together, and in the end, guess what? You're going to see according to His timetable, He's going to turn good out of it. Hey, the fact that you have blessings that can be enjoyed, realize it's because he has given you, according to his grace, those gifts to enjoy. Hey, you may not be able to figure everything out, but there's a lot that God's made clear. Do what he says is right. Yeah, it's true, there are things that you can't understand. Trust God to do what's right with those things. God wants us to enjoy his good gifts and trust him to do what is right with what we can't control and understand. So let me encourage you this evening. I know our lives are full of uncertainties, and our lives can be filled with challenges, but let's learn to trust God with what we can. Can't understand. Let's learn to make the best of the many blessings that He has given us. And let's be committed to doing what we know is right in all circumstances. I think that's the challenge to take away from the passage. God's sovereignty should motivate us to obey him. Him. God 's sovereignty should motivate us to trust Him. God's sovereignty should motivate us to be grateful. to him. Let's bow together in prayer and let's do that. Father, I thank you so much for this text of Scripture. I'm so grateful that you are sovereign. If the king has the incredible privilege to begin to scratch the surface of your wisdom, And we can't fully comprehend the ways of those in authority. How great are your ways? Father, help us to learn to trust you. Help us to learn to acknowledge your greatness and to worship you humbly Father, help us to diligently obey you. And Father, help us to be willing to trust you. Entirely in all circumstances. I pray that you would use these words to bless and encourage each person that is here with us tonight Father, this week I pray that you'd help us to take these scriptures that we have studied together, both in the morning and the evening services. And I pray that you would help us to walk in the light of these truths. Help us to grow because of the work that you're doing in us. And I pray that we would be instruments that are fit for the Master's use and to every good work. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Okay, if you could, let's uh turn to our closing hymn together. And that hymn is hymn 120, God Makes No Mistakes. God makes no mistakes. Let's stand together. Let's sing these uh two verses together and then we'll take a short break to prepare ourselves for our business meeting. If you didn't get the financials. I'm going to have those available, some extras, and make sure that you get that. And then after we take a short break, we'll we'll get started in that. So hymn 120, God makes no mistake. My life I give to you , Lord. Me, I forify your many In all I do and say repeat. Just you in the valley heart, as well as in the light. Knowing you will always lead me. Your will is always I know. No God makes no mistakes, He meets in every path I take along the way that leads me to Sometimes my heart would break, there's a purpose in every pain that makes That others would see my life and know that God makes so mistake. And when some day in heaven of love I see his dear face, may I then be counted fate As a runner in this race, now I'm trusting in the Savior to show me the way in his righteousness he guided As I seek you, please give me my deck. I know God makes no mistakes. He reads in every path I take along the way that's Oh at times my heart would break and the purpose in every reading it case Where could see my life and know that That God makes glory. Well, amen Okay. Hoseas, do you mind closing us in prayer? It's so good to see you. I'm glad that you could be up for just a short time. And uh we miss you and your family and uh think often of you guys. So so good to see you And then uh we'll take a short break before we uh get ready for our meeting. Father God, thank you for today. Thank you for the message, God. We ask that you would help us to put our faith and trust in your will and and know that you're uh omnipotent and you know everything that needs to happen in our lives, God. Allow us to help us and accept that will for our lives and we ask that you sh that you would show us the outcome and the purpose of of your of the big picture, Father. We ask that every situation that we'll be able to glorify your name. And also, Father, tonight, we ask that you uh Give us a safe trip home, allow us to have a good week, and we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen