Well good evening. Good to see each of you. I want to welcome you to our evening service, and we are partaking of the Lord's table tonight, so uh if you um are planning to participate, please do make Make sure that you get your elements uh maybe during the first hymn that we have. So let's go ahead and start with a word of prayer and then we will sing our hymns and we'll have a time of testimonies. And there are some pretty significant updates that I'm looking forward to giving You you this evening. So let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so grateful that we can gather as a body, and I pray that tonight, as we uh focus our attention on the blessed hope that we have as believers, That we would just cherish what we have in Christ. And I pray that this is something that would encourage us and strengthen us no matter what season of life we find ourselves in. And No matter what kinds of challenges we may encounter in life. I pray that you bless our service tonight, help our fellowship to be very sweet around the word as we partake of the Lord's table together. I pray that we would have a heart that is knit together. And I pray that we would cherish the sacrifice of Christ on our behalf. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Thanks so much for joining us for worship this evening. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number five hundred seventy-three. Hymn number five hundred seventy-three, I shall know him. We'll sing all three verses of this hymn. But I'm like more like you all time, when I try to find a key as a time. I don't know what I'm doing, and when I wonder, and I think we need to try and do it. Anyway , I think you can see it. All of our songs are focused on glory, on heaven. I know that given everything That's going on in the world. Songs like this ought to encourage us and remind us that this world is not our home. So let's sing out tonight, verses one through three, hymn number five hundred and sixty-four, in the suite, by and by. Sing out Amen. Him number five. 555. I was just thinking about my grandparents that have passed on. My grandfather passed away two years ago. My grandmother several years ago, but really excited to see them again in heaven. So I'm excited about the service tonight if you can't tell. Face to face verses one through four face to face with Christ My savior. Great singing this evening Okay, well on Sunday evenings, uh we'd like to take some time to give you opportunities to share testimonies of Nisna mammina umilamina mimina minn mawmina imma Mamma mia mamini ma mammini ma il mamina mammina minimum jim Ja mahom huma monimoli mahom Maintenant, il y a eu un homme. Haluan, että me on Ma'jema, ma mammina ma nimeni ma nim aħna minimina jih Three seventy four in the red book. Be thou my vision Bueno, nosotros cuando siempre hay que ir para el año interior y uno. Two sixty five in the Red Book Christ arose Bow the knee. I am already I don't know who we 're doing. And number eight in the Blue book. Number eighty. Wonderful, merciful savior. Can we play through this one once? Please stand with me, we'll sing the first of the last. Here we go. Wonderful mercy Oh my god. Here we go. You are one that we are You will be always all Please just be the greatest thing this evening. Okay. If you could, let's all turn together to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 this evening. And we've had a very distinctive theme this uh week, this weekend. in our Sunday services and that theme has been centered on our eternal glory that we are anticipating. And a lot of times we When we deal with issues within Scripture, we tend to focus on the here and now, how are we supposed to live today? How do we deal with sin and temptation and those kinds of things. And sometimes it's very important for us to look forward to what is awaiting us. And that's really the focus of this entire day. And tonight what we're going to do is we're going to look at some very specific information that is laid out for us in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. So let's go ahead and look together at verses 35 through 50. 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 35 through 50. This is what it says. But some man will say. How are the dead raised up? With what body do they come? Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened Except it die. That which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall be but bare grain, it made chance of wheat or of some other grain. But God giveth it a body as it hath pleased him, to every seed his own body. All flesh is not the same flesh There is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, another of birds. There are also celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial. But the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. There's one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars. For one star differeth from another star in glory So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption. It is raised in incorruption. It is sown in dishonor. It is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body, there is a spiritual body. And so it is written, the first man Adam was made a living soul. And the last Adam was made a quickening spirit. Howbeit, that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural, and afterward that which is spiritual. The first man is of the earth earthy. The second man is the Lord from heaven. As is the earthy, so such shall be that they are that are earthy, and as is the heavenly, such as they that are of the heavenly And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly. Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Now I'm sure as we were reading through that passage of scripture you said, wow, there's a lot of words that I have no idea what they're what's going on there. Where is Paul logically going in these verses. And so we're going to take some time to kind of break this down. And I hope that it'll be extremely helpful for you. Before we look at our summary statement, I want to say this. Many times when we experience issues of conflict, we begin to cower, we get frustrated, and we think that there is nothing productive about things like that. But I want you to realize that God in his sovereignty many times allows things to become difficult so that it forces us to think through issues. I'll take, for instance, what's going on in our society today. I know a lot of us, probably all of us to some degree, are very frustrated with what we see going on in our nation. But here is the simple reality. God in his providence has allowed things to unfold the way that they are. Here's a reason for that. And one of the reasons for God allowing things like that is it forces Christians to ask the question, what really do we need in this land so that it can have stability and strength in those things. Or we think about an issue like marriage and all of the debates that it seems like are not even happening anymore in our society today because that was given up over a decade ago. But the reality is that all of the chaos in our society about something like marriage, you know what it does? Is it forces Christians to ask the question, what is a marriage? Why does marriage matter? Why is it male and female united as one flesh for life? Why does that matter? Well, because of the chaos of society, it actually forces us to sit down and ponder the purpose of those things. And so it is through the tension and it's through the struggle, it's through the conflict that we're able to get down and to actually understand truths. Throughout church history, there are lots of examples of this. There were times where people debated the deity of Christ. Well, guess what happens when people debate the deity of Christ? Those who are Bible believers dig into the Word of God, and some of the greatest statements of theology about the person of Christ are going to come out of those kinds of controversies. And so this is one of those kinds of examples. 1 Corinthians 15 was written because there were people in the church that said the resurrection doesn't matter. They kind of redefined the resurrection. The Apostle Paul says, oh no, it does matter. And not only does it matter, I'm going to explain to you lots and lots of information. That you would never have known had it not been for this controversy in the church. That's really what's going on here. So let me give you a summary statement and then let's work our way through this text in front of us as it points us to think about Why what we remember in the Lord's table matters. So the summary. We all will be fitted with an uncorrupted and incorruptible body. that will equip us to have an unspeakably glorious eternal communion with God and his people. Now those two words un corrupted and incorruptible, I actually chose those two words as something that are emphasizing something different In other words, the bodies that we're going to have for all of eternity don't come with some kind of flaw, and they're not going to over a period of time, say a hundred years or a thousand years or a million years later, we start to see people getting old and they start to have physical problems and their mind begins to wander. Your eternal body isn't going to be like that. It is uncorrupted and incorruptible. And we're going to see that in the text in front of us. And so as we read through these verses, we're going to see that God is pointing us to glory in the fact that we are going to experience The fullness of this salvation that He has given us. We're going to glory for a few moments tonight in our future glorification. So let's begin by first of all noticing this statement. We experience a lot of frustration in our daily lives in a fallen world. Is that not true? There are a couple of words that I want to kind of draw your attention to. The first word is the word disorder. We experience in a fallen world disorder. I'm going to talk about what we mean by that. A second thing that we experience in a fallen world is decline. Disorder and decline are not the same thing, but they both frustrate us. The third thing I'm going to talk about is the word struggle And when I'm talking about struggle, I'm talking about this in the sense of the internal struggle that we feel with our flesh. We know it is right internally, we know what God says. And then we we deviate. Sometimes we don't desire what God says we should desire. Sometimes we choose to go against what we know to be right. And we experience frustration internally. And then the fourth word is the word Restoration. So we're going to begin with those words because they're very, very important. And from that, you're going to see the connection to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. So first of all, the word disorder. We talk about disorder. Disorder affects us physically, mentally, emotionally. It experiences circumstances If you live in a fallen world, you live in a world that has disorder on some level. Now, we see the evidence of God's creative design all around us. But in the midst of that creative design that is so beautiful and so good, we see the injection of disorder within it. Think about the human body, for instance. Okay? Every single one of us, especially as we get a little older, we start recognizing that we have certain physical disorder issues that we deal with. Okay? It might be that there are some issues physically. And so, you know, you start having problems with your shoulder, you start having issues with your back. And then when you go to the doctor, they start saying, Well, did your father ever have problems like this or your mother ever have problems with this? And you're like, Oh, I never really thought about that. And then as you start going back, you go, oh me, you know what? They did And then you start finding out that your your grandfather had problems like this or your grandmother had problems like this or they'll ask you what is your what is your medical history? Is there any cancer in your family? Why do they do that Well, because your family history actually affects your current health. That's because there's disorder in the world. Now, that disorder is not necessarily a result of your personal sin. That's the result of being in a fallen world. And this is something that affects us not just physically, but but mentally. Do you ever get tired? Do you ever have problems that are they're too complicated for you to try to figure out and work through in your mind? I experience those things. Even when we talk about issues like our emotions. We often don't respond emotionally the way that we really should in situations. This is disorder. There are elements of varying disorder in the universe all around us, and they affect us. in very personal ways sometimes. And God chooses to allow us to face those things. Now that might frustrate you, but that's reality. And by the way, why why in the world do we say that we live in a fallen world if God just preserves us from every single example of us living in a fallen world? The fact is, this is really a fallen world, and these things are really going to take place, and so we have to recognize this is a part of what God allows in our lives. But he also uses those things for a good purpose. For instance, 1 Corinthians 12, verse number 7. Paul writes, lest they should be exalted above measure, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me. For this thing I besought the Lord three times that it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Do you realize that what the Apostle Paul talks about is something that every single one of us experience on some level or another? Have you ever had a physical infirmity that you prayed and said, God, please take this away? And you prayed and said, God, please take this away. And you prayed, God, please take this away. Please take this away. Please take this away. And he doesn't do it. Is Is it because God doesn't answer prayer? He does answer prayer. The answer was no. They said, you're going to have to deal with that. You need to pray in a different way. God helped me to grow in spite of what I'm going through. God help me to draw on your grace. Help me to learn the lessons that you want to teach me. And all of a sudden, as our perspective changes, we start realizing it's not always God's will to just remove all of these physical challenges and these emotional challenges and these Things that we experience in life. Sometimes he takes them and he uses them to accomplish good in our lives. By the way, one day God is going to reverse that disorder. That's what this text is going to talk about. Then we have the word decline. So even though we understand there's this issue of disorder, there's also a sense in which a person who is perfectly healthy mentally Physically, emotionally, begins to decline at some point, physically, mentally, and even yes, emotionally. Ecclesiastes chapter 12 talks about this. Listen to what Solomon says. He says, Remember now, when you're young, thy creator in the days of thy youth. While the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. Now, one of the things that I'm starting to get to this point in life where I'm realizing something. When people are young and they're healthy and they're mentally sharp, the most tragic thing they could do at that time is waste it. The absolute most tragic thing they could do with that time is waste it. Use their mind to focus on things that are absolutely worthless and destructive. Waste all their time and their energy. You will not, if you are 20, 30, 40 years old, you're not going to be stronger in 10 years than you are right now. You're just not. You're not gonna have more energy. You're not gonna have more vitality. There's a point where you start peaking and you start going in this direction. There's a reason that God gives children to young adults, not old adults. It's because older adults don't have the strength and the energy to be able to actually chase those kids and work with those kids So God gives us children in our young adult years because we have the energy and the vitality, unfortunately not the wisdom sometimes, but we have the energy to be able to do these things. The point is, we do decline. There comes a point where no matter what you do, you're not going to get stronger and you're not going to get sharper You think about somebody that was a bodybuilder when they were 20, 30 years old. And they'd go to the gym and they'd look in that mirror and they'd take all of their nutrients and they would they would pump iron and they were huge, muscled people They gonna look at like that at 80 years old? The answer is not a chance. They might not even look at like that at 50 or at 60 years old. They can go to the gym and they can work out and they can eat right and they can make all the right decisions, but time is ticking, and their body cannot Cannot work past that. It's impossible. We all will face this reality, decline. And so he writes When the evil day comes nigh, while the sun and the light of the moon and the stars be not darkened, you know what he's talking about, how our eyes decline? In the day when the keepers of the house will tremble and the strong men shall bow themselves. Think about somebody like David. David was a mighty warrior Yet when he was an old man, he was clearly very, very elderly. He was weak. This guy who went out into battle and he fought with courage and vibrancy. They said, no, you you can't go to battle anymore. Your mind's telling you can do it, but your body can't do it. You're gonna get killed. And so this great warrior, they say you can't do this anymore. It happens to everybody The person who was so strong and so vibrant, they're stooped down and they're shuffling around. They can't do the things that they used to do. He goes on to say this. He says, the grinders cease because there are a few. Literally, your teeth fall out. Those that look out, the windows be darkened. He's talking about cataracts. The door shall be Shut in the streets, they don't go out anymore because they don't have the strength, the energy to do it. When the sound of the grinding is low, he shall rise with the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low. Just little things wake people up in the night that can't sleep. He's talking about insomnia. He's talking about a person who can't hear very well anymore. And some of you say, Pastor, I know what this is like. All of us are going to know what it's like. All of us are going to know what it's like. And you cannot reverse it. You cannot reverse in your strength. By the nutrients that you eat and the decisions you make, you cannot reverse the decline that's going to happen to your body and your mind. You can't. And then we go to this issue of struggle. Romans chapter 7, verse 18. This is a fascinating scripture. This is the Apostle Paul writing. He says, I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing For the will is present with me, how to perform that which is good I find not. The good that I would I do not, the evil which I would not, that I do I delight in the law of God after the inward man. I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. O wretched man. Who shall deliver me from this body of death? You know what he's talking about? Spiritual struggle. So there's disorder, there's decline, and there's spiritual struggle. Struggle. But I didn't read to the last part of that verse. I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. There is deliverance. That deliverance isn't through your willpower, and that deliverance isn't through eating right, and that deliverance isn't through making all these great decisions, that deliverance is rooted in the gospel. And that's what 1 Corinthians chapter 15 is all about. Because 1 Corinthians 15 tells us that one day God is going to restore what was lost in the creation. In fact, what you and I have not experienced, what it's like to have a vibrant and healthy body and mind and no longer dealing with sin and temptation, that's not our experience today, but it's going to be our experience in Glory. Isn't that an incredible thing to think about? Do you ever get weighed down? Do you ever get discouraged? You're like, I want to go to the doctor because I don't want them to tell me something else. I just don't want to do it. I don't want somebody to tell me their name again because I know I'm not going to remember it. I can be embarrassed when they ask me. Hey, do you remember my name? There I go again in that same area of temptation. Over and over and over again. I'm so beat down, I'm so discouraged, I'm so frustrated. That's not the way it's going to be in eternity, folks. And that's what the text in front of us is here to tell us. There's going to be a day that God wipes away every tear from our eyes. There'll be no more death, no more sorrow, no more pain, no more crying. The former things are passed away. I think about what Paul says in Romans chapter 8. The sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. I was reflecting on this this past week. There are some people that suffer for decades in life. They suffer physically. And it's like 10 years go by, and 20 years go by, and 30 years go by, and they say, This is misery. Why does God let me deal with this? And there's a sense in which I cannot answer that question sometimes. But I can tell you this: 30 years is nothing compared to eternity. 30 years is nothing compared to eternity. 50 years is nothing compared to eternity. Sometimes we have to step back and go, God. Give me the grace to endure the affliction that you and your providence have allowed me to encounter. Help me to draw strength from it. Help me to mature through it. Help me to minister to others through it. And help me to keep this period of time in the light of eternity. Because that will not be our eternal experience. And so let's look together at truth number two. The resurrection is in fact a creative miracle. Look at verse 35. He says, some man will say, How are the dead raised up? With what body do they come? Do you kind of get this sense of sarcasm, like sarcasm like, oh, how in the world is God going to do such a thing? It's almost like you have this friend or somebody that you work with or you know a person that that is very you know skeptical and whenever they get get get alone with you they they say hey let me throw a question at you and they just want to watch you squirm a little bit Paul says, that's kind of the attitude of this question. Some of you say, how are the dead raised up? With what body do they come? Obviously this is something that can't happen. That's the attitude. He fires right back. He says, Thou fool. That which thou sowest is not quickened except it die That which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain, it may chance of wheat or some other grain. Now let me kind of break down what he's saying here. First of all, when we talk about the resurrection, we're not talking about something that you can go to science and you can explain it. Okay? We're talking about something that is a miracle. This is God who created the universe out of nothing, God who formed that first man Adam from the dirt. This God is going to give you a glorified body forever. This is a miracle. This is not something that you can just explain away and explain in a scientific manner. And there's really no comparable analogy that really could be supplied here for this particular issue. But what he's going to do is he's going to try to give us an analogy that helps us to appreciate it on some level. And so he talks about grain. I'll try to describe it this way. There's a little portion of my garden where I have dill that grows. I remember the first year I planted dill there. What's really interesting is as a certain time of the year, no matter what I do, that all of a sudden I start seeing all these little dill plants come up There's a reason for that. In fact, I remember one year I had this massive dill plant. It survived through the through the winter. It was about this tall and it had this massive head of all these flowers. In fact it had massive heads all over it and and all these little seeds that were there. And one day the wind knocked it down and it fell into the dirt and I was like, ah, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna get those seeds I'll just leave it there. off. And so a couple months later, something I just totally forgot about. And one day I'm looking, and there's just like there's these like patches of all of these Plants growing up. These little dill plants. Like a packet of them here and here and here. And I said, how in the world did this happen? And all of a sudden it dawned on me. There was this big flower head with all these little clumps of seeds. And when that thing fell on the ground, there was a clump here, and there's a clump here, and a clump here, and a clump here, all these little and they're just growing up everywhere. And that's what he's talking about. He says if you planted a cornfield and the corn got knocked down and you just left it there, it dies. When the conditions are right, you're going to walk back in that field and you're going to see all these little corn plants growing all over the place. So why is that? Because when something dies, like a seed, it springs up and new life comes. He said that's the way the resurrection is. Say, well, that's kind of fascinating. Jesus actually used a very similar analogy when he talked about his own death and the resurrection. And so in some sense, Paul is probably even borrowing from that. But then there's something else that comes out. When those plants grow up, if it was a dill plant that fell on the ground, are you going to get corn? Are you going to get watermelon? Are you going to get tomatoes? The answer is no. You're going to get dill. Why is that? Well, because it's going to grow up whatever fell there. And so he said when we talk about this glorified body, it's not like you're gonna die and then you're gonna come back as a dog or a cat. You're gonna come back as a human. We're not talking about like a reincarnation kind of thing here You're going to come back as a human. You're going to have a real glorified body. There's going to be an aspect to it that's different than the body you have now. There's going to be a lot that's going to be very, very similar. In fact, when we think about this issue, that leads us to truth number three, this body will have several distinctive qualities. But it'll also be very very very similar to the body we have today. First John chapter 3, verse 2, it says this. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. It doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when we shall appear We shall be like him. We shall see him as he is. So when Jesus died and he rose from the grave, what kind of a body did he have? Were they able to identify who he was? Was he able to eat food? Was he able to have conversation? Were they able to touch him? The answer is yes, all those things. The Lord Jesus Christ is somebody that when they saw him, I mean, think about when Those guys were we went out and they're fishing and they're fishing all night and Jesus is there on the on the Sea of Galilee and he says, Hey, have you caught anything? No Why don't you cast your net on the one side of the ship? Alright. Throw it out there. And it's just full of fish. And John says That's Jesus. How could he do that? He could identify him. Think about Mary. It says that Mary thought that Jesus was the gardener and she's crying. And he says, Mary, and then she looks at him and she says This is Jesus. Think about when Jesus is walking on the road to Emmaus with these people, and they're talking about everything that's been going on in Jerusalem And as they're talking with him, he's saying, Well tell me about this situation. They're just going on and on and on. And he says, What are you talking about? Don't you understand that that this is the Fulfillment of prophecy. And he just goes to the Old Testament and he goes from passage after passage after passage and he just lays it all out and he says, he had to die and he had to rise from the dead. And then they go, This is Jesus. Well what's the point? The point is they could identify him. When you and I are in are in eternity, people will know who each other is. You'll know who I am and I'll know who you are. Yet there's also going to be some distinctiveness, some difference between the body that you and I have today and the one that we will have in eternity. Look down in verses 38 to 39. God giveth it a body as it hath pleased him. To every seed his own body, all flesh is not the same flesh. There's one kind of flesh of men, another of beasts, another of fishes, another of birds. In other words, he's saying God's an amazing creator. He knows how to make things. He knows how to make unique things. But he makes this distinction: there is a kind of flesh of men. That distinctiveness of us being image-bearers human is still going to be there in eternity. But it's going to be a glorious body. And I want you to notice what he's going to say in verses 40 to 42. This is very important. He says there are also celestial bodies. A celestial body is like the sun, the moon, the stars. And there are bodies terrestrial. The glory of the celestial is one, the glory of the terrestrial is another. There's one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, another glory of the star. One star differeth from another in glory. So also is the resurrection. You might say, well, well, Joel, what in the world is Paul talking about? Well, he's making an analogy in two ways. He's saying we know what it's like to look out into the sky and see that there is light that comes from the sun. There is light that comes from stars, and I know it's uh scientifically not necessarily coming from the moon, but we see light reflecting off of the moon, okay? So if you walk out into the sky, right, walk out at night, you're gonna see on a clear night all these stars in the moon. Maybe not here in Maryland, but we lived in Ghana was like that, okay? And then during the day, on a very clear day, you walk out and the sun is just, it's it's bright. You could say that all of them are light. Isn't that true? But here's the question. Are they all equally glorious in how they emanate light? Not a chance. Not every star is equally bright. From our perspective, as we look up into the sky, the brightness of the sun and the brightness of the moon and the brightness of the stars is incomparable. And so what he's basically saying is the glory of the body you enjoy on this planet pales in comparison to the glory of the body you'll have for eternity. That's what It's comparable in one sense and virtually incomparable in another sense. And then he's going to go and he's going to kind of break down How this is both comparable and incomparable. So in verses 42 to 44, he puts it this way. This body is sown in corruption, and it is raised in incorruption. It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. There's a natural body, and there is a spiritual body. There are three distinctions that I want to draw your attention to. The first one is the distinction between the corruptible and the incorruptible. To put it simply, this body is getting old, this body is getting weak, this body is wearing out, this body is corrupted, and this body is going to die. Same as yours. We all have that kind of a body. But when we enter into glory and we receive this glorified body, the body you have is not going to get old. It's not going to wear out. It's not going to get sick. It's not going to decline. Your mind's not going to start to go off. You're not going to die. You're going to live forever. It's corruption versus incorruption. He says there's weakness versus power. While one can decline, the other one cannot. While one is affected by disorder, the other one is not affected by disorder He then makes the distinction between the natural and the spiritual. And you might say, well, oh, hold on a second. I thought we were talking about a body, and now he's talking about it being spiritual. Are we like ghosts or something in heaven? And the answer is of course not. When he uses the term spiritual here, he's making a distinction between the natural man, what you were before you were a Christian, and what you'll be in glory. You will not have a fallen nature. You will not have a sin nature. Notice what it says in verses 45 to 46. The first man Adam was made a living soul. The last man Adam was made a quickening spirit. Howbeit, that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural. Afterward, that which is spiritual. The word spiritual in this context does not mean without a body. It's being used the way it is used most often in the New Testament. It's meaning that we are going to have a body that no longer is affected and plagued by that natural disposition to sin. We have experienced what it was like when we did not know Christ. We were slaves to sin. We are experiencing what it is like to have life in Christ. But in a fallen world. So there's this new principle. I'm a new creature in Christ. I have the Holy Spirit inside of me. And when I read the Word of God, I can be renewed in the spirit of my mind. And at the same time, I can experience temptation and frustration and all those things. So I know what it was like before I got saved. I know what it's like now that I am saved, but there is a third category. This is what it's going to be like when we have unhindered communion with God forever. Unhindered communion with his people forever. Could you imagine how good your marriage would be if you stopped being a sinner? Your spouse would like to match. She would like to be married to someone who is not a sinner. Could you imagine how good your relationship would be with your kids? Or with your parents, if they weren't sitters kids, or if they weren't sitter 's parents. Be a whole lot better, wouldn't it? Can you imagine how wonderful it would be to open up your Bible and be able to dig into it without the hindrances that we experience because we are sinners? Anybody ever opened up your Bible and sat down in the morning and immediately you fell asleep with your face in the Bible? I'm a pastor. I've done that before. Anybody ever knelt on your knees to pray and all of a sudden these like horrific thoughts stuff like start flooding into your mind? You're like, where in the world did this come from? Nobody wants to raise their hands. You're in a s a situation and all of a sudden that the level of pride just starts building and you're like, I don't want to be like this. And the more you say I don't want to be like this, the more you start feeling this way. This is what it's like to live in a fallen world, to have a fleshly nature. But in eternity, it'll be totally different. We will have unhindered fellowship with God. We're going to have unhindered fellowship with others who are redeemed. That's something to be thankful for, isn't it? That's something to look forward to. Truth number three. It gives us a body that will be able to richly enjoy our eternal inheritance. One of the things that allows us to enjoy the world that we live in is the fact that we are people that have bodies. You ever thought what it'd be like to eat food and not be able to taste it? Well some of you when you had COVID you knew what that was like. Did you enjoy eating the same? No, it was just it was like texture. It was like it just wasn't the same. There is something wonderful about sitting down in a restaurant and eating eating savory food and just Enjoying that moment. There's something wonderful about sitting down, relaxing, just listening to amazing music. Calms your soul, ministers to your heart There's something that is is is is thrilling about splitting wood. Some of you are like, hold on a second Where I'm going with this is very simple. Part of what allows you to enjoy the world that you live in is the body that you have. And so God is going to give us a body that will allow us to enjoy our eternal state to a greater degree than the way we enjoy this temporary state in this fallen fallen body. Here's what he says in verse 47. The first man is of the earth, earthy. The second man is the Lord from heaven. As is the earthy, such they also that are earthy. As is the heavenly, such are they that are the heavenly. As we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly. This I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither doth corruption inherit incorruption. And so, where he's driving is this: you've got to have a glorified body body to enter in this eternal state. So I'm reminded of what it says in Romans chapter 8. I reckon That the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. I have good news for you this morning, or this evening, this morning and this evening. The good news is that this is all true about you because of what Christ has done for you And and you know there are seasons of life where you're gonna appreciate this more than at other seasons. When we come to a funeral, we've done many in our church. When you have a funeral and you celebrate the life of a believer, There's an incredible comfort that is associated with us recognizing that person is absent from this body. They are present with the Lord, and they're going to experience eternity with him in a glorified state. is incredible comfort. When we're experiencing intense internal difficulties, temptation, those kinds of things of things. It's important for us sometimes to say, you know what, Lord, I know that this is a besetting issue that I deal with continually. And I'm reminded that one day this battle will be over, and I'm going to experience eternal glory. You may be in the midst of a physical challenge that sadly there's nothing you can do to reverse it. Nothing you can do to change it. The doctors cannot change the situation that you're in. And you might say, well, it's hopeless. I just give up. I'm going to be miserable and frustrated the rest of my life. And I say, don't do that. Don't do that. Take great comfort in the fact that there's a temporary period that you're dealing with, and God has a purpose for enabling you to go through that situation. He will give you grace. give you strength. He will teach you in that. He will use that position that you're in to minister to other people. Don't be discouraged. It's not the end of the story. It may be that you go through some very dark and troubling situations, and these are the very things that strengthen and encourage you. I remind you of Ephesians chapter 6, when he talks about putting on the spiritual armor, one of the pieces he says is put on the helmet of salvation. And in 1 Thessalonians he says that that helmet of salvation is that eternal glory that is secured and guaranteed. In the midst of the struggles that we encounter in life, we need to many times draw our attention to this future hope, this future glory, this future that is secured and guaranteed because of the work of Christ. Christ. And so let's remember what brought us this great hope. Let's remember what brought us this great hope. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to have a settled heart as we take some time to remember the death of Christ that ultimately gave us this wonderful, wonderful Future. Our Father in heaven, we think about this fallen world, and it is a frustrating world on many levels. Corruption, decline, the struggle we deal with internally with temptation, and we recognize that because Christ Has crushed sin and death, and has risen from the dead, we have this guarantee of future glory. As we take some moments this evening to reflect on the body of Christ that was broken, the blood of Christ that was shed, I pray that we would take this moment to change Cherish that great sacrifice, to glory in that great sacrifice, that it would bring us great joy and delight as we think about what was purchased for us. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's turn together to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. The way that we do the Lord's table at our church is if you've trusted the Lord Jesus Jien nagħmluhomin hemm maailmaan mielestäni oma ja niin junga niin kuin nimenomaan maailmaa. Ja siinä on Jaw nim għanini mahomina hammani , mamna mahlimani mahomna , ma nim homni hamna jemini Hannoiman Minha mahom jumilhommija huma Mun miesiamoini ja on semmoinen hommiin. Minimum menin ja mun juni minimalnie mam minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum mimin ma non minimum Minulla on, a oli, omin. I want us to sing a hymn that is connected to heaven. And so it's not a typical way that we would close the Lord's table, but I think when we pull all this together, I think that this is a great song for us. To sing. And so that is hymn number 571. When we all get to heaven, and I'd like us to sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses together, please. Let's stand and let's sing. This great song. Speak of God as Allah Jesus , we can in our nations cry and life in the wheel. When we all know what Christian does need to be, and we all know we 're going to be able to do that. Trust me , turn me every day, just one. Okay, well I hope it's really been uh an encouragement to be gathered together as a body of believers today. And I'm noticing it's light out, so you know what that means. Gonna start doing volleyball on Sunday night. again. So one year has passed, let's remember that. So we might feel it more this year than last year. But uh the No it um seriously though, we'll we'll be starting that back up before too long, which is uh a lot of fun. Looking forward to that. Also, please be in prayer For Pastor Chris this week, he has his uh board review on Wednesday. Is that correct? Board review on Wednesday. So please be in prayer for him that uh he will have a clear mind. mind and be able to do a great job in that interview. And um so I want to ask you, uh Pastor Chris, if you can close us in prayer. And uh Good to see each of you tonight. Don't forget tonight, the teens have a sing spiration, and I was wrong. It is not at the Taylor's house, it's in the back, Fellowship Hall. But the Taylors are the ones hosting it. So um Please remember that, parents of teens. Let's pray. Father, we are so thankful to be To have been in your house today, Lord. We have thoroughly enjoyed the fellowship, the edifying uh conversations, the fact that we get to raise our voices to you as a body and to hear Your word, meditate and learn and feast upon it as a body. Or it all comes from the fact that we are in you and you have purchased us through that body and blood. That was broken and shed for us. Lord, dismiss us now with your blessing, with the thought that as we go out, we get to share this good news in whatever context you've deemed fit to put it. us into. And may it be an encouragement to us and a strength and ultimately a means by which we may glorify you in the name of Jesus Christ. In whose name we pray. Amen.