James chapter 1, we're going to be looking at verses 19 through 21, and I'm going to read the passage, and then we're going to dig into what is an extremely practical and extremely important passage for us to consider. James 119 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. Now we have been working verse by verse through the book of James, and it just so happens in God's providence that this is the text that we're looking at this morning. And I think as we dig into this passage, we're going to realize that if our entire nation would come to a place where they took this passage and they said, I'm going to live in the light of this passage. All of the injustices, all of the tensions, all of the terrible, tumultuous things going on in our society would instantly stop. That's a pretty amazing thing to consider. If our society, it doesn't matter where you are, it would be like from children all the way up to our government. If every single facet of our society would come to a place where they said, you know, James chapter 1, verses 19 to 21, I'm going to live that out day in and day out, we would have a revolutionized Godly, righteous, peaceable society. One of the problems that we have seen all throughout human history is that people want peace without God. People want justice without God. People want a world that is utopian, but they don't want the authority of God. In fact, it's interesting when we've gone through the book of Revelation, we came to the end of that book, we came to that last little section where we get to see the millennial kingdom and the Lord Jesus Christ. is going to rule and reign for 1,000 years on the earth. You couldn't get a better judge, a better king. You couldn't get a more righteous and peaceable time in all of human history than what we see during the millennial kingdom. And at the end of that thousand years, you know what happens? There's an insurrection against the authority of Christ, unlike any other time in human history. People will gather outside of Jerusalem. By the millions upon millions, and they will want to overthrow the Lord Jesus Christ, the King of glory, because they don't like his righteous rule. And the truth is that what the world desperately needs is the Lord Jesus Christ to rule and reign in people's hearts Because if the Lord Jesus Christ ruled and reigned in our hearts, we would think a lot differently about life. We would think a lot differently about one another. We would relate to one another in a godly, righteous manner. And what I want you to realize is that this text tells us that as Christians, it starts in our hearts. It starts with us. And it ultimately starts with how we relate to the Word of God. If we will not relate right to Scripture, we will not relate right to one another as well. And when we come under the authority of Scripture and we respond humbly and meekly to the Word of God and we allow God's Word to root out sin and bitterness and resentment and hatred and all the various different kinds Of evils that dwell within our hearts, partiality and justice, all of those things, if we would allow the word of God to root those things out of our hearts, it would absolutely transform how we would relate to one another. The truth is, as God's people, it's got to start with us. It's got to start when how we relate to one another in our homes. That's where transformation begins. In fact, the purpose of the passage in front of us is that James commands us how to respond to Scripture when we are under pressure which ultimately will result in healthy interpersonal relationships. God wants us to regularly cultivate a humble response to his word. And so the question we're going to answer this morning is, how do we do that? How do we have a humble Responsible, godly response to his word. Well, the first truth we're going to find out is this: the goodness of God should compel us to a threefold response to his word. Look down in verse 19. He says it like this. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. In other words, he's going to give us the basis for the command to be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. We're going to kind of break down exactly what that means. But I want us to start out with the basis. What is the reason that we are to respond to the Word of God in the way that we're told to in this passage? Here it is. Wherefore, my beloved brethren. In other words, he's saying this statement needs to go back to something that's already been stated. And not just one thing, but several things that have already been stated. In the preceding verses, we were reminded that life is full of troubles. It doesn't matter who you are, it doesn't matter where you live, it doesn't matter what country you live in, it doesn't matter any of those things, you will suffer trouble in this world. There's no different no difference between us in the sense that we are sinners living in a fallen world and we're going to experience hardship. It's a part of life It's a part of life that we don't like. It's a part of life we wish we could uproot and not deal with. But until we come into glory, we're going to deal with trouble. Every one of us. And when we deal with trouble, we need to recognize that as Christians, these troubles are the testing, the trials of our faith. Does what I believe about God, does what I believe about life and other people, does what I believe, what I say I believe, does it actually translate into godly living? Do I really believe what I state I believe? That's really what he's saying. And trouble is the ultimate test of our faith. We've seen that God is the one who is ultimately able to bring good out of trials. It doesn't mean that trials are good, that evil is good. It means that God can take evil and out of the midst of that he can pull good out of it and he can accomplish good things. out of those difficulties. And last week we talked a good deal about it. We've seen that God is good and He's demonstrated to us in so many ways. He invites us to have wisdom. He says, if any of you lack wisdom, then ask God who gives to all men liberally and upbraideth not. He's willing to give it lavishly He's willing to give it without belittling us. God loves people. He wants us to think right about ourselves and about him and our circumstances. And God has demonstrated his grace and the way that he has given us salvation. We then see the nature of the command. He says it this way, let every man be. You know what's really interesting? Before James talks about what we should do, he talks about what we should what? What we should be. You know, if I'm not the right kind of person, but I'm doing the right thing now, I'm not going to do the right thing then Or if I'm not the right kind of person, I might be able to do the right thing selectively, but in doing it, I'm not doing it in the right way ultimately, and then there's a problem that flows from it. If I'm the right kind of person. I will do what is right. And so James doesn't say you need to do this and you do this and you do this. He says you need to be something. Transformation. In other words, internally, I am a different person fundamentally than I was before I became a Christian. I need to be something. And he talks about this being the first priority. A godly disposition must be rooted in godly character. And so then he begins to talk about the ways that godly character will manifest itself and how we respond to God's word. He says, let every man be, first of all, swift to hear. The idea is listen to what God says. Now, if we're following the context of the book of James, he's not actually talking about interpersonal relationships at this point. Now we are going to get to interpersonal relationships at some point. I'm going to get there because interpersonal relationships are where you ultimately will end up in the end. But he's not focusing on how I relate to you and how you relate to me. It's how I relate to him. That's the starting point. We need to be swift to listen The first place that every person needs to listen is to what God says. Not to what your neighbor says, not to what your friend says, not to what people in authority over you are saying, not to what people under you are saying. what God says because if you know what God says then you're able to filter out and understand everything that other people are saying. And you know the truth is that if we are all listening to what the Lord says, it's amazing the kind of unity and peace it will bring. We need to listen to what God says. In other words, if I want to do what the text is saying, I need to be a person who's regularly under the ministry of the Word of God. I'm reading it. I'm studying it. I'm listening to it. I'm having it preached and taught. I'm internalizing it. I'm swift to hear what it says. He then says, secondly, we need to be slow to speak. The ideas don't make excuses or indictments based on what's there. Now, when he says be slow to speak, he's not so much emphasizing the fact that we're expressing our opinions as much as we're expressing our opinions in how it relates to God's authority. In other words, when the Word of God says, you have a problem here, Pastor Joel, he doesn't say Pastor Joel, but he says, You have a problem here, I don't say, ah, it's somebody else. I listen to what he's saying. Hey, Joel, you did this. You're thinking this. You responded this way or that way. And I don't say, well, here's the reason why I did this, God. And I list all of my excuses. I say, yes, sir, it's true. That's what it says. That's what I've done. That's what I've thought. That's how I've responded. In other words, rather than us reacting with excuse, we say, God, I'm listening. I'm looking at what you say. I want to change. I want you to change me. Don't make excuses. Don't indict God. Look at the example of Eve and Adam in the garden. I keep going back to it, but when they sinned, what was the first thing they did when God said, What have you done? and they say, Well God, the woman that you gave me, she gave me the fruit. And oh God, you know, the serpent that you created, he's the one that told me to do this. They didn't take responsibility. And folks, that's exactly what the text is telling us not to do. Take responsibility. When God says, here's what I'm showing you, you're doing, you've done, you've said, you've thought, this is the way you've responded, he's saying, you're responsible for you. Listen, don't make excuse. Be slow to speak. Third thing he says is this: be slow to wrath. Don't become angry with what you're told. It's a verse in the Psalm, Psalm 2, it says this, why do the heathen rage? Why do the heathen rage? Why do they imagine a vain saying? Why is it that at the end of the millennial kingdom there will be an innumerable multitude of people shaking their fists at God saying, we want you out of here and we want to take over this planet? Why is that going to happen? The truth is, people don't like God's authority. They want to rule their own hearts. They want peace on their own terms, not on God's terms. And the truth is that when God, through his Holy Spirit's work, points to a passage of Scripture and says, Joel, You have sinned, and here's where it is. It's right there. You can see it. I'm pointing to it, and you say, God, I don't like that you're telling me that. You know, we need God to step on our toes. We need God to expose our hearts. We need to see what's going on deep down in our souls And when God points it out and we begin to feel uncomfortable and we want to say, God, you can't say that. You can't touch that area there. That's not fair. We need to say, God, I submit to you. I acknowledge what you're saying. I obey. I'll do what you say. In other words, God's people, when it comes to what God shows them in his word, need to be people who listen, people who don't make it clear Excuses, people who don't become angry, they take full responsibility for their own actions. And what God says is sin, they call it sin and they deal with it. That's what we need to do. The second truth we see is this we must respond humbly to God, or we will never grow into spiritual maturity. He puts it like this in verse 20. He says, for The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. I want that passage to sink into your souls. So that you understand what it's saying. The wrath of man does not work the righteousness of God I want you to realize that that is true in every single context that you deal with in life. When you're dealing with your children, And they're getting out of line. And rather than dealing with them from the position of God says, as your parent, this is how I need to deal with it, it's really an off-the-handled, angry, I don't like what you did. I'm going to deal with you in anger. Remember something. The wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God when it's your spouse. And you just want to fly off the hang the the the handle in anger and you just want to force your will upon your spouse because they violated your rights and the way that they handled that was wrong, and you're angry and you're bitter and you express it that way I want you to realize something, the wrath of man Does not produce the righteousness of God. When it's in your workplace, when it's in society, on every single level, the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God That's a very important point for us to understand. And I want you to ask the question: why is it that way? Why is it that God's wrath and man's wrath don't accomplish the same thing? Here's the reason. The reason is because man's wrath and God's wrath are different. Let me express to you some ways that they're different. For instance, man's wrath is quick. And it's irrational. When you get angry and you fly off the handle and you do something, is it usually a good thing or a bad thing when you look at it six months later? Are you know I'm talking about? Okay. You get angry, you say something, you do something, it's your kids, it's your spouse, it's somebody you work with, whatever it is You fly off the handle, you look back six months later, and do you usually say, hey, I made the right decision there? Or do you go, that was really foolish what I did? I've got to go and I've got to clean up a mess, an interpersonal mess, a physical mess. I've got to deal with it now because the way I handled it at the moment was wrong. Which of the two is it? Man's wrath is irrational Man's wrath is quick. It's explosive. It doesn't do good things. It's inconsistent without all the facts. How many times have you had a person lay something in front of you and you became very angry about it and then when you heard the other side you went, oh With my kids. I've done with this a couple of times, alright? All of a sudden I start gathering all the facts and I see it a little bit differently. Folks, what is true becomes clearer the more you know. It takes time to know before you can judge clearly on a matter. And the truth is that man's wrath is very quick. It doesn't consider all of the details. Many times man's wrath is very hypocritical. Many times man's wrath usurps authority. How many times do we teach our children, it's not your job to do that to your sibling. You come to dad, you come to mom, you tell us what's happened, and we're in authority, we're going to deal with it. Isn't that what we tell our kids? Yet we don't go to the highest authority, God. Many times we take matters into our own hands. Man's wrath is always often very destructive to the one who's angry. You know, bitterness The Bible tells us is the seed ground, it is the root of all evil. Why does it say that? Because a bitter, angry spirit can destroy lots. And lots of people. And a bitter and angry spirit destroys the person who's bitter and angry first. Absolutely does it. And so not only does wrath, the wrath of man, destroy the person who's angry, but it often destroys the lives of the people that they're angry with. Man's wrath is often very imbalanced. It's out of control. And it often intensifies the conflict even more. Think about what it says in Proverbs. A soft answer turns away wrath, but grievous words do what? They stir up anger. Man's wrath. There is so much I could say about this, but the text is very clear. The wrath of man does not work the righteousness of God. On the other side, when we talk about God's wrath, we see that God's wrath is slow and measured. That's what frustrates us, folks. What frustrates us is that God is slow to deal with people. He's slow to deal with circumstances. He's measured. He's methodical. That bothers us because we want it now. We want it dealt with now. But why is God slow? Why is God measured? Because he's focused. He's proportionate. God considers all the facts that are on the table. Not just the immediate facts, but all the fla facts. You know, there are lots and lots of people in our culture that reject the Bible because they think that God is an angry unjust tyrant. That is a prevailing theme in our culture today. And you know what's amazing? The God of the Bible is a God of wrath. He's a God of just measured, proportionate, slow, methodical wrath. And you know what the living proof of that is? It's you and me If you're saved today, we are the living proof of God's slow, measured, proportionate wrath. Because while God was angry with our sin, he was extending a hand of mercy. He was extending a hand of grace. He was bringing the gospel to us so we could be saved from his just wrath. And it could be poured out on his son. God is never focused on the innocent. God will never judge an innocent person. God isn't flying off the handle going after you and also harming people who are innocent. He doesn't do that. He displayed his justice. He displays his justice from a position of authority. And I want to emphasize this. When God deals in wrath, he ends the conflict. When we respond in wrath, you know what we do? We amplify the conflict. Folks, there's a reason that the text tells us the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. It's because our wrath and God's wrath are different. But there's a second reason. Man's wrath does not produce God's righteousness. It's because man's wrath is usually destructive and amplifies suffering rather than peacefully bringing a constructive resolution. Man's wrath is powerless to resolve the ultimate cause of injustice. Don't miss that. Man's wrath is powerless to resolve the ultimate cause of injustice. It's the evil that dwells in my heart, and it's the evil that dwells in your heart. In other words, what does God do? God changes the heart of a man. Man's wrath just conquers until somebody else gets stronger and does the same thing. It's funny, I was talking to a person who went to Europe and they were looking at some of the castles, and when they went to some of the castles in Europe, they were reading about the history of the castles. And this is what they said. This castle had one group of people who got angry and they conquered the castle and for 15 years they held the castle and then 15 years later Another group of people came and they conquered the castle, and then they held the castle for fifteen years, and then fifteen years later another group came in and they conquered the castle and they held the castle and they said over and over and over again the same thing happened And folks, that's what man's wrath does. The stronger oppresses the weak until they become weak, and then another group comes. Yet what does God's wrath do? It focuses on the heart. It changes the person. In other words, when I became a Christian, I was fundamentally changed by the gospel. Not just my eternal destiny, but I received a new nature. I receive the Holy Spirit's presence. He's working in me in a powerful way. The gospel changes us. It brings forgiveness of sins. It brings the basis of forgiveness and reconciliation. I forgive because Christ paid the penalty for that person's offense against me. In other words, my forgiveness of you is an obligation because I'm forgiven by him. In other words, it's not just that I'm forgiven, but there's now a basis to forgive other people. The gospel brings internal transformation. It empowers real change. You know, when the Bible says I'm to love my neighbor as and I love myself, that's impossible apart from the new nature in Christ Lots of things that the Bible tells us to do. We are powerless to do them as unconverted people. But in Christ, we're empowered to change. The gospel brings the promise of eternal freedom from this fallen world. You know, as I live in this world, the longer I live and the longer you live, what do you see? You see this endless cycle that Solomon talks about in Ecclesiastes. There's nothing new under the sun. One generation comes, one generation goes, and they do the same thing over and over and over and over again. And he says, What's the point of life? And he says, Here's the point. Remember your creator. When you're young, because one day he'll judge you. And so fear God , keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of man. He says you live life without God, and you're living a meaningless and empty existence. Don't do that. We come to a third truth. We must be willing to make the necessary changes that come to light when we study the Word of God. In verse 21 he says, Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness And receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. In other words, you need to put off the moral filth and the abundance of evil that reside in your own hearts. You know, it's impossible for me to look at you and condemn you without looking at me and condemning me too. Do you understand that? It's absolutely impossible. Because when I can point out wrong in you, you can point out the same wrong in me. We all have the same problem because we all have the same fundamental issue. We are fallen creatures living in a fallen world. And so every time I open the Bible, it's going to expose things about my heart, and it's going to say, Joel, you're guilty there. Every time. And the question is, what will I do when it says you're guilty, Joel? Will I ignore it? Will I give excuses? Will I say it's true, God? By your power. I want to brood it. It's a cancer in my soul. It's destroying my relationships with other people. It's keeping me from becoming what you made me to be. An image bearer who reflects the glory of my Maker, who genuinely loves people and treats them the way you want them to be treated. Put off moral filth. That's what he means by laying apart all filthiness. Take all defilement up, root it from your heart, and put it away. When he talks about superfluity of naughtiness, he's talking about an abundance of malice and a desire to harm people. Every person in this congregation, as much as we look good when we come in this room, within our souls is all kinds of evil. There's this abundance of malice. You say, I'm not like that. You give yourself the right set of circumstances and you'll find out it's there. Somebody crosses you the wrong way. They say something to you the wrong way. When the situation is just right, you'll be surprised what you find inside of you. And that's why we constantly need the Word of God to dig into our soul so that these things can be uprooted. And that we can be cleansed and we can be restored to fellowship and we can be the kind of people God wants us to be. We need to let the scriptures humble our disposition under God's authority. He says you need to receive it with meekness. In other words, I'm going to listen to what God says. I'm going to let him change me. That's humility. We need to let the scriptures become a part of us so that they shape our thoughts, our affections, our responses. He says we're to receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. And I love this illustration. It reminds me of when I was living in Ghana and I went to one of the men and I said, I want an orange tree. And I said, So here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to go to the market. I'm going to get an orange. I'm going to cut it in half. And I'm gonna plant that seed and I'm gonna grow an orange tree. And he said, Go ahead, but that ain't gonna give you what you want. I was like, what are you talking about? He said, It ain't gonna give you the orange you want. I said, Why not? He said, Well, because when that plant comes You don't know what kind of cross-pollination happened when that blossom was there. And so you're going to get a variety that's different than the orange that you ate when you Put pulled out of the market. He said if you want a certain kind of orange variety, here's what you have to do. You have to plant a lemon seed, because that's a citrus plant. And if you plant that lemon seed and it grows, you're going to have a lemon tree. But then what you need to do is get the variety of orange that you want. And you need to graft from that variety you want into the lemon tree. And if that that graft takes, here's what's going to happen. From that point on, the lemon tree isn't going to produce lemons anymore. It's going to produce the variety of orange that you've grafted into the lemon tree. I was like, are you serious? He's like, yeah, that's how it works. In other words, if you want an orange tree, you've got to do it that way. And then cut it off from that point, and from there on you have an orange tree. That is exactly what the text is telling us to do. The word of God has to be implanted into our hearts so that our life begins to produce a different kind of fruit. Than it did before we were converted to faith in Christ, before we became new creatures in Christ, before the Holy Spirit came and dwelt us. The word of God's presence is like that piece that's grafted into the lemon tree. It's not going to produce lemons anymore. It's going to produce oranges and the ones that you want. The word of God implanted into your soul is going to produce godliness, something that you didn't have before its presence was there. The Word of God literally becomes a part of us, and it changes the product of what's going on in our souls. We come to a fourth truth that's also very important. Our relationship to God should function as a pattern for how we relate to others. Now I said earlier that this text is not so much about how I relate to you and how you relate to me, but how I relate to God in the authority of his word. And that's exactly what the intent of the text is. But I want you to understand it's not meant to stop there. God wants our relationship to him to impact our relationship to other people. In other words, a right relationship to God is ultimately the prerequisite to a right relationship with other people. And I want to give you an example of that in 1 John 4, verses 7 to 12. Here's what the Word of God says. Beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God. Don't miss that phrase. And everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not Knoweth not God. For God is love. Herein is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us, and he sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us. And his love is perfected in us. Hey, folks, this passage right here is it's kind of like the watershed between fleshly, evil living. In godly spirituality. It's the watershed. In other words, it's God's love that enables us to love other people There's a reason that we can't have peace, and we can't have justice, and we can't have righteousness in a land that rejects God. It's because God is the source of those things. If you try to do it without him, you will never get what you want. And the sad reality is that has been the story of humanity. The source of love is not a spark of goodness in you and me, but rather it's God Himself. Love is of God, He's the source of it. It's impossible to love without a new nature and a healthy walk with God. Everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God Hatred, prejudice, evil actions, partiality, they are all actions that flow out of a heart that doesn't know God. He says, He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. The basis of our love for others is rooted in their value as image-bearers who Christ died for and who can and do stand before Him from the same sacrifice. Here in his love, not that we loved God, but he loved us and he gave sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Why do I love other people? It's because I recognize their value God sent his son to die for their sins. Why do I love another brother or sister in Christ who could be so different than me? It's because we stand at the same cross. We stand righteous in the same righteousness. We have a connection because of the gospel. I remember when I was in Ghana. Mr. Beiney, I've mentioned his name many times. Mr. Beine during this COVID time had had a very serious stroke. And it changed him in a lot of ways. I was able to talk to him not too long ago. But I remember sitting down with Mr. Biney one day. Sitting across from him, we were talking about our sermon. I say our sermon because I was riding it, but he was really helping me with the fonty a lot. Because I wanted to know what was in the fonti. I looked across at Mr. Beine and I said something like, I said, Mr. Beiney, you and I are so different. Mr. Beiney's father had five wives. Five. Okay, five wives. His youngest wife and Mr. Biney were classmates in school. That's a true story, folks. Mr. Beiney didn't go to university. Mr. Beiney had never left Ghana, except for a short time in Ivory Coast. Mr. Biney and I had very different incomes. Mr. Biney's home life was so different. He lived in a little house with his whole family that was like Two rooms. Let me tell you something. Mr. Baine and I had a wonderful I see, how do we still do? A wonderful connection. He's as old as my father. Yet, because of the gospel, because of the bond we had in the Lord Jesus Christ, there's this amazing love that I had for that man and that he had for me I want you to realize something, folks. You will never have that if you try to have it without the gospel. It's impossible. Possible. You can't force people to have that. You cannot change them internally. Only the gospel can do that. And I'll tell you the reason why our country has so much trouble and turmoil right now. It's because we're a nation that has rejected God's authority. We're a nation that wants what God gives without Him. And until we recognize that He's the giver of these things, we will continue in turmoil Our country needs prayer, and the church needs prayer. Because the truth is, when we the church are what we need to be, then the sphere that we influence There's going to be a powerful righteous influence. But when we're not, the influence isn't there. Folks, when we develop a pattern of responding humbly to God's word , We will have developed the habits that we need to have good relationships. You know, when you listen to what God says, you learn to listen to what other people are saying. When God points out your faults and you don't make an excuse and you just say, Yes, sir, that's true, and you're willing to address it, you know what? You'll do that when other people do the same thing. When we're not self-controlled, angry, bitter, confrontational, instead we are spirit-controlled, where the Holy Spirit is motivating our responses and our actions There could be a lot of different outcomes. When we are regularly dealing with our fleshy responses, we are going to be in a much better place to live peaceably with other people. When we are constantly having to submit our wills in humility to God's authority, we're going to learn to submit our wills to those who we need to be peaceable with. When God's word shapes our affections and our thoughts and our responses, guess what? All of a sudden, we have the tools we need to have right relationships. And when people neglect that very powerful tool that God uses in their lives, they are groping in the darkness. We must internalize the passage in front of us in a practical way. My interpersonal relationships are really a good gauge of the health of my walk with the Lord. If I get along with people, if I'm peaceable, if I'm loving, if I'm just in my dealings with people, if I'm compassionate. it, that's a great indication that that's the result of God's work in my heart. And if I'm not, doesn't matter if I'm carrying a Bible and I you know, come to church regularly and I carry myself as if I'm a Christian, it's an indication that there's something majorly wrong going on in my soul. My walk with the Lord matters. It's got to be my highest priority. I must develop healthy patterns of daily humble responses to God's word. A healthy walk with the Lord not only helps me to develop healthy habits, it also develops in me the necessary tools to build healthy interpersonal relationships. I want to ask you this morning, Isn't this text the answer that we need? It really is. Lots and lots of people are making statements because they think they have the answers. I'll tell you where the answer lies, folks. It's in the text in front of us. If we had a mighty moving of God in our midst and in our land , Where people all of a sudden began to recognize that the gospel is the answer and that the problem is dwelling within their own souls. And they began to let the Spirit of God change them more and more into the image of Christ. We'd have stronger families, we'd have stronger communities. We'd have stronger churches. We'd have less conflicts in our communities. The problem is where people are looking for the answers They're looking for answers in the wrong places. They're looking for answers in themselves when the answers are outside of themselves. in the gospel. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father in heaven, we are, I hope, very humbled by this passage. My heart is very burdened for our country. I'm burdened because I see so much tension, so much anger. I do see a lot of injustice. So much partiality. So much fear. But Father, the thing that bothers me the most about what I see Is that many, many people are trying to fix problems the wrong way? They're not looking to God for the answers. They're not looking to the gospel for the answers. They're looking to human means that only continue to perpetuate the challenges we face in society after generation after generation. Father, help people to recognize that the gospel is truly the answer. Help people who name the name of Christ to allow the Spirit of God to truly shape them. And to godly people. Father, help us to do right as we relate to the scriptures and do right as we relate to one another. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.