If you could please take your Bibles and turn to Revelation chapter 2. Revelation chapter 2. And this morning we looked at a question, what is the purpose of missions? What is the purpose of missions? And from that question, we got into a second question. What role am I supposed to play in God's purpose of missions? Tonight I'd like us to ask another question, and that question is what is the heart of missions? What is the heart of missions We could say this, the heart of missions is a matter of the heart, and you're going to understand after a little bit tonight exactly what we mean by that But with that in mind, let's go to the book of Revelation, chapter 2. We'll look at verses 1 to 7. We'll pray and then we'll look at a really important text. when it relates as it relates to missions and as it relates to really our purpose and we could say the longevity of our light in a community. Revelation chapter 2 verse 1. Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus, write these things, saith, he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand. who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. I know thy work and thy labor and thy patience, how thou canst not bear them which are evil, and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars. And has born and has patience, and for my name's sake, hast labored and hast not fainted. Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee. Because thou hast left thy first love. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do the first works. Or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place except thou repent. But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life which is in the midst of the paradise of God. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to really help us to understand the weight and the significance of this very important text. Father, as we look at this passage, I pray that you'd help us to see how much you deeply love the church. You love this individual assembly, the church at Ephesus And it was not your desire to remove the candlestick. It was not your desire to set aside that congregation. It was not your desire to discipline that congregation. It was your desire to continue to work through them and to continue to work in them and for them to continue to be a light. Yet the fact was they were in a dangerous position. They were on a slippery slope. And on the outside it looked good, but on the inside there was something very wrong. And I pray that you'd help us to see tonight exactly what that was. And then help us to look inside. Help us to be willing to let the Spirit of God press upon our hearts Where we might be a little too much like the church at Ephesus. I pray that you would strengthen your people through this text, you'd warn us, you'd challenge us, and that we would be impacted by the Word of God tonight. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin by kind of giving you a summary statement for what is the purpose of this particular letter. And really the letter that we're looking at is a letter within the entire book of Revelation. At the opening of the book of Revelation, John is writing to seven churches. And the first of those churches was the one that he probably had the most personal interest in. Because the Apostle John had been the pastor of that church for a long period of time. And when John is writing this, he's an elderly man. I don't mean that he's old and seasoned, I mean he's elderly. Okay? He's almost a hundred years old. And he's a man that's learned a lot. He's a man that's walked with Christ. And he's seen a lot of things come and go and change over the course of his lifetime. As he writes these words, he's writing on behalf of Christ. Christ wants the church at Ephesus to understand that even though they'd had a rich history and they had strengths as a church, It was not enough to remove the danger of potential discipline. Even though they'd had a rich history and they had tremendous strengths as a church It was not enough to remove the danger of potential discipline. Now, it was not God's desire to discipline the church at Ephesus God loved the church. He wanted to continue to work in the hearts and lives of the people in that city. And he wanted to work through that congregation as one generation would come and another generation would go. He wanted to continue that. And that's the whole reason that he sends this letter through John to the church. We then see this very important truth. God wants our heart, not just our head, or our hands. Now this mission's emphasis month has a theme, and the theme has been my head, my heart, God's hands, the nations. Basically, the whole point of that particular theme is that we need to think correctly about missions And once we think correctly about missions, God is going to stir up and he's going to press our heart. He's going to work in our heart and he's going to move us and press us in a direction for his glory. From that work in our hearts, God's going to impress on us something that's very important. These hands, though they're mine, they're really God's I'm supposed to be a conduit through which God channels his work in the world. God wants to move and work. through my life. He wants to take me and he wants to use me. And so though these hands belong to me, they ultimately belong to God. And God wants to not just work in this local assembly. He wants to work in all of the nations And so that's really the point of our mission's emphasis. When we come to this section, we are kind of transitioning from the head. That's really what we did this morning. We looked at some practicals. As it relates to philosophy of ministry, if you want to put it that way. And now we're looking at the heart emissions. What is it that sustains biblical thinking? You know, it's possible for us as a church to have a thoroughly biblical position in our doctrine. It's possible for us to have a thoroughly biblical practice when it comes to our philosophy of ministry. But it's also possible at the same time for us to be very unhealthy and to be in danger of God's discipline. All that can be true at the same time And this passage tells us that in a very graphic way. So to get the sense of what is going on, let's look at several different truths. Before we get into those truths, I want to talk a little bit about this letter and some of the details just in case you're not familiar with the kind of language that John is using. The first thing I want you to notice are these words. He says, I write this unto the angel of the church of Ephesus. Now that word angel simply means messenger, and most of the time when it's used in the New Testament, we think of it as a spirit being, like the angel Gabriel But it's not always being used in that sense. It simply means somebody that has been appointed to deliver a message. When he says to the angel of the church at Ephesus, either we're talking about a guardian angel for the church or we're talking about the pastor. Which of those two options do you think makes more sense? Well to me, it's not the guardian angel one, okay? It's the pastor of the church. The person that is delivering the word of God, that's shepherding that particular church. And I want you to think about the significance of that. John is writing to the pastor at Ephesus When he was formerly the pastor of Ephesus. John is really writing to the person who was his predecessor. So you can imagine how much emotion This man would feel as he writes that. He is an old man living on Patmos because the Roman government wanted him there. They tried to kill him and it didn't work, and he's writing to the pastor of the church. Very interesting. Also notice the way that he writes this. He says These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand. And this is Christ who is speaking in those particular words. He says, I hold the seven stars in my right hand. The idea was that God was controlling and working and raising up the individuals who are working in those churches. It was God's providence that put those men in that place. It was God hand God's hand that was strengthening and pressing and motivating and working in the lives of those individuals. And so he's kind of giving us a little bit of a sense of that. He then says this, he walks in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. The idea is that God is actively at work in all seven of those churches. And that's significant because when we get a little later into the book of Revelation, Not that we're doing that tonight. But if we were to look later on, we find that there's some extremely troubled churches there. Yet God still is doing a work in those places. And sometimes we look at churches that have problems and we get kind of condescending and we get really negative about those churches, but we fail to realize that if those people are believers. They're preaching Christ. As troubled as they are as a church, God does love that church. God does love those individuals. And he can still continue to work in those places. And so as he's writing to these churches, he's exhorting them to set in order the things that are lacking so that they will have longevity as church ministries. We then continue on, he says this. He calls them candlesticks. Don't want to miss that out. What is the purpose of a candlestick if you don't have electricity? It's to give light, so you can do the things that you need to do at night in your house or in your building. These churches were referred to as candlesticks. because their purpose, their function was that of light in the darkness. We can find some wonderful truths in these little Little tidbits that we find here. But let's get into the details. What exactly should drive us to understand that God wants not just our head and our hands but our heart? Well the first truth we're going to find out is this This church was a church with a rich history, but it was still a church that was in danger. I mentioned a little bit about the history of this church. this morning. Actually a good bit about it. But I want to kind of bring you back to a couple of those details. Think about the people who were influential. and the establishment and the discipleship and the organization and in the grounding of the church at Ephesus The Apostle Paul spent significant time there. Apollos, a very gifted orator, a godly man, someone that God used in a lot of different places. Apollos had ministry at the church of Ephesus. Aquil and Priscilla, a dear family that Paul loved and that loved Paul, who had a heartbeat for ministry, they served for a period at the church of Ephesus Think about the conversion of these people. Many of the people at Ephesus came directly out of idolatry. Not just that they were affected by idolatry, but they were involved in witchcraft. If you go to the book of Acts and you look at the story of the church at Ephesus, one of the things that you you realize in that story is that there was a point in their history when these people took all their books that they were using for witchcrafts. All of their peculiar arts, I think, is how it's worded, and they take them to a central location and they burn all those books. They came out of that kind of a lifestyle. Their city was known for its paganism. It was known for its idolatry. It was known for the temple that was in the center of the city. These people had wonderful testimonies of conversion. We think of Timothy, the most trusted individual that Paul worked with in his entire missionary journeys. He was closer to Timothy than he even was to Barnabas. That first man that he went with on his missionary journeys, Timothy was his son in the faith. He loved him dearly. He said, There's nobody that will care for your estate like Timothy. There's nobody that has the kind of heart for you that I have than Timothy. And this man, Timothy, had a very influential ministry at Ephesus. We then go to the section where Paul gives warning to the leadership of the church at Ephesus. And as we read that section in the book of Acts, we see that Paul had a close ministry with those people. Paul is involved in their discipleship. Paul isn't involved in them getting grounded in the faith. And Paul speaks to them as a group that he has a lot of confidence in. We then think of the Apostle John. Out of all the disciples of Christ, which one was leaning beside him on that last day when they celebrated the Passover? It wasn't Peter. It was John. Out of all the disciples, John was the most tender-hearted. closest to the Lord Jesus Christ during his earthly ministry. Can you imagine having a man like that leading your church? You'd have no excuse for any kind of carnality. Imagine somebody going to John and say, I'm not growing under your ministry, brother, so I'm gonna go find another place Really? I mean, there's no godlier example than this man, the Apostle John. He was their pastor for many years. Imagine how that's going to affect the people. They were a mature group of individuals. They had a wonderful heritage as a church. But they still were in danger. We then come to a second truth, and that's this. The church at Ephesus had a meticulous congregation. When I say meticulous, Christ makes note of several very significant details about the kinds of people that were in this church. You know, every church has a personality. Some churches are really friendly churches. Some churches are very intelligent churches Some people are very grounded churches. Sometimes there are churches that are extremely evangelistic. Sometimes a heart for discipleship is very evident in a congregation. The congregation a lot of times begins to assume the personality and the disposition of those that are leading that congregation. That's very common, especially if an individual's been there a long time. Well, what do you think is going to happen when you got a guy like John being your pastor? Well, this is what you get. Look down at what he says in the text. The first thing he says is: I know thy works. That tells us that Christ viewed this congregation as a congregation that was not lazy. They were a diligent group of people. They were a hard-working group of people. You know, if you see a young man that's got a good work ethic, I guarantee you it's because he's got a dab. Or a mom who has forced him to work hard. If he's a good student, if he's disciplined in the classroom, it's because somebody in his family says Your school's a big deal. You're gonna work hard. You're gonna do your homework. You're not gonna go out and play and do those things. John was a very godly individual. He was a very disciplined individual. He loved the Lord. And so he was pastoring a group of people who were not lazy. Jesus says, I know thy works. You're a hard-working church. He then says this: I know thy labor. They were not a fearful congregation. That word that we translate labor here is a very interesting word. It has the idea of battling to blows. Now, in the ancient world, the athletic games were a really big deal. So running was a big deal. Wrestling was a big deal. Boxing was a big deal. When we talk about getting to blows, we're talking about an athlete who is in the arena and he's wrestling and he's getting beat and he's getting beat hard, but he presses forward. because he's not gonna quit. He wants to win the prize. He's training. He's taking the blows. If he's a boxer, if he's a wrestler He's taking the blows because he wants to continue and he wants to do well in his athletic competition. These were people who labored. They felt the blows and they kept going forward. Imagine the kind of city that they were living in. There were blows they received in their culture. There were people who ended up in prison, the Apostle Paul was imprisoned and kicked out of the city by a mob. That's the kind of culture they lived in. He then says this, I know thy patience. They were a congregation that refused to quit They didn't back down. They were tenacious. That word labor, that word patience has the idea of bearing under a load. As they're involved in that work, they don't quit. They don't back down. They keep pressing forward. This is what you want in your congregation. If you're a coach, this is what you want in your team. If you're a teacher, this is what you want in your classroom. People who are not quitters. People who are patient. People who bear under the load. This is the kind of church we're talking about. talking about. He then says this, thou canst not bear them which are evil. Now he's not just saying that these people refuse to be involved in evil practices. That would be a pretty commendable thing when you consider the kind of city they're living in. But he kind of goes beyond that. He says, you cannot bear them which are evil. When they saw evil, it wasn't just something that they separated from. It's something that grieved their soul. It's something that affected them emotionally because they saw the incredible damage that was done by evil and they hated it. This was a group of people that didn't compromise. We then come to the next. Thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not. Now, we don't have this kind of an issue so much in our day and age as they did in those days, but they were living in a time when there were real physical apostles living. Peter and Paul and John and James and these individuals. And there were certain signs and there were certain qualifications that accompanied an apostle. Not just anybody could claim to, well, anybody could claim to be an apostle. Okay. But not everyone could stand the test of being an apostle. And there were individuals that saw the kind of preeminence that the apostles had. They saw the kind of respect that the apostles had, the kind of following, the kind of authority in the church that they had, and they wanted that for themselves, and so they falsely claimed to be apostles. Well, when it says you've tried them, the idea is there's been a little bit of deliberation. There's been an examination of evidence They have presented claims to you. You have weighed those claims, and you've said, nope, it doesn't pass the test. We could put it like this: they weren't naive. They weren't just getting blown around by the wind. They were people who had good discernment. They had the ability to analyze and think critically about something. And they could say, this is right, this is wrong, I reject what is wrong, I embrace what is right. Though you're a nice person, I reject your claim. You don't pass the test. Simple, that's what they were like. He then goes on, for my name's sake thou hast labored and hast not fainted. Now this is an interesting one. These people were not self-exalting. In other words, the reason that they served in the church was because of Christ. It was for his namesake The reason they went and did the things that they did, the reason that they labored, the reason they didn't faint, the reason that they were patient, the reason that they hated evil, the reason that they we could be summed up with this statement. You did it for my sake, not your own. It's a very significant thing. I then make this last statement. He said, You hate the deeds of the Nicolaitans. They were not a complacent group of people. There were folks we don't know all the details about this group, but there was a group that was affecting the church. Likely they were false teachers Likely they were people looking for preeminence in the church. Don't forget that John wrote to a lady and said, there's a man who wants to have preeminence in the church. He wants to add injury to those who are teaching and preaching the truth. He says there are people coming to you. Don't receive them into your house. Don't send them on your way on their way. Don't treat them as a preacher of the gospel. They're false teachers. Basically, what he's saying is there are a group of people within the church. They knew who they were. And they said, you can't bear those. These folks were not complacent. Every single thing I have mentioned is something that I would love to see in this church. Not that I don't see it, okay? This is a good church. This is a good group of people. Any pastor would love to see this in the congregation he's pastoring. If you're looking for a church. You find one like that, that's where you want to be. Okay? It's that simple. But that did not change the fact that this church was in danger. You guessed that That's a pretty significant set of criteria right there. That's a good group of people. But it didn't change the fact that they were a church. That was in danger of God's discipline. That's because truth number three is this: the church at Ephesus had lost the most important element of vibrant church life. You catch that? They had lost the most significant, the most important , the most impactful element of vibrant church life. This is what he says in verse 4. I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love. I'll put it like this, we can have everything right, but if we don't have a healthy heart, we're in real big trouble. Anybody ever had problems with their blood pressure before? Don't put your hands up. Don't do that. Okay. Well, when I was in college, believe it or not, when I was in college, I had some problems with my blood pressure. pressure. And my mom, she still to this day, she will from time to time say, Joel has your blood pressure. I'm like, it's okay, mom, don't worry about it Well, for some reason, when I was a freshman in college, I had problems with my blood pressure. It was it was high. It was probably higher than some of you guys who are on medication right now. Okay? If I told you you'd probably be surprised. But I have history. I have family history with high blood pressure. And I think part of it probably was I got nervous once I realized I had it. And every time I saw the doctor come and put that sleeve on my arm was like my heart started pounding, you know. And I just it was it was not good. And I probably ate a lot of stuff I shouldn't have and all those kinds of things too. But I remember the nurse looking at me and saying, Joel, do you know that high blood pressure is a silent killer? I've heard that somewhere before. They're like, well, listen to me and look me in the eye. That is called the silent killer, my friend. You better take care of it. Okay? What what did they mean by that's a silent killer? Well it's kind of like this. If you got high blood pressure, you don't really feel any different than if you don't. I mean, there does come a point where you start feeling a difference. Okay, if it's too low, you'll get lightheaded, and if it's too high, you might start getting a headache and different things like that. But the truth is, if your blood pressure is moderately high, you feel totally normal. You don't get a stomachache. Your back doesn't start bothering you. You don't get a pounding headache. You don't have a fever. You look normal, but what's going on inside, the pressure inside your blood vessels when your heart is pumping and when your heart is stationary It's too high. And over many years, that pressure can cause you tremendous problems Well, I know that when I talk about heart in this context, I'm not talking about a physical heart here, folks. But it's the same kind of issue. We can have something going down inside of us. That isn't right and isn't healthy. And everything on the outside looks good. And we are moving forward in a way that everyone who is observing would be convinced is healthy and right. But what's going on deep down inside isn't good. It's not healthy. We're in a very dangerous position. Just like that person who has high blood pressure. Anybody that comes in contact with them isn't concerned they're going to catch a cold from them. But they've got a problem inside. We can do all the right things in sincerity, but not have a healthy heart. That's what this passage is telling us. This church had wonderful marks of maturity. They were an extremely impactful congregation, had a rich heritage, but they had a problem. Their heart wasn't where it needed to be. If we don't have a serious change of heart, we're in spiritual danger. I once had a pastor I was having a conversation with, he used an illustration to me that went something like this. He said, Have you ever been watching a train go by when you were a kid or at any time of the Yeah, I remember when I was a kid, when I started walking to school, when we were on our way to school, there was a a train track that we had to cross every single single day. And there were many days that we got caught by the train and had to sit there for fifteen minutes while that thing, you know, went by. And it was a great excuse as to why we were late, but it never worked, okay? He said, if you're watching a train move. And that that mo that that train is in motion. And that conductor cuts off the engine. He said, does that train stop immediately? I said, no, I don't think so. He said, no it doesn't. Does it even slow down the moment that he cuts the engine off? I I don't think so. No, it actually won't. It may continue to roll for a while. If he doesn't apply that break because of all that energy that's built up in that moving locomotive, all that mass that's moving down those tracks, even though the engine has cut off. That train continues to move forward for a period of time, though it has no power from a source within. It's moving on momentum. And he said churches can be like that too. It's possible for a church to have lost the power that pressed it forward. and to be running on momentum. It's possible for a Christian to reach a point in their life where that healthy heart that was pressing them forward and motivating them and moving them to do the right thing isn't motivating them anymore. But because of the momentum, they continue for a while. But he said that can't be sustained forever. And there comes a day when what's going on stops. You realize that that's ultimately what John is writing in this letter. He's basically saying this: what used to motivate you has changed. You used to do all these things because you loved Christ. He was your supreme delight. You gloried in him above all else. He was the one who had saved your soul. He was the one who was changing and transforming you, and you wanted nothing more than to please him and to honor him. You were a motivated person because you loved Christ above everything else. He said, you know what? As you got older in the faith, What you were doing didn't stop. You continued to do the right thing. But the reason why changed. It was more about momentum than it was about a heart that was pressing you because of godly desires that were being shaped and molded in a healthy love for the Lord Jesus Christ And he says, I've seen that. I've seen both of those things. I've seen the good, but now I'm going to address the problem. And I'm very concerned. I'm add living a little bit here, okay? But he's pretty serious about this. He doesn't just say that eventually you're gonna stop. He actually goes a step beyond that. He says if you don't repent , If you don't remember, I'm going to come to you and I'm going to remove your candlestick from its place. Now that's pretty significant. I mean there is a sense in which if a church loses a godly heart If a church is just running on momentum, there'll be a day when it'll kind of just self-destruct. It'll just kind of blow itself up. It happens a lot of times in churches. If God just removed the restraint and he just let it go the way it was going to go, that's what would happen eventually. But he actually goes beyond that. He says, I'm actually going to come and I'm going to discipline that congregation. I'm going to take it and I'm going to set it to the side. I'm going to remove the candlestick. You're not going to be a light anymore. Why is it that Christ is saying that? I can't say for sure. I don't know if it's that Christ understands that when a church begins to self-destruct, it's going to compromise its testimony and it's going to cause tremendous damage. And so before the church gets to that point, he cuts it off. It could be that. I don't know. But he is very, very serious about this. I'm gonna come and I'm gonna remove your candlestick. You will not continue to be used by me and move forward as a church. If you don't address this issue. When he says remember, that means that these people didn't start that way. It got that way over time. There's no doubt in my mind it didn't happen quickly. Folks, when when when Christians fall, it doesn't happen in five minutes. It happens over years. It happens over little bitty compromises and little changes in the heart and little areas where we allow ourselves to do and to think and to move in ways that we shouldn't. It happens very gradually. He says, remember and repent. We've talked about what the word repent means. It means the way that you think has to change. Your heart is affected by the way you think about things. You have to think biblically. You have to call idols idols. If it's in the way between you and God, it has to be removed. You have to call it what it is. You have to speak very firmly and deliberately about those things. You've got to get rid of them. There might be things in your life, Christianity. Tonight that you say, you know what, that is an idol. It has come between me and God, and I have to just call it what it is, and I have to deal with it significantly right now. I've got to get this out of the way so that Christ is my supreme joy and delight and love. The church had lost the most important element of a vibrant church life. I want to give you an example of two people that really picture for us exactly what he's talking about. And that's Mary and Martha. We all know the story. In Luke chapter 10, it says this. Jesus came to a village and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house. It says that she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was cumbered about with much serving. Came to him and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me here to serve alone? Bid her that she help me. Basically what's going on is Martha is doing a good thing. She's showing hospitality to Jesus. I mean imagine bringing him into your home. That's a good thing. I don't think Jesus is chiding her because she wants to show hospitality. He's chiding her because she doesn't understand that she has substituted the greater for the lesser. She was really upset at her sister. How dare you sit at his feet when I'm working in the kitchen? And Jesus says, Martha. You are cumbered about with too many things. You got too much on your mind, Martha. You're dealing with all these superficial things and you're failing to realize the most important thing. Same. I want to ask you tonight, Christian, how much are you like Martha and how much are you like Mary? Martha was really busy But she had neglected the most important thing. We come to a final truth, and that's this: we have to listen to Christ's words to the church. God is not pleased with a church that has lost its heart for him. God is concerned about where we get when that is where we are. God wants us to stop. He wants us to take a break. He wants us to remember. There's a reason that Sunday is so important for us to actually rest. Because it gives us time to think. We live in a world where we don't think. We just constantly are on social media. We're constantly watching our television well, I guess television's almost Like almost extinct. I don't know. You know, we're constantly on the internet. We're constantly involved in these things. We don't have time to stop and reflect and meditate and think. We are a society that's losing that ability. If they needed to stop and remember, how much more do we? God wants us to have a radical change in how we think. We need to repent. God wants us to get back to the basics, do the first work. And he says, if you don't, there'll be devastating consequences. Tonight I'm not suggesting that anybody in our church, I know you have this problem. I'm not doing that tonight, okay? But I'm telling you this. If this group of people that had so much going for them, they had so much together, if they were in danger I think we need to pause and we need to take a look for ourselves. I think we need to ask the question. I think we need to let the Holy Spirit of God work in our hearts. Pull aside all of the busyness and let us stop and think and reflect and meditate and let Him work. I'm going to ask you, does God have your heart? Do you have a vibrant, warm walk with God? Or are you just going through the motions that are most certainly there in the lives of godly people? May the Lord help us to think and to respond to a text like this. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer tonight. Father, when we think about missions, I pray you'd help us to be people who think biblically Help us to have a right approach to ministry and to missions. Help us to have a biblical philosophy of ministry. But, Father, I pray that our philosophy of ministry wouldn't be simply a veneer. I pray that we would have hearts that love you above all else That we wouldn't be practical idolaters, but that we would be people who are consumed with your glory, people who bask in your presence. People who delight in your character and in your ways, people who truly love you. I pray you'd do a work in our lives through a text like this. And I pray that where we have stumbled, we will remember, repent, and do the first work. Most certainly, Lord, you love us. You have no desire to set us to the side. Quite the contrary, you want to continue to work in our lives. And I pray that we would be in a position to let you do that. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.