Okay, Proverbs chapter 6 and Proverbs chapter 7 is where we'll be tonight. I'm going to begin in Proverbs 6:23, and we will read from 23 down to 35. And then we're going to get into a really practical portion of the book of Proverbs. Proverbs 623. The commandment is a lamp. And the law is light. The reproofs of instruction are the ways of life. To keep thee from the evil woman, which flattereth or uh From the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman. Lust not after her beauty in thine in thine heart, neither let her take thee with her eyelids. Can a man take fire in his bosom and his clothes not be burned? Can one go upon hot coals and his feet not be burned? So he that goeth into his neighbor's wife, whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. Men do not despise a thief But whoso committeth adultery With a woman lacketh understanding, he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. Is the rage of a man, therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. He will not regard any ransom, neither will he rest content, though thou givest many gifts. Now we're going to be looking at chapter 6, verses 23 to the end of the chapter, and then we're going to get into chapter 7. And probably we're going to spend a couple of weeks here. So I have material that might get us two weeks or three weeks. We'll we'll see. But one of the things that we see that is emphasized quite a bit in the book of Proverbs is the importance of being a person who has wisdom is not simple. And one of the things that We're going to see in this particular passage is that Solomon is really concerned that his children are not going to be wise when it comes to this issue of sexual morality. Now, this section's a little bit different than chapter 5. In chapter 5, he celebrates marriage and he talks about how good marriage is and God's good blessings. That are connected to marriage and the relationship there. This particular passage is understand that really what Solomon is doing is he's kind of explaining to us a little bit of the psychology between how we're tempted and how we fall. And so he uses the case of a young man who is walking out in a place where he really shouldn't be at night, and he meets a woman who is very Very experienced and getting a lot of men in trouble and using them basically as her livelihood. And he is a very naive guy. In fact, there's nothing in the passage that tells us that His absolute intention was to go out and to get himself involved with a married woman who is also in involved in prostitution. There's nothing that indicates that that was his intention. But what we do see is that he makes a bad decision and then he makes another bad decision and he makes another bad decision. And what you see is that this person basically just uses him and plays with him and gets him exactly where they want him, and then he falls in The reason that Solomon uses this illustration is because that was a very real concern of his, but really this is kind of a case. That tells us a lot about how we're tempted. In fact, if we take this story and we were to compare it to the the situation in the Garden of Eden when Adam and Eve sinned, I think I think what you would see is that there would be a lot of parallels. The way that Satan came to Eve and he says, take a look at this fruit. And the way that he talks to Eve and the way that he convinces her What you see is a a woman who is very naive, who is being duped by Satan himself. If we take that particular situation and we compare it to To this one, we see a young man who is very, very naive, who's being duped by a very experienced woman who is also extremely immoral. We need to look at verses 23 to 25. Because in verses 23 to 25, he kind of sets the scene that's going to prepare us for the I want us to look at these verses and I'm going to highlight a couple of phrases and words that I want to kind of talk to you about. I want to explain a little bit. First of all, he says this the commandment is a lamp, and the law is a light. Take a highlighter Or a pen, or just take a note and circle or take note of that word lamp and light. The reproofs of instruction are the way of light. And then he says this the reason that those things are a law the law is a light and the law and the commandment is a lamp is because it will keep you from the evil And by the way, obviously it's written primarily to his boys and he's warning them about immoral women. But we can turn it around and we can look at it on the other side too, okay? We can have very immoral men who are preying on very Naive young ladies. Really goes both ways. Then we have this phrase lust not after her beauty in thine heart. Neither let her take thee with her eyelids. Another verse Very important phrase. He says, by means of a horse woman a man is brought to a piece of bread. What in the world Is Solomon saying when he says that he is brought to a piece of bread? We'll talk about that. The adulterous will hunt, hunt The precious life. And then he asks some questions. Can someone take fire into his bosom and his clothes not be burned? Can one go on hot coals and his feet not be burned? So is he that goeth into his neighbor's wife shall not be innocent. He then uses some real He says, If you have a man who's a thief, nobody despises him if he steals to satisfy his hunger. It's kind of an interesting statement. But if he's found, he'll restore sevenfold. In other words, if the guy is stealing because he's hungry, people kinda understand compassion. They're not saying it's right. They're not saying they're gonna just let him off the hook. But there's some degree of compassion. But if he's caught, then he's gonna have to pay But then he says But the person who commits adultery, he lacks understanding, he destroys his own soul. And then listen to what it says. He will not regard any ransom, neither will he rest content, though thou givest many gifts. about some of these phrases. Because what they do is they help us to understand why a sin like adultery is so so serious. Why it's so destructive. And my desire tonight is not to give you the impression that in God's eyes there's like little sins that don't matter, then there's like huge sins that are terrible. The fact is, sin is sin. But the nature of Sin has an ability to have certain kinds of consequences that are different depending on the nature of what it is. And he's actually going to draw our attention to that later on this passage. Steals something he can pay it back. If somebody gets involved with another man's wife, there's nothing he can pay that person back that'll satisfy him. Because Because that dishonor is so great, there's nothing that can can satisfy and bring a bomb there. So let's look at this Section together. Point one, there are three qualities that stir up unbridled passion. Now when we come to chapter seven, he's going to be talking about the simple guy. But if you want to say simple guy, we could put it And he's wide open and he's looking Notice the three things that he mentions. The first thing that he mentions is flattery. I I mentioned this little phrase to kind of take note of it says that the lamp the law is a lamp and a light and it's to keep you from the flattery of the tongue of the Strange woman. What is the thing that causes a person's lust to become stronger and more passionate and that temptation to rise in the heart? What is it? When somebody begins playing with your ego. It's kind of interesting. I've mentioned this before in some other passages, but in the book of Proverbs Solomon says a lot about flattery. He talks about flattery when it's a man and a woman interacting with one another. He talks about flattery when it's a neighbor. He talks about flattery when you're in the And he basically says, if you're in the presence of a person and they flatter you, you better be very cautious. He says when he's talking about the king, he says, Don't be a man given to appetite. Put a knife to your throat if you're a man given to appetite. That's what he says. Kind of an interesting The idea is that when somebody's flattering you, they know that every single one of us has a a weakness in the area of our ego. You know, somebody says something to you that is not true and you know it's not true, but when they say it, it just kind of it just like it gets to you, you know what I mean? It's like it puffs up your head. And so this woman that's going to be talked about later on in chapter seven, that is one of the tools she uses to get this guy's attention. She flatters him. She is persistent. She says things to him to get his attention. And Solomon says, listen, you need to be really cautious about people who flatter because They are stirring up your ego. They are stroking something within your heart that can inflame and can set you up for terrible failure. Second thing he mentions is that The imaginations. He says, lust not after her beauty in thine heart Now, basically what he's saying is this don't let a person become an object in your mind. When you allow a person to become an object and your imagination begins to run wild, you are setting yourself up for a major fall. And so he talks about flattery and the ego, he talks about the imagination, a person who is fixating on a person and they stop looking at them as A person made in the image of God who should be loved in a godly way and they view them as an object. Someone who's nothing more than an object to satisfy sexual desire The third thing he mentions is very interesting, and that is curiosity. He says, Neither let her take thee with her eyelids. The idea there is don't let some suggestive glance grab a hold of your attention. Okay? We all you know let's go back to like when we were in elementary school. Okay. Go back to elementary school and y you know what it's like, you're sitting in the class and in and these in and you know in elementary school kids are are pretty naive. They're not they're not being immoral or anything like that. But you know, there'll be a little boy or little girl. They have this, you know, they got a crush on the other person. And this little girl man She gives the eye to that little boy and he just melts. You know what I'm talking about? I'm sure nobody in this room ever did that or ever was the recipient of that right but the idea is that that little glance the way that somebody uses their eyes can really communicate something Can really grab a hold of your attention. And so he talks about a person who flatters, a person who becomes just an object in your imagination. And a person who with the bat of an eye can get your attention and stir up this curious this curiosity. I think a lot of times especially young people, y teenage boys. You know a lot of times what gets teenage boys involved in something like pornography is curiosity. You know, they're curious. They just they want to get some information. Somebody ever, somebody, you know, one of their friends says, hey, check this out. Have you ever heard about how this Have you ever seen this? It's curiosity that often gets people in trouble. And so these three qualities, Solomon mentions them, that have the tendency to stir up our past. Second point that's that he's made is this sexual sin has a dehumanizing nature. to it. Look down at what he says in verse 26. He says, by means of a whorish woman, a man is brought to a piece of bread. You think about it and ask yourself, what exactly is Solomon saying? This is what he's saying. A man's honor is worth a piece of bread to a person who's involved in prostitution. That's what he's saying. The value of your marriage, the value of another person's marriage, the honor and the integrity of a person, it isn't worth more than a loaf of bread. Because basically what this woman is doing is She's gonna use this guy so that she can put bread on her table. That's you want to talk about dehumanizing, that's really what it is. A person loses value In the eyes of the person that they're involved with in this scenario. And then he mentions later, he says, the adulteress will hunt for the precious life. The idea is that this person who views another person as nothing more than a loaf of bread, okay? Just a little bit of cash on the side. This This person will hunt and will be persistent and will be very methodical and will seek out someone who they can use. And he uses the phrase the precious life. Because he's kind of making an analogy here. He's saying this person is treating their life and their honor and their marriage and another person's life and their honor as if it's just a piece of Bread, yet it's precious. It's valuable. Isn't that amazing? Like his right to be the heir of his father, and not just his father's heir, as a the firstborn, but he would actually inherit all those blessings that were going to come through Abraham as a part of that Abrahamic covenant. And because he was hungry one day for a bowl of soup, he goes, you know What? I'd give it all up. That's a profane man. Adultery is dehumanizing. Point three There's an incredible danger done by adultery. Notice what it says. It says in verse 29 Or verse twenty-seven, he says, Can a man take fire in his bosom and his clothes not be burned? Well the obvious answer is no he can't. In fact, I I I rem like, you know, let's say you wearing a a cotton poly blend shirt and you you got you got a wood stove. I'm I'm using an illustration from something that really happened to me, okay? So so I'm sitting there and I'm like, you know, I put I put a piece of wood in the fire and some sparks flying like one lands on my shirt and guess what? There's a hole in my shirt all of a sudden. Like how in the world? Just just like that, as soon as it touched it, it burned it. I remember the other day I was looking at uh some running shorts that I had and there's a little singe hole right there. I was like, how in the world did that get there? You know? He says, Is this possible to take a hot coal and put it in your clothing and not burn? He said, No it's impossible. It's impossible. He says, is it possible to walk on hot coals and your feet not get burned? He said, No, it's impossible. And so he says this. In the same way that it's impossible for you to take something hot, put it in your clothes, and it not burn you, or that you walk on hot coals and it doesn't burn your feet. In the same way, if a person's in Involved in sexual immorality, involved in adultery, it's gonna hurt them. It's an impossibility for it not to. There's a destructive cause and effect nature When we talk about this. You know, it's not so much that God judges a person when they commit a sin like adultery. I'm not Saying that God doesn't, but I'm saying God doesn't have to judge a person in that scenario for them to have extremely negative consequences. In fact, the reason why God says don't do that is because he loves a person. He cares about them. He doesn't want them to experience the horrible consequences. And so there's a destructive cause and effect nature to a sin like adultery. I think many times I want to take it out of the realm of just that particular sin. We look at other kinds of sins. I think many times and we Sin, we think that God is like hovering over our head, ready to crush us. And when we feel all the painful consequences of sin, we think God is out to get us. And let me tell you something. God doesn't even have to be involved in the situation. You're going to experience those consequences. If anything, God is there saying, I would like to restore you I want to forgive you. I want to cleanse you. I want to mature you through this. God isn't there ready to crush us. In fact, God, in many ways, is coming right alongside. Trying to draw us back to Himself. But when we sin, there are destructive consequences that follow that. Then we have a second thing that's mentioned, and that's an inability to pay Look back at what I mentioned before. He says this. Verse thirty Men do not despise a thief. If he's still to satisfy his soul when he's hungry. I I I can tell you I've I've heard this kind of I I've heard this many many times. Especially if you're in a You know, some of you have never lived in a poor community. You've not really interacted with people that honestly don't have the money to put food on their table. Okay? Some of you if if you haven't lived in a community like that, you probably don't understand what he's saying here, okay? But if you have, this is what you understand about a person who has struggled And is watching someone else who is struggling. When that person does something that's wrong, they know it's wrong. It bothers them. They know it needs to be resolved. But there's a sense in which they can understand The logical connection to that particular decision. That person wasn't just trying to be wicked and mean. They literally needed something to eat and they were hungry. And so that Hunger drove them to make that decision. And so he said there's some sense in which a person has mercy on another person who's just trying to survive. But then he makes a statement. Even though you can have mercy on a person like that, if he's found He's going to restore. And not just he's going to pay it back, but he's going to restore seven times. Okay? In other words, you stole this item, you have to And so basically what Solomon is saying is In a situation where a person steals because they're hungry, you have compassion, you understand, but if you catch them, they're going to have to pay back. But he says, what about when a person commits Adultery. What about when a man goes and takes advantage of another man's wife? Or if a woman goes and gets involved with another woman's husband. How do you pay back trust? How do you do it? How do you pay back for all the pain that that's going to cause the offended party? How do you pay back the damage that it does to to kids. How do you pay back the damage that it does to the family members? A father, a mother, a father-in-law, a mother-in-law How do you pay back for how it affects a person's reputation in the community? You sit down and you go, you know what? You can't do it And that's his point. You steal somebody's watch. You can replace their watch. You steal their honor. You undermine their marriage. You take something that you cannot replace, and it's impossible. It's impossible for you To pay it back. When Solomon is talking to his kids, he's saying, This is why adultery is so painful and so hurtful. Because when When you get involved in a relationship like that, you can't pay it back when you try to get it resolved down the road. Then he mentions a final thing. There will be deep emotional wounds connected to that sin. He says in verse 33, well, I'll I'll begin in verse 32. He says, Whoever commits adultery, he lacks understanding. He doeth it to destroy his own soul. A wound and dishonor shall he get, and his reproach shall not be wiped away. When he talks about a person having a wound, he's talking about something that's internal, something in the conscience. In fact, there's another place we're going to get into this in Chapter seven. But he talks about the guy who is like a an animal that's been wounded in its liver. It's like an internal wound that it's painful. And it's deep and it can't be remedied. He says this: jealousy is the rage of a man, therefore he will not spare In the day of vengeance, he will not regard any ransom. Neither will he rest content though thou givest many gifts. It's pretty much saying this. If a guy goes and he gets involved with another man's wife, when that guy has a chance to take vengeance, he will do it in the cruelest way possible. And he still won't be satisfied. That's what he's saying. The reason that Solomon sets up chapters uh the reason why Solomon explains all this in chapter six Closing this out is because he's kind of laying the foundation for what he's going to say in Proverbs chapter seven. But before we get into Proverbs 7, I'd actually like us to talk a little bit about the case Character, the conduct that God expects of disciples of Christ. What he expects about the character of young men? What he expects about the And what you're going to see is as we look at those passages and talk about what Peter has to say about a young man's relationship to young women, a young lady's relationship to young men. Or a man to his wife, a wife to her husband. As we examine those things, what we're going to see is that when Solomon gives his example in Prophet Proverb 7, this young man breaks every single rule that Paul and Peter lay out in the epistles. They break all of them. This woman who is enticing the guy, and ultimately they get involved, she breaks every single rule that is laid in out in the epistles. And so one of the things that I think is helpful for us to really understand the weight of what's going on is for us to see what the new Testament tells us about how men and women should relate to one another when they're young, when they're married, when they're older, and how the older should be teaching the younger. Very, very important. I want to get into this just a little bit, but I will not go through the entire section. But if you could, turn with me in your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 3. Peter chapter three, and we'll look at verses one to four. We're going to simply look at how a wife should relate to To her husband and what within a marriage is in God's eyes a precious and valuable thing. says this likewise ye yub your ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands. Husband, that if he if he any obey not the word, they also may without the word be one by the conversation While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear. His adorning let it not be the outward adorning or plating the hair of wearing gold and putting On of apparel, but let it be the hidden man of the heart, and that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the silence Now, when I was reading this passage, there were some things I highlighted and some things I underlined that I want to kind of highlight to you. The first phrase that caught my attention was the phrase Subject to your own husband. Now that word subject has the idea of a chain of command. If we're in a military situation, we have a chain of command when we have uh a a situation at where we have chain of command. It doesn't mean that one person is more valuable than the other, that one person is smarter than the other, or that one person is more competent than the other. It simply means that there has to be an order. And so when we talk about the order in the home, God has ordained that husbands are to be the head within the chain of command. That means a wife is supposed to Submit to her husband. It doesn't mean that she's supposed to be a doormat. Doesn't mean that the husband's supposed to be a little mini dictator who is a cruel and harsh man. In fact, the Bible sets the standard extremely high. For our husband is to relate to his wife. But the first thing that he mentions is that she is to be in subjection, or she's supposed to be in the proper order within the chain of command. And notice it says to her own husband. She's not supposed to be in that role to her dad or her father in law or an uncle or a boss or anybody else. Husband is the head within the chain of command. He then mentions another statement that's really interesting. He says, if any obey not the word They also may without a word be won by the conversation of their wives. Now he is writing to ladies who are probably in situations where the majority of them are Married to unbelieving men. And so the statement that he makes, subject to your own husband, to them it would be like, whoa, that's not a that's not an easy thing at all. This guy's not a believer. living by a biblical ethic. He's not loving me like Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. And so I need to fight him and I need to stand up for my rights. And if he's not listening to me, I need to hold the line and I need to be tough. And that's the way a lot of people would, well, probably handle a situation like that. But it's interesting what Paul's or what Peter says to do. He says, if your husband does not obey the word That could be an unbeliever who's not saved. That could be a believer who's just being stubborn, okay? If he doesn't obey the word, how is a wife supposed to handle that? Well, here's how a lot of wives Handle it. Why didn't you do this? Why didn't you do this? Why didn't you do this? Right? Nagging constantly. That is the most natural thing that a wife does. That's The most natural thing that a man in a situation like that would do with his boss. He he's gonna kind of peck at this guy and he's gonna kind of put it out there over and over and over again. But Peter says don't do that. Without a word, if you live in a godly way, you are communicating something that is far more powerful than anything you ever say to your husband. He says, Without a word he may be won by the conversation. That's the way of life of the wife. While they behold your chaste conduct coupled with fear. Now, when we see that little phrase, chase coupled Uh Chase conversation coupled with fear, you need to understand that it's really talking about reverence. The wife is showing her husband reverence and honor. She's showing him respect. And, you know, within the context, he doesn't probably deserve it. Okay? He does not obey the word. He doesn't. He's a stubborn guy. But she shows him honor anyway That is not a normal thing for us to do. That is not a natural thing to do. But that's what the Bible says to do in this situation. And it says by that attitude You have the ability to move your husband. Because God ultimately will be the one. And I I, you know, men, think about it. When you have a situation where you've done wrong and your wife comes at you and says, why did you do this? And she just goes over and over and over again. Is it harder or easier for you? Just saying, harder or easier for you to admit. Oh yeah, you're right and I'm wrong. You know that uh that pride thing is real Strong, okay? But when your wife doesn't say anything, and you know you've done the wrong thing, she actually gives you the space needed to actually comfortably make the correction. I I can say that from my own personal experience and I think probably some of you men can say this the same thing. You know that But that is not the natural tendency. But notice what he's emphasizing. He's emphasizing a place of under command. He's emphasizing Humility and grace and love and honor. He then mentions this whose adorning let it not be the outward adorning Now please understand something. This passage does not teach that it's wrong for a woman to have Jewelry, okay. The emphasis of the passage is not to say you can't have jewelry, rather it's to emphasize what is attractive about a person. Is it the way they're dressed? Is it the way they do their hair? Or is it something that's much much different? The character, the way a person carries themselves, the way that they relate to people, the way they communicate. What Peter's basically saying is if you want to be a godly woman Then you need to be a person who doesn't attract people because of how you look or because of what you are. Not that it's wrong for a person to look attractive. But what should ultimately attract a person is what's going on inside. And the way that they relate to other people. And you know what's really interesting? When you see a person, if it's all about something You can have an attraction like that. It's true. But when it's what's going on inside, it's the character of a person, you don't know that until you get to know them. And so really what Peter is saying is he's saying God wants in the home what bonds and unites that couple, not to be what could attract someone in a second the moment they See him walk by, but what only you know 're because of that very close personal relationship. And that is the thing that bonds and unites. And so a godly woman Is someone who understands respect and honor. Someone whose character is the most precious thing that you notice about. Not a person who's fighting for the rights at every single moment, but a person who trusts God and lets God fight the battle for them. This week. I'm going to get into it next week, but next week we're going to look at Titus chapter two. Because in Titus chapter two, we're going to look at what Paul says about young women very much parallel to what's in this text and what he has to say about young men. And we're gonna see that both of those things are extremely important. I really want to encourage you when it comes To working with our kids, we've got to instill these principles in these kids. We've got to teach them to value what God values. We've got to help them to understand what are the character qualities that they should have, the character qualities that they should desire in their future spouse. We need to give them the discernment so that they can recognize when the people that they're interacting with are people they need to be careful about. Let's put our hearts together in prayer and then we will move to our prayer time. Let's pray. Father, we think about what Solomon taught his sons. Help us to be people understand that that sin really can have devastating consequences. And that's why you tell us not to do it. You love us. You care about us. about us. You want us to experience life at its fullest. You don't want us to be carrying around the guilt and the shame and the pain of foolish decisions. Father, help us to be people who teach our young people. Help us to be people who stand on the side of truth. Help us to be people who have discernment. And we live in this world. In a very cautious way. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen