Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And it's a new week, and if you joined us this past Sunday, uh you'll know what passage of scripture we're dealing with. And that is Luke chapter 9, verses 46 through 50. And I'd like to ask you to turn there in your Bibles and we'll read it together. And I think that the study that we're doing this week is an excellent study for us Especially coming off of a really wonderful vacation Bible School Week, we saw the Lord work in hearts. We had a great number of young people that came. uh both to the morning and to the evening uh vacation bible school and teen rally. And it's a really exciting time. It's exciting to get to be involved in the Lord's work and to see him working in hearts, seeds planted. the watering, that seeing God give the increase, those things are very, very exciting. But this passage of scripture is a great challenge to us, a great warning as we think about this past week. And we think about The great temptation that there is to become proud when God in in his kindness and in his grace uses us and allows us to be a part of his work. Let's read the passage together. Luke chapter 9, verses 46 through 50. It says this. Then there arose a reasoning amongst themselves, which of them should be the greatest. Jesus, perceiving the thoughts of their hearts, took a child and sent him before him. And said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me. Whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me. For he that is least among you all, the same shall be great John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us. And Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not, he that is not against us is for us. Now this passage of Scripture is full of some very practical and important truths for us to unpackage. And so I want to begin with an introductory thought. But before we get into that, I want to kind of give you a summary of the content of this passage. One of life's greatest joys is the thrill of seeing God do great things through our lives. And I can tell you, having been a missionary, Have you been involved in youth ministry as a college student and being a pastor? I can't think of anything that is more exciting than being involved in the Lord's work, seeing him work in the lives of people, seeing people trust Christ as Savior, seeing people grow in discipleship, seeing lives transformed by the gospel , seeing the the Lord's work expanding. Those are tremendous blessings. But this great joy also comes with the potential for one of life's greatest temptations. And you say, well, what temptation are you talking about? How could you be tempted in the Lord's work? Well the fact is the temptation to pride. And to allowing ourselves to see ministry as an avenue to kind of build ourselves up, it is a tremendous temptation, and we all need to take notice of what's in front of us. So let's let's dig into this topic a little bit as an introduction and then throughout the week, Lord willing, we're going to dig into this topic at great length. So first of all I'll say this. Serving the Lord It's one of the greatest privileges that anyone can imagine. I think of 1 Corinthians 3. 9, it says this. We are laborers together with God. Year God's husbandry, year God's building. Can you think of anything more exciting, more rewarding more more in encouraging than knowing that what you're doing is you are working with the Lord's help in the Lord's service, investing in things of eternal significance. Can you think of anything more significant? I can't. I'm so thankful that I get to be a part of it. I'm so thankful for those that I get to work with in our local church. But there is a great pitfall in the Lord's work. And ministry is something that can beat us up. The fact is that we can become complacent in ministry. We can get discouraged in ministry. We can become pragmatic in ministry. But one of the greatest temptations of all is not getting beat up and complacency and pragmatism, but it's pride. It's desiring to build our own kingdom. It's desiring to use the ministry as a means of gain. That is one of the greatest pitfalls that we can encounter in life. And we're going to see that the disciples actually find themselves in the midst of that very temptation. The text before us is set in the midst of ministry ups and ministry downs. And if you think about it, the disciples had experienced and had witnessed some of the greatest triumphs you can imagine. They've also experienced some of the greatest setbacks and discouragements that one could could could consider. The ups and the downs of ministry bring the potential for the danger of pride and selfish ambition, of rivalry. And that's really what we're seeing in these verses. And I want to remind you But it says in Philippians chapter 2 verse 3, it says, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. but in lowliness of mind let each esteem others better than themselves. And there are a couple of words and phrases that are very important there. The first is the word strife. The word strike describes what people do when they are running for public office many times. They seek to destroy their opponent. so that they can get the political advantage and ultimately get the political power. That's what he means when he says, do nothing through strife. Don't use ministry or anything in life as some kind of political opposition struggle where you destroy people and you step on them and use them in order to advance your own agenda. The next word is the word vainglory. This word describes what people do when they create context to network simply to prop up their egos so they can get their own profit. And you know, think about somebody um who's running for political office and um they they have this dinner where, you know, to to eat with them you're gonna have to pay three, four, five hundred dollars so that you can have a plate And all these people are networking so that they can get close to this person that they think might be able to get into power. And if they can get close to this person who's going to get into power, they're going to have their ear, they're going to have some leverage, they're going to be able to use that position for advantage. That is what he means by vain glory. People are trying to prop themselves up through this kind of maneuvering maneuvering socially. But then on the other side he says, don't do it through strife, don't do it through vainglory, rather in lowliness of mind esteem others better. than yourself. The idea is have a very lowly or humble opinion of yourself. That's not to say that we don't have value. We do have value. But we don't prop ourselves up and feel as if we are entitled, we're the center of the universe, that we're God's gifts to mankind. That's the idea. Lowliness of mind. esteem others better than ourselves. We're concerned with the advancement of others, not ourselves. The advancement of God's agenda, not our own agenda. And so as we dig into this passage of scripture and we analyze the content and we put ourselves into this storyline, I hope that we'll start with this very simple fact That we all, when we are in the right set of circumstances and we see God work and bless, can fall into this pitfall of strife. Vainglory, pride, selfish ambition. And we have to be a people who guard our hearts against this. I don't know about you, but I'm I'm excited about what the Lord has done this past week in our church. And what the Lord is really doing in our church But it's so important that in that excitement, it does not become a selfish ambition. It doesn't begin to stir up an attitude of rivalry. and pride and establishing our own agendas. We've got to be humble people. And so that is the encouragement as we get into this week. Let's humble ourselves in the sight of the Lord and allow him to exalt us. In whatever capacity he desires in his due time. Let's recognize that we are the recipients of grace and we are not in any way entitled to God's favor Hope that you have a blessed rest of your morning. Maybe share this with somebody who could be encouraged by it or challenged by it. Perhaps share some encouraging feedback if that's what you feel led to do. And Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to continue our series. Have a blessed day. Bye now.