Good morning. Welcome back to our final angered in the word morning reflection for this week. And hope you're having a great start your Friday morning and looking forward to to a great weekend. We've been dealing with the parable of the Good Samaritan. And so if you've been reading with us, we're going to read it one more time. And then we're going to look at the point of the story. And we're going to see what Christ was saying to this man. And then I'd like us to take this into how we should apply it personally. So Luke chapter 10, verse 25 says this. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? He answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself. And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right, this do, and thou shalt live. But he willing to justify himself said unto Jesus, Jesus, and who is my neighbor? And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell amongst these, where they stripped him of his raiment and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead And by chance there came down a certain priest that way, and when he saw him he passed by the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him. But a certain Samaritan as he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him he had compassion on him, and he went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and fine, and the early And set him on his own beast, and brought him to the inn and took care of him. care of him. Whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again I'll repay thee. Which now of these three thinkest thou was neighbor unto him, the fellow amongst the thieves. And he said, He that showed mercy on him, then said Jesus unto him, Go and do thou likewise. Now let me give you three simple thoughts that were the main point of what Jesus was saying to this lawyer who came to Jesus and said, What good thing can I do to earn eternal life, essentially? And then Jesus says, Well, what does the law say? And how do you read it? And he gives them a good answer. And then he says, Well, who's my neighbor? Obviously, when we think about this, Jesus is trying to say something to this. man that is at the heart of his problem. And so the first thing that we see is that Jesus wanted the man to have a vivid picture of what his attitude looked like. like. The way that he did it is he told a story where the man should have been able to see himself. This man should have seen himself in In the priest and in the Levite. Just like these men were willing to turn their head and watch a helpless man die, this man was willing to justify his sin against other people. And he was willing to even justify it in a way that made him feel self-righteous and good, and he could pat himself on the back. Jesus also wanted him to sit that their religious system was dead. And their attitude towards this helpless man was illustrating the deadness of that religious system. Just because someone was reading the law, and just because someone was going up to the temple, and just because they were involved in the religious ceremonial practices, of the first cent of first century Judaism doesn't mean that they understood what the intent of the sacrificial system was, that it was pointing them to a Messiah who would die for their sin. and would establish a just basis for them to be brought into the presence of God. And so the lawyer was supposed to see himself in the story. recognizing that his skillful debates and all of his study of the law and his knowledge of the law was just another piece of a lifeless, dead religious system. that he was a part of. He was supposed to see himself in the story. Not as the good guy, but as the villain. The second point is that it provided a vivid illustration of what brotherly love actually looks like. It is a selfless action. It is from the heart. And the Samaritan very beautifully illustrated what Christian love is supposed to look like. And so the Samaritan was immediately moved in his heart when he saw the misery of this man. He was willing to risk his own safety. to take care of the man. He didn't know if there were thieves still lying in wait. He didn't know if they were waiting for someone to come and help this man and then they were going to pounce on him and he would end up in the same position. He didn't know those things. but he was willing to help him. He was willing to ignore the the tremendous social tensions that lied that lay between Jews and Gentiles and Jews in particularly the Samaritans. And there was over 500 years of history where the Jewish people and the Samaritans had this intense tension. And some of those tensions were not just religious. Some of them were very practical. They were they were issues related to their love of country. There were issues related to how they worshiped God. It wasn't just a racial tension. It was a very multifaceted thing. And the man was willing to look past that and see a person in their humanity. He was willing to look beyond the physical care of this man, and he was willing to to cover his needs financially, and is willing to follow up with this man. He could have easily left him there and said, here's some money and that's the end of it. I washed my hands of it. But no, that's not what he did. He took a personal interest in this man. and he came back. And so what we see with the first person is an illustration of what someone does when they don't value human life. And the other is an example of what someone does when they do view human life They value human life. But the third point is the part that I think a lot of times we miss. And that is that Jesus told the story in a way that would literally trigger this lawyer's selective attitude. Jesus could have said, well, there was a Samaritan who walked by. And he ignored the man and he would have said exactly what I would have thought. And he could have said, Well, there was a man from Phoenix, and he walked by and he didn't help the man. He said, Exactly what I thought. Instead, what he does is he says A priest, a Levite, they're the bad guys. A Samaritan, the person you despise The person that you want Jesus to say is the exception to the rule, the one that you want to ignore, the one that you want to feel justified and despising. and hated. That's the guy that is the hearer of the story. And when Jesus tells a story and Jesus mentions the Samaritan, immediately the lawyer realizes that Jesus is not just saying You're like the priest, and you're like the Levite, and you're not like the Samaritan, but he's saying, You hate the Samaritan. And I'm going to prove it to you by the way that you respond to this story when you hear his name mentioned and you see the way that I talk about him. The point of the story was to demonstrate that in fact this man selectively hated people like the hero of the story. And Christ is showing him that his religion is one that is filled with hypocrisy, it is evil, it is ugly, and it is powerless to make this man what he needs. to be. Christ is confronting that hidden sin in the heart of partiality towards certain people. And so his main point, more than anything else, is to say, you, sir, are morally and spiritually bankrupt, and there's nothing that you can do. to earn eternal life because you do not live in a way that would qualify you to enter into the kingdom. Just like Jesus said to Nicodemus, unless you are born again, you will not see the kingdom. That's exactly what this man should have taken away from it. The truth is we don't know if that's what he took away from it because we don't know the rest of the story. We just know that the man is willing to acknowledge that the Samaritan is the one who truly showed neighborly love to this man who was broken and beaten and he knows what he needs to do but we don't know how he responded. You might say, well I understand what the point was to this man. Man, what about to you and me? We're not this lawyer. We're not living 2,000 years ago. We're living in modern 21st century America. We don't have these kinds of problems, right? What's the point of the story to make? Well, let me give you some simple thoughts to consider as we go into the weekend. The first is this. There is no such thing as a righteous person who can earn eternal life through their own righteousness. More than anything else that you and I should take away from this story, it is this point that there is none righteous, no not one, and that's why Jesus came. He came to seek and to save those who are lost. The second point is this. Any person who believes that they meet the perfect standard of Christ's righteousness. is self-deceived, and is unwilling to face the clear teaching of Scripture. A passage of Scripture like this brutally reveals our lack of righteousness because we are not like the man in the story who helped him. We fall short of that We're a little bit more like the two men at the beginning, and we're a little bit more like the lawyer who was asking the questions when it comes down to our natural way of responding. people. The third thing is this. God's standard of loving one's neighbor as ourself is far higher than we tend to think. We think about what it says in 1 Corinthians. 13. He talks about charity suffering long, it's kind, it does not envy, does not vawn itself up, it's not puffed up, it does not behave itself unseemly, it doesn't seek its own, it's not easily provoked. It does not think evil, it does not rejoice in the uh in iniquity, but it rejoices in the truth. It bears all things, it believes all things, it hopes all things, it endures all things. When we talk about what genuine Christian love actually looks like light. We recognize from parables like this one that it is far higher than just being kind to a person who's kind to us or saying kind things to a person who says kind things to us. It involves loving our neighbors who are even our enemies. It involves loving people who are unlovely. And he illustrates that by the way he crafts the story. story. The fourth thing that I want to mention is that seeing real Christian love on display is powerful and it is beautiful. I don't think you can help but read a story like this and go, you know what? That really is a powerful lesson. That really is what loving another person is supposed to be. To look like. That's what Christianity produces. It produces a love like that that is not in the heart of people by nature. And the last thing I'm going to mention is this. Seeing the fruits of dead religion is embarrassingly ugly and vicious. And so I asked the question this morning, do you serve a dead religious system? Or are you walking in the vibrant newness of life that is provided through faith alone in Christ? Are we living after this pattern because we have life in us that comes through the powerful work of the Spirit in the gospel. I ask you to think about that as we go into the weekend. Hope that this has given you some things to think about, to ponder on. If this has encouraged you, I hope you'll share it with someone else so that they can be encouraged by it. And Lord willing we'll see many of you on Sunday. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.