Anyway, it's good to see each of you this morning, looking forward to our Sunday school time. And this is a special week because we're having special meetings with Evangelist Morris Gleiser. And uh Brother Gleiser has been to Anchor several times over the years. I think 2016 was the last time that he was here. He came up for the Lit conference and then did special meetings. And also his son Andy has been here as well several times. And so really looking forward to these meetings Sunday school is usually a little bit different format, and it'll give you an opportunity to kind of get to meet him on a more personal level. And then um I did tell him this on on our our Sunday night, too Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, uh, because it is Tough for everybody with kids, uh school and all that. We're gonna start right on time at seven. And you're all like, whatever. Right on time at seven. We're gonna we're gonna end at the top of the hour eight. We're gonna be very streamlined. Uh we're gonna have uh Same number of congregational songs every single time we're together. And uh we'll have a theme of our songs. And so um I'll announce that at each of the services, but I'm really looking forward to these meetings And I'm looking forward to just sitting down and letting the Word of God be taught to me. And you know, a lot of times I'm the one preaching, Pastor Josh is preaching, and it's great to be able to just sit down and be fed from God's Word. And so looking forward to that. Let's open up with a word of prayer, and then Brother Gleiser is going to come and open the word to us this morning. Father, we're so grateful for the privilege of, first of all, being your children. We recognize that our salvation is a work of your grace. It is Christ's death, not ours. It is his righteousness, not ours, it is his resurrection, not ours that gives us this position forgiveness of sins, declared righteous, and eternal life. And so I pray that this morning as the Word of God is opened that we would We would think in a distinctly Christian manner, that we would submit ourselves to the Word of God. The Holy Spirit would shape our thinking. In whatever direction we need to be challenged, I pray that we would listen to what the Word of God says and uh bless Brother Gleiser, as he preaches the word this morning and then throughout the rest of this week, we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning everyone. Good to see you. I know this is not your typical Sunday school setting and uh and so forth. So uh I appreciate teachers who are forfeiting their time to uh teach to allow us to to have this time together and uh you probably weren't asked to to uh forfeit, you were probably just told that it was going to happen this way. So I'm so thankful for the opportunity as pastors because clearly declared, it kind of gives me the opportunity to uh uh introduce uh m myself, my heart, and my desire to be uh for the church during our days together. What uh is needed or are timely for hopefully for the church ministry and for the uh uh for you individually and for you corporately. And so I just would love to do uh take a few moments to talk to you about that. I have been here before. Twenty sixteen, I forget the other years that I've been here uh for uh other the lit conference and and uh other meetings and so forth in days gone by and i appreciate those of you who we've met before I appreciate you thinking, boy, you haven't aged at all. I tell you what. I appreciate you saying that and thinking that. And uh And uh and I'm not going to preach online this morning, and so uh we won't have to deal with that. Hey, uh if we have met before Be patient with me. I've met a few people since the last time I was here. And so I'm not going to probably remember your name. So uh I I I hate that, but I'll give you the statement you look familiar and all and that sort of thing But uh forgive me for that. And some of you are looking at me saying, I don't know you. Have have we met before? I was here in twenty sixteen or whatever, but I don't know you. Well that's fine because I'm thinking the same thing about you. I don't I don't remember you. So we'll have to kind of get reintroduced, okay? And get to know each other in a special time. of uh interaction with each other. Man a living, it's a great joy to be here. It really is a great delight to be back at Anchor Baptist. And uh uh to meet your pastor last night. We've talked on the phone, but to meet last night and to have the opportunity to uh get to know uh his background some and to uh uh be uh with you as a church family. It's a very, very special opportunity. And to be with Pastor Josh again, to uh see him. I've seen him since Um uh man a living. I saw him in Pennsylvania and saw him in other places. I think it was in jail. I forget where all the places were where we had crossed paths and um after he came to visit me in jail and that's what it was. So that's that's what it was. And so anyway, uh it's good to be here with you dear people. It really is. Hey, I want to get to know you during our days together. It will be fast. It will be quick. It'll be over with before you know it. I mean, boom, we'll be at Wednesday night before you know it. That's just the way it is. I can just tell you honestly, uh, it will be uh It'll be quickly over with. Now you're the Sunday school crowd. I know I can kind of bank on you being here for everything. But if you weren't thinking about being here on Monday night or or Tuesday night, can I just kind of, you know, just put a little squeeze on you, just a little bit, gently, to say, please come. Uh you say, Well, I I don't normally come. Uh well I know you don't normally have church on Monday night or Tuesday night. So uh just put it in your schedule. You say, Well I you know, I I I I have a job. Yeah, I know Just quit. And and uh and don't let that be an issue, all right? If you if you honestly you have a job, especially if you work at night, there's nothing you can do about that. But Other than that, uh plan to be here. Uh Pastor has already declared to you that we're going to do everything we can to streamline everything and and keep things in order and and get you in and out. But I don't want you to come in with the mentality of Okay, hurt we're watching the time, you know. Yeah. Come in with a heart that says I I want I want to be Encouraged. I met one good man uh today here in the hallway. He used a term that I don't often hear, and I love the term. He said, Are you the revivalist? I love that term. I am an evangelist with the heartbeat of revival. What is revival? Revival is for God's people. To be revived means that there's been vive prior. You say, what does that word mean? I don't know, but it sure sounds so So intelligent, doesn't it? No, it's a word that means to be awakened. To be alive. I'm reading a book right now on the Great Awakening. Uh awakenings here in our nation in the early days. It's a fascinating read. When God came down. We're not in charge of making things happen. You're not going to see from me somebody that's trying to stimulate emotion. I'm just going to do what you have happen around here all the time. I want to open up this book. I want to declare its truths and say, what are we going to do about this? We better obey what God's word is saying. We better grab a hold of this. We better hang on to this. We better let it hang on to us. You're not going to hear anything new. The delivery's different. The text will be different. The style is no doubt different. I'm not from Maryland, and uh I am from Texas. Uh I don't get home very often, but that's where I call home. So if you hear something in a if I if I say reckon or something like that, if I if I use a term uh that uh you you're not used to hearing just just crank it up to my background and let's just get to know one another that way. I want to get to know you and I encourage you To plan to be here. I know how this normally works. We're so conscious of how much time we sit in a service, and then you hang out for 45 minutes after the service interacting and fellowshipping with each other. Now some who may have very small children may have to quickly get home. But the point is during those times, I'd love to get a name and a face and connect it with you. So let's let it happen. Again, I feel like I'm probably just wasting time here trying to encourage Sunday school people to come back for every service. But In fact, I don't even want you to be overwhelmed with every service, you know, every night. Gotta be back out every night. Don't look at it that way. Let's just take it one service at a time, okay? Just plan to be back tonight. And that just just just call tonight the most important service of them all. All of them. It's the most important one. You say, why? Because it's it's the next one. It's the next one after this morning's services. You're already here that I don't suspect you're going to leave between Sunday school and church. And so we'll have our morning service and it's plan to be back tonight. And when you come back tonight, we'll talk about how important Monday night is, all right? We'll just take it one service at a time. And uh after I get your name And I get your face and I get it connected. If you could just wear the same clothes. Every single service, I I really wouldn't appreciate it. So uh I just want to and you'll probably sit in the same seat, won't you? It's a it's an amazing thing. Everybody kind of has their particular spot in an auditorium where they sit. When my wife is with me, she says She said, Morris, the hardest thing I deal with when I come into a church is, am I going to get somebody's seat, you know, where they sit. And uh I told her, I said, sit on the front row. Nobody ever sits on the front row, so you'll be good up there. Anyway, I I'm thankful to be here with you. And I'm glad you've had our son Andy here with you before as well. And uh uh God's uh using uh our two we have two sons. Andy is a uh A preacher, as you would know, he started a church. He's church planting out in Nevada in the city of Reno, a city that wants to be another Las Vegas. And it's a dark area that needs the gospel. And we're so excited. They had 115 people at their Easter service last Sunday. And it's the church is uh a year and a half old. So we're just thrilled what God's doing out there. And uh our other son, Chad, is a businessman in uh Kansas City, Missouri, and God is using him in his local church as a as a layman in his church and we're grateful most of all for our grandkids. Have I ever have I started talking about grandkids yet? I don't think so. How many of you are a grandparent? Anybody a grandparent? Then you know what I'm thinking. And uh so let's let's not go there. Uh we'll we'll be here too long. I want you to take your Bible this morning and turn to Mark chapter 1. And as you get that in front of you, I'll finish a couple of thoughts as I was thinking about the subject of revival. You know, the whole the whole arena of thought regarding revival is Something that has been historically true in the history of the church God has used itinerant ministries from the beginning of the start of a church. It's unique. Everybody loves the Apostle Paul. I love Paul. I love what he brings to us from the scriptures. Every pastor says Paul was a pastor. I'm just telling you, he was a pastor, had the care of the churches. I couldn't argue with that. Missionaries say, oh missionary Paul, all those mission journeys and so forth. And I get it, I get it. But son, he was an evangelist. Can I just tell you point blank? That's what he was, all right? He had a ministry team as they would travel about. He was all about the gospel. God 's use of him was as an apostle. That's he's kind of a unique brand. But let's get beyond Paul God has used evangelists scripturally. It's all in the Bible. Itinerant traveling preachers and ministries. to help awaken truths and the lives of God's people. I love pastors. I love pastors. I admire what they do. My hat comes off. My heart goes out. for the the load that pastors carry. I love to interact and fellowship with pastors. Part of my ministry is I hope that by the end of a ministry minute meeting that the pastor's been encouraged uh maybe more than even the church family because they're the ones in the trenches working with you day in and day out. They carry the load and I love to hear of the burden. of communicating the word of God that a pastor has for his people. But you also see the itinerant pastoral evangelist preacher revivalist historically. I just read a biography about a man by the name of George Whitfield. He has quickly become my favorite preacher of history past. There are men like Dwight Moody and other men that God has just used during the history of the church. Somewhere in my early years of life, God began to stir in my heart the need for what I do, the itinerant preaching ministry that the Lord has given me. I spent 20 years in local churches. I was a youth pastor and associate pastor in two different churches. I love the local church. I learned during those 20 years of being in a local church. I also started a Christian camp. I say I did. I was a part of the start of a Christian camp out in Arizona. For five years. My burden is for the churches, especially in America. I go outside the borders of the continental United States. I go to other nations, I really do, and I'm always challenged and I'm changed when I come home from those places. But you talk about a mission field, America is in dire need of a wake-up call. And sometimes I wonder what will it take to awaken all of us as God's people to Bible-principled living? This is my burden. And I love what I do. I was talking to Brother Josh a moment ago, and he was just, we were talking about ministries, and he said, I could never be an evangelist. Well I get his point. I could never do what he does. I used to, but that's not my calling. I could not do what the the D is it required that your name be Josh if you're a pastor around here? I mean I I could never I could never be a senior lead pastor. I guess I could. If that's what God wanted me to do, but this is what I do. And I love being able to come and to say, folks, you know these truths. Let's relearn them. Let's be refreshed. Let's be revived. Let's be reawakened to Bible principles that we desperately need. So would you allow the Lord to do a work in your heart this these four days very, very fast. My name is Morris. Don't worry about trying to call a special title or name for me. I'd love to get to know you. Morris Gleiser is how you pronounce the last name. And I'll do my best to try to get some of your names in my memory bank as well. Okay? Have I given you time to find the gospel of Mark chapter 1? If you're stuck in Ezekiel, just act like you know what you're doing and just sit there, alright? But Mark chapter 1 is going to introduce us to a journey. of importance that I hope will be a help to us all here today. We're going to read in Mark chapter 1, a 24 -hour period. in the life of Jesus Christ. We're going to read about what he did in a 24-hour span of time. Now we're not given a clock. We're not given a watch that we can look at, but you're going to see it's going to go from one morning to the next morning. And you'll see it beginning in verse 21. Notice what it says. It says, and they went into Capernaum. All right, who's they? Well, this would be Jesus, and at this point, he's got four disciples. Peter, Simon called Peter, and Andrew, James, and John. All right. And they went into Capernaum Now here's the key word in the Gospel of Mark. It says, and straightway, that word means immediately, on the Sabbath day, he entered into the synagogue. And taught. Jesus was a Bible preaching, teaching rabbi. He was, of course, communicating the Old Testament in that day And maybe he had been asked, or maybe he was asked when he walked in the door, but he's in the synagogue and he's teaching. All right, verse 22. And they were astonished at his doctrine. For he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the scribes. William Hendrickson, who is a New Testament scholar, tells us that it was a it was a common knowledgeable thing that the scribes were boring. They were very boring in their communication. And so along comes Jesus, and he was not boring. The scribes would quote one another and they would just try to, and they'd squeeze things out of the Old Testament to try to. stir people to do what they demanded to be the most legalistically important matter of their life. And along comes Jesus. And no one ever taught like him. So that's why it says in verse 22, they were astonished All right, let's go back. They were astonished at his doctrine. Verse 23. And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God. So here's a demon possessed man yelling at Jesus. Verse 25, Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace and come out of him. And when the unclean spirit had torn him and cried with a loud voice, He came out of him. I love this next phrase. And they were all amazed. I felt like putting in the margin of my Bible. No kidding. I mean, when was the last time you ever went to a a service and a demon-possessed individual was delivered? You say, never. Good. And that's that's as soon as I would want to see it happen, you know? Jesus delivers this guy and says, and they were all amazed. The word amazed here is a word that means not only surprised, or you might even want to use the word shocked. Here here's a the the word also means afraid. Well I get it. Wouldn't you be a bit fearful? I mean if uh you'd be you'd be leaning the opposite direction of where how that where that took place I mean, it would be a fearful experience. And it would also lead to some questions. Keep reading, verse 27. And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying. What thing is this? What new doctrine is this? For with authority commandeth he even the unclean spirits. And they do obey him. And immediately his fame spread abroad throughout all the region. round about Galilee. And the clock keeps moving. Verse 29. And forthwith When they were come out of the synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. Now it's time for the the uh Sabbath meal. They've had the morning service and now they're going over to Peter's home. If you've ever been to Israel, they'll show you in Capernaum, in the excavation of Capernaum. Uh they 'll show you where the the the synagogue was located. In fact they'll point way down deep within the foundation and they'll show you an area where it was at when Jesus was alive, and then they'll show you the place where Peter's home likely was located. And it was just literally a stone's throw from one another. So you can picture them leaving the synagogue. and walking uh down a corridor or uh a walkway a little bit and coming over to Peter's home. Verse 30. But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever And a nun, or immediately they tell him of her. And he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up And immediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto them. You talk about a complete and total healing. I mean she didn't come out of the bed and say, okay, let me get my blood pressure under control here. Okay , I'm a little dizzy. Where's the recliner? You know, it was nothing like that She said, I smell lasagna. Here, let me help serve. Now, that's hidden in the Greek language, but I think that's what it was. And she gets up and she starts serving. Complete and total healing is taking place here. And that's that's pretty neat. This is the noon meal. Now nobody could leave their home until the evening hours, so it says in verse 32, and at even When the sun did set, they brought unto him all that were diseased, and them that were possessed with devils. And all the city was gathered together at the door, and he healed many that were sick of diverse diseases and cast out many devils. suffered not the devils to speak because they knew him. Historians tell us that about this time there were about fifteen hundred people in the population of Capernaum. It says all the city came. Can you imagine at Peter's front door this mob of humanity with sick, diseased, demon-possessed people? Luke tells us from this account in chapter 4 that Jesus spent time with each individual that were in need of help. This was not some kind of a mass healing like you see some clown on TV. uh performing. You know, Jesus was interested in each individual. Now, ver the clock keeps moving. It says in verse 35 And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out and departed into a solitary place and there prayed. And Simon and they that were with him followed after him. And when they had found him, in other words, they didn't know where he was, when they had found him, they said unto him, All men seek for thee. And he said unto them, Let us go into the next towns, little villages, actually, that I may preach there also, for therefore came I forth. And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee and cast out devils. Did you follow it? We went from the Sabbath morning to the next morning and the events around the life of Jesus. You know We've said some things this morning about the time and the the c the issues of time this week, and uh most of us carry a watch on our wrist and I meet teenagers a lot. They don't they don't have watches much anymore. They depend on their phone to tell 'em what time it is. Okay. Most of us are dependent upon watches and I'm I am a pri prisoner. of clocks. Can I just tell you? I am constantly aware of the time. It it's the first thing I do when I wake up in the morning. I look at the clock. You know, what what time is it? I haven't overslept I've I I got I got things I gotta accomplish and so forth. I'm in church services and and there's a clock and uh usually always in the back of the building. That's for the preacher to know what time it is. All right. I mean it's it's very pr I was in a church one time and they didn't have a clock in the back and I told the folks I said Folks, I'm sorry I said I rushed out of my hotel room and I I forgot my watch, so I'm and I don't know what time it is. I had three people stand up And they they started taking their watches off and tried to give me their you know, they they thought help that man know what time it is. We don't want to be here too long. I said, I think I forgot my car too. Can I can how how far can I take this, you know I'm a victim of always knowing what time it is. When someone hears me preach, they wonder if I am, but I am. I'm always conscious of the time. My dad worked on watches as a as a hobby. He learned it in the army. He picked it up and and he had another job that was his main job, but he'd come home at night and uh many a night He'd sit out in his little uh garage uh workplace and I'd I'd I'd stand nearby and watch him as he would work on building and making and repairing watches. He would make a watch He would repair watches. Fascinating. It really is. That was back in the day, young people, you're not going to know this, but there was a day in which you had to take your watch and there was this little stem on the side and you had to wind it up. You say, how old are you, mister? Well, me and Ben Franklin were real close. And so uh you can you can Google it sometime and see people with those old watches It was a cool thing when they made a watch that that would wind itself and you didn't have to wind it up yourself. It did it for yourself. I had a watch when I was a little boy I got one year for Christmas that if I would stick it underneath a lamp And then I'd go to bed and turn off all the lights. Look, it would glow. I thought that's the coolest thing in the world. Look at that little secondhand movie. I can see it glow. Well, man, you talk about uh a dinosaur. I mean watches today, I've got this watch, I h hold it up, it lights up for me. This watch my wife gave me uh some time back and I hold it up, it it's watches can do all kinds of things now. It's phenomenal. I got apps from my my iPad that's connected to my my watch that I can I can turn on music with my watch I can uh I can check weather on my watch. I can check my heartbeat. On my watch. Um, I can read emails on my watch, text messages On my watch. I even have an app that occasionally uh uh for uh I because I keep an exercise regimen in my life and and I I keep records of it on of it on my watch. Uh that every once in a while uh I'll have a little thing pop up and say, It's time to breathe. Oh. Good. I've been holding my breath now for say it's been about seven days. Okay, I need to I need to breathe again. Thank you so much. You know, it's kind of silly, but I ha have to breathe, you know. Trying to open up your lungs. I could go on. You know that. Many of you know what I'm talking about. I feel like I'm forgetting one of the main things. Oh yeah, I can see what time it is too when I look at my watch, you know? Watches! They're fascinating. And here we are looking at the life of Jesus in the 24-hour period, and we're beginning to see some things that were priorities in his life. Look, I've always been someone who's just kind of been driven. You can call it a type A person, or you can call it whatever you want to. I've always been someone who's always been focused. on on getting things accomplished every day. I make a list of things that I need to accomplish every day. I'm very conscious of the time I'm very concerned about getting things uh put together and done. I can remember when I got married and went into my first ministry. Here I was now trying to juggle not just my life schedule. But I wanted to be a good husband with my wife. And I wanted to be for her what she needed me to be. Now I've got two lives here that I I 'm very concerned about. Then I became a youth pastor. I got young people that I'm trying to minister to and their families, and I'm trying to uh be to the church as a whole what I needed to be as an assistant. to the pastor and and I had I had all these things I was trying to juggle and and I was trying to keep keep everything straight and organized and I found myself thinking there's not enough time in the day to get everything done. Yes there is Yes, there is. Everything that the Lord wants you to do, there's enough time. But I used to just be frantic about that. I'd go to some preachers conference or I'd go to a uh educators conference and and they'd have some breakout sessions and some workshops and there'd be some old gray haired guy that'd been in the ministry a thousand years and he was speaking on on time management. I'm gonna tell you something. I was there. I wanted to hear how how can I manage my time more uh adequately and appropriately. And I 'd sit there up close and I'd be taking notes I was longing to learn how to manage my time. They'd recommend some book. You need to get this book. This book has been a help to me. Man, I'd order that book and I'd get that book. I I I never read it. I didn't have time. But uh you know, I I just was so involved with trying to get everything organized that time has always been a crunching matter in my life. And then it dawned on me one day, you never see Jesus frantic. You never see Jesus saying, I can't get everything done I need to do every day. Father, stop the Son from moving. Jesus never did that. You never see Jesus yelling at his disciples saying, keep up with me. Never. This is what Jesus said. Look at the Bible, this, listen to this. In John 9 in verse 4, Jesus said, I must work. The works of him that sent me. Jesus had a job to do. He was only here for about 33 years. At the end of his life in John 17 and verse 4, listen to what he said. He said, I have finished the work you gave me to do. I want to be able to say that. When I cross the finish line, I want to be able to say, I did everything you wanted me to do. And I've already stumbled and fumbled and failed and And through the years of my life, I've not fulfilled everything that I was supposed to do. But I want to maximize my life. I want to finish strong. Jesus knew what it was to be physically fatigued. You ever get there? Hopefully not this morning. Jesus knew what it was to have demands on his life. Jesus knew what it was like to have people pulling at him in every direction, warning his time and attention. We just read an account of the whole city showing up. Jesus knew what it was like to have a harsh schedule. And there were times in which he would say to his disciples, let's get in the boat and let's travel and let's get away and let's rest for a while. The old Southern preacher Vance Hadner used to say, if you don't come apart and rest, you'll just come apart. There's a place for that. Jesus saw it. Jesus did it. But there's no question about the fact that in the midst of his harsh schedule, he fulfilled his life. And I thought about time that the Lord gives us. While we're here on this earth, we are people of time. Time is a gift. It's a gift to be enjoyed. And it's a gift to be employed. We're not to waste our time. And so here in Mark chapter 1, I just tapped the brakes one day and I began to look at this thing and I begin to recognize there were certain guideposts, guidelines, here's the word, priorities in the life of our Lord Jesus, that regardless of everything else that was going on in his life, these were the things that kept him focused. That made sure he got these things accomplished. And so if I want to be like Jesus, if you want to be like Jesus, it might be wise for us to go back and revisit what were his compelling driving priorities of life. In this 24-hour period, I think you could see what were the main things that were his focus for living. And not in particular order, but I want you to see it in the text this morning. Look at verse 35. It says, And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, He went out and departed into a solitary place and there prayed The first thing I see that was a priority in the life of Jesus that really better be a priority in my life too and in yours is this: the private practice of prayer. Do you pray? I feel silly even asking a question like that. A church that's been well taught, a church of people who who center their life in the Word of God. But it's been proven countless times that so many times people almost they would never say it this way, but they almost say, Lord, I got so much to do, keep up with me. They would never say that, wouldn't even think it But we live it sometimes. I'd like to think that Jesus got some sleep the night before All I know is that when it got dark, when the sun had set on the night before, the whole city showed up at Peter's home. And he's having to take time with all those individuals and all those individual needs. What time did he collapse into bed? I don't know. I hope he got some sleep. But it says, in the morning, rising up a great while before day. When? When did he get up? He got up before anybody else did. Because they didn't know where he went The next verse tells us they had to go find him. And he's the one who had worked the day before. He had preached in the synagogue. He had delivered a demon-possessed man. He healed Peter's mother-in-law. He interacted with those four disciples and the family. He dealt with that great crowd of people from Capernaum. And in the morning. He got up. A great while before day. In the wording of those words, we find out that that means during the fourth watch of the night. You say, when was that? Anytime between 3 a. m. And 6 a. m. I'm just telling you, my flesh is hoping it was closer to six o'clock than it was to three o'clock. Well, I don't know what time he got up, but Jesus got up. When did he do it? Early in the morning. Why? Because he recognized I can't be two people out here in my world what I need to be if I don't have time privately with my father first. It was a priority in his life. Where did he pray? Well, it says a solitary place. The word there means in the wilderness. Probably a brushy area, a place where he could go and quietly be alone with with trees and bushes and so a place that a an individual maybe not ever would go to. It would just be a little private, tucked away place. They had to go find him. Why? He wanted to be alone with his father. Now, we don't have to go outside. You don't have to hang out in the trees and bushes. But there was a place for private prayer a while ago when I said do you pray some of you were thinking, Gleiser, have you ever traveled in the traffic that we have around here? There's a lot of prayer going on. Get this guy out of my way, God. You know I got No, I don't mean in those frantic times that we all know what it is to pray. There was a private practice of prayer in the life of Jesus. I'm just the delivery boy, so don't get upset with me. I'm just telling you, this is what Jesus did. There was an important matter in his life to say, I've got to spend time with my Lord, my God, my Father. In order to be to other people what I need to be. It was a driving priority in his life. In other passages you find that In Jesus' prayers, he praised and worshiped his Father. He prayed for other people. Remember, he told Peter, I've prayed for you. So there was intercessory work going on. He prayed for his own needs. We know that. There's one thing that Jesus never did that you and I have to do, he never had to repent and ask for forgiveness of sin. Jesus didn't have that. But his prayer life would have been similar to our human prayer life needs. There was a season of time. You say, Morris, how long did he pray? I don't know. What did he pray? I don't know. It's not recorded. But he did pray. I don't know what works for you. I don't know if maybe getting a journal and writing down some things would be helpful for you to seek the Lord for. I don't know if maybe taking a walk in your neighborhood will help you stay awake as you spend time with the Lord in prayer. I don't know. But there ought to be a season, a time, and a place where you get with the Lord. You say, Morris, my work schedule would not allow me to get up real early in the morning. Okay. But do you have a private practice of prayer in your life? It needs to be a priority. It helps keep everything else stable. It, can I just use a word maybe you've heard before? It anchors you to true Christ-like living. It brings security into your being. It gives wisdom for the raising of kids. It gives insight to be the wife, the husband. The parent, the grandparent. We're supposed to be. It gives power. To your witnessing. It gives victory over life in life. It removes fears and insecurities. Now, if you don't want security, if you don't need wisdom, If you don't want power, then don't worry about what we're talking about this morning. But the private practice of prayer was something that was a priority in the life of our Lord. It really needs to be for you and me too. There's a second priority in our passage, and there's so much more I could say, but I'm going to move on. The psalmist said in Psalm 55, verse 1 and 2, he said, Give ear to my prayer, O God. Hide not thyself from my supplication. Attend unto me. Hear me. You talk about the cry of an individual. There are times in our life when we do talk to God very, very strongly. But it was a priority in the life of Jesus, regardless of what was going on around him. Number two, there is the public proclamation. Of the Word of God. Hey, you saw that, didn't you? He went into the synagogue to do what? To preach. To teach. He was the preacher. God had one son, and he made him a preacher. I love that. Forgive me, I'm a bit prejudiced about it, but I love that. Jesus was a preacher. He was a teacher of God's truth. He He preached there. Then he was at the home of Peter, and that crowd gathered around him, and it says there that he preached to them. But but more importantly, when the when Peter and his disciple buddies uh came and found Jesus in the wilderness and said, Come on back to the house. Everybody's gathering. They want to see you. Jesus said what? He said there in verse verse 38, let's go into the next little towns, little villages. We don't even know the names that I may preach there also, for therefore came I forth. And he preached in their synagogues. Chapter 2, let me show you this. Look at verse 2. And straightway many were gathered together insomuch that there was no room to receive them, no, not so much as about the door. And he preached the word unto them. All right. You said, Morris, I'm not a preacher. So what's this got to do with me? Okay. Then let me rephrase that. Not only the public proclamation of the Word of God was a priority, there was the predominant place of the Word of God in the life of Jesus. So you don't I'm talking about Christianity 101 here. I'm talking about living for Christ 101. It's the basics of Christianity. The Word of God was primary in the life Of the Lord Jesus. Wherever he went, he communicated the truths of scriptures. And he wanted to help his true followers to understand the Bible Two disciples were walking on the road to Emmaus. Did you have a wonderful Easter resurrection Sunday, last Sunday? A few days after that first, the Easter resurrection time of the Lord Jesus two disciples walking on the Emmaus Road walked along and all of a sudden this stranger was with them. It was the resurrected Christ. And what did he do? Beginning at Moses and continuing through the prophets, he introduces them to the life of the Messiah as taught in the Old Testament. You talk about a seminary class. Love to have a recording of that. Well, wait a minute. I do. And they wouldn't even want, they didn't want him to get out of their presence. They come come to our home. We want to hear more of this. To be around Jesus that was to be around the Word. Is the Word of God a priority in your life? You say, come on, Morris, I'm here for Sunday school. I could have just come for the morning service. And I thank you for that. I think I thank you for your sake. I think it's a great priority. Okay. Can I remove me out of the equation here? I didn't I just thought this. But I'm going to go ahead and say it. I want to say it in the spirit. I don't want to be in any any way, shape, in the flesh. Is the word of God a priority in your life? Remove me, all right? That you'll you'll plan to be around the services that we've scheduled for this week to hear more of God's truth. Will you lean into the Word of God and say there's more for me to glean from this? Will you long to do you read the Word of God privately yourself? Do you take time to I don't mean just take a little a little booklet that may draw attention to one verse and uh Talk about it in some little our our little daily our daily MM, you know, a little snack from the Word of God. Okay, forgive me. I'm I'm do you spend time in the Word of God? Is it a priority in your life? It was in the life of our Lord. The word of God will improve your life. Have you found that to be true? The Word of God confronts, no question about it. There's no book like this. There's no book ever been written like this. It confronts us. You know what it does? It exposes you. To you. I don't know about you, but you moms. I had a mom who was just a boy. She was she was a disciplinarian, but I'm gonna tell you something. and she thought her boy could almost do no wrong. Or she knew I did and she corrected me. But most moms are just and grandmothers? Oh man. They're like angels. I mean they they think it uh every little grandchild is a is a is a uh is a a little derivative of their own angelic qualities. It's just they can do no wrong, you know And you hold them up in high esteem, put them up on a pedestal. So I grew up in an environment where my mom just thought that her boy was the best. And then I became a student of the Word of God and I found out, oops, I ain't so hot. I got a lot of things to work on. I'm still finding that to be true This book corrects. This book comforts. Have you ever felt the loving arms of the Lord come around you? And holds you in times of anxiety and depression, worry and disturbances. It not only corrects and comforts, it counsels It warns you, don't go that direction, don't take that job, don't make that decision. Go this way. Go that way. It's a counselor You say, Morris, I don't think I've ever had that happen. Then start digging. You'll find it to be so. You say, Lord, I don't know what I'm supposed to do. Would you give me guidance? Show me Who knows what he'll tell you? He may tell you, wait, just wait, I'm working out things. It's a counselor and it's a cheerleader It encourages to go it encourages you to keep moving in the right direction. Oh, I love the Bible. I love to read it. I love to take time and let it read me. But so many times the scheduled demands of our lives causes us to just have so many other things going on and people and pressures upon us That I may be looking at some folks here this morning. It's been a while since you were consistently in the Word of God. You see what a revival is? It's a return to Bible-principled living. And if you are faithful in the Word of God and you're gleaning from it, stay with it. Stay on track. But for some of you, maybe it's a matter of saying, yeah, yeah, yeah, I need to get back. I need to spend time focused on the Word of God. It was a priority in the life of Jesus, the private practice of prayer. the public proclamation of the word, the predominant place of the word. One more thing, we'll be done. Ready? The personal passion for people. You saw that, didn't you? Jesus didn't tolerate these people. Jesus didn't say, you folks are wearing me out. He had time for each individual, whether it was in the synagogue. Whether it was a demon possessed man, whether it was Peter's mother-in-law, whether it was the whole city of Capernaum. And when they said, Let's go back to the house, Jesus, he said, No, I got other little villages I need to go and and preach the truth to. He was personally passionate for people. Question. Do people irritate you? You say, you know, I I'm thinking about one I'm looking at right now, Mr. Preacher Man. Yeah, I know. I could probably be an irritant. I don't want to be. People can be an irritant on the highway, can't they? People can be bothersome at work, school, restaurants. Parking lots , people can be a real problem. And I'm gonna just say, let me just cut to the chase because in the last six minutes here, I want to make sure I use my time right. Friends, I don't know how else to say this, but to say it basically, this is the point. We have been called to be fishers of men. To be proclaimers of the gospel to a world that is in desperate need of the Savior. And yet so often God's people live in such a little reclusive cave-like manner as we desire and I get it to protect our families from the onslaught of demonic, devilish, satanic attacks on the outside. Keep your children up close. I get it. I get it That we kind of almost live in such a way that we don't want to get near anybody who's unsaved. We live around a world that's in darkness. You don't open up a little window in your life and throw a track out and go, read it! Nobody breathes anything, did they? He said, Glycer , you you got problems. I know. My my point to you is that we're not going to reach the world. I'm not going to reach the world by not being ever in this world. We are in this world. The world's not supposed to be in us We infiltrate the world by being a light in a world of darkness. We penetrate this world by being salt in a world that's decaying. Jesus was around people who needed the truth. Another view that some people have is Well, you know, I just spend so much time around God's people, I don't ever really see the lost. And I get that. And I think it's wonderful to have our Bible studies and our gatherings and as we're having this week and to just interact. Well we need these seasons of time of refreshment called the local church But the rest of the time we're out and around the world that in our neighborhoods and where we work. And instead of tolerating, we need to ask God to break our heart for people. We need to ask God to please help us to see what He sees. This is not a guilt trip message. I'm not trying to say that But God's people need to have the view that Jesus had about people who needed him. A personal passion for people. Do you ever remember a time when you wept for somebody and their eternal soul? The first time? Or do you even remember the last time? You say, Morris, I'm not a weeper. Okay, that's fine. When was the last time your heart was moved in such a way like Jesus that when he looked at the city of Jerusalem his he was moved with compassion? I'm under personal conviction about this whole matter of evangelism. I'm constantly thinking Morris, you need to keep your eyes open. I've said, Lord, open my eyes to see what you see, who you see. Jesus had a personal passion for the needs of people. You don't reach the world by becoming like the world. We become more like Jesus to reach this world. I was In my ministry down the state of Florida years ago, where I first started in ministry, as I said to you at the beginning, I was always this kind of a guy that was always trying to get everything accomplished and done on a daily basis. that I I didn't like interruptions. And I sat in a in a a full staff. We had a Christian school. We had a large church and I was sitting in this staff meeting. It was all the staff together, about fifty to sixty people honestly. We were just Sitting there and I I was thinking, I got so many things to do. I don't I don't have time for this staff meeting. And a lady gave a testimony. She was a first grade teacher in our Christian school. She said, everybody here knows little, and I'm going to use the word, the name Tom. That wasn't the little boy's name, but she goes, everybody knows little Tommy. Tommy's in my first grade class. Tommy grew up in a home in which his dad was a drunkard. His dad was abusive of his wife and of the kids in the house. Tommy grew up in an unsaved father's presence. And he was in our Christian school. And she said, all of you know little Tommy. She said, today something happened that I was stunned with And she said, I gave out an assignment to all my first graders and told them when you finish it, put your pencil down, put your hands together, and just sit there and wait till everybody's finished. She said, I know no longer, I know more than explain what to do, then everybody started, and all of a sudden Tommy was standing right beside me, she said. She said, I looked at him and I said, what's the matter, Tommy? Did you not get a paper? He said, yes, ma'am, I got one. She said, are you feeling sick? No, ma'am. Do you need to go to the restroom? No, ma'am. And she's given this testimony in a staff meeting, and I'm sitting there thinking, I got too many things to do for this staff meeting. And she said, finally, he said, I've got a paper and I want to go work on it. But he said, can I just stand by you for a few minutes? He said, I want to stand by somebody that I know loves me. Oh. And she said, no, you're not going to stand by me. You're going to come right over here. She snatched that little boy and she hugged on him. All of a sudden I looked at my list of things to do, which were important, but I realized I was putting paperwork in front of people work God 's had to remind me of that many times. The priorities in the life of Jesus was that he was personally passionate for people. He had a private practice of prayer and the predominant place of the Word of God. I want to be like him, don't you? And so why don't we seek his priorities to be in our life? Would you bow your heads with me? Thank you, Lord, for Anchor Baptist for the for the For the careful Bible exhortation and preaching they've received for many years. And I pray, Lord, that you'll help us in our time together during these days. to seek to be more like you. And help us, I pray, to be challenged by the Word of God to be Christ-like in our life. We thank you for meeting with us this morning. Continue to do so, we pray, in your wonderful name.