Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And uh this is the coldest morning of the winter so far, and uh hope that you are staying warm today. And I'm looking forward to getting back into this text again today. If you have a Bible, let's look at Luke chapter 11, verses 14 to 23. And instead of reading the entire section, I'm just going to look at verses 17 to 22 this morning because that's what we're going to focus our attention on. Here's what it says. He, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and a house divided against a house falleth. If Satan also is divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? Because ye say, I cast out devils through Beelzebub. And if I abide, Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore shall they be your judges. But if I with the finger of God cast out devils, No doubt the kingdom of God has come upon you. When a strong man armed keepeth his place, his goods are in peace But when a stronger than he shall come to him, and overcome him, and take him, take from him all his armor wherewith he trusted, and divide his spoils, he that is not with me is against me, he that gathereth not with me scattereth Now, this morning what I'd like us to focus our attention on is how Christ responded to the hypocrisy of these people. They're rejecting Christ. If you remember yesterday we talked about how the watershed issue was what you do with Christ. Do you believe that he is the Messiah? Or do you disbelieve that he's the Messiah? Do you reject him in unbelief? And some people when they saw what had happened they were um they were amazed and their response was one of of utter amazement. Um some they uh qu they said basically he was doing this by the power of Satan. And then others demanded of him a sign. How did Christ address the issue? Well what he did is he confronted their presumption. When I say presumption, what I mean is that their viewpoint and the way they responded to Christ was not sensible. It wasn't consistent with reality. It was a a foolish and presumptuous way to respond to what they had seen. And you'll notice that they didn't deny that they were witnessing something miraculous. The question was, why was Jesus able to do this? And some of them said, it's true he did this, but we want to see more. Well, there's several logical statements that Jesus is going to make that really get to the heart of this issue. The first is this. He confronts the fact that a kingdom that does not maintain unity internally does not have the ability to stand the test of time. A disunified kingdom is going to fall apart. And so in verse 17 he says, every kingdom divided against itself is brought into desolation, a house divided against a house fallen. In other words, he says, a kingdom that is internally fighting with itself is not going to be able to rule without self-imploding. Second statement he makes is this Satan will not fight against himself to undermine his own cause and his own kingdom. In verse 18 he says, if Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? He's saying, you know that Satan rules a kingdom. And as he rules this kingdom, he wants the kingdom to stand and he wants to exert his authority in that kingdom. There is no way that Satan will fight against himself. He then moves on to a third statement in verse 18. Your accusation against me does not make any sense. He says, you know that Satan would not fight against himself. And so why would I be able to fight against Satan's kingdom by Satan's power? In other words, the accusation doesn't make sense He then goes on to say this, if your if your accusation actually has merit, which it doesn't, but if it did, it would implicate those who are your disciples. In verse 19 he says, If I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them out as well? Therefore shall they be your judges. He says, you have people that follow your teaching. You have people that claim to be your disciples. They claim to have the power to cast out devils. The question is, who are they doing it by? Whose power? Are they in the same position that you accuse me of? And then lastly, he says, if my claim is true, then you have to face the implications of what you've just witnessed. Now this is really the heart of where Jesus is going. The point that Jesus is making is their accusations don't make sense, and the reason they don't make sense is because they don't want to face the implication of what they've actually witnessed Verse 19, he says, if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God is come upon you. Now, when Jesus says if, he's not saying if because it might not be true. He's saying if to draw their attention to the fact that they have to face implication. And I would say it this way, the Bible is so clear and so consistent on this issue. The reason people reject Christ is not because the evidence is weak for him, and not because the evidence against human nature is weak on the biblical position. It's because people have an internal bias against God. He says it this way in verses 21 and 22. He says, When a strong man arrives and keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace. When a stronger than he shall come upon him and overcome him, he taketh away from him all his armor wherein he trusted. And he divideth the spoils. Now why is Jesus giving this parable? The reason he is giving this parable is to indicate the fact that these people who are who are attacking him and trying to undermine him and they're trying to accuse him, they've taken aside And they've taken a side that is going to have long-term ramifications. The reason they've taken the side ultimately is because they don't want to consider the implications of what they've seen. And so he he goes and gives this parable. Let me break it down. The first thing he says is there's a strong man who is exerting influence. Now he talks about the strongman. He's talking about the strongman who was dominating this person's life, who Jesus cast the devils out of. The strong man is Satan. Satan really rules a kingdom. Satan really exercises influence on the world. He really is evil. He really does terrible things. And so he acknowledges that. The second thing he says is, well, there's another one who's stronger than him, not just a little bit stronger than him, but far stronger than him. And because he's stronger than him, he has the ability to, and he will overcome him. That second strong man that Jesus is referring to is Christ. You say, well, how do we know that's Christ? Well, Christ has just demonstrated his authority over Satan's dominion by casting out this devil. The third thing. As he says, when someone overcomes the first strongman, he's going to remove the infrastructure that he used to defend himself. And he's going to take the spoils and he's going to divide them in triumph with those who follow him. Literally what he's saying is Christ is going to disarm Satan. And he's going to take the spoils of victory and he's going to divide them amongst his people. When Jesus comes and he conquers Satan, by the way, what he's doing here in these verses is he's prefiguring the kind of domination that he's going to have and the kind of triumph he's going to have. But that's not the ultimate triumph. The ultimate triumph is the cross that is yet in the future. And so he's saying, I'm going to come and I'm going to disarm Satan and I'm going to spread out the spoils of victory. And I have people who are going to be with me who are going to participate in this victory. You say, well, where's Jesus ultimately going? Here's where he's going. The religious leaders who are accusing Christ were on the wrong side of this conflict. They were literally going to be the ones who were going to be conquered and triumphed over. They were on the wrong side of history. And the question is, why were they on the wrong side of redemptive history? The answer is it was their bias against God. In Romans chapter 1, it says, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. but were unthankful, and became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. Or in John chapter 3 it says that light has come into the world. But men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. They will not come to the light lest their deeds should be exposed. The point is that when a person says, I don't believe, and they make the argument there's not enough evidence, the real reason is not the lack of evidence. But it's the rebellion in the heart that does not want to consider the real life implications of Christ's authority and his good nature and our brokenness and our need for a savior. I want to encourage you. Don't be backed into the corner and think that the world somehow has an inability to see what is there. Recognize that when the world rejects the truth, They reject it because they don't want to consider its implication. And so I want to encourage you that when you pray for people who are unsaved and you give the gospel, pray that God will soften the rebellion of their heart. and open their eyes to the beauty of God's grace so that they will turn to him in humble repentance and place their faith alone in his finished work. May God help us to have a heart for the lost, to love them even when they're in that rebellion, and to pray for their souls earnestly. I hope that as we go throughout the rest of this day this morning, I know it's a cold day, but I pray that you will have a wonderful day of reflection on the Lord. And remind yourself of his triumph that was accomplished on the cross. Have a blessed morning. And Lord willing, we'll talk again tomorrow. Bye now.