Okay, well we're in the book of 1 Corinthians on Wednesday nights, and so I'm going to invite you back to that book, and we are in chapter 4 this evening, and the section of chapter 4 we're going to look at is verses 6 through 13. Chapter 4, verses 6 through 13. I'll read the text together, and then I'd like to kind of take you to an illustration that I hope will kind of set the tone for what's being communicated here. And I'd like us to work our way through the principles and the truths that we find in the text. It says this And these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos for your sakes. That ye might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written, that no one of you be puffed up for one against another For who maketh thee to differ from another, and what hast thou that thou dost not receive? Now, thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory? And if thou hast not received it? Now, ye are full. Now ye're rich. Ye have reigned as kings without us. I would to God ye did reign, that we also might reign with you. For I think that God hath set forth us, the apostles, last, as it were appointed to death, for we are made a spectacle unto the world and to angels And to men. We are fools for Christ's sake, but ye're wise. In Christ, we are weak, but ye are strong. Ye are honorable, but we are despised. Even unto this present hour we both hunger and thirst and are naked and are buffeted and have no certain dwelling place. And labor working with our own hands, being reviled, we bless, being persecuted, we suffer it. Being defamed, we entreat. We are made as the filth of the world. and are the off-scouring of all things unto this day. Now this is a really fascinating passage of Scripture, and this passage of Scripture is meant to help this group of people, the church at Corinth, to understand some of the things that Paul has been preaching on, or we could say I say preaching on. He's he's really been laying out, we've been preaching through it on Wednesday nights. But he's been laying out issues of humility and the way that they're looking at leadership and how they look at their ministry gifts and how they're relating to one another. And there's one word that Paul has been pushing at against over and over and over and over and over again. What's that word? It's the word pride. Pride was bringing all kinds of contention to the church at Corinth. In fact, pride can destroy so many contexts. The church is one of the most beautiful and amazing things that you could ever imagine on this earth. When I think about the church and how God brings all these people from different backgrounds, sometimes cultural differences. And he brings them together, and we are bound together with this love for one another because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is an absolutely incredible thing to witness. However, on this planet, because we are all sinners, guess what? That beautiful thing called the church that's supposed to be attractive and it's supposed to demonstrate the power of the gospel is something that can be very contentious sometimes. In fact, sometimes when people see how contentious a church can be, it actually really undermines their faith. It discourages them, causes them to ask all kinds of questions. That's not the way that God intended it to be. God's plan is for the church to be a place where there is unity and there is growth and there is this deep bond of love and affection for one another. And the gospel is central. And we do not uh we could say fight and maneuver so that we can get advantage over others, but rather we very willingly release our rights and we work together as a team, as a body. That is God's plan for the church. And when that's what's going on in a church, it is a really beautiful thing. And so I want to start with this illustration as we look at what Paul's doing. Because There's some things that he's going to say in here that if we don't consider the context and don't consider his intent, I think we could confuse ourselves. So I'm going to qualify a little bit what of what he says based by looking at the context and understanding what he's saying here. But I want you to think about just a couple of months ago during Christmas. Now, I can think about this very practically because I did this, okay? But at Christmas, uh my parents and my in-laws like to give all kinds of gifts to the kids, and there's certain gifts that when you get them, it's a box, and there's like 2,000 parts to the box, what's inside of it. And then you have these instructions and they're in like 12 different languages and you're trying to find English, right? Anybody ever been in that situation? Okay So one of the things that I really like about instructions is when I get instructions that have both words and they have pictures. Okay? I like the two of them together. If it's just pictures, problems. Okay? And if it's just words, it's a little bit problematic for me. I'm not gonna say that I I I can't get it done, but It's very helpful to have words and to have pictures. And there's a reason for that. Because sometimes, and I know that everybody's mind works a little bit different For some people, if you give them directions , and you were to say, you know, take a right on this street, you take a a left on that street, and then you go forward a quarter mile, and you take another right and you take another left, they look at you like a deer in the headlights. They're like, I have no idea what you're talking about talking about. But if you said something like this, you know, go down there and there's this really big oak tree over there and you take a right over there and then you go down that and then you'll see a barn on this uh corner over here and you take a li and and you visualize it for them it really it works out pretty well for you. them. Okay? Well what I love about the text in front of us is we have both words and we have pictures. And it's to help us. If all you have is written instruction, you're a little bit deficient sometimes. If all you have is pictures, if you have the blend, that's just right. By the way, if you have a kit And uh you go online to find a PDF version, you find out that they uh changed it a little bit, and you're looking at the pictures, you're like, ah, this is messing me up. Okay, some of these things are off, that could be problematic too. And that's going to come back uh when we get into this passage. This passage is given to say, listen, church, I want to show you what it looks like as I've been teaching you. You say, well, what is that? Well, Paul is actually going to present himself as an example. Now, Paul is not doing this because he's saying I'm perfect. And Paul isn't doing this because he's saying I take the place of Christ. Paul is doing this because he's saying, I want you to not just hear what I've said, but I want you to see how this works in a practical setting. It's almost like when we are as parents teaching our children things, one of the things that God wants us to do is he wants us to talk freely with our kids in the practical situations of life. So as we're going through situations and uh somebody knocks on the door and uh conversation, you know, your kids are just kind of watching that. Um after that person leaves, you you say, hey, let me talk to you about what just happened there. And you explain the situation. Or let's say uh you're at a gas station, you're pumping gas, and somebody comes up and they say, hey, I uh I'm really hungry, I need some money. And uh and you get into this conversation, you ask them a lot of questions, and then they walk away and you don't give them anything, or maybe you actually do give them something, or maybe you go to great lengths to help them and then you don't. You should talk to your kids about what happened. Or maybe sometimes there's a really contentious situation that they have just witnessed And you talk to them about it. Why is that? Because God has ordained that the family is a place where people don't just learn facts, but they see what is going on, the application of it. That's supposed to happen in the church, and that was supposed to be happening in the church at Corinth. So the first truth I want you to notice is this. Christians need healthy examples to follow. Look at verse 6. These things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos. That's a really interesting statement. I have in a figure transferred to myself and Apollos for your sakes that you might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written, that no one of you be puffed up. For one against another. Now there's a lot of little pieces to this statement, and so bear with me as we work through this. First of all, I want to kind of give you a qualification here. Paul is not saying that we should prop up our glory in the leaders that are in front of us, as if they are somehow infallible examples. And I will tell you how we know that. Because you need to look carefully at what Paul has said leading up to this situation. He has over and over and over again Emphasize the fact that it is wrong for the church to take their leaders and to look at them as if they're infallible, to look at them as if they're perfect examples. It's very dangerous for leaders to have such a mindset. And so look look back in 1 Corinthians 1, verse 12 at what he says. He says, is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God I baptized none of you but Crispus and Gaius. Lest any should say that I baptize in my own name. Now, do you see what Paul is doing here? He's saying, I know in the church, there are some people they want to say, I'm a Paul follower. And others, I'm an Apollos follower, and I'm a Peter follower, and I'm a Christ follower. And he says, hold on a second. Paul wasn't crucified for you. Apollos wasn't crucified for you. Peter wasn't crucified for you. We're not the true example. We're not the Lords. We're not the masters. He's really, really emphasizing this. He's even emphasizing the fact that he's glad he didn't baptize many of them. That way they wouldn't think that they were somehow his disciples instead of Christ. Then a couple verses later, verse 31. He that gloryeth, let him glory in the Lord. 1 Corinthians 2, verse 2, I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. 1 Corinthians 3, 5. Who then is Paul? Who is Apollos? But ministers by whom you have believed, even as the Lord gave to every man. I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. So I wanted to pause and say this because sometimes in church context this is not followed carefully. We need to recognize that Paul is not trying to prop himself up. He is not trying to get the people to glory in him. He's simply saying, I want you to see a physical example. of living out the things I'm talking about. That's what he's saying. Second thing, Christ is the only perfect example who we can follow without any qualification. Anytime we follow another person, there are qualifications. There are times that they will disappoint us. There'll be times they don't get it right. But there is one person that that will never be the case, and that's Christ. And so notice some of these passages. And by the way, one was written by Paul, one was written by Peter, one was written by John. So three different apostles here saying the exact same thing. He says, be therefore, Ephesians 5. 1, be therefore followers of God as dear children. Who are we following? The Lord Jesus. 1 Peter 2. 21, wherefore were you called? Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow in his steps. Who are we supposed to follow? Christ. First John 2, 5-6, Whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him. He that saith, he abideth in him, ought himself to walk even as he walked. Who are we supposed to walk like? Christ. So we see this consistency of message. Paul is preaching this, Peter is preaching this, John is preaching this. This is a very consistent apostolic theme. And that's going to be important in just a minute. Third thing I want to notice here. He was using a very specific situation that was immediately visible to the Corinthian church to illustrate his teaching. So this isn't Paul saying, in all situations, be like me. That's not what he's saying. He's being very particular about a very specific instance that they needed to see right in front of them. Look at 1 Corinthians 10 verses 32 and then the next couple verses. Here's what it says. He says, give none offense to the Jew nor to the Gentile. Nor is it the church of God, even as I please all men in all things, not seeking my own profit, but that the profit of many, that they may be saved, be followers of me, even as I am a follower of Christ Now what's what's Paul saying here? This would be a second example in the book of 1 Corinthians, where he's saying, in the same way that I release my rights. I am trying to do the work of ministry in a way that does not offend. And so there are times where a person may absolutely have the right to say something or do something. And uh they realize that you know what what they're gonna say? If they say that, it's gonna be an offense, an unnecessary offense. And so because they love the person that they're trying to minister to, They say, I'm not going to put that stumbling block in front of that person because I want to help them. I want to minister to them. And this is really important if someone's a missionary. They're going into a cross-cultural context. And there are lots of things that their cultural differences they don't even know about. And when they learn those things, a missionary can be like, wow, people need to just realize I'm an American. This is how Americans think. No, no, no, that's not the way to do it. You're on their turf. You're on their soil. You're trying to minister to them. Guess what? You've got to learn how to get along with them on their on their turf. That's the idea. And so what does the missionary do? They learn the culture. They learn how to communicate because they desire to do something that's very important, to minister to someone, releasing their right to say, oh, I'm an American. I can say and do what I want, and you just need to get over it. No, no, no. I'm going to learn how to minister that person. And Paul's saying, that's what I did. When I went and I worked with Jews, I ministered to them as someone who was under the law. When I minister to Gentiles, I ministered to them as someone who was free from the law. So if he went to a Jewish house, he was going to follow all the strict customs of Judaism. But when he went into a Gentile's house, he'd have no problems eating shrimp and pork and all those things. I mean, he might have cringed a little bit, who knows? But he was willing to be deferential. Why? For the sake of the gospel. Not a compromise in a sinful way, but a compromise of what we want to do and what we have the freedom to do. And so the idea is this. For some very specific situations, as a secondary example, to provide a visible reminder, the Apostle Paul says, look at what I'm doing. This is what I'm talking about. And you know what? That's what we have to learn how to do as parents. But guess what? If we're not good examples, it's gonna be hard to do that. It ought to be a very common thing. When you have devotions with your kids, parents, I want just put that encouragement out there. First of all, have devotions with your kids. Really want to encourage that. Family worship. But when you sit down and you do your family worship, be very practical. It's not about preaching a sermon. It's explaining very basic, simple concepts. And say, hey, let me tell you about what happened today. And you and you you talk about that situation, how it directly applies This passage of scripture directly practically applies in that situation and you talk about that. That is really what Paul's doing here Like a parent teaching their children, did you see me do this? Here's why I did this. That's what you need to do. That's what Paul's doing. Fourth thing I want you to notice here is that the ultimate authority is not Paul, but in fact it is the Scripture. Notice the way it puts it. Look back in your Bibles, he says this. that ye might learn in us not to think of men. And notice this next phrase, above that which is written. Did you catch that? So what is Paul pointing to as the ultimate authority? Is it his obedience? No. It's the scripture. Paul was not setting himself or Apollos up as the authority. He was pointing to their example of conscientiously putting themselves under the authority of what is written. He also emphasized the consistency by which this uniformly was followed as a principle of Scripture alone, so that no one would be puffed up one against the other. So when Paul says We, Paul's talking about himself, he's talking about Paulos, he's talking about Peter, he's talking about John. He's basically saying, if you'll observe how we do the work of ministry , We strive to follow the same guiding principle. If the Bible says it, we do it. If the Bible says to do it this way, We do it this way. If the Bible says not to do it, we don't do it. We do not have the right to step outside of the boundary of Scripture. And so even in this passage where he's using himself as an example, he is still emphasizing the standard of Scripture as the final authority. And so it leads me to a simple implication. There is power in the blending of sound teaching and godly example. There really is. There are people that can teach you the word of God, but if they're a hypocrite, they almost make it compromised. They really do. I mean it would be like it would be like someone bringing to you a wonderful a wonderful meal. It's hot, it smells good, and you look at that plate and you're like, that plate was never washed. I don't think I want to eat that. You know what I'm talking about? I don't want to eat that. Well what's wrong with the food? Nothing's wrong with the food. It's what the food came on. That's the problem. And so when we preach or we teach and we explain things and we are inconsistent, you know what it is? It's like bringing a good meal to somebody on a plate that's dirty. But when it comes through the instrument of a person who's trying faithfully to live it, it's very powerful. God uses it. It's true in the church. It's really true in our homes. And the truth is the cumulative effect of living consistently in front of our kids, for good or for bad, is really going to push them in directions. And we need to recognize this. It's also true in the areas where we have sphere of influence. And so we have to be very, very careful about the examples that we are setting and the examples we come in contact with. Second truth. Christ, our Christians need consistency in their thinking. Now, if we look at verse number 7, it's interesting what he says here. 4. Who maketh thee to differ from another? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Now If thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory as if thou hast not received it? My question is this. What is unique about all of the statements in there? Their questions. He says, what makes one differ from another? What have you done that you did not receive? Or what do you have that you did not receive? If you've received it, why do you glory if you had not received it? In other words, he is calling them to ask themselves questions about the way that they're thinking and the way that they're living. He wants there to be consistency. He's saying, you say you believe this. Well, I want to see that in fact you believe it, because what you say and what you do do not appear to be consistent right now. That's the concern that Paul has. And so he's really saying, by asking these questions, he's saying you have to be consistent in your thinking. Don't say one thing and do something different. He said, I'm striving as an apostle to say and do the same thing. I'm calling you to do the same thing. Notice these questions. For who maketh thee differ? I highlighted in bold in my notes the word for because he's drawing attention to some implications here. Or the second question, what hast thou that thou dost not receive? Think about it. Is there anything good in your life that didn't come from someone outside of yourself? The answer is everything you have comes from God ultimately. Every good and every perfect gift comes from above. Comes down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. What does Job say? He says, Naked came I into the world, and naked will I go out of the world. The Lord gives, the Lord takes. Blessed be the name of the Lord. He's saying, I don't have anything unless God gave it to me. And so Paul is reminding them of this by asking the question, what do you have that was not given to you by God? Thirdly, now if thou didst receive it. Why dost thou glory as if thou hast not received it? I bolden now if, why and as if The point that Paul is making here is that you need to live like you say you believe. So important. We need to know what we believe, we need to know why we believe it, and then we need to live like we believe it. That's what he's saying. So his basic teaching in this whole section is that humility has to be the basic foundational component of the Christian worldview. He says, God blesses people according to his own will as he chooses. Everything that we have did not start with us. What right do we have to puff up ourselves? Pride is completely inconsistent with a correct understanding of the Christian's position and function. That's not to say that Christians can't be proud. Of course we can. We have that capability. But we should never be proud. We should always recognize that any time we shift into this arrogance in our hearts We are shifting into a mindset that is completely inconsistent with our position and completely inconsistent with the Christian faith. Truth number three. God built his church through the suffering and labor of his saints. Now that's not to say that every Christian who is involved in leadership suffers equally. Or that every Every servant labors equally. That's not what is being stated here. And obviously in the context, he's drawing attention to the fact that he's an apostle. That's a very unique kind of ministry. Paul was not a pastor in one location for decades on end. Paul traveled from city to city. He started churches. He worked tirelessly in ways that if a person was married and had children and was a pastor and they did this, they would destroy their family. In fact, I would go so far as to say it would be absolutely wrong for a married person to live like the Apostle Paul, who who basically gave all of his time and all of his energy to the ministry. Because God gives you a family and you're supposed to take care of your family. And that is a duty that you have. So when he's talking about the kinds of things that are in this passage, it's important for us to recognize there's a very unique ministry role that is in the back of his mind. Yet there is also a principle here that is true about anyone in a position of leadership. And this includes parents And pastors and missionaries and church planters and anyone that is in any kind of, we could say, ministry of shepherding of souls, there are times that your labors and your suffering are going to be the very things God uses. To minister to the people that are under your care. We don't go looking for suffering, but it's going to come looking for us. And God may allow it because he has purposes in it. So notice what he says here in verse number eight. He says, now ye are full, now ye are rich, you have reigned as kings without us. And I would to God you did reign, that we also might reign with you. For I think that God hath set forth as the apostles last, as it were appointed to death. For we are made a spectacle unto the world, and the angels and the men. We are fools for Christ's sake, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you're strong. You're honorable, but we are despised. Even into this present hour we both hunger and thirst and are naked and are buffeted and have no certain dwelling place. And labor working with our own hands, being reviled, we bless, being persecuted, we suffer it. Being defamed, we entreat, we are made as the filth of the world and are the offscoring of all things unto this day. Now here's what Paul's saying. Paul is saying, I am one of the most blessed ministers this world has ever known. And all the other apostles would be on the same category. We were called by Christ to this office. The apostles were eyewitnesses of the life, the ministry, the teaching, the resurrection of Christ. They had this incredible opportunity. They gave the word of God, and guess what? Every single one of them, save one. Died as a martyr, every single one. Every single one of them suffered immensely for the faith. In fact, one of the great evidences for the fact that when we talk about the Christian faith, this is truth. You ask yourself the question, why would these men have died for a lie like this? Why would they be willing to throw caution to the wind and do all these things for something that they knew for a fact was not true? The answer is they wouldn't do that. They absolutely would not have done that. And so God called these people to face unusual suffering, unusual persecution, and they were unusually used by God in that sense. But let's remind ourselves of this simple principle. If you want to be a leader, you better be careful about the implications. Many people who believe that they have arrived as leaders are very misguided. And I want you to notice the tone of what Paul's saying. When I first read this, I think I kind of missed it, but I want you to notice this again. He says, now ye are full, now ye are rich, ye have reigned as kings without us. The next statement. And I would to God ye did reign. Question, were they raining or not? Did you catch that? He says, now you're full, now you're rich, you've reigned as kings without us, and I would to God you did reign that we might also reign with you. You know what Paul's saying? You think this, but it isn't true. That's what he's actually saying. It's almost like when we go to the book of Revelation and Jesus is speaking to the church at Laodicea. He says, You say that you are rich. And you have need of nothing, but you are poor and you are blind and you are naked. That's what he's saying. In your mind, you are all these things, but the reality is you're misguided. That's what Paul's saying here. Their perception of reality is we are full, we are rich, we have reigned as kings, we don't need the apostles. The reality is, he says, I wish it was true. That's what he's saying. Second thing we see here is that godly leadership sacrifices for the good of those who are under their care. And Paul is going to lay out all kinds of things. In fact, it's it's very interesting to study the list that the Apostle Paul puts. in some of his epistles because they're they're lengthy and they cover so many things. And so notice some of the things that he talks about. He says, we were made a spectacle. We are fools for Christ's sake. We are weak. We are despised. Even unto this present hour we hunger and thirst and are naked and are buffeted and have no certain dwelling. And labor working with our hands. Being reviled, we bless. Being persecuted, we suffer. Being defamed, we entreat. What is Paul saying? Let me categorize it this way. He's saying we're a spectacle. In fact that word spectacle is is the word that we get theater from. So the idea is theatrics, you know that word? That that actually is the the the Greek term has that idea of theatrics. And see the idea is you go to a theater and you watch a play. You sit there to be entertained. You just you sit back and you enjoy what's going on. It's like have you ever uh had a little situation going on in the office? And uh, you know, these two people are always getting at it and uh and one day you 're sitting there and you're like, hey, you know, you want to pop some popcorn and uh see see where this goes? Let's just watch, right? Because you know there's this little power struggle that's going on. And Paul's basically saying that we were like that to you. You just sit back and you're like, oh, let's see what happens to these people. Look at how they're suffering. Look at all their misery. They were being watched. They were made a spectacle We are fools for Christ's sake. The idea is that people criticize them. Oh, the way you're going about this is all wrong. They had other ideas. Remember, we have this godly wisdom versus worldly wisdom, and they're contradicting one another. They're in conflict with one another. And so Paul's saying that as people observed us, They said, oh, you guys are fools, man. You aren't doing this the right way. He says we're weak. The idea is that they were broken down by the pressures of the work. You know, it's kind of interesting when you watch a president come into office and then you watch him leave office, they don't look like the same person. Like it's like this this guy goes into office and he you know he looks pretty young and pretty vibrant and then he goes out he's like totally white hair. Totally white hair. And and you just see how that person has aged. Why is that? Because there's unbelievable pressure. The kinds of decisions people have to make, the kinds of people that are always vying to influence. No matter what decisions people make, there are going to be people who doubt them, who are angry, who are frustrated with them. They make poor decisions, people's lives are going to be affected very negatively. And the fact is that when someone is involved in making these kinds of decisions, it breaks them down. It causes them to be weakened physically and emotionally. And so Paul is saying, we're like that. The work of ministry as apostles has has broken us down. We are very feeble people. That's what he's saying. We're despised. People mock us. He says to this hour we hunger, we thirst, we're naked, we're buffeted, no certain dwelling place. Paul's like, I didn't own a house. I just I slept where I could. I lived off of what people gave me. I labored with my hands I took care of other people. So I'm ministering and I'm trying to feed myself and I'm sleeping in other people's homes. And that's the life that he lived. Not an easy life. But he's an example of endurance. Being reviled, he blessed, being persecuted, he suffered. He was defamed. We entreated. What was the result of this? Three things he mentions. But you are wise in Christ. Godly wisdom was produced in the lives of these people. Because Paul and the other apostles labored and suffered and sacrificed. Their lives, God used to give wisdom to these people. Sometimes a little later than they realize. You know you know how many parents their their kids like, you know, they're hard on them and then then they become parents and they're like, Oh Not as easy as I thought. I think I might need to apologize to mom and dad. Okay, you know. That that's true. You know, we go through life with you know, ten, fifteen, twenty years later we look back at things and we're like, man, I I my perspective was really, really immature. And so it was through the sacrifice of these apostles that these people became wise in Christ. He says, you're strong. Spiritual maturity came through their labors and their sacrifices. You are honorable. They were held in high esteem. But the reason is because there were people that were willing to give of themselves so that that could happen in their lives. There are people that were willing to lay down their lives in service to God so that these people's lives could be advanced. My wife and I often talk about this. Motherhood's really hard on ladies Like sometimes we'll like comment on our friends like you know we'll be looking through like a like you know college directory, you know some different people and so we like see them on Facebook and then we see when they were like in college and we're like wow man that person really looks like The life has been hard to them. It's been hard on them. And then sometimes they've got there might be people saying that does too, you know. But the idea is that, I mean, you go without sleep. And there's so many pressures that you that you go through, and you know you get you get worried about your kids when they're sick, get worried about their education, they do things that embarrass you. There's lots and lots of things that go on. Financial pressures that are that are heavier because you have a family. It's not just one person. What's the idea? The idea is as parents, we lay down our lives ultimately through that investment to see our children go on past us. And so it's true in the family. It's true in the church. You know, somebody that goes as a missionary to an unreached people group, they they suffer and they sacrifice. But there could be generations that follow. Who have a gospel witness because of those kinds of sacrifices. And so we learn a lot from this passage of scripture. How can we apply it? Let me give you some final thoughts. Every season of church history has needed people to fill these kinds of voids. Every generation has needed people to fill these kind of voids. I mean that's true when we talk about our nation. Like we need people in our military. We need people in law enforcement. We need people willing to go into governments. We need people that are willing to start businesses. We need people that are going to be very giving to those who are needy and they're going through hardships. We people that are willing to go into ministry. We people that are willing to support ministries, all kinds of different things. Every single generation is going to have these needs, these voids that come up. And God will always raise up people to fill those voids. He does it. It's an amazing thing to witness. God does it. When there's a need, it's a test of faith. And God will raise up somebody there. He directs, he empowers, he builds those. who are willing to stay step into the gap. And by the way, I think the best situations are when people step into those gaps kind of kind of timidly. Because they're sobered by the heaviness of that responsibility, but they're willing to do it. That's really a good way to go about. When people are like tromping a bit, I'm going to go do this, I'm going to take the world on. They're going to get crushed and then they can take the world on by God's grace. But God will raise up and empower people to do this. But we need to be willing to step into those kinds of roles. And so I just put this out to you as a challenge. Are you willing? To make these kinds of sacrifices where God may call you to do that. I'm not here to tell you what those are. That sacrifice just might be faithful dad, faithful mom. Step into some kind of ministry that you have an opportunity because there's a need. But are we willing to do that? There's a sacrifice that's involved there. It may not be glamorous. People may step on us a bit. It may wear us out as we go through the process. But God calls us into it. He strengthens us in it, and he uses us for his glory. That's what Paul's saying here. This calling can come in a lot of different forms, and so I encourage you, may God help us to be humble men and women who have integrity and grid are willing to do whatever God has for us. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for your word and this passage that we've looked at this evening. Fascinating scripture as we think about how Paul uses his own experience as an illustration to relate to these people in a practical way what it means to sacrifice for the good of others. How even drew their attention to the fact that their advancement, their growth, was on the shoulders of men like him who suffered. And so I pray that you would raise up another generation that would be willing to stand in the gap and do these things. The hard things, the discouraging things. The things that may not look very noble to the world, but in fact they have great value in eternity. Father, help us not to be fearful, but help us to be bold, have grit and spine. And I pray that you would help us to do the work as unto you and not unto men. He asked it in Christ's name, Amen