Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. And I wanted to leave you with a couple of final thoughts that I hope will be a challenge and an encouragement. So I'm going to read the text one more time And then we're going to look at the last little part with some final thoughts. Here's what it says. Luke chapter 10, and we'll begin reading in verse number one. It says, after these things the Lord appointed other seventy also. and sent them two and two before his face into every city and place, wherewith he himself would come. Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. Go your way. Behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves. Then what I'd like to do is I'd like to skip down to verse 10 because it gives us the part that we're going to kind of focus in on as we uh close out our thoughts. It says this. Into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you not, go your way out of the street of the same and say, Even the very dust of your city which cleaveth on us, would you wipe off against you, notwithstanding, be ye sure of this, that the kingdom of God is come nigh unto you. Now, as we've looked at this passage of Scripture, we've seen that God is always at work in the world, and when he's working in the world, he's working through people. He's working through our hands, our lips, our heart. He is actively doing his work through human instruments. Then we went from that to notice that he gives us certain instructions, principles, commands. that are to shape and guide the way that we do this work. And then we we look at the fact that it is ultimately God who has the right to determine the times in which we live, the nature of the work that we're doing, all those things. And we looked at some specific details about the uniqueness of the time that we're living in. What I'd like to leave you with is this final thought All of us, whether we are the ones who are giving, whether we are the ones who are hearing, we are all responsible to be faithful. with the opportunities that we are given. And we see that in the last section of this passage dealing with the ministry of the 70 people. He says that they're supposed to go out and they're supposed to preach the word, and ultimately what happens is in the hands of the Lord. In the hands of the response of this people. They have a will. They can choose to accept the message or to reject the message And so notice that the emphasis is on faithfulness to your duty, either your duty to give the word or your duty to receive the word. And so God isn't going to hold you and me accountable for how people respond to the message. He's going to hold us accountable for whether or not we gave the message. If we're those who are supposed to receive, he's not holding us accountable for how well someone presented the truth to us. He's holding us responsible for what we did with the truth. And so we see that we could summarize it this way. Those who were sent out had a very simple duty. Embrace or reject the message to preach. Okay? Go out, preach the message. What they do with it is entirely on their shoulders He says in verse ten , Into whatsoever city you enter, go your way into the streets, and if they rejected even the very dust of your city which cleaveth on us, Wipe it off. And I love this next statement. Notwithstanding, be sure of this, that the kingdom of God is come nigh unto you. So what he's telling them is this, your job is just to preach. It's to give the truth. It's to be faithful with the proclamation of truth. You can't control their responses. If they reject it, shake the death off your feet. If they embrace it, then be thankful that they embrace the message. But realize that you've done your duty, that the word has been proclaimed. That's the one side. On the other side, he says those who are hearing the message have a responsibility. This is a matter of heaven and hell If you accept the message, you're embracing the gospel, you're being saved from your sins. If you reject the message, there's no other savior And so you're rejecting the one and only means through which you can be reconciled to God and you can escape the terrible wrath to come. And so in verses twelve to sixteen he says, I say unto you that it will be more tolerable in that day for Sodom than for that city. Woe unto thee, Khorazan, woe unto thee, Bethsaida If the mighty works which had been done in Tyrant Sidon had been done in you, then they would have repented long ago and sack cloth and ashes. He says, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment than for you. He that heareth you heareth me. He that despiseth you despiseth me. He that despiseth me despiseth him that sent me. So the point that he's making is your job is just to be faithful in the giving of the word or in the receiving of the word. So you may say, well, Joel, how do you kind of close out our week? What are your final thoughts? How do you apply this text of scripture? How can you put it all together for us in a practical way? Well, let me leave you with these thoughts. The first is this God doesn't call you to change the world. He calls you to be a faithful Christian. He calls you to love your wife if you're married or your husband to raise your children appropriately, to submit to your parents. To be a faithful Christian. That's what God calls us to do. He calls us to be faithful in the sphere that He's planted us. Not to worry about the spheres that other people are planted in. He calls us to study the word and to walk with him on a daily basis, to be active in our church, to be a faithful Christian in the public square. That's what God calls us to. to do. And what God does with that faithfulness, that is ultimately his prerogative, his business, not our business. And by the way, we would all love to see God take our faithfulness and expand it and compound it exponentially. And by the way, he does that. God works through the faithfulness of His of His Word. You know, you raise your children right, you you teach them the Word of God, you discipline them appropriately, you you labor in the ministry of the Word in your families, and you know what? You're gonna see the the the long-term effects of that faithfulness in the lives of your children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren. If a pastor faithfully proclaims the word of God in his church week in and week out There is a cumulative effect to the effective preaching and teaching of the Word of God. If you go out and you preach the gospel in your local community, hey, not every single person's going to embrace the gospel. You're going to have some rough interactions. I understand that's going to happen But God's going to save people. If you interact with young Christians, you're going to have an opportunity to disciple them. God is going to bless the faithfulness of his children. But we recognize that it is God's prerogative to determine the degree to which that blessing comes, the degree to which we see those effects. how quickly that happens, how far the extent reaches. Those things are in the hands of the Lord. And so our job is to simply be faithful. And so I leave you with this final thought from Luke chapter 16. Here's what it says He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much. And he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much. If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches? And if you have not been faithful in that which is another man's, Who shall give you that which is your own? Put in the very simplest of terms, basically what Jesus is saying is, rather than being concerned with what's going on in the big picture, Focus in on these moments that God gives you and be faithful in those moments because faithfulness in those moments will ultimately lead to faithfulness in the big moments. If you want God to entrust you with greater things and be faithful with the little things. And so the conclusion of our study this week is a very simple one. The final thought is let's be faithful with what God has called us to do in every single aspect of our lives. My prayer for those who are following this, my prayer for our church family, my prayer for my own children. is that we would be a people who are faithful in the little duties of life and that God will take those things and expand them according to his purposes for his glory. Have a blessed weekend and I look forward to seeing many of you this Sunday And hope that we have a wonderful time of worship with the Lord. Have a blessed day by now