If you have a church bulletin, we have several things coming up even within the week. And uh particularly today we have our welcomers meeting after the a. m. service will be real quick meet quick meeting over here on the piano side. So if you are an usher, you work at the welcome desk. If you're interested in in being a part of that ministry, please do plan on being there. For that. Then tomorrow and Friday, or Thursday, excuse me, we have our ladies' Bible study on Thursday on March 2nd, and then Mother of Littles tomorrow, February 27th. At 1030. So keep an out an eye out for more details on that. Then our team Nerf War that's coming up is not this Friday, but the following, March 10th. And uh please remember to bring your own Nerf gun, your own ammo, uh safety glasses, emphasis on the safety glasses, um, and then be sure to bring a Bible for the devotional. time as well. And then our men's breakfast uh will be on the 11th, so please be sure to sign up for that. And as a side note, I also want to mention that there is a new two tracker snack sign up sheet so if you would like to uh help supply snacks for two trackers please stop by that and then one final note there's a change to our teens it's not going to be on march twelfth it's going to be on the fifth um that is due to uh Uh the the m Mitchell's coming in that Sunday and uh and a fellowship that we'll be having that day and Pastor will have more details on that. Okay, before we do our opening scripture reading, I wanted to mention uh two items, a little bit more information about the twelfth. And then this is not yet in our bulletin, but on the 19th through the 22nd, we'll have the Gellis family in for uh spring meetings, spring revival meetings. And so I'm really looking forward to both of those events. I wanted to mention a little bit more about it. First of all, on the 12th, at our last business meeting, I talked a little bit about the Mitchells coming in and the the Mitchells are looking at potentially coming on staff. Braxton will be preaching in the evening service and then after that evening service we'll have a time for questions and answers. for him and for his wife and then after that we're we're going to have uh kind of like a dessert fellowship and so um please do come to that uh if you are interested in uh getting to interact with them a little bit more. Obviously they'll be with us the whole weekend and you know all on Saturday we have several activities and then on Sunday as well. But we wanted to be able to do it that way. um so that you'll be a part of the questions and also the dessert fellowship. And then also we will shorten the service a little bit on Sunday night since we're going to be having a lot of things going on. So if you only come for the testimonies, unfortunately we will not do them on that Sunday night, uh though I'm sure we'll have many more the next Sunday. Uh but I just want to keep that streamlined And then for the spring meetings on the 19th through the 22nd, uh mark that on your calendars, and I really want to encourage you uh to do your very best. to be at those meetings as much as many as you can. And one of the things that I'm going to do is I'm going to put together a little video that's kind of talking about what our spring meetings are all about. And I'm gonna have that uh in a QR code in our bulletins in the future. I'm also next week going to be announcing what our sacrificial Sunday uh offering is going to be be at about, which we um we take historically on Easter. Sunday. So I'm not telling you what that is today, uh, but we have that and I'm excited about that. And I'm also going to put together uh a little video that gives you a lot more explanation about that beyond just what I'll say. uh in our services um in preparation for that. So I wanted to make you aware of those items and I'm really looking forward to those events. If you have your Bible, I want to ask you to turn to Psalm 19. Psalm 19, and we're going to look at several verses. From the 19th Psalm, and this will really dovetail very well with the passage that we're looking at this morning for our morning sermon. Psalm 19, verses 7 through 11. Here's what the scripture says. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey in the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is thy servant warned, and in keeping of them there is great reward This morning the focus of our attention will be on the power of Scripture. And I'm really looking forward to looking at a passage in the New Testament, a very familiar passage. That's going to emphasize the power of the scripture. So let's be add together for prayer and ask the Lord to really bless our service and speak to our hearts. And uh remember those in our congregation who are dealing with physical uh affliction, who have had surgeries, who are going to have surgeries. We have several folks in that situation. So let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so grateful that we can gather together as a body We're thankful for the gospel that unites us, the finished work of Christ, his death on the cross, that fully canceled our sin debt, his righteousness that's imputed to us, and gives us a righteous position in Christ We're so thankful for the new life in Christ that we enjoy as new creatures in Christ whom old things have passed away and all things become new. And we look forward with tremendous Anticipation of that day that we will enjoy the full benefits of our position in Christ as those who are glorified, enjoying our eternal inheritance. I pray that this morning as we look at the power of Scripture, that you would open our understanding to these very rich truths. Father, help me to be able to communicate the word with clarity and I pray that the Holy Spirit would take the truth. And impress it upon our hearts, that it would really awaken our understanding and our conscience and engage our affections. Father, as we sing these wonderful hymns of the faith that express such rich truth , I pray that our hearts would be truly engaged with what we are communicating with our lips. And I pray that we would be encouraged as we enjoy fellowship with one another today. Today. Father, we pray for those in our congregation who are dealing with physical infirmities. We think of those who have just gone through surgeries and are even currently still in the hospital in recovery. I pray that you will strengthen strengthen their bodies and help them to uh have a full recovery, be with those who are anticipating uh surgeries in the coming days. us I pray that you would strengthen them as they uh come to those uh the procedures and I pray that you would be with those who who carry heavy burdens, that uh they weigh them down, they discourage them. I pray that you would uplift them today through the Word of God as it's presented. We ask all of this in Christ's name. All right, good evening. Thank you so much for joining us for worship here at Anchor Baptist Church. We're going to get started singing a classic hymn of the faith, hymn number 464. how firm a foundation. Please stand with me as we sing all four verses of hymn number 464. Sing out this morning. Amen I ever When it was a little dark , the word , no one 's not getting. Do you remember God 's soul and I see a country for a few mysteries? When I 'm still in his wall , my life on the wall, my own children , I 'm telling you, I 'll be a light to know. Let's turn back to hymn number four hundred forty-five. Standing on the promises Of Christ my King. Hymn number four hundred forty-five. Again, we'll sing all four verses. Standing on the promise in the right by me , turn away the legally , orient my life going thing , breaking off the wrong thing. I think you know the prophet , and you know the prophet, when the love is by the way. And if I come with God, I think I can come and come with God. I will make every comment here and fall. Amen. Please be seated as we turn back to hymn number two hundred and ninety-five. Wonderful words of life. Wonderful singing this morning. Let's continue praising the Lord in song. 295. We'll sing verses 1, 2, and 3. Sing them over against me, wonderful words of Lord, but Wonderful word, wonderful burn , beautiful word, wonderful bird, wonderful water, swinging. I 've ever Our scripture reading for this morning will be found in the Gospel of Luke. The Gospel of Luke chapter 8. Verses 4 through 15. Luke chapter 8, verses 4 through 15 The scriptures say, and when much people were gathered together and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable. A sower went out to sow his seed, and as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it. And some fell upon a rock, and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it. And others fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be? And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. But to others in parables, that seeing they might not see, and hearing they might not understand. Now the parable is this. The seed is the word of God. Those by the wayside are they that hear. Then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy. These have no root, which for a while believe, and a time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with the cares and riches and pleasures of this life. And bring no fruit to perfection. But that on the good ground are they which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it and bring forth fruit with patience. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Thank you, Morgan. I am so glad that Jesus loves me. Alright, our next song is going to be in the blue book. It's number 34, God's Sufficient Word. It's a little unfamiliar, so I'm gonna ask if we can play it through one time just so we can get a feel for it. Here we go. We believe in God in everyone. Because we tell us we might still want to. Alright, wonderful song. Our last song will be number sixty-five in the blue book. Please stand 65, God has spoken. And as we sing, we'll sing all three verses. Let's sing that last verse, a cappella, alright? Sing out this morning. Great singing. Were me by sin. She the fire singing Come next to the Praise God. Amen. Please be seated. Blessed assure rest, Jesus is high Oh, what four days of glory , air of salvation, purchase of God Born of his spirit, washing his blood. This is my story, this is my dog , raising my sailing. This is my story. This is my song. Ringing my same roar on the Perfect summation, perfect demon , patient look first on my side. Angels deep sanding bring from above, echoes of mercy, whispers of love. This is my story, this is my song, praising my senior all my day long This is my story, this is my song , raising my serial all the day long. Perfect submission of all is that rest I am myself and happy and bless Watching and waiting looking above This is my story This is my song praising my sav Let my song raising my serv All the day long Okay, well, our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back at this time. And the rest of you, I want to encourage you to turn with me in your Bibles to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 8 this morning, and the passage we're looking at is one that is very familiar. It's a passage that I'm sure that you have read through many times. It's a passage you're very familiar with. And I hope that this morning as we look at this text again, we would look at it with fresh eyes and a heart that is ready to receive exactly what the Lord would like us to learn this morning. Luke chapter 8, verses 4 through 15, it's the parable of the sower. And I'm going to go ahead and begin reading. It says, and when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable A sower went out to sow his seed. As he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and it was trodden down. The fowls of the air devoured it. Some fell upon a rock, and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away because it lacked moisture. Some fell amongst thorns, and the thorns sprang up with it and choked it. Others fell on good ground and sprang up and bear fruit in hundredfold. When he had said these things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. His disciples asked him, saying What might this parable be? He said unto you, it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to others in parables. That seeing they may not see, and hearing they might not understand. Now the parable is this The seed is the word of God. Those by the wayside are they that hear. Then cometh the devil and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they which, when they hear, receive the word with joy. These have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away That which fell amongst thorns are they which, when they have heard, go forth and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But that on the good ground are they which in an honest and a good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience. Now what I'd like to do at the beginning of this passage is I'd like to summarize what I think that the intent of the parable is. And by the way, when I give you my summary, you you should be able to figure out exactly where I'm going. With the interpretation, the application of this parable. But I think it's important for us when we look at a passage like this to not just look at the details, but ask the question: why these details? Who was Jesus teaching? Why in the world does he say that I've set this as a parable so that some people when they hear it, they won't understand it? That almost seems like such a callous thing. for Jesus to say. And I hope that by the end of this passage of Scripture and the study of it, I think when you walk away you'll go, it makes perfect sense what Jesus is saying. I hope that you'll be able to see that. So let me begin by first of all giving you a summary of this passage, and then we'll begin looking at a couple of preliminary thoughts this morning. Morning. The parable of the Sower was meant to prepare the disciples for the various responses they would witness as they proclaimed the gospel of the kingdom. This was to strengthen their confidence in the power of the word and to divert them away from pragmatic compromises and discouragement. In that summary statement, there's a very important statement that I made that really is the hinge to appreciating what Jesus is saying here. The parable of the sower was meant to prepare the disciple for a very specific task. So that they went when they went out to do this task, they would do it the way that God intended them to do it. Ultimately, what this passage is all about is God saying to us, look, you need to have confidence in the power of the scriptures. And the power of the word. And so we will see that laid before us this morning. First of all, I want to begin with a couple of preliminary questions as we get into the interpretation of the parable in front of us. The first question I want to answer is, what exactly is Scripture? Well, in order to answer that statement, we've got to go to 2 Timothy 3, verse number 16. When Jesus referred to the scriptures, or when Paul referred to the scriptures, whoever was listening to him as he used that term Scripture understood exactly what John or what Peter or what Paul or what Jesus were saying. The Scripture is the book that stand that sits right before us today. But I think it's important for us to understand what exactly this book is. What is the nature of these words that are right before us? So in 2 Timothy 3, verse 16, we see the following statement. It says, All scripture is given by inspiration. Let me say that again. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. When we use the term scripture, we're talking about words that have their ultimate source in God Himself. In fact, that statement that I just read to you comes from only three Greek terms. The first term has the idea of all or every single The second word is the word for written word or the written scriptures. So to put it together, we would say every single word of the written scriptures has a script certain quality about it. And that quality is it is God breathed. In fact the Greek term is a compound term that has the word and mustos, it means it's breathed by God. So when we look at 2 Timothy 3. 16, we can put it this way. Every single word of Scripture is given to us by God's breath. That's a powerful statement. Every word, not just the thoughts, not just the doctrines. Not just the things that it affirms, but the literal words that make up the doctrines, or the literal words that Affirm the teachings or the literal words that give us the thoughts that we expound when we're reading and preaching and teaching the Word of God. The very words come from God Himself. Now, we're not saying that it's just the words or that when we read those words, somehow God like speaks to us through those words. The authority does not lie in the impressions that we get when we read the word or the impressions that are given when someone preaches or teaches the word. The authority lies in the very words themselves. That's very important. So when I get up and I read the scriptures to you, the most authoritative thing that I do is not what I say in expounding the text, but it's the written word itself. That's where the authority lies. And so much as someone is expounding consistently with the text that is given, that's where God begins to impress the truth upon us. This is extremely important for us to understand because this is actually foundational to appreciating the parable that's in front of us this morning. Every word matters. Matthew 5. 18 says, Till heaven and earth pass, not one jot or one tittle of the law shall pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. Literally what Jesus was saying is he said, you know all those prophecies in the Old Testament? Every single one of them. Down to the jot and the tittle, the distinguishing marks that distinguish between one word and another, down to the very jot and tittle, every prophecy will be completely fulfilled exactly as God said it. The words matter. And these words stand with clarity and with purity and with full authority. Over 400 times in our Bibles, we read a statement, Thus saith the Lord. And you say, Well, I thought Moses wrote that. Well, yeah, he did write it. But when Moses wrote it, he was saying, God says. When Paul is writing, he's not just saying, hey, this is my opinion, these are my thoughts, these are ideas that I've been coming up with. Paul's saying, thus saith the Lord, God is saying this. We see the statement, it is written, eighty times in the scriptures. And that's a very significant statement because it just doesn't mean like it was written and it it's kind of important. It means it has been written. It was written. It's preserved. It stands today. That's the sense of it. When we open up our Bibles, we're reading the word of God. Now that is in no way to diminish the fact that God gave us his word through human instruments, but those human instruments did not defile the word through They didn't get it wrong. What they wrote ultimately finds its source in the breath of God Himself. These scriptures claim that kind of authority. And that is a stunning claim. Anyone who disregards the Bible needs to wrestle with the fact that this book claims to have its source ultimately and truly entirely from God Himself. That is so very significant. Say, well, how did God give us his word one? Second Peter, this is what it says. Peter writes, Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things though you know them. I will endeavor that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance. It's a pretty fascinating statement. Peter realizes that he's going to be he's going to die soon. Peter has been an apostle. He's been teaching, he's been instructing, and he says all the things that I've been teaching you that are apostolic. Stolic in nature, they ultimately find the source of their authority in Christ Himself. I don't want you to forget those things. And so here's what he says He says, we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. We were eyewitnesses of his majesty. We also have a more sure word of prophecy whereunto you do well to take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place. Now what Peter is saying is he's saying, we are first hand eyewitnesses of the things that we have written to you, and the things that we have taught you, and the things that we have preached to you. But the authority does not lie in our ability to recall those events. Anybody, do your memories get cloudier as time goes on? Yes, they do. This is one of the embarrassing things that we experience in life is things that we've experienced we can't remember them with clarity. Sometimes we don't want to remember them with clarity, but sometimes we really want to and we can't. Peter says, I'm not giving this to you on the authority of my recall. He says what we're writing is more sure than that. He says, know this first that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. The idea is I'm not just giving you my spin or my take or my opinion about what I witnessed. I'm giving you God's authoritative commentary on the things that we've written. We have not followed cunningly defies fables we made unknown to you the coming and power of our Lord Jesus Christ. He says, The prophecy never came in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. So what is Scripture? It's God's Word. Through human instruments, it's pure. It is clean. It endures forever There's some very distinguished qualities of Scripture. 2 Timothy 3 talks about the Scriptures being God-breathed, and then he says they're profitable doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, righteousness. That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. The opening scripture that we had, Psalm 19, says that the law of the Lord is perfect. Converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandments of the Lord are pure, enlightening the eyes. He says, by them is thy servant warned, and of keeping of them there is great reward. When we talk about the scriptures, we're talking about a book that bears the authority of God because he is the source. We talk about a book that is pure because God is pure and he cannot lie. We talk about a book that was written with clarity. And so when we read the Bible, we can understand what it says. Because it was written not to confuse us or not to cloud the truth, but to communicate in very simple language what God wants us to do and how we are to understand him and how we are to relate to him. You might say, well, well, Joel, sometimes when I read the Bible, I get confused. Well, the problem is not with the way it's being communicated. The problem is with us. Sometimes we have to dig a little bit more. We have to recognize that culturally we are removed by thousands of years from these things that are written. Does not change the fact that they stand timelessly true. But it is also true that sometimes we don't appreciate what is there because we don't understand the intents for which it was given. And they are sufficient. We use the term sola scriptura. They are sufficient in and of themselves. I don't need to look for some outside source of Authority. I go to the word and the word speaks for itself. Very, very important truths. So my third question is: how are we supposed to relate to such a book? Well, the answer is found in the text in front of us. Let's go ahead and let's look at a couple of very important details in the parable that Jesus teaches. to these disciples and to a multitude of people that were standing before him. The first thing I want you to notice is found in verse number five. Here's what it says. It says, a sower went out to sow his seeds. The first detail that we find in this text is that a farmer goes out and he does his job. Now, is there anybody here that likes the garden? I see some. Some hands? Okay, all right, Casey, I know we love to all right, I see the hands in the back. All right. I love to garden. Now, I don't know about you, but I've never gardened the way that this guy gardened. You know, I go out there and I like make this raised bed and I put in all this compost and I'm like babying this seed and I'm just I'm really spending a lot of time with this particular thing that I've planted. But that's not the way that this man was planting. He was planting his seed a lot more like the way that you would sow your lawn if you're trying to overseed in the fall so that when it comes back in the spring you have a nice solid Nice looking lawn, right? Tim would tell you that's the time to do it in the fall. That's the picture that I want you to get here. Not that he was using that kind of equipment, but he wasn't planting the way that you and I plant our gardens He was taking seed in a large field and he's spreading it out all over that field. He's not walking to an area and going, oh, I'm going to put that seed in right there, and I'm going to put that in I'm gonna put that seed in right there. I'm gonna plow this uh up and I'm gonna I'm gonna walk that's not what he did. He just goes out, he throws the seed. That's actually a very important detail. The second detail I want you to notice is found in verse number six. As he sowed, some fell, and he talks about lots of different kinds of soil that they fell on. So as this farmer is sowing his seed, there is no deliberation and there's no discrimination as he throws out the seed. Now he wasn't walking out into the woods. and dumping his seed in the woods, okay? It wasn't like I'm throwing it out on a road. He's standing in a field, a place where you expect for seed to be able to grow. But if he throws that seed out, he's not really that careful about where the seed hits. He just throws it out indiscriminately. That's also a very significant detail for us to appreciate. The third detail I want you to notice is that the seed fell on four different kinds of soil environments And verse 5, it says, some fell by the wayside. When he says the wayside, he's thinking about a place where somebody cuts across your property. Anybody ever have a corner lot? Okay? And so if you have a corner lot, that means that, you know, when the kids go to school, they might just kind of cut across your yard a few times, okay? And what ends up happening is you get this this like little this little patch where nothing's growing. Or in the back of our yard where our dog likes to do his little route back and forth when he's, you know, barking at the mailman or the FedEx truck or the Amazon guy, there's like there's this just like spot where no grass will grow. And it can't grow because as long as we have a dog, it's gonna be packed down. Well, not that I'm trying to get rid of my dog, okay? But some of the some of the seed fell in a place like that Some of it fell in places where it was very stony. There was a little bit of dirt on the top, but for all practical purposes, If a seed were to germinate in that place, the roots can't go down and get the nutrients and actually have moisture, it just takes the sun coming up and that thing, boom, it's done. It's kind of like something grown on your your driveway where the kids dumped a little bit of dirt if you have some small kids that like to make sand castles on your driveway, like my kids do. Not like the stuff that grows in the cracks on your driveway that you can't get rid of. Some falls in a place like that. Some fell in places where there were thorns growing. The idea is that there are all these weeds And you know that when you get into the growing season, th there's tons and tons of weed seeds all over the place. You don't really see them until the temperature gets just right, and then all of a sudden they start coming up. And where you planted that seed, all of a sudden it gets choked. Because the weeds always grow faster than the good stuff. Isn't that true? It always does. So some falls on the wayside, some on this rocky soil, some falls in this storny area, and others falls on land that is fertile It has moisture and there's depth, and when the seed hits it, once the environment's just right, that seed germinates, that those roots go down, and before long a plant starts to form. And that plant gets mature, and by the end of the season, he can go out and he can harvest. You say, what 's the point? The point is that in all four cases, the seed had the same potential for life. The same potential. The seeds that fell on the wayside had the potential to produce life. The seeds that fell on the rocky soil had the potential to produce life. The seeds that fell in the thornies had the potential for life. And the seed that fell on the good ground had the potential for life. There was no problem with the seeds. It was the soil that the seed landed on. But with all the different potentials, there were ultimately two different outcomes. You say, well, actually, Joel, there's four outcomes. There are two outcomes, but one of them is distinct in the way that it falls. One outcome is that it was unfruitful. The other outcome is that it was fruitful. Now The stuff that fell on the wayside was unfruitful because the birds stole it and people stomped on it without realizing what they were doing. The stuff that grew in the rocky soil it was unfruitful because when it started to germinate, as soon as the sun came up, it it it crushed it. It died. And what fell on the soil that had all the thorns and the thistles and all that kind of stuff, when it starts to germinate, as soon as that stuff comes, it chokes it out, and it's not able to grow to maturity and produce fruit. There are ultimately two outcomes. Two differences. And the problem is not in the seed, and the problem is ultimately not in the way that it was sown. There's a final detail I want you to notice. The disciples didn't understand what this is all about. In verse number 9, he says this. His disciples asked him, saying What does this mean? You might be sitting here this morning going, I'm starting to wonder what this means too. What does this mean? Well, here's the simple fact: if Jesus didn't tell them, they wouldn't know. If he didn't tell them, they wouldn't know. But he wanted them to know. And so he answers their question. So let's move beyond those details and let's get into interpreting exactly what's going on. The first thing that I'd like you to notice is that the parable was meant to establish a clear distinction between two groups of people. Now, this is the verse that might make you uncomfortable, but Jesus states it very explicitly. And once we understand why he states it, I think we'll appreciate exactly what he's saying. In verse number 10 it says this. He says, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to others in parables that seeing they may not see, and that hearing they might not understand. He was teaching the disciples who wanted to learn with clarity. But the crowd that had no heart to understand what Jesus was saying. He was actually veiling the truth to those people who were disinterested. Now you might say, well, I don't understand why Jesus would do that. I mean, certainly If these people don't understand the truth, he wants them to understand the truth. And so he's going to keep prodding and he's going to keep pricking and he's going to keep pressing them. And I want you to understand that that's not the point of this parable. Jesus certainly did that in many other situations. But in this parable, he's meant to deal with one primary issue. And by the way, we can appreciate the issue because as we continue our way through the book of Luke, we're going to see that at a point in the next chapter he's going to send out his twelve disciples. And so He's preparing them for the ministry that they're going to experience. And then the next chapter later, he sends out 35 groups, two by two, 70 people who are presenting the gospel all throughout the regions beyond. So he is trying to prepare people for a very specific kind of ministry that they're going to be a part of. And let's just be really frank. Not everybody in the crowd was going to have that ministry. You know why? Because not everybody in the crowd believed. He wasn't going to send them out. In other words, this teaching had no bearing on them at that moment. Not saying it would never have bearing on them, not saying that it doesn't have the potential to have bearing on them, but at that very moment, this teaching was not for them at all. You might say, well, how does that work? You know, we understand this concept in other areas of life. For instance, I know we have some people in here that You do some very advanced math. Well, there was a day when you were a four-year-old or a five-year-old, and you learned things like this is what a one looks like, and this is what a two looks like, and this is what a five looks like. Your parents didn't walk into that classroom and say, why aren't you teaching my kid calculus? He needs to know what his numbers are. You can't learn calculus until you know what a number is Until you learn some very basic foundational truths. In other words, there are certain things in life that for us to understand them and to be able to apply them, we've got to learn basics. before we come to those matters. We understand that in life. It's true in science. It's true in mathematics. It's true in language. It's true in so many areas of life. There are lots and lots of things when we teach our children. We teach them on a very basic level because we know that they can't understand this on an adult level. We understand age appropriateness. You know, even when we talk about believers, not every believer is at the same point of maturity. And so in the book of Hebrews, he says, some of you need to be taught the basics again because You've become immature. You can't handle the meat of the word. You need to go back to the milk of the word. And so he makes those kinds of distinctions Not all truth in Scripture is directed to every person universally at all times. Do you realize that's true I cannot apply every text in Scripture directly to myself in the same way that it was applied in that particular of con particular context. Now I'm not suggesting that there are portions of scripture that have no value to us. What I'm simply saying is not every scripture is applied directly. Let me give you a very basic example of this. When you read the Old Testament law, I ask this question: are you allowed to eat pork? Yes you are. Are you allowed to eat shrimp? Yes you are. There are lots and lots of laws in the Old Testament that they do not apply directly to us. Why is that? Because we are New Testament Christians. We're not under the Old Testament law. That does not mean that those Old Testament laws cannot teach us that there aren't things for us to learn. But we are not to directly apply them because we are in a different time as New Testament Christians on this side of the cross. There are lots and lots of scriptures that, frankly speaking, when they are stated, they are given with a very clear qualification. Let me give you some examples of what I mean. Romans 8. 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Does that apply to every single person? No, it doesn't. Because it says there is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. That's a qualification. That means that he's writing to people that at the time this applies to them because now they're in Christ But formerly they were not in Christ. I'll give you another example. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. All things are passed away, all things are become new. Is every single person living here today a new creature in Christ? The answer is no. Because not every person living today is in Christ. That little distinction is of extremely important. Romans 8. 28. We know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Romans 8. 28 has qualification. The qualification is I'm a believer. I'm growing into Christ's likeness. The reason that all things work together for good is because there's a very distinctive purpose that He has for me as a believer. And so these passages of Scripture do not directly apply to the unbeliever because of the qualification of it. But they can if they'll come to Christ and place their faith in him. That really is the sense of what we're talking about in Luke chapter 8. This is a teaching that is directed to the disciple. The one who understands the gospel, the one who has placed his faith in the Messiah, that person has a very distinctive responsibility, and this is why he gives us this teaching. His teaching is directed specifically to believers who would carry the weight of a very heavy duty. And that duty is spread the word indiscriminately. So that moves to our third section. Let's kind of expand this just a little bit. What the parable ultimately does is it reveals to us what needs to be done. You know what that is? Spread the word. It reveals to us how it's supposed to be done. The simplest word is indiscriminately. In other words, our job as believers Is not to go, well, that person looks like somebody who really would accept the gospel. I'm going to go to them, but I'm not going to go to them because there's no way they'd respond to the gospel. Because I mean just look at them. I can see, I just get this sense about them. He says, spread the word indiscriminately. Take the gospel to everybody. Sadly, but truthfully, there have been times in church history Where people who desired to take the gospel to the nations beyond their nation received tremendous pushback from people within their congregations who said If God wants the nations of the earth to embrace him, let him take care of it himself. There are people that said, well, he does it through the gospel. So we've got to take the gospel to people. And people like William Carey and Adam Aram Judson. They had people within their congregations who were very resistant to them taking the gospel to these places. But you know what they said? The gospel is for everyone. We're to take the gospel in discriminatory they say, Well if they wanted the gospel they'd have it right now He says Let's take it to them That's really the sense of what we're looking at. The gospel is to be spread everywhere. It's to be spread indiscriminately. And it's to prepare these people for the responses that they're going to anticipate. He's basically saying there's some people they're going to receive it and there's going to be a life-giving power that is there, and their lives will be transformed by the message, and when you see it, you will be absolutely amazed at the power of the word. That happens when you preach the gospel. There are people that you say there's absolutely no way this person would accept it. They do. Their life has changed, and they're a totally different person after they meet the gospel. There are other people that ultimately they reject it. They're completely callous. They say, I don't want to hear this. Don't throw this down my throat. I want nothing to do with this. And you know what? They walk away. They might even be nasty and insulting. There might others who, for a for a period of time, they kind of give the appearance that they're really interesting, aspect. You know, missionaries ex experience this a lot of times They'll give the gospel to somebody, they'll start coming to their church, and then after a little while they start getting the sense that maybe they're not really here because of the truth. Maybe they're wanting a job Or maybe they're hoping to get access to some resources. Or maybe there's this situation that they're kind of they're kind of testing to see if the church can give them something physical that they really want. And all of a sudden you start realizing this excitement is not rooted in the truth. He addresses that kind of situation. There's some people they hear it and there's a side to them that wants to accept it and there's a part of them who's just so entangled with so many distractions. But ultimately, they walk away. It's like you're giving the gospel to somebody and they're they're on their phone, they're looking, they're looking. Yeah, that's really cool. That's really cool. That's great. Great. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And they're just scrolling, scrolling, scrolling. And they're just they're not engaged. The the simple point is he's saying, listen guys When you go out, there are going to be people who accept this and their lives are changed. There are going to be people who don't. And the way that they don't receive it won't always look the same. Some it might be this arrogance, not a chance. Some might, I really like this, I want to try this. And then as time goes on, it proves to have not taken root in their hearts Some it's just purely distraction. You go, if we could just weed out all these distractions, maybe, maybe, maybe. But they don't. What's the point? It reminds them that the potential to produce life. Is in every single time the seed is thrown out. Every time there's a conversation, every time you give someone a track, every time you have a conversation, there is the potential. For a life to be transformed. We say that you're sowing a seed. You ever heard that statement? Sowing a seed. And sometimes in a conversation, you hear a person say, I need this. And they ask more questions, and it leads from one point to another point, and ultimately, this person comes to a clear understanding of the gospel, they place their faith in Christ. Sometimes the person says, I don't want anything to do with this. Sometimes someone says, Well, let's talk more about this. And they start to appear very interested, and as time goes on, you realize that they're not. All different kinds of responses. Here is the simple fact. Jesus was telling them this is how, spreading the gospel words, so that when they witnessed it, they wouldn't say, maybe there's something wrong with the word. And not only they wouldn't say, Maybe there's something wrong with the word, but they wouldn't in their mind go, Maybe we need to change this message just a little bit, change your approach just a little bit, so that people will accept. That kind of a compromise is something that people who love souls and care about the gospel, they are very much tempted to do. When they present the message, they start going, you know, I've noticed there's always a sticking point if I talk about Jesus being God in flesh. Maybe we won't talk about that anymore. There's a sticking point when I mentioned the resurrection, like, man, I think it's a little bit too much to believe that someone could die and rise from the dead. So I I kind of like cannot really get into that very much. The cross and Christ's bloodshed. I don't want to talk about sin. Folks, there's a message that saves, and there's a thousand different ways to destroy the message. There is a message that saves. In fact, there's more than a thousand ways to destroy the message, very honestly. And so he's saying, look, there's only one message that bears my authority and has my power and has the potential to radically transform a soul. But it also does something else. It reminds them where their responsibility ultimately lies. Their responsibility is to spread the word faithfully and indiscriminately, and the hearers are responsible to receive the word, and it's not their responsibility, the one proclaiming the message, to make them respond to the word. This is a really important principle for us to understand as Christians. Sometimes we have a person, we love them very much We care about their soul. We pray for them. We've prayed for them for years. And somehow we feel like we've got to like twist their arm into the kingdom of God. Folks, if there's anything we learn from this text, our job is just give the word and let God work. Give the word and let him work. Don't doubt the power and the authority of the scriptures. Hold fast to it and proclaim it. That's really what the sense of this is all about. And so I submit to you this morning that what this parable is about is how a believer will understand how to make sense of what happens when they preach the gospel. When some accept it and some reject it. And it ultimately calls them to say there's one place that there is true authority and the ability to save And that is in the gospel. So don't trim it. Don't shortcut it. Don't try to manipulate around the corners. Let the word do its work. He doesn't go up and say, hey, there's some areas he had to plow the field first. He doesn't say that. He just spread it. That's what our job is, is to spread the word. So you ask, well, how do you, you know, Joel, how do you how do you apply such a passage? Let me give you some thoughts that I think are very practical and I hope will help you as we think about this text in front of us. The first is this: we need to have a high practice of scripture. You know, we say that we believe that the Bible is God's word. We say that we believe that every single word comes from Him. We believe in anercy. We believe that this is the inspired word of God. Inerrit, we believe that. But sometimes we act like we don't believe it. By the way that we use it I mean if I really believe this is the Word of God, then I'm going to preach it and I'm going to proclaim it. I'm going to be careful when I say what it's saying I'm going to use it the way that it needs to be used. I'm not going to look for some other method that I think is going to help the Word of God. I've got confidence in the Word of God. The second thing I'll mention is that we need to have a high confidence in the power of the gospel. One of the reasons that people discriminate and who they take the gospel to, one versus another , It's because deep down in their heart, they think that the gospel could save them, but couldn't save them. You understand what I'm saying? But the fact is, it's got the power to save whoever embraces it. You might have a person who has lived in absolute debauchery their entire life. And they hear the gospel and the message of salvation, and you'd never believe that person would ever accept this message. And their heart is broken over their sin. And they see the grace of God and what Jesus did for them on the cross. And they see the power of the resurrection. And they see that they can stand righteous in Christ, forgiven and cleansed, forever. And they go, I want that. It's like our jaw hits the floor. Are you serious? And another person, they're so moral and they're so kind, and they're and you give them that message and they look at you like you're from another planet. I don't need this. I'm a kind person. I do good things. In the back of our mind, we're like, I so thought this person would accept it and this person would reject it. And it's the opposite of what I thought. The fact is you have no idea how a person will respond when you meet them. You have no idea. You have no idea How God might work in their heart through that one encounter, and then over a series of situations, God begins watering that seed. And one day You even find out about it. One day that person comes to hear the gospel, understand the gospel, it clicks, they turn to Christ, they trust in his finished work, their lives transformed. Have confidence in the gospel's power. We need to be deliberately focused in our priorities when we interact with the lost. There are some truths in the Bible that it is completely pointless to argue with an unbeliever about. There's no point in it. No point at all. Why? Because what they need is not to understand how the church is supposed to be formed or some issue of eschatology. What they need to know is that they're a sinner, and there's only one way of salvation, and it's Christ alone That's what they need to know. They've got a lifetime of Christian living to figure out all the great doctrines that you and I've, of course, figured out perfectly ourselves, right? No, we haven't. They need the gospel. They need to hear of sin and righteousness and judgment, of the redemptive work of Christ, his righteousness, his resurrection. They need to be called to turn to Christ in simple, childlike faith and trust in his finished work. And sometimes we argue about stuff that doesn't matter. I mean, I'm not saying it doesn't matter at all, but I'm saying it doesn't matter to them. Because that's not their greatest need. It's like arguing with a person about going to the doctor when they have some illness that's going to kill them, and we're fighting with them about some silly issue like making your bed or you know The way that you do something in your house doesn't matter. What matters is what's fatal in their life. We need to be deliberate in our focus and our priorities when we interact with the lost. We need to feel the weight of our responsibility, but not the weight of their responsibility. Don't miss that. And you might say, well, that's callous, Joel, because if I'm burdened for them, then I'm trying to make them believe, right? You should be burdened to give them the truth with clarity. And in grace and in love, to continue to keep the door open, to pray for them. But you cannot bear the weight of making them believe because you have no ability to do such a thing. Sometimes we do this. We fail to remember that it's God who works in them. He just works through the Word, and we give it. We need to carry the weight of our responsibility, not theirs. We need to be prepared for diverse responses You know, one of the things that is so wonderful about being a pastor is you see the power of the word. One of the things that's tragic about being a pastor is you see how people reject it. And you see what happens when people reject it. It's devastating. The fact is, the problem is not the word. The problem isn't necessarily the way it's being communicated. The problem is one heart wants it and one doesn't. And a heart that's willing to receive the word will enjoy the full benefits of the word's work in them. And the one who is callous and says no. They don't experience that. And when we see this in life, sometimes we question the wrong place. It's not the word 's power. And it may not be the way we've presented it, though it's worthwhile to look into. It may simply be God has left them with a choice to make, and they've chosen wrongly. We should never allow disappointment to undermine our confidence in God's program or tempt us to compromise for the sake of results. Folks, when it comes to an issue like the church, I think lots and lots of churches in our generation, and I say our generation, I guess there's a lot of generations here, but in our time. Lots of churches are choosing to work the way they do, not because they have conviction, but because there are focus groups that are giving them the impression that if I really want to reach people here This is the way I do it. And if I want to reach the people over here, it's the way I do it. And I asked the question, where is the Spirit of God in all that? Where's the Word of God in all that? Where is your confidence in the gospel? Where is your confidence in the Word? God doesn't bless our opinions. God sometimes works in spite of our opinions. God blesses his word. He blesses what he has placed his full authority on the scriptures. That's the intent, I believe, that we should pull from this text. A high practice of scripture, a high confidence in the gospel, a deliberate focus of priority, a feeling of weight of responsibility in the right place. Preparation that we're going to see diverse responses, a conviction that we won't compromise the message. May God help us to do that. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as I think of this text, I recognize that it is a weighty text. There is so much more that could be said. But I pray that you will take the things that we have heard, the things that we have read, and I pray that you will take these things and impress deeply upon our hearts. The clear intent of the scriptures before us today. May you work in us and then work through us so that we can be effective ministers of the gospel. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to ask you to turn in your hymn books to hymn 130, and we're going to sing the love of God. Obviously, this message is focused on the believer. But the truth is, you may not know the Lord as your savior this morning. And if you don't know the Lord as your savior, I want you to come and say, Pastor, I got some questions. I don't know what what you mean by justified and redeemed and forgiven and Christ's death on the cross and these things don't make any sense to me. If you don't understand and you want to, just come and talk to me. I'll be glad to sit down with the Bible and show you. How you could be saved. For the rest of us that are believers, let's apply this this week. Let's do it. Let's stand together and sing him 130, the love of God. We'll sing the first and the last verses together, please. No, no, no, no, no, no. I hope that you'll be able to uh join us again this evening for our evening service and the passage that we'll be looking at uh and ex Exodus 16 is a very practical one. And if you're visiting with us today, I hope that the service was a blessing to you. I hope that you'll come by and greet me. And if you didn't receive a welcome packet, I hope that you'll pick one of those up on your way out And uh Scott, can you close us in prayer, please? And uh hopefully we'll see many of you tonight. Let's pray. Dear Lord God, we are so thankful to you for the uh the salvation you provide in your son. We thank you, Lord, for the gospel and the Just the clarity that it gives and we just pray that we would not um misuse the gospel, that we would use it in a way that glorifies you, that we would trust in it and uh It's power and that we would use it to see others saved. Pray, Lord, that we might live in such a way that others might be drawn to you. And just bring us back at the appointed time, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen.