Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchor to the Word, Morning Reflection. And I'm very excited about the study we'll be doing this week. And uh Lord willing we will get either four or five sessions depending on how we move through this text But if you joined us on Sunday, we had a sermon out of Luke chapter 7 and we were working through verses 11 through 19. So if you have a Bible, I'd want to ask you to take it, and let's all turn together to that text and we will read it And then we're going to look at the introduction to the passage of Scripture that we looked at on Sunday morning. Luke seven verse eleven says this it came to pass the day after he went into the city called Nay Many of his disciples went with him and much people. When he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother. And she was a widow, and much people of the city was with her. And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not. He came and touched the beer, and there they that bear him stood still. And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise. He that was dead sat up, began to speak, he delivered him to his mother, and there came fear on all, and they glorified God, saying, That a great prophet has risen up among us, and that God has visited his people And this rumor of him went forth through all Judea and throughout all the region round about. Now this passage of Scripture is a very important text and that is focusing on the way that God works in this issue called providence. Now when we talk about providence, what we're saying is it's not only that God is sovereign, that he rules over all But he is actively at work in people's lives. He is actually involved in the specific circumstances of life. This is a very deep topic. There's a lot that we can say about it. But I want to focus in on several foundational matters as it relates to God's providence. First of all, let me set up this passage by giving you kind of a summary statement, and then I want you to notice a couple of interesting connections. that we find in this text, the things that Jesus has stated earlier in his ministry, and also some things we read about in the Old Testament. So first of all the summary statement The resurrection of this widow's only son serves as a powerful testimony to the mystery of divine providence. And the kindness of God and how he points people to himself through the circumstances of life. What God wants us to see in the passage is that we've got to learn how to trust him. We've got to rest in the way that he governs. his universe and ultimately how he uses his governance to shape us into the image of Christ. Now with that being in mind, let's look first of all at some Old Testament connections to the passage that we're looking at. Now you may not realize this, but this town nane is a is a town that was uh that had a very rich history and there was an incident that had happened about eight hundred years before this miracle that Jesus performs that was very similar to what Jesus is doing. And so I want to kind of drift into that just a moment. But before we do, I want to kind of make a connection between what Jesus is doing in these verses. Not just 11 through 19, but really the passage that we looked at last week with the centurion's servant being raised, I want you to see the connection between these two miracles and something that happened in the Old Testament. In order to appreciate that, we've got to go back to Luke chapter four, earlier in Jesus' ministry, when he begins his Galilean ministry in Nazareth. And Nazareth is where Jesus grew up. Not where he was born, but where he grew up. And so in Luke chapter 4, we see that at the opening to Jesus' ministry in Nazareth, he it's his turn to read in the synagogue. And so he's invited up, he sits down. And he opens up the scroll of uh the prophet Isaiah. And it says that he went to the place where it said the following. I'm going to read it from the text. In Luke 4, 18 it says, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has set me to heal the brokenhearted to Preach deliverance unto the captives, and the recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised and to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. Now after Jesus said that, the Bible says that everyone's eyes were fixed on him And he said, today, this scripture is actually revealed in your midst. And when Jesus said that, all of a sudden, there was an uproar. And the people said This is Joseph's son. We know who this person is. We've watched him grow up. How in the world is this possible? That was the response. And then Jesus says something that's fascinating. He says, Verily I say unto you, no prophet is accepted in his own country. But I tell you the truth, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias, and the heavens were shut up for three years and six months. There was a great famine throughout all the land, but none of them was Elias sent to save Sarepta, the city of Sidon. and a woman that was a widow. Many lepers were in Israel in the time of Eliseas the prophet, and none of them was cleansed save Naaman the Syrian. All they that were in the synagogue when they heard these things were filled with wrath. What Jesus is basically saying is, you know the story of Elijah, and you know the story of Elisha. Elijah healed a certain woman actually I say healed he raised to life a certain widow woman's child who died and I'll mention that story in just a moment And you know the story of Elisha. He said there was a man named Naaman. Naaman was uh he was from the north. He was not a Jew, he was a Syrian, he was actually one of Israel's enemies, he was a soldier, and God Miraculously healed that man from leprosy, which was a death sentence. What Jesus is ultimately saying in these verses is that God went to the Gentiles and he went to specific ones because The Jews during that period of time in their history were rejecting God's authority. And he's basically saying this. There is somebody who is greater than Elijah, and there's somebody greater than Elisha. That's me, and I'm going to prove that. I'm going to demonstrate that. Now those two stories are significant because there's a parallel between the first Kings passage when Elijah raises back to life the widow of Zarephath's child to what goes on here in Main where the widow's child uh is or young man is raised back to life in Luke chapter seven and there's a parallel between The miracle that Elisha performs in Second Kings chapter five and Naaman or I'm excuse me uh Elisha um healing Naaman the leper in 2 Kings chapter 5, and the centurion 's uh servant being raised back to life in Luke chapter 7. It's not that Jesus said, oh, this is to let you know that I'm greater than these men, but as soon as those miracles were performed, There would have been a connection. But there is a third connection that I want to mention, and that is what we read about in 2 Kings chapter 4. In 2 Kings chapter 4, we see the story about Elisha and the Shunammite wo uh w woman. And what we know is that the Shunammite woman was a very wealthy woman. She was married. She had never had children. She and her husband were older. And they opened their home to Elisha as he was traveling. Now, the place where they lived was on a main highway between the northern part of Israel and Galilee and the southern part of Israel. Now, you don't realize this maybe unless you read into uh do a little bit of research, but Nain is the town 800 years later that was the same community where Elisha raised back to life. the child to this woman who had been ministering to him and and her husband as well. So there was a story in the history of this community. When Jesus raises back to life This widow woman's only child, what it would have done is it would have drawn people's attention back to a story From hundreds and hundreds of years before. And what would it have ultimately done as they compared these two stories? They would say, you know what? Unquestionably, while both people were raised back to life The superior of these people is not Elisha, it's Jesus. And so that's really the connection. There's a connection between what Jesus stated in Nazareth There's a connection between what took place during the lifetime of Elijah, one of the most revered prophets in Israel's history, and Elisha, we could say the second most revered prophet in all of Israel's history. So you might say, well, what's the point? Like, how does this have anything to do with God's providence, his sovereignty? Well, we'll see this as we get into our study, not today, but uh, Lord willing, tomorrow and the rest of the week. But one of the things that it does is it shows you that the gospel is universally being presented to people. In other words, the gospel is not just for the rich, it's for the rich and the poor. The Gospel's not just for the Jew, it's for the Jew and the Gentile. It's not just for people whose lives are smooth and going well. It's for people whose lives are falling apart. In other words, the gospel is for all kinds of people. And so we we see that coming out in the fact that He goes to Zareph. And Zarephath uh was a community where Jezebel came from. And we see that that this uh woman who was not able to have a child all these years, she finally has a child in her old age And what happens, the child dies, and she's a broken-hearted woman. And what happens? God brings this child back to life. What we see is that God looks out for all kinds of people. A second thing I'm going to mention. Is that it shows you that when the people are the most likely to respond to the gospel don't, and everything seems like it's at a loss, what does God do? Well, he demonstrates his power and he demonstrates his grace. And so while the Jewish people, even the people that Jesus grew up with in Nazareth, while many of them were saying this is Joseph's son, who is this person? There's no way he's a great prophet, there's no way he's the Messiah Well, what does Jesus do? He goes and he he raises back to life a person who is a widow woman's child or only child in a town called Nain. And all of a sudden people go, wow, what's going on here? He he goes to a Gentile and he he heals a Gentile servant Who is about to die? It shows you that the most unlikely people are the ones that God demonstrates his power through. It shows you also that the heart of the gospel is compassion. It's a love for broken people. It's God doing for us what we are incapable of doing for ourselves. And I think that those are some of the points that are being communicated through these connections that we're looking at. These were events were meant to visibly demonstrate God's providence and the kind ways that He governs, that He manages, that He rules, that He interrupts, that He actually is personally involved. in the circumstances of life. For what? Ultimately demonstrating his glory and accomplishing good in our lives. And so that's our introduction this morning to the passage of scripture we looked at on Sunday. And the passage we'll be looking at this week. I hope that you have a great week. I'm really looking forward to our study. And I believe it's going to be a rich encouragement to you. Have a great rest of your day. Bye now.