Well good morning. Like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We were not able to record on Friday because we had an ordination at our church, and so I was at the church very early in the morning working on that. But if you have your Bible, I'd like to take I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with me to Ecclesiastes chapter 5. We are looking at verses 8 through 10 together, and the topic that we're addressing this morning is a really practical topic, especially when we think about The fact that we are in election year, we're getting close to a national election that has huge implications on the future of our nation. And really we are dealing with a lot of difficulty in our nation when we talk about the government. So the thing that we're going to talk about this morning, I think, is really practical, and I hope that it gives us a good perspective from God's point of view. when it comes to human government and how things work and how we should really uh what our expectations really should be when we think about these things. So Ecclesiastes 5. 8 says this, If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and violent perverting of judgment and justice in a province, Marvel not at the matter, for he that is higher than the highest regardeth, and there be higher than they Moreover, the prophet of the earth is for all. The king himself is served by the field. He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver. Nor he that loveth abundance with increase. This is also vanity. Now we come to this passage, we could really summarize it by saying this government is always in danger of corruption. And when I say it's always in danger of corruption, it is not the norm in human history that we look at a human government that doesn't have levels of corruption that are sometimes extremely severe. It's very rare that we see a nation or a culture or a time period where really people are looking at the government and they trust them and they don't see some abuse of power on some level. And that's really what Solomon is expressing. Now when he's talking about this, let's remember he's a king. He's an extremely wealthy man. He has an incredible perspective because he's able to look out over his provinces and he's able to see what's going on in those provinces. And we know that Solomon was a very wise man. But one of the things that Solomon's going to do is he's going to speak honestly, he's going to speak transparently about human government and how human government is often full of corruption. In fact, what he's going to do is he's going to talk about or highlight and lament the tragedy of human government and really the vanity of this corruption that we see within government. So let me give you a couple of the details of the passage in front of us. And really as we say these things, as we look at these passages, we're going to realize, you know, that is so true. We see this all the time. when we look at human governments. The first tragedy that Solomon mentions is the tragedy of the poor being exploited by those who rule over them. And verse 80 says, if thou seest the oppression of the poor and violent perverting of judgment and justice in a province, Marvel not at the matter. Now, what he's basically saying is don't be surprised when you see that. Now, Solomon's not suggesting that it's okay for a person to abuse power. He's not suggesting that when we look at that we should turn a blind eye and say it doesn't matter. That's not what he's saying. What he is saying is we shouldn't be surprised. We shouldn't be shocked. This is something that happens all the time. Part of living in a fallen world and having a government structure that is full of corrupted people, fallen individuals, ruling over fallen individuals, is is an environment where we can expect we are going to see problems. In fact, one of the reasons that when our founding fathers established this nation, they established what we call a balance of power, was because they understood that authority has a tendency to corruption. They distrusted human nature. And so there is an establishment of balance of power when we have a judiciary, when we have a legislature. when we have an executive branch. We have a balance of power. And as long as that balance of power is there, and as long as there's actually a legitimate accountability and it's slow to make changes, they're not suggesting that we won't have issues of corruption in the nation, but they're suggesting that those in in those issues of corruption will be held in check on some level. And so when someone is wise in establishing authority, they recognize that even though their structure has checks and balances, And even though it has a system of ways of keeping in check some of that corruption, they also recognize it's impossible to entirely stamp it out in any society. So it's something that's going to be there. When people decry it injustice many times, those very people, if you put them in the position of power, would be justice corrupt. just as evil, just as destructive to the people that are under them. And the question is why? Well it really comes down to what we find in the hearts of men. But really what makes this issue such a tragedy is not just that there's an abuse of authority, but the fact that God created government for the protection of innocent people. In other words, the reason that God established government was so that those who have been abused and those who have been taken advantage of And those who are who are in danger can be protected and can be defended and can be vindicated. So this is a huge tragedy. The second tragedy that he mentions is the tragedy of the bureaucracy with a built-in culture of exploitation. Now it's really interesting. We think about government, we think, well, you know, the way to stamp out corruption is just to make sure that there's always a system of people over other individuals who can keep corruption in check below them. Well the reality is that once you put a person over another person, unless one of those people is actually guided by something other than their own bellies and their own natural desires to to i to really take advantage of the situation, then you're going to continue to have corruption. In fact, you'll have this built-in culture of exploitation. where the person over the other person is essentially going to take advantage of them by their position of authority. And verse 80 says, For he that is higher than the highest regardeth and there be higher than they Now, when I first read this and I thought about it, in my mind I thought, well, you know, Solomon's probably referring to the fact that there's a God in heaven who ultimately is over all, and he's the one who's watching, and he's the one who's going to hold people accountable. Well, it's true that that's that that that that is the case, that God is in authority and watching all, but that's really not what Solomon's talking about here. What he's really saying is that within a government setup, many times you have a bureaucracy where people are over one another. But within that system, we also see this tragedy of built-in exploitation, not just of those who are on the very bottom, your normal citizens, but those who are within the government exploiting those who are under them in the government In other words, we understand that a person who is in authority needs to be held accountable. But what happens when the one over him is just as corrupt as he is? Well then you have this issue. In fact, let me give you an illustration of this. When we lived overseas, I remember one day I was coming from a hospital visit, and when I was driving back from the hospital, I pulled up to a stop sign. And there at the stop sign, there was also a light. And the light oftentimes did not work because our power would go out every other day But when the power was actually working, you would have the light working. Well I remember I drove up and it was a red light and so I looked across traffic And there there was an opening in the traffic, so you're allowed to turn right on red, and so that's what I did. I turned right on red, merged into s into the traffic and started driving. Well immediately as I took my right hand turn, a police officer on the side of the road stopped me and made me pull my car to the side. Well after about 45 minutes of going back and forth about what had just taken place The police officer in my car finally agreed I had not violated the law. And I told him really he had an option. Either he could arrest me and take me to the station and essentially take me to court and then a judge would have to determine whether or not I violated the law by doing something that wasn't wrong, turning right on red, okay Or he would have to let me go. And this is what he said to me. He said, Sir, there is someone over me who expects me to get something from you before I let you go. I said, are you serious? He said, yes, I'm serious. And he was absolutely right. As soon as he got out of my car, his superior officer walked up to my car. Tapped on my window and said, Sir, we need to resolve this issue. And I said, sir, the issue is already resolved, and I drove off. What was illustrated there? What was illustrated Is that the man who was trying to exploit me, a citizen who had not violated the law, was ultimately being exploited by his superior officer In other words, if I gave him five bucks to let me go, then he was going to have to give four of those dollars to the guy above him. And that guy was going to have to give three of his dollars to the guy above him In other words, there was a built-in bureaucratic exploitation in the culture of that particular group of officers that were working that day at that location. And the fact is that we see that in the world all the time. A third tragedy that we see is the tragedy of the hard work, of the fruitfulness of the poor being stolen by those who have the power to do so. In verse 90 says, Moreover, the prophet of the earth is for all, and the king himself is served by the field. Now the question is, when he says that the prophet of the earth is for all and the king is served by the field, the question is, does the king work in the field? Does the king own the fields? Should the king have the right to the produce of the field simply because he's the king? And the answer is, well, technically he shouldn't. But because he's the king, he has the right by force to say, you've got to give me a certain cut of the profits of your labors. What do we call that? Well, some people call it taxation. And I think in the in the context of this passage, it's really exploitation It's taking advantage of the hard work of others and using it simply to make yourself a little bit fatter and a little bit more prosperous. And see basically what he's saying is, I've seen that those in power who don't even work for the produce of the fields will seize it by force simply because they can. And he says this is an incredible tragedy. The fourth tragedy that he mentions, this is the last one we'll talk about here, is the tragedy of a corrupt system that's never satisfied. And verse 10 he says, He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver, nor he that loveth abundance with increase, this is also vanity. The fact is that when people abuse power because of greed, they will never come to the point where they say, you know, I've had enough. I don't need any more. They're going to continue to feed into this system of taking from those just because they can. In other words, they will not stop abusing a system that's working for them. Their lust for money will only become stronger with time. The way that they will abuse those under them will only become uglier as time goes on. In other words, when people begin to take advantage of power They abuse it more and more and more, and it doesn't stop. The only way that you can stop a person from abusing power who's exploiting the system is to take them out of power. So that they no longer have the ability, because of position, to do that. And the question is, who is the one who ultimately lifts people up and brings them down? It's God. You know, look at the example of Nebuchadnezzar. When Nebuchadnezzar became arrogant and looked out over his his nation that he had really conquered and ruled by tremendous force. When he thought about how wealthy and how powerful he had become as he looked out over the nation, God came to Nebuchadnezzar and he said, Today I'm going to put you out in the field. And I'm going to take you out of power, and I'm going to humble you, and I'm going to demonstrate to you that though you have tremendous power, it's only because I've given it to you. And I can take it away at any moment, and I can put you back in power if I want to. And that's exactly what God did with Nebuchadnezzar. And what we see with Nebuchadnezzar is an example of a man who was lifted up, who was put down, and who was re-established, and how God humbled that man by his own providential means. So when we look at this concept of the tragedy of corruption in government, we really ought to ask ourselves the question, how do we respond to all of this? The truth is that's an extremely negative thing to consider. It's really easy for us to think that our nation is above the corruption system. And we only see this in developing countries and parts of the world where there are dictators and people who are ruling by brute force. But I want you to realize that in this country, the United States of America, we've got corruption on every level too. Human nature doesn't all of a sudden become pure and sinless when it comes into the United States of America. The reality is we have the exact same problems in our government In our system of ruling, even though we have the checks and balances, even though we've had a peaceful and prosperous nation for so many generations, it hasn't changed the fact that we have a history where we can find examples of people who were very infamous in the positions that they held, and people who sometimes were had had to be held accountable by the government themselves. So how do we respond to these things? Well, let me give you a couple of simple thoughts that I jotted down today as I was thinking about it. The first is this. Don't be surprised or shocked when you see examples of corruption in government. Now I'm not suggesting that it's okay. I'm not suggesting we should turn a blind eye. I'm not suggesting that people shouldn't be held accountable. I'm simply suggesting that we should recognize that human nature is broken and fallen. And when people get power, they often take advantage of it. And they use it to exploit others. And the reality is that we shouldn't be shocked or surprised when this happens. Secondly, don't think it's ever going to be eliminated entirely in this world as it stands. You know, there are people who naively get in the streets and say we're going to establish a totally different society that doesn't have corruption and injustice. Well the bottom line is, as soon as one group leaves power and another establishes power, or as soon as one system is removed and another system is re-established. You still have corrupted people working in the government and they're going to have a tendency to abuse the power that they're given. The only thing that's going to eliminate, or should I even put it this way, hold in check this issue of corruption in government is when people that have good ethics People that have high character, people who have integrity, people who have a fear of God, that's extremely important. They fear God, they can recognize there's a judge higher than them who's ultimately going to hold them accountable for eternity When people have a fear of God, when people are righteous in character, because they're not being guided by their bellies and their lusts and their passions, but they're being dominated by the self-control established by the Holy Spirit. Unless you have a large number of people like that ruling and reigning and working in government, then you're going to continue to see corruption on every single level of government And so we need to realize that we cannot entirely eliminate this because we live in a fallen world. Thirdly, realize that a people without government is even worse than those who have it and it's corrupt. You know, sometimes people will think, well man, if we have a corrupt system, let's tear it down and let's just rule ourselves. Once you realize that we look at human history and we see the fall of a strong government that was corrupt, and then the establishment of no government over a period, what do you see? Incredible violence. You see incredible tragedy. You see incredible abuses. In other words, God actually established government for the protection of people. And even when government is corrupt, Government can still protect people better than no government when people are absolutely defenseless. Because the reality is that there are always people looking to prey on other people. And so we need to realize that government, though it can have lots of evil and corruption in it, is still a tool that God uses ultimately to protect us and others Fourth, realize that God lifts up, brings down, and uses rulers to accomplish his purposes. We have to recognize that God in heaven is in control. He's sovereign. He rules. The king's heart is in the hands of the Lord. And as the rivers of water, he turns it whithersoever he wills. I want to remind you that a corrupt Roman governor who wanted to tax and he wanted to register every person in the regions of Israel is the ultimate reason on a human level that Mary and Joseph ended up in Bethlehem, where the Lord Jesus Christ was born in fulfillment to prophecy. Well God used this corrupt governor. Why did the government want to do that? Was it for the good of the people? Was it because they were benevolent? Was it because they weren't corrupt? Was it because they were righteous and godly? The answer is of course not. They were doing it for their own purposes, yet God was still in control, using it to accomplish his own purposes. And the reality is that when we look at the history of God's people, Israel, And when we look at biblical history, we look at the rest of history. What do we see? We see the hands of a sovereign God at work in the lives of people and even using governments for his purposes. I also want to mention this. We need to pray for the authority. In fact, in Timothy it says that we might lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness We need to plead with God to use governments to allow us to continue to live quiet and peaceable lives. And lastly, I want to say this. We should anticipate God's justice and his righteous kingdom. The fact is, when we see the corruption of human government today, It ought to remind us that there's a day that those who abuse authority will stand before God. And the just ruler of all of eternity is going to hold them to account for what they've done. We need to recognize that there is a kingdom coming that is an eternal kingdom of righteousness. And God's people will enjoy this prosperous kingdom for all eternity. And so as we live in a fallen world and as we see the tragedy that takes place when there's corruption within government. Let's remember that we're strangers and pilgrims in a fallen world and we're looking for a city which hath foundations whose builder and maker is God. I hope that this has been a challenge to you this morning. It was a wonderful passage for me to study and think through. If it's been a challenge and encouragement to you, I hope you'll share that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity today to consider this passage. Help us to be a people who trust you, who walk in a godly way in spite of the complications that we experience in life. I pray that we would have this healthy anticipation of your coming kingdom, that we would pray for those in authority. And that you would work in a good way to protect your people in these troubling days. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, it's been good to chat with you this morning, and Lord willing, I look forward to chatting with you tomorrow as we continue our study in the book of Ecclesiastes. Have a wonderful morning. Bye now.