Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church and hope that you've been having uh a good week. And uh if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the For the first time in a long time, we want to warmly welcome you and hope that you received a welcome packet. And in that packet is one of the ways that we can connect with you. There's a little connection card, and if you'd like us to reach out to you, please do fill that out. And uh put that in the box in the back. Uh Pastor Chris has a couple of announcements, and then we'll start our service. Good morning. I hope you had a chance to grab one of the bulletins because we have several things coming up on the itinerary. Um just for the few weeks that are ahead of us, we have today our church members directory photos being done. in the back at the fellowship hall. So after the AM service, if you want your picture taken with your family, and you may also decide if you that you don't want to put in a director, you can still take your pictures, uh those are going to be in the fellowship hall after the AM service. Tonight we have our annual business meeting after the PM service. Um so if you want to join us Please plan to join us for that if you're able to. And then next week, well what's going on next weekend? Oh, it's Christmas. Um so we got our candlelight service on Saturday, 7 p. m. for Christmas Eve. And Christmas Day we'll have an 11 a. m. service and just that one service. For Christmas Day. Following that, we have our normal schedule. So January 1st, New Year's, we'll have our regular services, which also includes our Lord's table in the morning. With that, Pastor? First of all, I'd like to say yesterday was a very special day. We had two of our young people get married. married and uh one in England and the other in uh Florida and so uh Emily uh got married actually technically in Wales not in uh Not in England, uh, but um that service is actually online. Um so my wife posted that if you're interested in watching that. And then uh Hansel uh got married in Florida, and so I was in Texas yesterday and then in Florida and then in Tennessee and I'm here today. So it was a busy weekend. Uh but we thank the Lord uh for his blessing on both of those weddings and uh very excited for those two young couples and their desire to serve the Lord in different convents, but very excited for what God is doing in their lives If you could, let's turn our Bibles to Isaiah 53, and this will be our opening scripture reading. And we will be looking at Isaiah 53 in our morning service. Isaiah 53:1 says this: Who hath believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with Christ. grief, and we hid as it were our faces from him. He was despised and we esteemed him not. Surely or he wa but he was wounded for our tran or surely he had borne our griefs and carried our sorrow sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him And with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us. all. Very excited about looking at this passage of scripture. This passage is really the heart of the gospel. And the Christmas season is not just about the incarnation, but it's the purpose of the incarnation. Why did Christ Come. And it's that he came to die on the cross for us. And so this this morning we're going to focus on the significance of the cross. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service. This morning. Father, we're a rich, richly blessed people. We're very grateful that we can gather today. Thank you for each person in our congregation. Father, we pray that as the Word of God is open, that you would provide clarity of thought, that it would be preached with power, that the Holy Spirit would take the word , it would mightily impress it upon our hearts. Hearts. Father, as we sing these wonderful hymns, these Christmas hymns, celebrating the incarnation and rejoicing in the birth of our Savior, I pray that our hearts would be overwhelmed by the rich. Doctrinal truths that we'll sing about. We will have deep joy as we reflect on the power of these truths. Father, I pray for those in our congregation who cannot be with us today in person. They've joined us in the live stream. I pray that you would strengthen them. I know many are sick. Many have traveled. We're in a time of the year that's so busy. I pray that you'd help us to be able to focus our attention on the reason for the significance of the season, why we celebrate, what we remember. I pray that you'd help our time with family and friends to be very rich and very sweet. I pray that you would be glorified in our lives and that as we enter into The new year, that our hearts would be refocused on the goodness of God demonstrated in the gospel. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Thank you all for joining us this morning for worship. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number 199. Angels We Have Heard on High. We're going to sing some Christmas carols this morning. Sing out as we sing all four verses of Angels We Have Heard on High. Angels, we have heard on high Sweetly singing all the way And the require Echo back the joy straight I was going to say what they might find me with my friends. Maybe I can make a lot of them. Right, Sydney, let's turn back just a couple pages to hymn number 196. Oh sorry, 194. 194. Joy to the world. We'll sing verses 1, 2, and 4. Sing out. This morning Try to the first time. There was a night planning and he blessed happy forward , and we must have been colour, and we made him come in the Lord , maybe. First and eight, please be seated. as we turn over to hymn number 201. Oh come all ye faithful. We'll sing all three verses. No , no, no, no, I don't know. Yeah, they didn't really think any of the people who are not going to be able to do that. Great singing this morning. We're gonna open our scriptures to Isaiah chapter 53. Isaiah chapter 53, we'll be reading verses 7 through 12. Isaiah 53, verses 7 through 12. The scriptures say, He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opens not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter. And as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth. He was taken from prison and from judgment, and who shall declare his generation? For he was cut off out of the land of the living. For the transgression of my people he was stricken, and he was he had made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death, because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see a seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify me Many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul unto death. And he was numbered with the transgressors, and he bare the sins of many, and made intercession for the transgressor. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Folks does the spring. Alright, let's continue our singing this morning. I'm gonna turn over to 199. 199 Hark, the Herald Angel sing, will sing all three verses of hymn number one ninety-nine. The herball names are singing for me to the newborn thing, he ordered and the God has been. Father, I don't know. Why we bring for the way we are. And please stand with me once more as we sing. Uh 201. No. Good Christ 202. Sorry. 202, good Christian men rejoice will sing all three verses. Santa Last And then we know we are if we need to find the price of one again. Many God is so like one of the lights , now we give a man with your Jesus Christ was born for again. Please, please, Jesus Christ was born to me. All we want you want to be all Christ was one Christmas. I thought all the lights. Thank you so much for that. Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for junior church And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's turn together, please, to Isaiah 53. Isaiah 53 and We're going to go ahead and read a portion of this and then spend some time this morning looking at what is really the heart of the Christmas message. Why did Christ come? Why did God take on flesh and dwell among us? What was the whole purpose for this season? Isaiah 53, verse number one says the following. Who hath believed our report? To whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see him there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Let's bow together for a moment and ask the Lord to help us to understand the weight of these very important truths from Isaiah 53 Father, this morning, as we look at this text, I pray that you would help me to be able to communicate this passage with very simple clarity. I pray that you'd help us this morning to understand the weight, the significance, in fact, the tremendous beauty of what was accomplished because of what Christ did for us. Help us to recognize that your wrath against our sin could only be satisfied in the death of one person. That righteous man, Jesus Christ. And I thank you that his willingness to go to the cross accomplished in full our redemption. I pray that you'd help us to understand that and to glory in it and to be so very humbled and grateful for it. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Isaiah 53 explains the weight of Christ's coming sacrifice and the glory of the redemption that he would purchase for his people. In fact, if you're reading through commentaries, you'll see that really the section that we look at Isaiah 53 doesn't really begin at Isaiah 53. 1. It actually begins several verses Earlier, that entire section is dealing with this concept of the sacrifice of Christ. This morning, as we look at the text, we are going to see a passage That gives us probably the most thorough of all the passages I could think of, most certainly in the Old Testament, maybe even in the New Testament, of the significance of what was being accomplished on the cross. So much rich doctrine is found in these verses. In fact, some have estimated that nearly 80 places in the New Testament are referring back to either by specifically quoting or by alluding to some portion of this section of the book of Isaiah. It's an extremely significant portion of Scripture. The heart of this message is the concept that Christ cannot be exalted until he is first humbled. There has to be a cross before there is a triumphant kingdom because you cannot have inhabitants of a kingdom who are unredeemed. It's impossible. God cannot allow you and me to be a part of this eternal plan and purpose unless there is a redemption that has been accomplished on our behalf. And so that's really what these verses are about. They're about showing us the significance of that very concept And so the first thing I'd like us to do this morning is look at the incarnation and to recognize how humbling a reality the incarnation is. Now when I use the word incarnation, what I'm saying is God took on flesh. This is a very important theological concept for Christians. In fact, if you do not believe that God took on flesh that we are dealing with a one-of-you kind one-of-a-kind, unique person, the Lord Jesus Christ, then you do not believe in the biblical Jesus. This is a very significant point. And the Bible talks a lot about this issue. This is not just a New Testament concept. In fact, a lot of times when we look at messianic passages, primarily in the book of Isaiah, we're going to see the concept of God in flesh. We can see that concept in the way that the prophetic passages are worded. But what I'd like to do is take just a moment to look at some of the key, most significant passages that give us this instruction about the incarnation. The first passage I want to ask you to turn to is Hebrews chapter 1. In Hebrews chapter 1, we see some amazing words written about the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the opening to a sermon about the significance and the weight of the Lord Jesus Christ and how he is superior and what he has brought in to what pointed to him that he has replaced. Hebrews chapter 1, verse number 1 says the following. God hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son. whom he hath appo appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds, who being the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power when he had by himself purged our sins. Now, those are wonderful statements, but a lot of times we don't understand What those wonderful statements actually mean. The brightness of his glory, the expressed image of his person. Those are very majestic statements. What do they mean? Let me tell you what they mean. The phrase, the brightness of his glory, means that the Lord Jesus Christ possessed in his very nature the full glory and the majesty of the Godhead. If you were to look at the Father, or you were look to look at the Spirit, and you look at the Son, they possess equal majesty and glory. Why? Because they are by nature, their very essence is God's When he says he's the brightness of his glory, he's saying there is the full majesty of the Godhead in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. That phrase, the express image of his person, means that he is of the same substance or essence of the other persons of the Godhead. Express image means that when you're looking at Jesus You're looking at God. You're looking at God in flesh. There is no substitute. He's not like a mirror reflection. You're looking at something that looks kind of like God. He is God. When you look at him, you're looking at someone with the full majesty, the full glory, the full power of God. Yet that person was being held by a woman named Mary in a stable. And you see, how in the world is that possible that this person who has the full majesty and glory and power of God is in such a humble position? That is the mystery and the miracle of the incarnation. John 1, verse 14 says that the word referring to Christ The word was made flesh, and he dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father. That phrase was made flesh means he literally took on humanity at a point in time. So when Jesus was conceived by miraculous conception in the womb of the Virgin Mary. That's not when Jesus began. Jesus is the eternal word. He took on flesh at a point in time. And that's what the text is saying. And John is testifying that he and the other apostles they saw Jesus. They sat down with Jesus. They interacted with Jesus. Their eyes beheld his glory. That's what they're saying. And then that phrase, the only begotten of the Father, it's not talking about his origin or the fact that his generation comes from a certain place. But it has the idea of a one-of-a-kind, a unique individual. There is none like him. There is no comparable to the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the person that we are talking about this morning. Philippians chapter 2 gives us a little bit more insight into how God, who is of the full glory and majesty of the rest of the Godhead, how he's how he's laying as a little child in a manger. Philippians chapter 2, verse 6 says it this way. Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness Now, each of those statements that the Apostle Paul makes about Christ, they are theologically rich concepts. Now, what's very interesting about what Paul is doing is he's giving this application to the Philippians, as Christians, you're supposed to live humbly like Christ. Let me explain to you the full weight of Christ's humiliation so that you understand as a believer how you're supposed to practically humble yourself when it comes to interaction with other people. And so in order to do that, he's going to explain some very theologically rich concepts. The phrase being in the form of God means that which corresponds to reality. In other words, he is Really God. That's what it means. Thought it not robbery to e be equal with God means he didn't have to steal or he didn't have to seize equality with God in essence. When you talk about who Jesus is, he didn't have to say, I'd really like to be God, so I'm going to go and take that from God. That's not what it's saying. He said it wasn't robbery to be equal to God. He's of the same essence We're talking about God. He's not taking something, he's not stealing something. If you're looking at the Father, you're looking at the Son, you're looking at the Spirit, you're seeing three persons that are equally God's. But then the next statement is so very interesting. He made himself of no reputation. You say, well, what does that mean? Oh, he stopped being God for 33 years. No, it's not what it means. It means that as he possesses God The full power and weight and majesty of his position as God, he lays aside those prerogatives. And he puts them to the side and he says, For this season I will take on the humiliation of being God in flesh. He didn't stop being God. He didn't stop having right to the glory and the majesty. But he set it aside to go to the cross. He willingly humbled and limited himself to live in such a lowly place Literally, the Lord Jesus Christ had to learn how to walk and how to talk and how to eat solid food. He had to learn all the same stuff. That your little children are learning right now in their homes. It's because he humbled himself and he made himself of no reputation That statement says nothing about his essence or his nature. It says everything about the weight of the glory that people would see in that person. When people saw Jesus, they didn't see someone who was glowing and who was radiating, and they said, Wow, that person must be God. When we read these verses, it says he had no former comeliness. And when they saw him, there was no beauty that they should desire him. Hebrews 4. 15 goes even further. It says We have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. That means that Jesus got hungry, and Jesus got tired. And Jesus felt exhaustion. Jesus literally stepped away and rested for seasons. The Lord Jesus Christ experienced real temptation, presentations to do wrong, and he willfully chose no You and I don't even understand the full weight of temptation because we give in too early. It's the truth. And so the writer of Hebrews says: when you think about your high priest, he's not like other high priests. He understands weakness, but he has triumphed. Yet he is compassionate, he is gracious, and he is merciful. So, knowing all of this about this person, listen carefully to what it says in the text about how people would view him. In verse 31, it says, Who hath believed a report? When Jesus came, when Jesus performed miracles, when Jesus taught and he preached with the full authority of his personhood You know what? People didn't believe it. They didn't believe it. They wanted to see something neat, but it it didn't transfer into faith They rejected him. In verse 2, it says, when we shall see him, there's no beauty that we should desire him. Another way to put that is they didn't take him seriously. When they saw Jesus, they said, Who is this person? In fact, we see this a lot of times recorded for us in the Gospels. When Jesus would say certain things, they'd say, Isn't this the son of Mary and Joseph? What good thing can come out of Nazareth when he talks about a tender plant? He's talking about something that you see as very insignificant. It's like in the early season where you see this little plant growing in your garden. You're like, what is that? You don't even think about it. You come back six months later and the thing's massive. When you first see it, does it mean anything to you? That's the way people saw Jesus. A root out of a dry ground, they said, this has no potential. Nothing will come from this person. Jesus not only willingly humbled himself, but he took a position where he knew he would be rejected. He would be belittled. He would be ignored. He would be mocked. He would be scourged. Verse 3, it says, He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief. Verse 3 it says, we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. The way that that's worded is very interesting. When he talks about someone hiding their face from him, the analogy that should come to our minds is you're walking in a place Where you come in contact with something that's really hard to look at. Now, I lived in Ghana and I saw real poverty. I remember walking through some village sections and seeing some things, and in my mind I thought, I don't know if I want to look at that. That's what we're talking about. When people saw Jesus, they were repulsed by him. And it wasn't just they were repulsed by him on the cross, most certainly they were. And the verses before this talk about his visage being marred more than any other man and the form of the sons of men. So certainly on the cross, when people looked at him, they turned away and said, We can't look at this. But that's the way Jesus lived his life. What's the point? The incarnation is a humbling reality. Second truth, the purpose of the incarnation should sober us. It's not just that it was humbling for Christ. But it should be sobering for us because we need to process the significance of not just what happened, but why it happened. What was the purpose of this issue? And it could all be summed up in one word, and that's the word propitiation. Now I know this is a term that isn't being used in our popular culture very much, but the word propitiation is a very important word for us to understand as Christians. The word propitiation has this concept. It is the removal of wrath against sin by the payment of a price. In other words, when God looks at our sin, he doesn't just look at it and say, ah, it's not the best. God views our sin as something that makes his holiness boil against it. The best I can think of is there are certain stories that we read about in the news and we go, oh, that's kind of interesting. There are other stories that we read and go, oh, that's not the best. And then there's others we go, that's horrific. And if I was the person who had that happen to my child, or I was the person who had that happen to my wife, or my husband, or to my family. I would be boiling in anger because of the depths of that injustice The severity of that evil. Do you understand what I'm saying? There are certain things that when we see them, if we are thinking righteously and justly, we would say, That is an extremely offensive thing because of how evil it is, how destructive it is. When God looks at our sin in his holiness, his wrath burns against it. You say, well, that seems kind of like a an old ancient mythological view of God That's a biblical view of God. That is the way that God is. You see, that makes me a little nervous. It should. The fact that a holy and righteous God has genuine wrath and anger against our sin should cause us to tremble. Should cause us to understand why these verses are so very important. Listen to what the scripture says. 1 John 2:2. He is the propitiation for our sins. Not for ours only, but the sins of the whole world. First John 4 10, here in his love, not that we loved God, that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins Romans 3:24, we are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood. To declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past, through the forbearance of God, to declare, I say at this time that he is righteous. And that he might be just and the justifier of him that believeth in Jesus. We talk about propitiation. What we are saying is that Christ went to the cross. He bore in our place the wrath of God against our sin so that we could be declared righteous. The just one Could justify the one who places his faith in Christ. You can't get around this in the Bible. Whether we're looking at the Old Testament and its prophetic predictions of the purpose of Christ's coming. Or we read about the fulfillment in the Gospels or the way that the epistles refer back to these events, it's very clear: Jesus came to die on the cross for our sins. His blood Satisfied. The just demands against our sin. God's wrath was satisfied. It's sobering because of what it says about human nature as well. Look down in verse number six. It says, all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. Here, God has made us. He's given us bodies that are strong enough to do things that are actually productive. He's given us minds that can learn and that can reason, that can communicate, that can learn from others. He's given us instruction in his word so that we can know him. He uses all these circumstances in life to humble us and make us turn to him and think about him and ponder the significance of what we're experiencing in life. He's given us minds and bodies and hearts. That goes astray from the moment we're born. And that is part of the humbling reality of these verses. There needs to be a cross because humans go astray. It's sobering because of what it says about what God accomplished. In verse 6, it says that the Lord laid on him the iniquities of us all. We don't like to sit down and think about our sin very much. But if we were to sit down and process Honestly, objectively, how much we sin on a daily basis, I think it would shock us. How many times we sin in our motives, in our thoughts, and our intentions, and what we say, and what we do, and how it responds. In the entire general outlook of our life, we sin in so many ways against our holy and righteous God. We are constantly going astray. God took every single one of those sins, and he took them all, and he placed them on the shoulders of Christ. And he poured out his justice against our sin on him. That's what this is saying. He laid on him the iniquity of us all. Verse 7, it says that he was oppressed and afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, as a sheep Now, this is not saying that Christ was weak, and he had no power to stand up for himself. And there was no case that he could make for his innocence. That's not what it's saying. What it's saying is that when Jesus experienced everything that took place that brought him to the cross, And what was accomplished on the cross, all of it, he said nothing because he willingly took on all of those things. It was fully his intent, fully his desire to accomplish to every single degree the will of his father. He was willing to go to the cross and to experience all these things because of what it would accomplish And so when it says he was oppressed and afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth and saying, he knew what's going on, and he said, I've come for this very purpose. We then see another very interesting statement. It sobers us because of how this transaction took place. Verse 4, surely he hath borne our griefs, carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. He carried our guilt, he received our just punishment. Verse 5 says he was wounded for our transgressions and bruised for our iniquities. It means he took our place as a penal substitute. There was a legal, just verdict against him because he took our place. Not because of what he did, not because of who he was, but because of his willingness to step into our position and carry our just verdict. He was establishing a basis for there to be peace between us and God. Verse number five says, The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes we are healed. So we could put it like this: there is a conflict between you and God. There is wrath between you and God. Your sin stands between you and a holy God, and He has to judge your sin And Jesus steps in and takes your place and the discipline that is needed to remove that guilt and to establish peace, the payment that has to be paid He pays it in full. That's what he's saying was accomplished on the cross. But that's really not the heart of this passage You know what the heart of the passage ultimately is? It's that the cross was God's greatest triumph. Because it wasn't just about what he did, it's about why. It's about why he did it. The fact is if Jesus went to the cross, if he was nailed to the cross, if he shed his blood on the cross, And he died on the cross, but there was not a theologically significant purpose in what he did, then it was a waste. And here's what it says in verse number 10. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. The pleasure of the Lord will prosper in his hand. Verse 11, he shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. That was the purpose of the cross. It pleased the Lord to go to that cross. It pleased the Father to send him to the cross, because through that action, God's wrath would be fully, completely satisfied. You know what that means? That means you don't have to face God's wrath. I didn't say it means you don't deserve to face God's wrath I said, you don't have to face God's wrath. You can face Him as Father. You can enter into His presence through the work of Christ. And you can receive strength and encouragement. You can commune with him as your dearest friend. That was not possible apart from this work. When he looked on the agony and the travail of the soul of Christ as he hung on that cross, he said, It's finished, I'm satisfied. That's what Christmas is all about. Christmas isn't about the baby in the manger as much as it's about the baby in the manger so he'd go to the cross so we could be forgiven. The cross was God's greatest triumph. I want to give you three things it states in here That are examples of what was triumphant about the cross. The first thing that is mentioned is in verse eleven. Sinners are declared righteous. Listen to what he puts it. He says, By his knowledge shall my righteousness servant justify many for he shall bear their iniquities. Every word in that statement is significant. He is his righteous servant. He is justifying. We've got to mention what that word means. And it's because he's going to bear their iniquities. The word justify means he's declaring them not guilty, but they are. The question is how? It's because he took them God can declare a sinner not guilty. God can declare a sinner righteous because Jesus took his place. His righteousness becomes ours. Our sin he took on himself and he paid in full that penalty. The first reason that the cross is a triumph is because God can now declare a sinner righteous. Two. Sinners can receive a full inheritance secured by the cross. And verse 12 he says, Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great He shall divide the spoils with the strong. Now, I'm thankful that as a nation we've not faced for many generations now the kind of war that we did in World War II. In fact, the the yesterday when I was uh flying, I was flying into Pensacola from Texas, and there are a whole bunch of brand new military recruits. I'm telling you, these guys look like they were twelve and fourteen. They looked they looked so young. I mean it was incredible. So the guy I was talking to like, hey, you know Yeah, you know, you're in the Navy. When did you get in? He's like, I just finished boot camp. I was like, all right, you survived. He's like, oh, I'm glad to be done. I'm going to A school. And he's all excited and telling me his birthday's coming up All these really young guys, it hit me. I was like, man, the 1940s, all these boys went to Europe. All these boys went to Hawaii and Japan and all these different places. I just it really hit me. These boys Do you realize that throughout all of human history it's boys who have been fighting to defend their homelands? One of the things we don't really appreciate is the analogy that he's using here. Because these people knew what it was like to see The Roman boys. Okay. Not the good guys probably in their minds, but anyway, he they knew what it was like to see these guys come home from from from a a military conquest. And here are all these guys, young boys, okay, very young men, coming home battered and beaten up and bloodied And there's their commander leading this procession. And behind them is all this stuff. Like tons and tons of stuff. And some of that stuff was the people they conquered too. And they're bringing along this massive processional, and people would come out on the streets and they would celebrate Because a mighty victory has been accomplished. But what's significant about that picture is that all the stuff that they were bringing was the spoils of the war. Now the spoils don't go to the one who loses. They go to the one who wins. And so that military leader who was victorious, and all those who were a part of that spoil struggle, they get the stuff. That's the picture that Isaiah is drawing from. He will divide a torsion with the great and divide the spoils with the strong. Who's the one who goes to war? It's not you. It's Christ. Who's the one that triumphs? It's Christ. Who gets the benefits? It's us. In fact, in the New Testament, he talks about this, Colossians 2, 13. He says, You being dead in your sins, hath he quickened together, having forgiven you all trespasses, blotting out handwritings of ordinances that were against us. That were contrary to us. He took it out, nailing it to his cross, having spoiled principalities and powers, he hath made a show of them openly, triumphing over them and it That's what he's talking about. Ephesians 4. 8. When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive, and he gave gifts unto men. Do you know what Isaiah is talking about? He's talking about the fact that not only are we declared righteous because Christ died and triumphed, but we get a glorious inheritance. Because Christ died and triumphed. The third thing it mentions is this: Sinners will have continual access into the presence of God. God twelve he says, He bare the sins of many and made intercession for the transgression. Intercession is when somebody stands between you who has offended and someone you've offended And they bring you together. I've talked about this when we lived in Ghana. This was a very common practice That if a younger person offended an uncle or their mother or their dad, an older person. They did not have status to go directly to that person and to say, hey, I'm sorry. I was wrong. That younger person would try to come and speak to that old person. That person wouldn't even look at them. They walk away. You say, well, that's so rude and so so heartless. So called And by the way, that's the way most cultures have been for thousands of years. We just have a culture that doesn't believe in authority anymore. That'll change one day, don't worry. A person who's offended has no right to enter into the presence of the one they've offended. And so what that young person will do Is that we'll go to someone who has standing with the one they've wronged, and they'll present their case, and that person will hear their case. And they'll go to the one they've offended, and they will say, here is the case, because I have brought it, will you receive him? Pretty neat, isn't it? And they do it. If they go through that process, the person who would never speak with you will receive you. Why? Because of the one who brought you And that's what Christ does for us. We have no business, we have no right, we have no standing in the presence of a holy and righteous God. But because Christ went to the cross, he says, I bring you into the presence of the Father. He stands between us. In fact, he makes intercession daily for the Saints. I don't know about you, but that's some pretty great stuff, isn't it? But do you see what it took to accomplish it If there's no cross, no justification. If there's no cross, there's no inheritance. If there's no cross, there's no action It's all because of what He willingly chose to do for us. Folks, Christmas is a wonderful time of the year because it calls us to reflect on the miracle of the incarnation of the I think as Christians, we need to get past to saying, I believe in these things. We need to believe in these things. But we need to ponder these things. We need to think about why they matter. We need to live in the light of them. We need to let these things get into our heads and down to our hearts. We need a solidly biblical view of the person of Christ. If we are trusting in a false Jesus, that's an idol, okay? I mean, first John ends, little children, keep yourselves from idols. Why? Because there were lots of people preaching false Jesuses in those days, as they are today. We need a far deeper appreciation for his plan of redemption. We need to ponder the agony, the weight of that sacrifice. I think we should feel the weight of our sin more heavily. But we should also experience the incredible lifting of a burden that brings us into the presence of God. Christians kind of feel this tension. I feel the humility and the weight of my sin, and I feel the joy Joy of the freedom I have in Christ. That's what Christianity is all about. It's about us understanding that tension fully. We should be overwhelmed by a far deeper sense of gratitude and worship. We should be more motivated to walk as his people. And the power of this position. What amazes me about all these passages that I mentioned to you from the New Testament, they are theologically rich passages. But the reason they were given was something very practical like love your neighbor. Do good to that person who does you wrong. Bear long with that stubborn individual. Be patient. Forgive. Be humble. There was a practical application, and he said, here's the basis for why as Christians we should do these things. See, theology and practice, they come together. And that's what we should take away from this passage. We need to think biblically, rest in the truth, and live in the light of it. May God help us to do that this morning. Let's bow together in prayer, please. Father, I thank you for this truly amazing text I can't think of a more glorious passage. Help these truths to settle in our hearts If somebody here this morning does not understand the gospel and has never placed their faith in Christ who died for their sins. I pray that this morning you would bring clarity to their understanding, conviction to their conscience. May they turn humbly to you and trust in what Jesus has done for them. For every Christian here this morning, help us to have a much richer appreciation for the weight of the cross Help us to remember how practically we must live in the light of these truths. Help us to walk humbly as your children. Consistent with the position that we enjoy by grace alone. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Tori, I'm gonna ask you to lead the closing hymn, because I probably shouldn't sing. But the hymn that we're going to sing is hymn 157, Grace that is greater than our sin. I know that's not a Christmas song. I guess technically after what I just said to you, we should see it as part of the Christmas story, right? Grace greater than our sin. Let's really sing this out. There might be someone here this morning that says, Pastor, I I never understood the gospel. I need to talk to somebody about that. I'll be standing in the back. I'll be wearing a mask today, okay? Just you know. Wearing a mask. And um if you want to speak with me, I'd be glad to. Send me an email. You can reach out lots of different ways. But if you don't know for sure that you're safe. You need to get that matter settled. The gospel is available to everybody here. You have to be willing to embrace it. God works in our hearts through messages like this. Let's stand together and Tori will lead us in our closing hymn, Grace Greater Than Our Sins. Let's see. One fifty seven. Marvelous grace of Praise that makes me not scared on the Why is it? Why is it? What can I do? Why do you want to do? Let us pray. Father, thank you so much for your kindness. To us. Thank you for your word, for the many ways in which you remind us of the importance of the incarnation of Christ. We do pray that as we approach the Christmas holiday and the week to come, That you would give all of us a sense of gravity and understanding about what it is that we're celebrating, why it's so significant, and help it to uh allow us to be a testimony to those around us. with us. Please send us all on our way safely and bring us back safely this evening in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen.