And turn together please to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and the passage in front of us is a very important text dealing with the Lord's table. And obviously, as we're working our way through the book of 1 Corinthians, there are lots and lots of problems that are going on in the church, and Paul has had to address those. And this would be one of the most severe problems. I mean, several of them have been very severe, but this one is so severe that Paul even talks about the fact that there are people that have been disciplined by the Lord to the point of even physical sickness and death. So we can tell that this is a very serious topic. that is being addressed. So I'm going to read the text again with you. I'm going to kind of remind you of what we talked about the last time, and then we're going to just continue working our way through this concept. 1 Corinthians 11 verse 17. Now, in this that I declare unto you, I praise you not, that ye had come together not for the better, but for the worse. For first of all, when you come together in the church, I hear that there be divisions among you, and I partly believe it, for there must be also heresies among you, that they which are approved may be made manifest among you. When you come together, therefore, into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's supper. For in eating every one taketh before his own supper. One is hungry, another is drunken. What? Have you not houses to eat and to drink in? Or despise ye the church of God and shame them that have not? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not, for I have received of the Lord that which I also delivered unto you. That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. When he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat, this is my body, which is broken for you, this dew in remembrance of me After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do you as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he come. Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, tarry one for another. If any man is hungry, let him eat at home, that he that when you come together it is not unto condemnation. And the rest will I set in order when I come. Can you imagine if you were a part of the church at Corinth and this was read? Can you imagine what was going through people's minds when they realized that people that had been abusing the Lord's table, in fact, they had gone to their funerals? Or not just they'd gone to their funerals, but they went and they visited them in affliction and they said, what is the cause of this affliction? Well now they know. That this is because they were dishonoring the Lord's table. Now, these are terrifying verses, and in fact, one of the reasons that sometimes people come to the Lord's table with terror and fear is because they come to this passage and they fail to look at exactly what is going on in the context. And it's important whenever we're dealing with a passage that we don't rip it out of context, ignore what's going on in the flow of the book, because if we do that, then we are in danger of misrepresenting what is there. So I want to go back and kind of remind you what we talked about the last time we were here. Paul breaks this section into really several parts. The first part. is a critique. And we find that in verses 17 through 22. I'm not going to reread this, but when he introduces it, he begins in verse 17 by saying, I do not praise you. This is a change from what he said at the beginning of chapter 11, where he says, I do praise you in these areas. And so Paul has shifted his focus and he's emphasizing the fact that this is a pretty big deal, what's going on. The second thing we see in verse 17 is that there is a warning here. He says, when you come together, it is not for the better, but it is for the worse. So the intent of the Lord's table is to be a time of blessing for the individual as a member of the body. But in fact, because of the way it was being practiced, It was not a blessing to people. It was actually something that was creating division. It was creating a rift in the church. And it was dishonoring the very purpose for which it was given. The third thing that I mentioned is that the repetition of this passage is emphasizing where the real problem lies. For instance, in verse 17, he says When you come together it is not for the better. Verse 18, when you come together in the church, I hear there are divisions. Verse 20, when you come together into one place, it is not to eat the Lord's table. Verse thirty-three, when you come together to eat Terry one for another, verse 34. If a man is hungry, let him eat at home, that you come not together under condemn unto condemnation. So the point that Paul is emphasizing Is there is something about the gathering together that is being done wrong? Does that make sense? It's important for us to note this. The Lord's table is not an individual ordinance. We don't go home on a Sunday and say, I think I'm just going to do the Lord's table today by myself in my room. I'm not saying that you can't Remember what's going on, but the point of this is that this is a sacred local church ordinance where the body is gathering together And we are partaking together as a body in communion with one another, reminding ourselves of the heart of what puts us all together. What puts us all together isn't our backgrounds. It's not when we got saved. It's not what part of the country that we're from, what we make financially, the kind of jobs that we do. The sports teams that we root for, all those things. That's not what pulls us together. Those are the things that pull the world together. What pulls us together is the gospel. It's the fact that we all worship the same Lord Jesus. Our sins are all forgiven the exact same way through the cross of Christ. and his resurrection. And so together as a body on an equal footing, we partake as a body. And that's a wonderful thing for us to consider. The fourth thing that we talked about was the fact that there were divisions in the church. And this is kind of pressing into this issue of emphasis where he says, when you come together, when you come together, when you come together. You're coming together and then dividing the church. That makes no sense. In verse 19, he says, there must be heresies. And by the way, when we use the term heresy or heretic, okay That term is typically thought of as a term talking about some kind of doctrinal issue. And that is an appropriate way to use the term. But really, when we use the term heresy, we're talking about a doctrine that has created unnecessary division in the church. But the way that Paul is using the term here is not about a doctrinal division. It's about the church separating itself out because of something socioeconomic, some social economic issue. And so he's emphasizing the fact that there is a right kind of division that needs to be in the church. Some people should not come to the table. They shouldn't come to the table if they're not believers, if they're not a part of the body of Christ. They shouldn't come to the table if they have been uh excluded from the body because of of public sin and they've been unwilling to address the issue, unrepentance, and they've been uh put under what we call church discipline. So there are certain kinds of division that are necessary But that's not what he's talking about. He's talking about a wrong kind of division based on culture, ethnicity. Rich, poor, bond, free. That's the kind of division that was going on at the table. And that's what Paul is very, very troubled by. And the Lord Jesus is as well. They were literally making a mockery of the table. And that's what we see in verses 20 to 22. When you come together, it is not to eat the Lord's table. In eating everyone taketh before another. One is hungry, one is drunken, what have you not houses to eat in and drink in? And do you despise the church of God and shame those who are without or who have not? So their assembling was formal, but their eating of the elements was not being done in the right way. So all of those are the things that we talked about last week. Then we came to the second part, and that is Paul's reminder of what the table actually is. And we find that in verses 23 to 26. We see in verse 23, this is an ordinance that is passed down by Christ through the apostles, and I mentioned this, that we don't believe in apostolic succession. We believe that the apostles gave the word and the scripture is the infallible standard by which the church is to know what is right and wrong. So when we talk about our faith in practice, we don't say, well, the apostles believed this. And their disciples believe this, and the generation behind them believed this, and we just go all the way down as if they passed the baton from one generation to the other, and then we say, all the traditions that we have been taught over all these two thousand of years We still practice them today. That's not what we believe in our church. Because the Bible doesn't teach that. What the Bible does teach is that the prophets and the apostles wrote the Word of God, and we have this standard that we can go by. And so what we can actually see as we look out throughout church history is that as generations passed the baton of the truth from one generation to another, there were certain blind spots in every single generation. If we were to take the blind spots of all those different generations, we would have this compounded problem of traditions that looked very different from the Bible. And that's why there was a Protestant Reformation in the 1500s Because what people were practicing did not look like what the Bible teaches. And so people had to go back to the word of God and say the scripture is the final authority. So when Paul says, I've received the Lord what I've delivered unto you, he's saying, this comes with the authority of Christ. I have given it to you as an apostle, and now I've written this down so that every generation that follows will have the same opportunity to hear and to see what you are hearing and seeing. Second thing we see is that the element served an important function. The bread reminds us of the body of Christ which was given for us. Verse 24. He gave thanks. He broke it and said, take, eat, this is my body broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. The cup reminds us of the blood of Christ which was shed for us. Verse 25, this cup is the New Testament in my blood. As often as you do this, do it in remembrance of me. And the focus of the ordinance is thanksgiving in remembrance. Verse 26. You show the Lord's death until he comes. Literally, we could say it like this. Every time that we give these ordinances and that we eat these elements, we are proclaiming the gospel. Because what is pictured in those elements is what Christ did for us. And so that's the whole point of the Lord's table. The elements are meant to cause us to reflect on what we have in Christ, what we have together as a body, and that's supposed to be a time of thanksgiving. A time of gratitude, a time of humility, a time of praise. So that's last week. This week what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to move into a third part, and this is not something that's in the text here, but it's an important part of understanding where the Lord's table came from. And that is the background of the Lord's table. It's important for us to understand what was going on on the night that Jesus instituted the Lord's table. What was going on is that Jesus was celebrating the Passover with his disciples. And this is not just any Passover. This is a very specific Passover that had tremendous ramifications. It was the Passover that would be the final Passover that's supposed to fulfill all of those Passover observances. So what I'd like you to do is turn with me in your Bibles to Exodus chapter 12 so that we can kind of understand a little bit of the Passover background. And by the way, we won't get into this this week, but Lord willing, the next time we get into this text. We're going to look at how Paul talks about how to correct the problem. But it's important for us to understand what's going on. So in Exodus chapter 12. Verse number one, it says the following. The Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying, This month shall be unto you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you. Now, what's going on right now as this is being written? What's going on is that the children of Israel have been slaves in Egypt for many, many generations. Hundreds of years have passed from the time of Joseph to the time of Moses. And these people were an oppressed people. They were a suffering people. They needed to be, we could say, delivered from enslavement in Egypt. The Bible says that God remembered the people. And when he saw their affliction, he had compassion on them. And God raises up Moses. Such an amazing story. We know about Moses. He raises up Moses, and Moses is 80 years old at this time. He preserves his life, and he sends Moses to go and to confront the Pharaoh. And Moses is extremely reluctant to do this. In fact, in some ways, Moses is a good example, in other ways, he's a bad example. He's a good example in the sense that he understood that he was not well-equipped to do what he was called to do. He was a good example in the sense that he was humble and he realized I don't have the ability to do this in my own strength. That's a good thing. Where he was a bad example is that when God said, I made your mouth, I will be with you, you can do this, I have sent you, so trust me and do it, he said, I can't. And that's a problem. So the humility was good. Understanding that he had limitations, good. But an unwillingness to obey and trust God, that was bad. But all of that to say, by the end of the story, God has decimated the Egyptians. And the purpose of each of those plagues. was God demonstrating one by one that He is the God above all gods. He is the Lord of all hosts. And all of these gods that the Egyptians worshiped, that they believed protected them, that they believed gave them crops and blessed their families and all of the things that were involved there Every one of those gods was an idol, not to be worshipped and revered, but to be rejected because they replaced the one true God who made everything. And so each of the plagues were a judgment, a demonstration of God's power, and they were incrementally ratcheting up the pressure on the Pharaoh. So that at a point Pharaoh would say, Go, get out of the land. I can't take this anymore. But it comes down to one final night when God is going to put the ultimate distinction between his people and the Egyptians. And that's the Passover night On that night, God is going to send his angel. And by the way, when it talks about it being the angel of the Lord, the question is, who is that? The Lord Jesus Christ is referred to as the angel of the Lord all over the Old Testament. But the point is this, an angel goes through the land And every single house that rejects the Passover that is available to them, every single one of those houses will be touched on that night. What I mean by touch is the firstborn will die. And so that's what we're reading here. It says this in the tenth month. This month shall you take every man a lamb according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for the house. Your land, verse 5, shall be without blemish a male of the first year. Verse 6, you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month, and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening. Now notice something. He didn't say kill them. He said kill it. You say, why does that matter? Well what what's very interesting here is that they're all as individuals doing something But there's a communal aspect to it. Because this is pointing down to one particular sacrifice that's coming down the road. The Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. He then goes on to say this, You keep the lamb until the fourteenth day of the same month, and the whole assembly they'll kill it, and they shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two sides of the post of the upper door of the post of the house where they shall eat it. And they shall eat the flesh in that night, roasted with fire and unleavened bread, and with bitter herbs they shall eat it. Verse eleven. Thus shall you eat it, and your loins must be girded, your shoes on your feet, your staff in your hand. You'll eat it with haste. It is the Lord's Passover. For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night. I will smite all the firstborn of the land of Egypt, both of man and beast, against all the gods of Egypt. Important statement there. I will execute judgment. I am the Lord. The blood shall be to you for a token upon the house where you are. When I see the blood I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. This day shall be unto you a memorial, and you shall keep it as a feast to the Lord throughout your generations, keep it as an ordinance forever. Now that's a lot for us to process, but I want to break down some details so that you can appreciate it, I hope. Each family prepared their home by removing all leaven from the house. Now, what they are doing is they are being reminded that the first Passover was done in great haste. Now, if you are going to make bread, I don't make bread, my wife makes bread. And uh you put yeast in there, it's got to have time to rise. They didn't have time for that. Why? Because they got to get out quickly. It symbolizes the removal of all the defilement from the home. And the need for the people to be renewed as they enter the new year. So what's interesting is it's not just looking back at the event, but there's also something symbolic that's pointing forward that's very important for us to keep in mind. The second thing I want to mention about the Passover as they celebrated it is that they would set aside a lamb on the tenth day of Nisan, this is the first of the year, and then they would kill it on the 14th It was selected because it was spotless. They couldn't pick like this mangy little lamb there, and they're like, well, that's the weak one, that's the sickly one. Let's just take that one and kill that one. Nope, because this is picturing somebody. The Lord Jesus Christ. Its blood was shed to remind them that the first Passover lamb died in the place of the firstborn. Now this is an important fact for us to think about here. He wasn't just killing animals because he wanted animals to die. He wasn't just shedding their blood because he wanted bloodshed. There was something symbolic. There was something important that was being demonstrated here. A boy who is the firstborn in this house is going to live Because an animal died in their place. And how do they know that the animal died in their place? Because the blood that was shed when the animal died is applied to the door post of that house. And when the angel passes through and he sees the blood applied to the door, he says, Blood has been shed in this house. A lamb has died. The firstborn is spared because of the substitutionary death of the animal. That's important. Because that's what Christ did for us. He died and he shed his blood as our substitute so that we could be freed from our sin debt and we could be reconciled to God. By the way, when they would sprinkle blood on a sack on an altar, when they would sacrifice, this visualized the sacrifice was to be condemned in their place. This picture points forward to the Lamb of God who would take away the sins of the world. So when John is baptizing people in the Jordan River and they say, Are you the one who's coming? He says, No, I'm not the one who's coming. The one who's coming is preferred before me. I'm not even worthy to unlatch his shoe. I'm not worthy to be the lowest servant to this king. And when Jesus comes, what he says, there is, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Do you see the symbolism here? So we see the sacrificial system symbolism. We see the Passover symbolism all pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ. So what was the Passover meal? It was all of this stuff coming together. And what's very interesting about the way that the Passover was to be celebrated and the way it was being celebrated at the time. was that the people, as they are participating in this, they're supposed to be remembering and they're supposed to be teaching their children what they are doing here. That's a very important part of this story. So the Passover meal starts out with the people reading Psalms. They read Psalm 113 and Psalm 114. I'm going to go to those in just a little bit. And during this time, the family would tell the story of the Passover to connect the celebration that they are observing with the events in their history that were being memorialized. By the way, I hope that when you uh have Christmas celebration with your family, that you talk to them about Jesus You talk to them about what he did. You read through the Christmas story. Talk about those details. This is a great opportunity for you to talk to your kids about the miracle of the incarnation, to talk to them about the Lord Jesus Christ. The Passover was a time designed by God for families to not just come together and eat a meal and enjoy it and then feel like, oh, that was great, you know? The point of the Passover was that for them to remember, for them to look forward, and for them to teach the generation coming behind them. Very, very important. After they did that, they would eat the roasted lamb with the unleavened bread and bitter herbs and wine And at the end of the meal, they would close by reading Psalm 115 through Psalm 118. Now by the way, this is important to just note here. When they had the first Passover, they weren't reading those Psalms because they hadn't been written. But once they had been written, this became a part of the Passover celebration. And so when Jesus. comes to celebrate the Passover, this is what faithful Jewish families were doing at the time, and this is what Jesus would have been doing. Now listen carefully to these Psalms. The ones that open the meal and the ones that close the meal. Listen to what it says. In fact, turn with me to Psalm 113 so you can kind of see this for yourself. Because I think this is really, really important. This is an important piece to appreciating the Lord's table, in my opinion. Because what it does is it's going to show you how they look back and then how they're looking forward with anticipation for something coming. Psalm 113, verse 1. Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. From the rising of the sun until the going down of the same, the Lord's name is to be praised. The Lord is high above all nations. His glory is above the heavens. who is like the Lord our God, who dwelleth on high, who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven and in earth. He raiseth up the poor out of the dust. He lifteth up the needy out of the dunghill. Now, if you are a family who is celebrating Passover and that's how you open your meal, What are you thinking about? You're thinking about how your ancestors were slaves for hundreds of years in Egypt. And how they were completely powerless to free themselves from that enslavement. And God went down and he lifted them up out of this horrible pit. And he brought them deliverance. He raised up the poor out of the dust. He lifts up the needy out of the dung hill. He's high above all nations. His glory is above the heavens. who is like the Lord our God who dwells on high. Pretty awesome stuff, isn't it? I mean the plagues, all those things. Then you come to Psalm 114, the next Psalm, starting verse 1. When Israel went down into Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language. Judah was his sanctuary, Israel his dominion. The sea saw it and fled. Jordan was driven back. Terrible thou earth, ter tremble thou earth at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob, which turned the rock into a standing water and the flint into a fountain of waters. Now this is kind of interesting. Psalm 113 is emphasizing God's triumph over the gods of Egypt, small g, little gods, right? Psalm 114 is emphasizing how God delivered them through the Red Sea, He took care of them in the wilderness, and then He causes them to pass through the Jordan River on dry ground. It highlights that wilderness period. And then in Psalm 115, this is the closing. Notice what it says. Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory for thy mercy and for thy truth's sake. Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God? Our God is in the heavens, He does whatever He pleases. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. They have mouths, but they speak not, eyes have they, but they see not, ears have they and noses they hear not, noses have they, but they smell not. They have hands, but thy hand but they handle not. Feet have they, but they walk not. They speak , neither speak they though their through their throat. They that make them are like unto them, so is everyone that trusteth in them. O Israel, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shields. What's he emphasizing? His greatness over all the idols of the nations. But then this is how they close out the meal, Psalm 118. And I want you to think about where this points. Particularly in verse 21, he says, I will praise thee, for thou hast heard me and art become my salvation. The stone which the builders refused is become the headstone of the corner This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now I beseech thee, O Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee, send now prosperity. Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord. O give thanks to the Lord for his good, his mercy endureth forever. Question When did they say those things? Save now. You know when they said that? When Jesus came down from the Mount of Olives on this final Passover, he comes down into the Kidron Valley and he climbs back up into Jerusalem. And as he comes into Jerusalem, they're saying, Hosanna. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. They are quoting these verses that they are going to read at the end of the Passover meal. And here's what they missed. The stone which the builders refused, that's Jesus, is the head of the corner. This is the day which the Lord hath made, and we'll rejoice in it, save now. How does God save? He saves because of the cross. And so here's what's very important for us to understand. When they open up the meal of the Passover, they're looking back at their history and how God delivered. But when they finish the meal and they read the scriptures, they're looking to the fulfillment of how God will deliver forever. Isn't that awesome to think about? But here's the sobering thing. Most of the people that did that had no idea what they were saying. They didn't think about it. To them it was just a cultural practice. It was just your tradition. We read the scriptures, it's what dad does, it's what granddad does, it's what our son's going to do when he has his own family, but they didn't think about what was going on there. And the whole point of the Passover was not just to look back at what God did, but it was to look forward at what he would do. Very important part of the history of the Lord's table. Because on the night that Jesus eats that final Passover, he says, This is the end of the old and the beginning of a new of a new ordinance. And so I want you to notice the significance of this final Passover. Go in your Bibles to Luke 22. Because in Luke 22, it's fascinating how Luke records this moment in the ministry of Christ. It says in Luke 22 verse 14, when the hour was come, he sat down and the twelve were with him. And he said unto them, with desire I have desired to eat this, notice that word, this Passover, not the Passover, this Passover. The one that he's about to eat has a very specific significance to him. Because it's this one that he's going to have before he suffers. I say unto you, I will not anymore eat thereof until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. Very important words there. I desire to eat this one. I won't do it again until after I have suffered and until this is fulfilled. So we see that there's a very specific timing here. The hour has come. There's a specific focus. Verse 15. With desire. I've desired to eat this one before I suffer. There's a fulfillment aspect in verse sixteen. I will not anymore eat until I fulfill this in the kingdom of God. And then we see the elements that are there. Luke twenty two, seventeen. He took the cup And gave thanks and said, Take this and divide amongst yourselves. I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come He took the bread and gave thanks and broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given for you, this do in remembrance of me. Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood which is shed for you. Now here's what's very important. During this meal, they had the fruit of the vine, they had the unleavened bread, they had the lamb, they had all those things there. But he focuses in on two parts of the meal, the bread and the fruit of the vine. Why? Because these are the ones that are going to point specifically to Christ. They're not going to eat that lamb again. Why? Because he dies once and it's over. They drink that that juice and they eat that bread, and what do they do? They're remembering that that lamb came and that lamb died, and that once and for all sacrifice is all that God requires for our salvation. And that's what's going on here. He says, my body is given for you. Literally, our sin was placed on Christ. He was punished for our sins. He says, the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. His blood removes our sin. It brings remission of our sins. It established a new covenant. Why is this significant? It's significant because on that night, Jesus said, this is a distinct moment in history. From this point forward , You're not looking forward to another fulfillment. You're looking back at the one that already happened. It's pretty awesome to think about. So Passover is always looking at that moment. Lord's table is always turning around looking back. In the same way that they were looking back at what took place in Egypt, we're looking back at what took place at the cross. And that is what the Lord's table is all about. We are coming to proclaim his death until he comes. We are remembering that his body bore our sins and was wounded for our transgressions and was bruised for our iniquities We're remembering that the chastisement of our peace was on him, and he was redeem he redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. We remember that we've been forgiven of sin through the redemption of his blood. We remember that we are the recipients of a better covenant because by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. That's what the Lord's table is all about. And so the question is this: why in the world would anybody mock it? Why would people treat it lightly? Why would people come to the table and completely disregard the serious of that. That's why Paul is so so passionate about what he has to say about the table. Lord willing next week, well not next week, it'll actually be three weeks from now. Because we have Christmas Eve service, and then we have uh him sing fellowship. But when we come back to this, we're going to look at how Paul corrects their problem. And I pray that it will be a help to you. Let's bow together and thank the Lord for this wonderful ordinance. And what it is meant to point us to remember. Our Father, we thank you so much for the Word of God. I thank you for the Passover. We think about what it pictured. A remembrance of how you delivered your people out of enslavement in Egypt, yet how it also pointed forward to the Lord Jesus Christ who would come, the Lamb of God who would take away the sins of the world. And Father, we thank you for the fulfillment of this sacred Passover in the Lord Jesus Christ. As now he has gone to the cross, he has died for our sins, he has risen, and we have redemption through his blood, forgiveness of sins. Father, I pray that would give us so much comfort. We would be so grateful. I pray that we would be passionate about proclaiming this gospel. And that our lives would be firmly planted on the stabilizing foundation of what Christ has given us through his action. Bless our time of fellowship tonight. Bless our time of prayer. As we lift up one another, I pray that our hearts would be burdened for those who have great need, encouraged by those who have experienced your blessings. And that we would be fervent in laying before you these requests. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen.