Let's all turn together to Matthew chapter one. Matthew chapter one, and we are working our way through uh passages dealing with The birth of Christ. In fact, in our family, we are going through the entire Luke account, just a little section at a time each morning, and uh very thankful for the opportunity to be able to talk to our children, uh, to be able to talk as a family about the miracle of the incarnation and also the significance of why. That is so very, very important. So this morning, we are going to talk about the incarnation and God's enduring faithfulness that is demonstrated in this Wonderful miracle about the Lord Jesus Christ. Matthew chapter 1, verse 18 says the following. Now, the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When Assa's mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophets, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child. And shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Then Joseph, being raised from his sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife, and knew her not until she had brought forth her firstborn son. And he called his name Jesus. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer as we ask the Lord to bless the preaching of his word this morning. Father, we're so very grateful for this text of Scripture that so carefully articulates the miraculous nature of the conception of the Lord Jesus Christ. How it takes us piece by piece through these details to help us to understand that in fact this was a miracle In fact, this was a sign to demonstrate who this baby born in Bethlehem was. He is Emmanuel, God with us. And so, Father, as we dig into this passage of Scripture, I pray that the Spirit of God would take the Word of God and impress it upon our hearts. Father, give us a very clear understanding of your word and may it leave a profound impact on our hearts. And as we think about some of the very practical implications that flow from what this text is demonstrating. I pray that you would help us to be comforted and strengthened. and encourage today through your word. Help our hearts to be knit together as we worship you, continuing not just in song, but also in reflection and submission to the Word of God this morning. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. As we begin digging into this passage of scripture, I wanted to start with a few thoughts that I don't want us to lose track of as we work our way into this text. There are a few things that I'm going to state that are going to be very technical in nature. But I don't want us to become so technical that we lose sight of the profound simplicity of the gospel itself. The first thing I want to mention is this. The gospel is a very simple message. The message is that Christ died for our sins. He rose from the dead and he did this exactly as he had promised. That's a very simple message. You could tell that to a five-year-old. You could tell that to someone who has never been to school, or you could tell that to someone who is highly educated. It's a very, very simple message. It's about a person, it's about what he did, and it's about why he did it. Christ died for our sins. He rose from the dead, and he did it exactly as the Word of God promised. for thousands and thousands of years. Secondly, it accomplished a very simple work. Christ's death and resurrection has given us forgiveness of sins a righteous position before God and eternal life. So every single person that has understood this very simple message, Christ Died for my sins. He rose from the dead, as God promised, for thousands and thousands of years. Everyone who believes on him will not perish. but have everlasting life. Your sins are forgiven. You are righteous in Christ. You have right now the gift of eternal life I can also add this. If you've never trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, you do not have eternal life. That doesn't mean that you can't come to the point where you do receive this as a gift. But at the moment, you do not possess this gift because you have to receive it. You have to actively choose to trust in what Christ has done for you. Very simple thoughts. Third thought. It demonstrates a simple fact about God. He is gracious and he is faithful. He is gracious and he is faithful. And then the fourth truth is that the obstacles that he overcame are innumerable. This morning our goal is to dig into that last statement. without losing track of the simple things we just said about the gospel. So that's what my goal is this morning. I hope to achieve that goal as we work our way through the Word of God. So let me summarize the passage in front of us and then we're going to dig into some truths. that are really kind of unpackaging that last thing that we said. The miraculous nature of Christ's birth reminds us of God's meticulous attention. To detail in his extraordinary faithfulness to his word. When we talk about God, we're talking about someone who is highly attentive to detail. He is not careless. He is very, very meticulous about every single detail. This is how he made the world. This is how he governs the world. This is how he works in our lives. He is a God of detail. And he is also a God who is absolutely faithful. If he has said he will do a thing, he will do it. If he says he'll never do a thing, he will He'll never do it. God is not tricking anybody. God is not trying to manipulate anybody. He's straightforward. He tells you exactly what he wants. He tells you exactly what he believes, what he's going to do. He is absolutely faithful. And so let's dig into these truths to see that laid out this morning. First truth that we're going to find is found in verse number 18. And that is that Christ's birth was the result of a series of miraculous divine interventions in history. Look down at verse number 18 at what God's Word says. Now, the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise, where this is how it happens. When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, Before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. I'm going to state it like this. The passage of scripture in front of us explicitly states that Christ's conception is a miracle. There is no way that you can take the word of God literally and walk around that. He's very clear, he says, his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph. Before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. This is A miracle. This is something that has never happened at any other time in human history. It will never again happen in human history. It was meant to be a miraculous sign. To demonstrate who this person, the Lord Jesus Christ, is. But it was more than just a miraculous sign. This miracle was actually the culmination of many examples of God's Divine intervention. Now, each of these examples that I'm going to mention is a miracle, but it is not a miracle to the level of the one that the text is telling us about the Lord Jesus Christ. In each of the examples that I'm going to give you, God is interrupting people's lives for their good, ultimately to accomplish his work. of bringing the Messiah into the world. They are miracles, and the text is very clear to state that they are miracles, but they do not reach this level. You'll see what I'm getting at as we work our way through these. The first of those examples that I like to mention is the birth of a man. He was not born a man, he was born a boy, but of the man Isaac. Isaac was someone who God had promised he was going to give to Abraham. And if we study the story of Abraham, it's a fascinating story because here is this man. who 's been married for many, many, many, many years, and he and his wife have never been able to have children. And now they have reached a point where it is physically, biologically impossible for them to be able to have children. And we see that by the by several different passages of Scripture as we look at the story of the birth of Isaac. The first that I want to draw your attention to is in Genesis chapter 17, verse 17, where this is what the text says. Then Abraham fell upon his face and laughed. And said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is a hundred years old? Shall Sarah that is ninety years old bear? Question. Is this the same miracle that is being talked about in Matthew? The answer is no. But is this a miracle? The answer is Yes, it is absolutely a miracle. Then we come to Genesis chapter 18, the very next chapter. Verse 12, it says this. Therefore, Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old, shall I have pleasure, my Lord being old also? Interesting. In both of those passages it mentions that these two people laughed at the thought that they would have a child at such an age. The irony is they named their child laughter because what God said, he did In Genesis chapter 18, verse 14, this is just two verses later. This is what the text says. Is anything too hard for the Lord? At the time appointed, I will return into thee according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son. And so what does God do? He does exactly what he said he'd do. He gives a child to Abraham and his wife Sarah. The second example is actually the very next generation, because in Genesis chapter 25, verses 20 through 21. It talks about the circumstances leading up to the birth of Jacob. So we have three patriarchs. We have Abraham. Who is an old man who cannot have uh his his wife cannot have children? What does God do? He gives him a son. Then the second child, Isaac, he's the second patriarch. This is what it says about this man and his wife. In Genesis 25, verse 20, it says, And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife. Now, it didn't say he was forty at this point in his marriage. It says he was forty When he got married. Okay? So he takes Rebecca to be his wife at 40 years of age. And then it tells us in the text, and Isaac entreated of the Lord for his wife because She was barren. And the Lord was entreated of him, and Rebecca his wife conceived. I think a lot of times when people are reading through the Old Testament, they don't pause and stop and realize. Here God has promised he's going to make of Abraham a great nation. He can't have children. And now he's old and God gives him a child. And then his child is 40 years old and he's still not married. And then he gets married, but then his wife is barren and he can't have children. What does God do? He intervenes. He gives him a child. Gives him two children. One of those children's name is Jacob. He is the father of the nation of Israel. Then we come to another example, a very in a very important person in the story of the Old Testament unfolding. This is not someone who is in the lineage of Christ. But this is someone who is a very important part of the story, and that is the birth of the prophet Samuel. Samuel was someone that God used mightily. Samuel is the one who anointed David to be king in Israel. Sometimes we forget about the circumstances leading up to the birth of Samuel. In 1 Samuel chapter 1, verse 11, speaking of Hannah, it says, And she vowed a vowed and said, O Lord of hosts, if Thou would indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thine handmaid, but will give unto thine handmaid a man-child, then I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life. And guess what? Here's another person in this story, no children. But God intervenes and gives her that son. And then we fast forward hundreds and hundreds of years. In fact, actually we fast forward about a thousand years in history. And we come to another couple who is old. And unable to have children, and God intervenes. And that's the story of the birth of John the Baptist. In Luke chapter 1, verse 13, it says, thy prayer is heard. Thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son. Thou shalt call his name John, and thou shalt have joy and gladness, and many shall rejoice at his birth, for he shall be great in the sight of the Lord. And if you read through that passage, you will see that when this man Zecharias gets that news, he says, that's not possible. And God says, you won't talk about it until it happens. And what does God do? He gives them a child. After all this history, we're talking about over a thousand years of history. Key individuals who are talked about in that story, this is what the angel says to Mary when she is found with child of the Holy Ghost. It says in Luke chapter 1, verse 35, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee. shall be called the son of God. And behold, thy cousin Elizabeth, she hath also conceived a son in her old age. And this is the sixth month with her, who was called barren For with God nothing shall be impossible. You say, what's the point? Here's the point. In every single one of those situations, God intervenes. In every single one of those situations, God intervened to kind of point people forward to realize that he was going to do it again. But when he did it at this moment in history, it is far greater than all of those events. It's more than just a personal interruption in people's lives. This is about redemption being on the line. But there's a second thing I want you to notice under this point. And that is that this miracle was also the result of God's grace. And some very difficult situations. Now I'm not going to dig into all of these, but if you look in Matthew chapter 1 in the verses leading up to this passage, you're going to see statements about the genealogy of Christ. And there are five women whose names are mentioned in this genealogy. The first person is Tamar. The story of Tamar is one of God's grace despite a terrible family scandal. In fact, if we address the passage like this, uh and we talk about it in the office. We we talk about how we're gonna actually present this passage on a Sunday night, knowing that we have kids and teenagers uh in our group because it's uh it's a pretty scandalous story It's a terrible, it's a tragic, it's a sinful example of people making really bad choices, but what does God do? His grace works this way. We then come to the story of Rahab. And what is Rahab? Rahab is a woman who was a part of a city that was destined for destruction. The city of Jericho. But what does God do? He spares her life. And do you remember how the Bible talks about Rahab? She's called Rahab the what? The harlot. But what does God do? He pours grace into that situation. We have a third person, Ruth. Now, Ruth, I wouldn't say there's any scandal associated with Ruth. Ruth is actually a beautiful story, but there's a lot of pain in that story. Because here's a story of God's grace on a Gentile widow. And the fact is the reason that this family ends up in Moab is because they doubted God's provision in the land of Bethlehem, Judah. And during that time, Ruth's husband dies. And her father-in-law dies, and her brother-in-law dies, and Ruth goes back with Naomi to Bethlehem, and God in his great grace gives her a husband and gives her a child and she's a part of the lineage of Christ. But the last one mentioned is Bathsheba. God's grace, despite David's horrible sin, we see that these four women, Tamar, Rahab, Ruth, and Bathsheba, are all mentioned in the genealogy of Christ. You say, why does that matter? Well, it matters first of all because that's the way that it happens. And secondly, God is making the point to highlight that despite all of those situations, God did what he said he'd do. And God's grace overcame every single one of those situations. And so I'm reminded as we think about this truth together, if God had failed to intervene in any one of those situations, the promise of redemption would have been disrupted. If God had failed to extend mercy and grace in any one of those situations, guess what? Plan of redemption would have been disrupted. The Old Testament is filled with far more examples than the ones that I just showed you. Where what does God do? He steps in at a moment in time. When everything is so messed up and so chaotic, and he puts another little piece in this story that leads to the Messiah coming into the world. Second thing I want you to notice is that his miraculous intervention was an essential piece of our redemption. To put it another way, if God didn't do it this way, you and I couldn't be saved. You say, well, I thought that salvation comes through the cross And the resurrection. And if you say that, you are correct. The salvation comes through the cross, the death of Christ, and the resurrection of Christ. But Christ had to be qualified to be able to do what he did. John the Baptist couldn't have gone to the cross and died for your sins and risen from the dead. Matthew couldn't have gone to the cross and died for your sins and risen from the dead. John couldn't have gone to the cross and died for your sins and risen from the dead. Joseph couldn't have died for your sins on the cross and risen from the dead. Only one person in all of history was qualified to be able to do what the Lord Jesus did. And during this season where we talk about the miracle of the incarnation, I think it's very important for us to remember why he was qualified to do what he did. It's not just what he did, but it's the fact that he is God in flesh, the perfect son of God, who is qualified to do what he did, that you and I can have redemption. Notice what he says in verse 21. It says, She shall bring forth a son. And thou shalt call his name Jesus. He shall save his people from their sins. Now interesting. Let me just pause for a moment and say this. That name Jesus, which is actually Yeshua, okay, it means that Yahweh saves. Okay? It's a Jewish name that lots and lots of Jewish boys would have had. It's not like his name was unique and there was no other person who was growing up in Nazareth or growing up at the time that he did who would have had this name that God saves. But this one is different. He is the fulfillment of all those promises that point to God who saves. There are three essential pieces to this promise that I want to highlight this morning The first is that Christ had to be a man. In Romans chapter 5, verse 19, it says, by one man 's disobedience, many were made sinners. So by the obedience of one man shall many be made righteous. One man causes us to have sin in the world. One man is able to remove sin from the world. It says in 1 Corinthians 15, 22, in Adam all die. Even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Very simple fact. There has to be a man dying for our sins. Second fact. He had to be a sinless man. He couldn't be going to the cross as a sinner. He had to be going to the cross as a sinless man so that he could take our sin on himself, not be punished for his own sin. 1 Peter 3 verse 18 it says, Christ also hath once suffered for sins. And listen to the way he puts it: the just for the unjust. That he might bring us to God. The just for the unjust. Why? So that he could bring us to God. Second Corinthians 5. 21. He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. It's not just that our Savior had to be a man. But he had to be a sinless man, or he could not have paid the penalty for our sins. There's a third component that is very interesting, and it might be one that you've never really thought much about. But I think it's an important part of this story in front of us. He had to descend from David to rightfully take this throne. In Isaiah 9, 6, and 7, it says, Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be on his shoulders, and his name shall be called wonderful, counselor, the mighty God. The everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David. Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it to establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth even forever. And I love this next little statement. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. God will do it. There's nothing that can stop him. He is zealous to accomplish this plan of redemption. Luke chapter 1, 32, it says, He shall be great, shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David. He shall reign over the house of Jacob forever and of his kingdom. There shall be no end. So three very simple facts. If Jesus goes to the cross and he dies for our sins and he rises from the dead, it is only possible that we can be redeemed if he's one of man. If he's two, a sinless man, and if he's three, descended from David. But there are three challenges. But a lot of times we don't think about that this text in front of us addresses. Here's the first challenge. How in the world does the eternal God take on human flesh? It's obviously a miracle. It's not as if God explained every single little detail of how this works. It simply states this is what he does. Isaiah 7. 14, I think is the answer, says, the Lord himself shall give you a sign, behold, a virgin, very significant, shall conceive and bear a son. And shall call his name Emmanuel. What does that word mean? God with us. This person, Emmanuel, is going to be conceived through a miraculous means, by the Holy Ghost, having no human father. That's how God did this. The solution is that Christ would have no human father, making it possible for him to have two natures, full humanity, full deity in the same person. Second challenge is the challenge that he had to be a sinless man who descended from Adam. You might say, well, why does that matter? Well in Romans chapter 5, verse 12 it says, By one man sin entered into the world. And death by sin. So death passed upon all men for that all have sinned. Every person in this room who's raised children knows you don't have to teach your kids how to do wrong. They it's like it's in them. You go, where does that come from? It's passed on. From one generation to the next generation. When we are born into this world, we are born with this sin nature. The question is: where does that come from? It comes all the way back. From Adam's sin in the garden. You say, well, how does Christ take on human flesh and not take on sinful human flesh? The answer is that Christ would not have a human father, meaning that Adam's fallen nature passed from one generation to the next would not corrupt his perfect human nature. That's a miracle. That's what God did so that we could be redeemed. The third challenge I want to mention is that the Messiah descending from David That's the challenge of the Messiah descending from David through Jechaniah, who was cursed before the Babylonian captivity. Now somebody in this some of you in this room might go, I don't know who Jechaniah is. I don't know why this matters at all. What's the big deal? Well the big deal is this. As David dies and Solomon takes the throne and Solomon dies and his son takes the throne, and then he dies and his son takes the throne, and he dies and his son takes the throne, and he dies and his son takes the throne. Every single one of This kings was Through genealogy, connected back to David. But when they came through several hundred years of history, there came a point in time where God judged the nation because of their rebellion against God. And at the time in Israel's history when this came to a head, there was a man on the throne named Jeconiah. And Jeconiah was a very evil king. He was descended back to David. He had the right to be on the throne. But there's something fascinating that is stated about this man in Jeremiah 22, verse 30. Listen carefully to what it says. Write this man childless. A man that shall not prosper in his days, no man of his seed shall prosper sitting upon the throne of David and ruling anymore in Judah. So we might go, well, so obviously Christ could not have come from that man. Do you see the challenge? You say, what's the solution to this challenge? The solution is this. Christ's descent from David had both a legal and a biological connection. And this is interesting because this is highlighted in the two different genealogies that are given. I kind of touched on this recently, a couple of weeks ago, but in Matthew, we have the genealogy of Christ. That shows his legal right to the throne of David through Joseph, who was not, and the text is very clear, he was not his biological father. You say, well, why does that matter? That matters because Solomon and Jechaniah are both mentioned in this genealogy, who gives him the legal right to the throne, but he had no biological connection to those two men. You say, why is that? Because Joseph wasn't his father. Christ's humanity was not connected back to David biologically through Solomon and through Jechaniah. But interestingly, when we go to the book of Luke, we see that he had a human connection back to Adam through David, through his mother Mary, who descended from Nathan. rather than Solomon. Interestingly, Bathsheba had four children, four sons that are mentioned in the Bible. The third son is Nathan, and the fourth son that is mentioned is Solomon. Christ's right to the throne legally came through Solomon, but his connection to David biologically came through Nathan. And it skipped past Jeconiah because Jechaniah wasn't a part of that genealogy. This means that Christ has both a legal and a biological connection to David, but not a biological connection to David through Jechaniah. And what does that show you? God's incredible precision. His incredible connection or his incredible attention to detail. God's word is sound. And solid. The conclusion is that Christ's ability to accomplish our redemption was directly connected to the resolution of these three challenges Third truth I want you to notice is this. These events demonstrated God's unfailing faithfulness to his word. Look down in your Bibles again at verses 22 and 23, it says this. Now All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophets, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Now there was a little statement made in those verses that says this was done That it might be fulfilled. You say, why does that matter? It matters because ten times In the book of Matthew, you see that statement, this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by. We see that over and over and over again. Do you get the sense that Matthew is trying to emphasize that? Well, of course he is. Why is that? Because it shows us that God promised and God fulfilled. God promised and God fulfilled. God promised and God fulfilled. For instance, in 122, this is talking about the miraculous nature of his birth. But later on in the verse it talks about his name being Emmanuel, which means God with us. Or in the next chapter, it talks about him being delivered out of Egypt. Or later on in that chapter, it talks about the fact that he's going to grow up in obscurity. And this is going to open him up to derision. Or in chapter four it talks about the nature and the location of his ministry in Galilee. Or in chapter eight it talks about his compassion for the infirmed and the weak and how he healed them as a sign of who he was. Or in chapter 12, the fact that the Holy Spirit would empower him in his messianic ministry. Or in chapter 13, it talks about how he would speak and teach in parables. Or in chapter 21, it talks about his triumphant entry into Jerusalem. Chapter 26, the disciples would abandon him when he was about to die. Chapter 27, it talks about them casting lots for his garments as he hangs on the cross. Every single one of those details was mentioned in the Old Testament hundreds and hundreds of years before they were fulfilled. And Matthew takes a note of this, and he reminds this Jewish audience of all these examples of God's promise, God's faithfulness, and the fulfillment of those things. I would summarize it like this. God accomplished everything that He promised He would, leading up to the cross. and the resurrection of Christ. Matthew 5. Think not that I am come to destroy the law. I am not come to destroy But to fulfill till heaven and earth pass, not one jot or one tittle shall pass from the law till all be fulfilled. When God says that , He means that. And he demonstrated that by his faithfulness to his word. I think about John chapter 19. There's some fascinating statements that are made at the end of that book. It says, after these things, Jesus knowing all things that were accomplished, that the scriptures might be fulfilled, said, I thirst. See what that's saying? Here is, he's hanging on the cross and he's saying, I know that everything That has been promised up to this point. It has happened. Now I can die. What does the next verse say? When Jesus had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. He bowed his head. He gave up the ghost. He gave up his life. It wasn't taken from him. In chapter 19, verses 35, he says. He that saw it bear record, and his record is true, he knoweth what he saith that ye might believe. These things were done that the scriptures should be fulfilled, a bone of him shall not be broken. Again another scripture that says they shall look on him whom they have pierced. The point of all this is to simply say this. God is faithful to his word. And so I leave this with a very simple question. How should we respond to this? I knew that there were some technical things that I got into, and I wanted to start out by simply stating some simple facts so that we don't lose track of that. But for those who really want to dig into it, I encourage you to go back and think about some of the things that were stated. But the question is understanding the simple fact, God is faithful to his word. How do we respond? I want to read to you from Psalm 136, which I think so very clearly states how we should respond. Oh, give thanks. Oh give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. His mercy endureth forever. That's how we should respond to what we've just read this morning. Gratitude, thanksgiving, humility. I'm reminded of Deuteronomy chapter 7, where God tells his people, he says, The Lord thy God hath not chosen thee to be a special people above all the peoples of the earth. The Lord did not set his love on you or choose you because you were more in number than any of these people. You were the fewest of all people. But because the Lord loved you and because he would keep the oath which he swore unto your fathers, hath the Lord brought you out of by a mighty hand and redeemed you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out with a mighty hand out of the house of bondage from the house of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Know therefore that the Lord thy God, he is God. The faithful God which keep his covenants and mercy with them that love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations You know what he's saying? God didn't choose you because you're smart. God didn't choose you because you're good. God didn't choose you because you're strong. God chose you because he's good. He chose you because he's a loving and faithful God. And everything that he has promised you, he will do it. And every single testimony in the scripture of how God works is a reminder that despite all the chaos of a fallen world, God is faithful. God is able. God is good. God does what he says he's going to do. And so I close with these final thoughts. There is no reason to embrace doubts about God's faithfulness to his word. I didn't say that we won't at times have doubts. They come. There'll be times that a situation shakes us to our core. And we respond emotionally and we ask ourselves questions that we do not have good answers for, and maybe we even pose those questions to people who don't give us good answers. We do at times get shaken But there is no reason to embrace those doubts and say there's no answer. To embrace those doubts and say, you know, maybe God's not faithful. To embrace those doubts and say, no, God's actually not good. To embrace those doubts and say, no, no, God has promised, but he won't fulfill. We should never embrace those doubts. God has given us no reason to do such a thing. Secondly, the story of redemption not only gives us eternal life, it also presents a wonderful testimony to God's enduring faithfulness to his word. You realize we have a thousand years of history. A thousand years of history. Just going from the time of David. To the time of Christ, we have all that time where what does God do? He gives us hand-picked examples of some of the most tragic and the most embarrassing moments in human history. And he says, I chose to allow that situation to be a part of how I brought the Savior into the world. You say, why does he do it that way? I don't know. What are his options? What good and noble people don't sin. Is that not why he sent his son into the world to save sinners? Yes. And so God works through all kinds of broken people, and God works through all kinds of messy situations, and God works despite all kinds of contrary odds. He does things that nobody would have ever anticipated. History is better than fiction, folks. Sometimes when I read history, my mind is blown by the things that have taken place in this world. Because they remind us there's a sovereign God. Who does what he wills, despite all the chaos. Thirdly, we should never get over his kindness and mercy despite our brokenness and folly and rebellion. The thing that I've learned more and more over the course of my life is that God is patient. God is so patient. I have seen it in my life. And I've seen it in countless people's lives. God is a patient God. God is a gracious God. God is a merciful God. He is a wise God. And he does things through the messiest of situations that no one could have ever predicted. And it's all to his glory. And so my encouragement to you is very simple. May this season be a time of careful reflection on what's in front of us in the Word of God. May it cause us to be joyful. May it cause us to worship. May it cause us to have a renewed confidence in God. There might be someone here this morning that's never trusted Christ as their Savior. You say, I don't believe the Bible. I don't believe that anything you said is true. I don't even know if there was really a person named Jesus of Nazareth. Well, I would encourage you to go on a journey and start reading the Bible. And not only read the Bible, but have some conversations with some people that are willing to work through the Word of God with you. And I'll tell you there's a real person named Jesus of Nazareth who was born, who really died, who really rose again. And the more you dig into history, the more you'll go, you know, there's a lot of things you can't answer any other way. And that what the scripture says is true. Not just about who he is, not just about why he did it, but about why it matters to me. May God use his word to point us to himself. Let's bow together for prayer. Before I close in prayer, I do want to give you an opportunity. Is there anyone in our midst that would say And I'm not going to call you out or ask you to come forward. I just want to make a note so I can speak with you. Is there anyone that would say, Pastor, I I don't know for certain that I'm saved? The things that you talked about, I don't know if I believe them. I know I don't believe them. I need to talk to someone and maybe ask some tough questions I need to wrestle with this issue of Christ and who he is and what he did. I'd like to set up a time to speak with you. Is there anyone that would raise your hand and say that's me? I need to speak with you, Pastor. Anybody at all? Again, I'm not gonna call you out, I'm not gonna ask you to come forward or anything like that. I'll make a note so I can speak with you. Don't hesitate to reach out if that's what you need to do. Let's bow together for a prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word. What a glorious passage. What wonderful truths. How you have worked in history so that we as sinful people can be redeemed to a holy God. I thank you for the perfection of our Savior. The perfect unity of God in flesh, his willingness to go to the cross and to be nailed to that cross, and as it says in the scriptures, become a curse for us So that we might be redeemed to you. The just for the unjust to bring us to you. Father, I pray that you would help us during this season to have a renewed confidence. In your faithfulness and your goodness and your wisdom. And if anyone does not know you as their Savior, I pray that you would draw them to yourself in your mercy And that eventually they would repent and believe, that they would be born again, become a new creature in Christ by your redemptive power. We ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen.