Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and I hope you're having a great week, loving this beautiful weather, spring weather, and uh also hope that we'll be able to see many of you this Sunday for Easter Sunday services. We've been looking at the passage that deals with Palm Sunday this week, and so if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's all turn together to John chapter 12. We're not reading all of that section, but we'll read a good portion of it so we can kind of pick up where we left off yesterday. Here's what it says Then Jesus, six days before Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was that had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. There they made him a supper, and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spiked nerd very costly and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment If you skip down to verse 12, it says, On the next day, much people, when they were at the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees, went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon, As it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass 's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first, but when Jesus was glorified then remembered they these things that were written of him that that had been done these things unto him. The people therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the grave and raised him from the dead bear record. For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle. The Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing. Behold, the world is gone after him. Now if you remember yesterday we talked about how the disciples, it wasn't just the disciples, but the people that were there in those streets They had a perspective that was partially correct but also partially wrong. And so yesterday we kind of tried to untangle those things a little bit. And what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like us to focus in our attention on that missing component. In fact this is the most important component to what they were missing in their understanding of the kingdom. In order for the kingdom to have Citizens who are sinners, then there has to be a basis through which those sinners can be redeemed and brought into God's kingdom. And so this missing component is the key to that. And so if you could turn with me for just a moment to Daniel chapter 9. Because in Daniel chapter 9, it's going to give us the whole picture, and then it's going to focus our attention in on that missing component that is so very important. Here's what it says in Daniel chapter 9, verse 24. Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon the holy city to finish the transgression. to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy After three score and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. Now that missing component to this story of God bringing in the kingdom is what it will take for the the transgression to be finished, to make an end of sin, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness. That missing component is that Messiah has to be cut off. What's also very fascinating about that Daniel 9 passage is that Daniel actually gives a detailed accounting of how much time has to take place From the building of the the new temple in Jerusalem, the one that was replacing the one that was destroyed before the exile and Messiah being cut off. So the timing of this event was not just uh specific in God's plan, but it was also actually foretold in prophecy. But that issue of redemption is the key. It is critical. The disciples had to understand that you don't have a kingdom without the cross and then without the triumph of the resurrection. And the Old Testament is full of examples pointing to that very issue. For instance, in Isaiah 9, verse 6, when it talks about the Messiah coming, it says that the government will be on his shoulders And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. He says, of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end. upon the throne of his father David and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it forever. And so obviously the Messiah is going to establish a kingdom, but the question is how will he do it? Well The book of Isaiah gives a lot more detail to this issue of the glories of the future kingdom, but then the cost of that kingdom. And Isaiah 53 is the passage that I liked us to just zero our attention in on because it's going to emphasize what it will take for sinners to be redeemed and then ultimately to be able to be a part of this eternal kingdom of righteousness. Here's what it says in Isaiah 53 It says he, the Messiah, was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. And the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was cut off from the land of the living for the transgression of my people, was he stricken? It pleased the Lord to bruise him You will make his soul an offering for sin. He will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. My righteous servant shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities Therefore will he divide him a portion with the great, and divide the spoil with the strong, because he was numbered with the transgressions, and he bare the sins of many and made intercession for the transgressors Now what Isaiah 53 is telling us is that before someone can divide a portion with the great and can divide the spoils with the strong, Well, there has to be a basis through which those spoils are secured and that portion is available. And the basis of that is the cross. our iniquities and our transgressions being laid on him, God pouring out his wrath on his son. There cannot be a kingdom without a basis for us to be a part of it. That's what he's saying. And so the part that the disciples didn't understand was that missing component of the cross. But it's not just the cross. There is a triumph side to it. When we talk about the cross, the cross seems like Being death is the end, but there's a triumph aspect to it, because he's going to divide a portion. He's going to divide spoils. And those are the spoils, and that is the portion that that is secured by his triumph over death. in the resurrection. And so there are other passages of scripture in the Old Testament that foretold the resurrection. For instance, Psalm 16, it says Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one, the Messiah, to see corruption. He says, in thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. Well, what David is ultimately telling us is that the reason that he will not die, and that's the end, is because the Messiah would not see corruption. It's because he would triumph over death. He would conquer sin and death. And when Peter is preaching at Pentecost, he goes right back to Psalm 16 and he applies it literally that way. Or Job chapter 19, this is what Job says. He says, I know that my Redeemer liveth. That word Redeemer is important. It means that he has paid a price so that Job could become his possession. He says, My Redeemer liveth, and I know that he shall stand on the latter earthter day in the latter day on the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh will I see God. What's Job talking about? He's talking about the resurrection. And so the missing component To the kingdom is the cost of the cross and the triumph of the resurrection. Let me ask you this morning How much do you value the cross and the resurrection? Do you realize all the struggles and all the frustrations and all the misery that we experience on this side of eternity in this fallen world It would not be conquered if it wasn't for the cross and the resurrection. And so the heart of this kingdom discussion is redemption. the redemptive work of Christ. We cannot have a kingdom that is inhabited by sinners without those sinners being redeemed, without those sinners having their sin debt paid in full, without those those sinners having a redeemer who has conquered death and risen triumphant from the dead. So, out of all the pieces in this discussion, this one is the absolute most important. And so essentially we have nothing without the cross and the resurrection. If this has been an encouragement to you this morning, I hope that you'll share that, perhaps share that with somebody else. And I'm looking forward to tomorrow kind of developing this concept a little bit further. where we will talk about the theological implications of that, and we're going to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 so that we can see those things together. Hope you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again. Bye now.