I'd like to welcome you to our evening service. Hope you had a good afternoon. And uh let's go ahead and bow for a word of prayer and then we will get our service started tonight. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you'd guide our thoughts tonight. And as we open up the word, I pray that you'd speak to our hearts. We pray that you would bless our meeting afterwards. And uh we also pray that you'll hold off the rain so that we can play some volleyball after the service. And uh just help us to have sweet fellowship together. I pray that you would be exalted and we would be edified as your people. We ask it all in Christ's name, amen. All right, good evening, uh Anchor Baptist Church. We'll start our song service off by turning to page 296. Page 296. We're going to stand and sing all three verses of Be Still, My Soul. Please stand with me. All three verses. Be still my soul, the Lord is on that thy. If you should be the cause of dream, with God to order. I love you. How about she wants to go? Now heaven came down, all three verses. I mean, I was not ready to find the world. I'm excited to come by my. . Okay , on Sunday nights we like to Mim minnhom minn huma nimima minnhom minimum Joice in the Lord Page four seventy five in the red book. Yo también por lo que me gusta mucho porque la de la hora de la mano de la bola y me con un hidrodito y le pongo a la casa. Well, first well , I think that's a good thing. Today we're gonna jump over to Page ninety -three. Well , right in the middle. Ninety three, then two, and ninety I think we sang this a couple weeks ago when I was leaving. Valvin, first verse What a privilege to come into God 's hand Justin. Alright, now we'll go to ninety-nine. And red up. Ninety-nine. Ninety-nine. Niner Niner Shelter in the time of storm, Amen. Okay, just that page ninety one, which is a good song. Verses of the steps of a good man, please stand with me. The steps of a good man. Both verses Amen. Please be seated. When I'm burdened by my sin, God in mercy pardons me, cleanses and forgives in full. Sets my guilty conscience free when I face the hope God in might rescue me, He has paid red On the cross of Calvary. Bless the Lord, all my soul is singing. Let his praise adorn. His place was the Lord for his under mercy, let me never forget his grace When I live through him, I write God in mercy God blurry, healing her. Every head and hour, turning changes , we leave, leave, sweet, we leave When I number all that gifts and with mercy for Then I know his death and love rest upon me like a cross Bless the Lord, all my soul with thee. Singing, let his relations. Let the Lord for his percy. Let me never forget. Is ready. Bless the Lord will need that holy now. Let the Lord for his time let me never forget his way. Bless the Lord for his let me never for He is great. The words of that song are are going to be wonderful truths to hold on to as we move into our texts. tonight, which is found in Exodus twenty. So if you will please turn in your Bibles to Exodus chapter twenty. And as you're turning there, I want to Bring to your mind the scene of Exodus eighteen, wherein we find Moses sitting alone with the people of Israel coming to him. In order to receive information, teaching, admonishment, or judgment for whatever they were facing in their personal Circumstances. And in Exodus 18, Moses was judging the people of Israel from dawn to dusk. And it just so happened, in God's providence, that at that time Jethro was there, his father-in-law, watching this happen, and being the wise father-in-law that he was. Was, he came up to Moses and said, What are you doing? You are going to wear yourself out trying to judge these people all on your own. He advised Moses. He said, You need to teach the laws of God to these people, and you need to delegate able men to be able to teach those people and rule over the thousands and the hundreds and the fifties and the And thankfully Moses heeded this advice of his father-in-law. Only there was one problem. They didn't really have much in the way of God's commandments. At that point. And what follows immediately after Exodus 18 is what leads to or the essentially the introduction to the 613 Laws that the nation of Israel was expected to learn and obey. And we've already looked at the first four of these laws in chapter 20, where it we can neatly organize it into one of two tables of laws where we see the worship or service to God. But now tonight we're going to turn our attention to what you could call the second table, the final six laws of the Decalogue or the Ten Commandments, where we should find ultimately that overall we've miserably failed. To keep God's laws. We see commandments that pertain to our interpersonal, our horizontal, if you will. Relationships. And then immediately after the giving of those last six commandments, we see Israel's response to God giving these commandments at Mount Sinai. Now I'm going to be up front with you. Tonight's message is not going to be a pleasant one. It's going to be heavy, it's going to be a little bit painful because we're dealing with Those six commandments of the ten that really show our sinfulness. But I hope that by the time we reach our conclusions and That we will become aware of God's holiness in such a way that it makes Christ's forgiveness that much more significant in our mind So much so that we should walk away from our text tonight, knowing that God wants us to live in light of Christ's forgiveness as humbled sinners saved by grace. And we can do that by recognizing two servering truths found in our text tonight. Let's begin by reading in verse Verse number twelve of Exodus twenty. It says, Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy gave God giveth thee. Thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbors. And I'll stop there, although we will be moving through the end of the chapter. Because just in those few verses and in those six commandments We need to recognize and understand that we have utterly failed to keep God 's laws. Let's move through each of these and see just how we've done this So the first commandment we're going to look at is found in verse 12. Honor thy father and thy mother. And this is probably one that we're very familiar with from maybe more of our younger years. Our teens are very familiar with it because I went into detail on with with them on this on Friday. But in this first commandment directed toward our interaction with our neighbors, so to speak. Who would be our first in our human interactions apart from our own earthly parents? Scripture tells us here and also in Ephesians 6 that this commandment is a promise that by keeping it Our days may be long upon the land. Now the word translated earth in Ephesians 6 is the equivalent of the word here used here in Exodus translation. Land. So what does this mean? What does this promise imply? Well, I don't think that it means that we're guaranteed a plot of land in Israel if we honor our parents. You know, you don't get that one-by-one piece of land in Israel, and you can say you're a lord in Israel. Um some of you might have got that Now, I don't think it means we're guaranteed a peace of Israel, although God was promising to the nation of Israel their longevity in Canaan. And that it would be preserved in keeping this and the other commandments. But rather, as a New Testament principle and as a commandment, it speaks to a quality of life that promotes health, good health. And stability for us and for our descendants as a result of honoring our fathers and our mothers. You see, we must remember that even as adults, our parents are made in the image of God And therefore, they carry a dignity as God's representatives in our lives. As children, we honor them by obeying them in the Lord. As adults , more complex , especially if we've experienced a lack, maybe on their end. But what we need to keep in mind is this. Honoring our parents isn't so much about making sure that we do every little thing that they advise or even command us to do. Rather, we need to look at our parents as image bearers through whom we learn how to love and obey God and how to love and respect our fellow man. As children, this looks like obedience. As parents, this may look like calling your mom. If my mom's watching the live stream, she's probably like, yeah, Chris. It looks like giving thought to their advice, seeking their advice, sustaining and cultivating a Christ-onning relationship. Even caregiving in some instances. Now, some of us come from situations where we don't have parents, or we have parents who are not Christians or even God-honoring Christians. And that creates a difficulty and a complexity that I just don't have time to get into in this message. But I will say this: as much as you are able to, love Them. Live out the gospel before them. That's honoring them as God's image bearers. In doing so, you set a precedent for future generations. to do the same and it will be a health and a comfort to you as God promises in his word. So honor thy father and thy mother. The first commandment. Tonight. The second one is thou shalt not kill in verse 13. Now this commandment is unfortunately one that in practical application on a daily basis is probably more neglected than we realize. Obviously, the direct commandment is not to unlawfully take life or murder. But there's an implication here that Christ gets into over a thousand years later. That even the Jews of the Old Testament missed. You see, in Matthew 5, Jesus said, Ye have heard that it is said of them of old time, thou shalt not kill. And whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. But I say unto you that whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whosoever shall say to his brother Rakha, thou shalt be in danger of the council. But whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way. First be reconciled to thy brother. And then come and offer thy gifts. Agree with thine adversary quickly while thou art in the way with him, lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver Verily I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come out thence till thou hast paid the utter uttermost farthing. You see the hard issue of this commandment is beyond simply telling us not to go around being angry at people or murdering people, it's not even an a an admonition to preserve life, like a a soldier fighting to protect his country. Or a police officer defending his community. It is a commandment that is intended to promote peace and unity. Why? Because we are all made in the image of God. And God takes this seriously. That's why he says in Genesis 9:6 , Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. For in the image of God made he man. Understanding the biblical intent of this command to promote peace and unity has immediate daily implications for us. As believers, we must uphold the dignity of human life as we are created in the image of God. As much as possible, we must live peaceably With all men to promote the dignity of man created in the image of God. And we must fight to lovingly preserve human life at every stage of its existence. Why do we do these things? Because God created man in his own image. And when we love people according to the dignity that God has placed him in him in a biblical way. We demonstrate a love for the Creator who did so. Thou shalt not kill. Then verse 14: Thou shalt not commit adultery. Now with Mik McCompany, I will not divulge the explicit meaning of this law, but I will point it point out that there is a close relationship between this commandment And the tenth commandment as it pertains to coveting thy neighbor's wife. God takes this law seriously. It should be apparent if we read in Leviticus 2010 where he provides that the punishment for this very act is death. Yet by the time we reach the coming of Christ, adultery is viewed by the Jews, along with much of the ancient Near East at large, as a property crime against the husband. Jesus, in keeping with his natural tendency to turn things upside down in people's minds, turns this around in pointing out that adultery is performed in the heart of a man who looketh on a woman to love. See, men of Jesus' day as they do today might say, well, we're not doing anything physical. It's not hurting anyone. But Jesus being God upholds the seriousness of this sin, as he does in the Mosaic Law. In Matthew 5, he of course says, I say unto you, that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it far from thee. For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and that thy whole body should be cast into hell. And if thy right hand offended thee, and cut it off, and cast it from thee, for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish and that and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. It hath been said Whoever shall whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement. But I say unto you, that whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery. And whosoever shall marry her that is divorced committeth adultery. Now was the law and Jesus' commandment given so that we could have just have some clarification as to whether or not we were sinning against this law of adultery? Well why we while we certainly get clarification as to what the sin is, we have to remember why we are given this commandment in the first place. It's not that God wants us to be prudes. Rather, these commandments are given so that we uphold his created order. As we read about in Genesis 1 through 2. See, before there was a church, before there was an Israel, before there is even a human race at large, there was a husband and there was a wife. These two, Adam and Eve, were created together to be together. To live together, to have a family together, to work together, to enjoy God together. Matthew 19 states that they twain, those two shall be one flesh. It's not one in one shall be two, or three shall be one, or two plus however many else shall be one. We honor God by honoring marriage. as the first and most fundamental human institution created by God according to God's prescription. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not steal. A simple command for a simple concept, right? Don't take something that doesn't belong to you. We learn about that at the youngest of ages. Yet this one may stand out because it is extremely easy to teach in a visible way. If we take a toy from another child, we learn that it wasn't right. If we see someone rob a bank, we knew that they were probably going to be prosecuted and put in prison. But I suggest to you that there is more to this command than meets the eye as well If we were to look at Ephesians 4, Paul actually delves into this command along with others, if you ever want to do a study in Ephesians 4 through 6 and compare them with the Ten Commandments. But in Ephesians 4 28 he says, Let him that stole steal no more, but rather let him labor, working with his hands the thing which is good, that he may give have to give to him that needeth. Paul here exhorts those guilty of death to put it away and to take up work. It sounds simple enough. It's something that we can see. A thief becoming a productive member of society. Yet Paul provides an underlying motive that we cannot ignore in this distinction or this discussion of the Mosaic Commandment. Did you catch that at the end? He says that he may give, have to give to him that needeth. In other words, Paul is saying that a thief should work so that he can be able to minister. Why shouldn't we steal? Because our primary motive for monetary gain should not be self- Selfish, or even self-sustaining, if we were to look at the Sermon of the Mount again. Rather, the pursuit of personal wealth must always have a ministry goal. in view. That's why God gives us anything in the first place to serve him. And how can we serve him? Well by serving others. Now, does this mean does this mean that we need to give up our earthly possessions to the poor and go without ourselves? Well, no, in most cases. But keep in mind where our priorities lie. If you have a family, you have a responsibility to minister to your family by providing for their basic needs. If you have a church, you have a responsibility to minister to the body of Christ. If you have a country, you have a responsibility to honor God by obeying the powers which He has put into place These are just some examples, but I use them to ensure that we understand this basic truth. By shirking our responsibilities in ministry, we are in fact guilty of stealing. We must not rob from God the gifts He has given us to use for His glory, and not for our own selfish purposes. Thou shalt not steal. Verse 16, thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. Now while we commonly use this verse to teach that lying is a sin, it's Of course, more specifically dealing with conduct in a legal setting. If someone has is having a dispute with someone, they ought not to use a false witness to obtain the result that they selfishly desire. Probably the principle that stands out more than lying is the principle that we should not work against the truth, which we all have done, haven't we? Probably the clearest example of this commandment being broken is when the religious leaders falsely accused Jesus in order to g condemn him to death. In Mark fourteen it says, The chief priests and all the council sought for witnesses against Jesus to put him to death and found none. For many bear false witness against him, but their witness agreed not together. Witness against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands. But neither so did their witness agree together. Now did Jesus say, destroy this temple? Absolutely, he did. In John 2, it's recorded, Jesus said, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. But he spake of the temple of his body. You see, the Jews who were bearing false witness were twisting reality to fit their own needs. To fit their own desires, rather than allowing the truth to speak for itself. I'd say that a a deeper understanding of this commandment will help us grasp what God is intending to promote promote in his people with it. He's not simply stating lying is bad, don't do it. He's helping us to see that people are not tools for our own personal benefit or desires. That's why even a white lie is sinful. It's because our intent, as noble as we might make it sound, is simply to make a situation better for ourselves. Is so that we can create an outcome that we desire. Honesty is more than just telling the truth. It means living in light of it and accepting the implications of it, even if that is to our detriment or to the benefit of someone else. Thou shalt not bear false witness. And finally, verse 17 Thou shalt not cut. Probably the most straightforward of these six commandments and probably the most common of them to be broken. Coveting here carries the sense of desiring something to a fault. In other words, you want something so bad it hurts. God commands us not to do this. Don't covet your neighbor's life. Don't covet your neighbor's family. Don't covet his property. It's not yours. God didn't give it to you. And in this materialistic age we live in, think of how often we are guilty of this. I'm not talking about just coveting in a way that also breaks the commandments. not to commit adultery. I'm talking about there may be a job, an object, a promotion, a standard of living, a marital situation, a parental situation, a friend, a church, a country, anything you can think of. That at one point you wanted it so bad you felt it in the pit of your stomach and it brought your soul to despair. Listen, God doesn't want you to live like that. Like that. It hurts you and it hurts those who love you and care about you. And think of how people would feel if they knew how little you regard God placing them in your life. Think of how God feels for what little regard we place on what He's given in our lives. Coveting is a terrible sin that at best makes light of the goodness of God in our lives and can even accuse God of not being good. These six commandments point us to recognize that our sin doesn't just affect us, it affects people all around us, and most importantly, it affects our relationship. With God. In fact, we've all broken every single one of these laws in some fashion, which forces us to recognize that we have a desperate need for forgiveness and reconcilion. And God recognizes that as well. And as we'll see in the closing verses of Exodus 20, he desires us to come to him So we move from the sobering truth of our failure to keep the law to recognizing that because we have failed to keep the law, We have a certain standing before a holy God, just as these Israelites did. Notice in verse 18. It says, and all the people saw the thunderings and the lightnings and the noise of the trumpet and the mountain smoking, and when the people saw it, they removed and stood afar off. And they said unto Moses, We repent. Is that what it says? No, it says, Speak thou with us and we will hear, but let not God speak with us lest we die. And Moses said unto the people, Fear not, for God has come to prove you, and that his fear may be before your faces, that ye sin not. And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the thick darkness where God was. And the Lord said unto Moses , Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel. Israel. Ye have seen that I have talked with you from heaven. Ye shall not make with me gods of silver, neither shall ye make unto you gods of gold. An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me Unto me, and shalt sacrifice thereon thy burnt offerings and thy peace offerings, thy sheep and thy oxen, and all places where I record my name, I will come unto thee, and I will bless thee. And if thou wilt make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build it of hewn stone. For if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast polluted it. Neither shalt thou go up by steps into mine altar, that thy nakedness be not discovered thereon. Probably the most poignant thing that we notice here in this text, as we understand our standing before a holy God. Is that when these Israelites began to understand their standing, they dreaded death more than they feared God? You see, Moses uses two different words for fear here in verse number uh verse number twenty. He says, Fear not for the God, for God has come to prove you that his fear may be before your faces. The word for fear in the second half is that familiar word for reverence. But he admonishes them, fear not. And that different word for fear is dread. Do not dread God. Do not dread fear or death The Israelites wrongfully feared death more than they feared God. But I will say they were right to think this. They were witnessing a God who in his power and holiness would not stand for sin in his presence. And the penalty for sin would be his just wrath. But Moses states clearly that the intent of God's physical manifestation was to ensure that the children of Israel would show reverence before the God of heaven and that they would be holy. But unfortunately, as we see in almost every recorded event from here to Joshua, this generation of Israelites would simply refuse to live in accordance with the covenant that they agreed to uphold. But what did God do about it? Well we see God providing a means of reconciliation, pointing toward a future. Redeemer. It's no accident that after providing these Ten Commandments, God gives instruction as to how they were to approach him. to seek forgiveness. Altars have been a part of man's means of coming before God since the fall, which you can see with the the sacrifices of Cain and Abel way back in Genesis four. And that Noah built an altar immediately after the flood in Genesis 9. However, God made stipulations for Israel on how they were to build an altar before him. A simple stone altar, though consecrated and set apart for worshiping God, still could not be built with silver or gold any more than they could make idols out of them. Obviously building an idol would have broken the Ten Commandments. But why a stone altar? Have you ever thought of that? Especially since the altar in the tabernacle was made of wood overlaid with bronze. And then later, when we see that in Solomon's temple, the altar was there made of gold. But most likely, given the context we're given here, the purpose was to prevent idolatry, which the Israelites were prone to, and idolatry took away from the whole point of the sacrificial system. Which was to p point to Christ's ultimate blood sacrifice on the cross. We all have broken the Ten Commandments to some degree. Whether by offending God or our fellow image bearers, we stand as sinners before For him. Nevertheless, while the law condemns us, Christ is our means of reconciliation with the holy God of heaven, whom we may know personally and intimately Listen, we cannot stand in dread of death. We cannot stand in dread of God's judgment so long as God has offered Himself as the all sufficient sacrifice. I remind you of what Hebrews 9, 11 through 14 tells us in closing. It says, but Christ became a high priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands. hands, that is to say, not of this building, neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once unto the holy place. Place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. For if the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh, how much more Shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. Let's embrace Christ's gift of salvation and live in light of it as humbled sinners, saved. By grace. Father, it is tremendously humbling to look at these Ten Commandments To look at the context in which they were given and to recognize that we have utterly, desperately, and infinitely fallen short of your glory. Yet you've bridged the gap. In the person of Jesus Christ, we have redemption And you freely offered yourself so that we who are completely in sin may be reconciled to you and be called a people Who are redeemed and forgiven. And I pray, Lord, help us to live in light of these truths in a way that honors The Lord Jesus Christ and his saving work in us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. That's the way you're supposed to look at the Ten Commandments right there. The fact is, when we look at what God says about his holiness, we see how we fall short, and there's absolutely nothing we can give God. There's no way we can we can remove our our sin debt. give That's why the cross is such a tremendous, tremendous thing for us to remember and be thankful for. So thank you for taking the word, opening up to us this morning or this evening, and challenging Challenging us with that. us I hope that we walk away from here this evening being so, so grateful for Christ's redemptive work. Let's go ahead and pull out our hymn books, please, and turn to Hymn 355. And the song we're going to sing for our closing is Jesus Paid It All. Jesus Paid It All. And that's a great song for us. To sing as we think about how we have broken his laws over and over and over again. And on that cross, Christ took the full weight of our sin upon himself. And he paid that sacrifice in full. Let's stand together. We're going to sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses, please. I hear the same thing , I 'm gonna use all of me. Jesus made a lot of you And before the road, my sister. Well I want to remind you that we have a brief business meeting after our service. And so if for some reason you did not receive the financial statements for the first quarter, please make sure you pick that up. I know that there's a stack of those. in the Narthex and then we'll take a little break and then come back. The only agenda is um listening to the meeting minutes from the last meeting, uh going through the financials and then membership updates So it's not going to be a long meeting, but make sure that you pick those up. Billy, can you please close us in prayer? And then we'll take a short break before we come back and have our meeting. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you so much for the potent reminder of why you died on the cross. And what we uh cannot accomplish without you, Lord. I pray that you would allow us to keep that in our hearts as we study, continue to study these parts of the Old Testament, Lord. Uh bring us forth from this place safely in Jesus' name. Amen.