Okay, well good evening. Like to welcome you tonight. Kind of a nasty cold night, but that's okay, we can get into the Word of God And uh have good fellowship around the Word of God and uh good fellowship as we pray together. Let's bow for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our time tonight, and then we will dig into Matthew chapter 6 again and kind of build on what we've been talking about the last couple weeks. Father, we're so grateful for this local church. We thank you for every person that's here tonight. I pray for those who could not make it but are joining us in the live stream. I pray that as we all sit under the ministry of Scripture, you'd speak to our hearts, help us to have a biblical understanding of the truths that would be laid before us. Help me to communicate these things well. And I pray that you'd help us to recognize that as your people we have a duty to be generous people. And I pray that we would see what the Bible teaches about this issue, and that we would also have a conviction about the way we go about doing that. And just bless our fellowship together. And as we lift up these requests, I pray that we would see you at work in each of these situations. We ask all this in Christ's name, amen. Alright, Matthew chapter 6 is where we are again tonight, and we are looking at the topic of giving and The text in front of us, I'm going to go ahead and read it, and we're answering a couple of questions as we work through this passage in front of us. Matthew 6, 1. Take heed that ye do not your alms before men to be seen of them. Otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. Therefore, when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have the glory of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth. That thine alms may be in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly Now, we summarize this passage last week in the following way, because Christ understands the human tendency to misuse good things. He warns his disciples to be wary of a very specific sinful misuse of healthy religious practice. So they would approach God with a pure intent. Now, there are several things that we've seen in these verses as we're working our way through the Sermon on the Mount. We've got to realize while there are lots of different topics that Jesus is addressing There are really some themes that just kind of flow all throughout this sermon. And so we want to remind ourselves of those common themes that we find there. For instance, we see an emphasis on the right standard. And that right standard is not the righteousness of other people or how we perceive ourselves, but rather Jesus is the standard. And so in Matthew 5. 20, he says, I say unto you Except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you shall in no case enter the kingdom of heaven. So if you're not more righteous than the most righteous religious person that you know as he's talking to his audience, He's saying you're not good enough. You can't go to heaven because your righteousness doesn't cut it. So he's emphasizing the fact there's a higher standard even than the one that you see when you go into the synagogue. The second thing that we see emphasized is this issue of authority. Matthew 5. 27. Ye have heard that it was said by them of old. But I say unto you, what is Jesus saying? Not just I'm a higher standard of righteousness than the righteousness of the Pharisees and the scribes. But I have a higher authority than the Pharisees and the scribes. And so Jesus is saying their interpretation is not the standard, in fact, what is stated and how to properly understand that, I'm going to tell you that. So he's establishing himself as the standard of authority. And then the third point was that of purpose. Verse 48 of chapter 5, he says, be ye therefore perfect. even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. And so what is the point? What he really is driving at is God wants to Wash away your sin and make you righteous in Christ, and God wants you to walk in a way that's consistent with that position. That really is kind of the sense of the drive of that. And you cannot find that in the religion of the Pharisees and the scribes. Well, as we move into the passage that we're looking at this evening, we see that there are three different basic principles that Jesus is going to address about this issue of motive. He's going to talk about motives when we give, chapter 6, 1 to 4, when we pray, chapter 6, 5 to 15, and when we fast. And some of you are saying, I don't fast. Well, we'll get to that one, all right? He's not talking about fasting for health reasons. He's talking about something that probably is not a very common practice in your typical New Testament local church context, but we'll talk about the understanding of fasting at the time, how we apply that. But the reason that he goes into those three areas is because these are three aspects of worship in those days where we could say it was being misused or abused. Then we move to some questions that we're going to answer throughout this study. The first question we addressed last week Why, or actually not last because the week before because Pastor Josh did this. Why does Christ give the teaching And then this week we're going to ask, well, what is the Christian's duty regarding giving? So the question we asked last week, why does Christ give the teaching? It's because we face the temptation to use a relationship to him. as a tool for some form of personal advantage. Verse 1, to do this before man. He also says to be seen of men. Verse 2, that they may have the glory of man. They have the reward. What's the point? Well, people are doing the right thing for the wrong reason, to be seen of other people. He's saying don't do that. Alright, so that's where we've been over the last little bit as we've been digging into this. Let's dig into question two. What is the Christian's duty regarding giving? Now this isn't a topic that I address a lot. Some churches you hear preaching on giving like all the time, okay? And there are times where we need to pause and ask the question, what does God have to say about this issue? Because this is an important part of our worship. This is just as much a part of our worship as the singing of hymns. It's just as much as a part of our worship as listening to the scriptures being read and sitting under the ministry of the preaching of God's Word and then the way that we express worship through our actions. This is one aspect of our worship giving. And I want you to notice that I'm using the term Christian duty There are different instructions in the Old Testament about giving than there are in the New Testament. However, there's not such a great gap that we are going to see some massive difference. What I think is important for us to recognize is we have to start with the Old Testament, understand what it says, understand why it says that, and then look at how it's applied in New Testament passages of Scripture. And the Gospels are written on the New Testament side of the cross, but historically Jesus is on the Old Testament side of the cross when he's talking to them. So he's dealing with a lot of Old Testament things. So let's dig into this one piece at a time. The first fact I want you to notice this evening, and I don't think it's back here, but if people are on the live stream, they get to see it because our projector is burned out. Alright? Alright, fact number one. We need to understand what scripture teaches in both the Old and in the New Testament. You might say, well, I'm a New Testament Christian. I don't need to know what the Old Testament says. Well, if you don't understand what the Old Testament teaches, there are certain things in the New Testament that will not make sense. Okay? Or certain things that maybe we will not understand at the level of weight that we should. And so the New Testament is built on the Old Testament. The New Testament was given to people who had cultural ideas that were shaped by the Old Testament, and further instruction was given to help Gentiles who came from cultures that were completely pagan when they became a part of the church. I mean if you think about it this way, if you were saved in the first century and you had grown up in a Jewish context in the synagogue, and now you're a part of the local church, what would your understanding of giving be? Would it be something Paul would write 20 years later in an epistle? Or would it be what you understood growing up? I mean, which one would it be? It 's certain practices that would have just been a normal part of local church life, those who had an Old Testament context, they would have flown naturally into that. And so it's important for us to understand what did God say about these issues in the Old Testament. So fact number two. The Old Testament pattern of giving was built on a principle that God is your king. Let me say that again. The Old Testament pattern of giving was built on the principle that God is your king. And last night in our in our study that we did on the Old Testament, we talked about the Mosaic covenant. Okay? And the Mosaic covenant was God establishing a relationship with the nation of Israel. That was very similar to the kinds of relationships that these people understood when a very strong king would come to another city and basically say this. You can come and enter into covenant with me, or I'll go to war against you. Okay? That was kind of the situation that was going on. And they say, oh, we don't want to fight you. We want to be uh on on your side And he'd say, Well here are the terms. These are your responsibilities. These are your duties. And then here are the things that I will do So long as you fulfill your side of this responsibility. Okay? That's really what the sense of the Mosaic covenant was. And at the top of this is the fact that God is The king. God is the ruler. And because he is the king and he is the ruler, you have an obligation to submit to his authority. Now, does that change in the New Testament? Well, no, not really. I mean, he's called the Lord, Jesus Christ. He is our Lord. And so we understand the authority of Christ. Now, part of this system was a system of giving. And I think a lot of times we talk about Old Testament giving and we talk about things like tithing. We really don't understand how in-depth this concept was in the Old Testament. After this little discussion we'll have tonight, you'll go, so they didn't just give 10% of their income. They actually gave probably about thirty percent of their income. Arguably more, depending on the situation. And I'm not going to argue tonight, that's what you need to do here. Okay. I just want you to understand that when we talk about tithing in the Old Testament It wasn't just like, well, here's a tenth, and that's the end of it. There's a lot there. And we need to understand what the purpose of those tithes and offerings were. They served a very important function in their society. They served a function of supporting those who ministered into in the word, the Levites. The Levites did not have a portion in Israel. God was their portion And so part of the Levitical tithe was so that the Levites didn't starve. And part of their Levitical tithe was to set aside uh things for festive occasions. And we know that there were feasts and festivals that all pointed to the coming Messiah. And they needed to set aside things for those events. And part of that was their tithe system. And so even though they set apart that 10% of the 10% for those occasions, they enjoyed that as a community as well. And then there was a time every couple of years where they actually set aside an additional 10%. And this 10% was set aside for people that were truly destitute. So I want to work our way through these so you can get a sense of that. And what's interesting is that as we talk about these different things, you go, you know, I can see a New Testament correlation here. Okay? We'll see that. So first of all, the Levitical tithe. There are two passages that I'm going to mention, but there are a lot more that I could actually go to. Here's the first one. Leviticus 27, verse 30. And you really have to read several verses to get the full sense of what he's saying, but I'm just going to hit a part of it Whatsoever passeth under the rod, the tenth shall be holy unto the Lord. Now this is the basic tithe of what they possessed Or Numbers 18. 21, he says, I have given the children of Levi all the tenth of Israel for an inheritance for their service. of the tabernacle of the congregation. So when we talk about this aspect of the tithe, the Levitical tithe, that 10% was given to support those who worked in the tabernacle, eventually they'd be in the temple, those who were Levites who were a part of the teaching and the structure of giving the Word of God to the people. So another way to put it is those who ministered the word were supposed to survive off of their ministry of the word. And they weren't called to ministry the same way that we think of in the New Testament. They were called to ministry because that was an inheritance they had through their family. It was a sacred duty. The second is the festive tithe, and we see an example of this in Deuteronomy 14, verses 22 and 23. Listen carefully to this text He says, tithe of all the increase of thy seed, that the field bringeth forth year by year Thou shalt eat before the Lord thy God in the place which he shall choose to place his name there. Now he's talking about Jerusalem. Okay? At the time this is written, Jerusalem is not the place that they're going. But that's going to be the place once the temple is built and that's established as the place where God is going to meet them. But as long as he had the tabernacle, that would be the location that he's referring to. He says that thou mayest learn to fear the Lord thy God always. Now, if you look at this tithe a little bit more in depth, he talks about the kinds of things that they were supposed to take. They're supposed to put it into a storehouse, and then during the festive occasions, They bring out those produce, they bring out those goods, and they use that so that they can celebrate the festive occasions that were given in the law of God. So what God is doing is he's saying, listen, part of your priority is not just making sure that the Levites don't starve who minister the word to you. But it's to make sure that there's provision for these occasions that are a part of the sacrificial system and the festive occasions that are pointing to the coming of Christ. to remind you of who I am, to remind you of what I've done, to remind you of what I'm about to do and how I'm going to accomplish that. So if you add those two things together, how much is that? It's 20%. Okay? 10 and 10. Simple Then there's a third example. Every third year, they were supposed to set aside an additional 10%. for the poor in Israel. Now, it's important for us to understand that God's system was not a welfare system as we have in our society today, okay? There was a responsibility on the side of those who were destitute to not be lazy, to work hard But God provided a way that they could provide for their families in a in a in a responsible manner, even though they didn't have land that they could cultivate and they could go out and work and bring in produce And so here's what it says in Deuteronomy 26 12. He says, Tithe all the tithes of thine increase the third year which is the year of tithing, and hast given it unto the Levites, the strangers, the fatherless, the widow, that they may eat within thy gates. Now, think about the people he talks about. He talks about strangers. Now, a stranger is someone who's coming to your country who is not a part of your country. Now We have to understand that the reason that people are coming to the United States today versus the reason people are coming to Israel in those days is not the same, okay? It really is not. The reason people are coming to this country is it's a land of opportunity, unlike almost any country in human history, arguably. The reason people are coming to Israel at this time was because they were convinced that Israel's God is the one and only true God. I'll give you an example of this, is Ruth She says, your people will be my people and your what? Your God is going to be my God. And then when Boaz sees Ruth, he says, you have come under the wings of the Lord. Okay, he's saying you've come to be a part of our people and you are you're resting under his covenant care and protection You say, well, how did God care for a person like a Ruth who was a stranger and also a widow? Well, it's through this right here. Talk about someone who's fatherless. You think about how disadvantaged someone is. If they don't have a dad, who is looking out for them, who is teaching them, who's training them. And by the way, not having a father wasn't just about, oh, I don't have someone that I can look up to and someone who's looking out for me and someone who's keeping me in line when I need that. But it also is connecting people back to their inheritance. Okay? So my ability to go out and farm is connected to my family. And if my dad's dead, the question is, do I have the land that I should have received for inheritance? A very vulnerable person. And then we talk about the widow, a truly destitute person at this time. And so what is the idea? Well, what we see is that God has provided a way That those who have legitimate need, and not everybody who says I need has legitimate need. If someone's unwilling to work because they're lazy They can't keep a job because they fight with everybody that they've ever worked with. That's not a person who would meet the criteria that we're talking about. We're talking about a person who is truly destitute, and God says, I'm going to take care of you through these means. There are also other additional required offerings, first fruits. They're required to give the first fruits of their animals and crops to the Lord. That'd be painful for me when I'm gardening, you know? You like eating those first fruits, so you gotta give them to God, right? Well, that was in part to take care of the Levites. Free will offerings. This is something where I say, you know what, I just, I love God and I want to give to him a free will offering, a sin offering. Well, some people might have might have lost a lot of stuff from their a lot of their animals. They had to kill them because of sin offerings, right? When you sinned, you had to go to the temper tabernacle or go to the temple. And there was there was a ceremonial that you were supposed to go, and you were supposed to put your hand on this goat, and they would kill that goat, and you would confess your sin, reminding yourself that the goat is going to die in the place of the one who has sinned. And then we have the unharvested portions of fields, so that the poor and the fatherless and the strangers could go and they could go and get grain. I didn't add this in here because it's not a gift, but on some sense it kind of is a gift. That if someone owed debt, there would be a year of Jubilee where their debts would be released. Well, what's the point? The point is that God expects his people to be generous. God expects his people to think about others, not to just be self-absorbed and just live for themselves. God expects his people to prioritize him first. And God speaks very bluntly to the nation when they refuse to give the way that they're supposed to. Or when people abuse their authority because they were the recipients of the gifts of people. And I want you to hear a couple of these examples. Haggai 1. This is what the Lord says. Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your sealed houses, and this house lie waste? Now therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. You have sown much, and bring in little, you eat, but you have not enough, you drink. But you are not filled with drink, ye clothe you, but there is none warm. And he that earneth wages, earneth wages to put it in a bag with holes. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Now, what he's talking about here is that the people are back from captivity, and he's told them they need to build the temple. And building the temple is important because that is the center of worship in the nation of Israel. This is where the presence of God dwells. And they're saying, I don't have time to build the temple, is their way of saying, I don't have time to prioritize God. And God says, I know what kind of houses you live in. You put all your energy and all your time and all your money into building a beautiful home. And my house, but you're supposed to prioritize just sitting there. And he said, you know why you're not being blessed? You know why you get money and it's gone? He said, it's because You're not prioritizing your life. That's what he's saying. Consider your ways. Malachi 3. 8. He says, Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But you say, wherein have we robbed thee in tithes and offerings? Verse 10. Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse. that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now wherewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open to you that windows of heaven and pour out to you a blessing, and there shall not be room enough to receive Now I'll pause for a moment. These are promises given in the context of the Mosaic Law. When the people obeyed God, he promised he would bless them. When the people rejected God's law, he promised that they would experience hardship. But there is a very clear principle here that God needs to be prioritized. His people need to be generous and they need to care about what God says they're supposed to do. And then in Ezekiel 34, he talks about those who had the position of shepherding the people. Who abuse their authority. God says, Woe unto you, shepherds of Israel, that feed yourselves, should not the shepherds feed the flock? You eat the fat, you clothe the wool, you kill them that are fed, but you feed them feed not the flock. The disease have you not strengthened, neither healed that which was sick, neither bound up that which was broken And so you see this balance. It's not just that the people were supposed to be generous and obey God in these areas, but the people who received the benefits of this weren't supposed to abuse their authority. And you see this balance. Let me summarize it this way. God's design for giving in the Old Testament could be described this way. It was done in such a way that it reminded Israel everything they have belongs to God and is from Him. Now has that changed? I mean, of course not. I mean you may have a great job right now and you you have one accident and your life's forever changed. You can't do what you're doing right now It's one accident. It's one accident. You could lose the ability to do what you're doing, and your life could forever be changed. God holds us in his hands and gives us opportunity. And so he just reminds us everything belongs to him. He provides for the physical needs of the Levites who have no physical inheritance like the rest of the tribes. There are some people In the Old Testament, who God said you don't get land at a time when it was the agrarian society. Imagine that. You didn't want to be born a Levite, let me tell you Because you're dependent on the people. And if the people are obeying God, you're okay. But if they're not, guess what? You're hungry. You're in trouble. And there are times in the Old Testament where he talks about this. It provided food and drink for their festive times in Israel. It provided assistance for the needy and the strangers who were completely defensive, not defensive, defenseless, not defensive. It provided a way to care for the poor, to worship God, and to live humbly with a dependence on Him. So when we talk about the Old Testament system of giving, understand that that is what God expected of these people. Now here's the question we should ask ourselves. Has God's character changed when the cross happened and the empty tomb? I mean, on this side of the cross is God's character different than it was on that side. The answer is, well, no. So what is the difference between Old Testament giving and New Testament giving? The answer is it is the focus of the context of the giving The New Testament pattern, fact number three, the New Testament pattern of giving refocuses the same principles into the local church context. So when you see God is providing for the Levites, guess what you see in the New Testament? He's providing for those who minister in the Word and Doctrine. Or when you see that God provides for those who are who are materially destitute, guess what There's New Testament teaching on providing for those who are materially destitute. Or when you see examples of people showing mercy and kindness toward people who are in a tough place, you see the same kind of issues in the New Testament. The same principles, but they're applied in the context of the local church. And the focus changes slightly. So let me show you a couple of principles from Scripture that I think will help us to understand this. And then we'll close with three simple thoughts. So principle one, put God first. That's a simple thing, right? Such a simple thing. Just put God first. But do we do it? I mean how do you know if you're putting God first? You know one of the easiest ways to to know is just look at how you spend your money. Look at how you spend your time. Look at what you're willing to do and not willing to do. Those are the kinds of things that really shape show you how you spend your money. Like during tax season, if you do the itemization thing, guess what? You get to see what you spend your money on. And you may go, ooh, that looks really good or ooh, that looks really bad. Or wow, you know, I think there's a lot of imbalance in the way that I spend my money and what it truly shows about what I value. Put God first. Matthew 6, 33, seek ye first. The kingdom of God and his righteousness. He's reinforcing the teaching that our highest priority in life is God. God and his purposes must be our foremost priority. Number two, principle two. See giving as a regular part of weekly corporate worship. Now I'm gonna I'm gonna address something very practical here and that is we don't pass out plates anymore we have a little box in the back. And that's both good and that's bad. Okay? What's good about it, what I really like about the box in the back, as opposed to passing the plates is I think it's done a lot more discreetly, just to be really honest. Okay? So when you pass out the plates, you you know, people pass it down and you kind of see, you know, what's going on there. You know, the ushers. All right, you're passing Pass it down. Pass it down. They're not watching anybody. But you know when you got the little box in the back, nobody sees you just put it in there and you keep going, all right? No no fanfare, no nothing. Alright. It's just a real simple thing. I think that's great. I really liked that, okay? But one of the negatives is that sometimes we disconnect in our minds giving from part of our worship. It really is a danger. And the fact is, unless we think about it, we may just say, I guess it's not really a part of our worship, but it really is supposed to be a part of our worship. And the New Testament talks about this. I mean it was really a part of your worship in the Old Testament because literally you're giving 20-some odd percent of your income, if you want to put it that way, to things outside of your own household. It's kind of like we pay taxes today, right? Some of you pay more than that, you know, Maryland and good thing we don't live in New York or California. We'd really be getting crust, right? But the idea is that we are giving as a regular part of the weekly worship. Listen to a couple of scriptures that highlight this. 1 Corinthians 16, too. He says, upon the first day of the week, that's Sunday, let every one of you lay up by him in store as God hath prospered him. That there be no gathering when I come. Now that statement, as God hath prospered, is a statement that's revealing that we should give regularly in proportion to how God has blessed us. That is what a tithe is. It is a proportionate giving. Okay? So I make this much. Well, I give this percentage of it. That's what he means by as God has prospered you. There's a proportionate giving based on how God has blessed you. 2 Corinthians 9, 7, every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give, not grudgingly or of necessity, for the Lord loveth a cheerful giver. Worship starts with the Word of God. I know what it says, and as I listen to the Word of God being preached, read, taught, sung about , It affects my heart. It stirs up my affection. It moves me. It compels me. It's kind of interesting when you go to the Old Testament and you're reading about how they made the tabernacle. It's very fascinating how it's how it's stated. It says, all those who God stirred up their hearts to give, they gave. It's really interesting. And and you know what they gave of all of the stuff that they got when they left Egypt at the Exodus, all of the all of the gold and all the jewelry. Whatever they didn't give to the golden calf, okay, because that stuff was gone. So whatever was left, all right, those people brought of that and they gave it. To Aaron so that they could make the the articles of the tabernacle. The ladies literally sat down and they weaved all of those fine linens together. They worked with their hands. And so the people that traveled during the Exodus from Egypt over to the Promised Land, they literally, as God moved their heart, they contributed with their hands. and their work with their giving. And that is the idea that that God says as you purpose in your heart, give not grudgingly. God loves a cheerful giver. And so the sense is that what really makes giving a good thing is that it's done the right way. Stirs the heart. And then our heart directs our hands to work and to open our hands generously In many ways, giving is something that's a reflection of whether or not we have a generous disposition or not. It really is. And uh We'll keep moving. Principle number three. Fulfill your duty as a part of the local church. Now, there are at least two categories that we would say are duties in the local church. Okay? The one is the local church is responsible to financially support their pastors. And number two, the local church is responsible to financially care for the truly destitute in their congregation. And in the pastoral epistles, he spends a lot of time talking about these various issues. Also in 1 Corinthians and in 2 Corinthians, he talks about these issues as well. Listen to these texts, 1 Corinthians 9. Do ye not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the temple? And they which wait at the altar are partakers with the altar? Now. He's not talking about the way we do it in the church. Do you see an altar up here? No? Okay. Am I ministering in the holy things on Sunday? Am I wearing priestly garments? No, not at all. Okay. But what he's doing is he's saying, you know the Old Testament. You know what it says about the Levites and about the priests. The people that were in in the temple and working, the the gifts that came were to support those people. He says, they which wait at the altars partake of that which is on the altar. Even so hath God ordained that they which preach the gospel should live with the gospel. So the idea is if someone is preaching and teaching, and that's what they do for their their livelihood, maybe not another way to put that This is what they've dedicated their life to. Well, they shouldn't starve if they're faithful in the preaching and teaching of God's Word. In 1 Timothy 5. 17, he says, let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially they that labor in the word and doctrine. The scripture saith, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox which treadeth out the corn, and the laborer is worthy of his reward So he uses illustrations. He says, you know the Levites, under the Old Testament system, the way that they survived was it was the gifts And you know that if you had an animal in those days, You wouldn't muzzle him so that as he's working, he could also survive. You take care of the animal. He's saying in the same way, the church, it's not just that it's a good thing for them to do, they're responsible. To make sure that those who handle the Word of God are taken care of. And then the second is that they're responsible to financially care for the truly destitute in their congregation. I'm going to be very blunt. There's nobody in this church that meets this criteria right now. Not one. Okay? Now, that's not to say that there aren't people who we can care for. But there's no one who meets this criteria. But the Bible clearly states that if we had someone like this, we would be responsible. To make sure that we cared for them. Here's what it says in 1 Timothy 5. She that is a widow indeed and desolate trusteth in God and continueth in supplication and prayer night and day. If any provide not for his own house, and especially of those of his own house, he is denied the faith and is worse than an infidel Let not a widow be taken into the number under three score years old, having been the wife of one man, well reported of, of good works, if she hath brought up children, if she have lodged strangers, if she hath washed the saints' feet. If she hath relieved the afflicted, if she hath diligently followed every good work. Now, it's important for me to just state this here. If a woman met all of those criteria, and part of that is her age, Part of that is her character. Another dynamic is she has no living family member who can provide for her. Okay? And that's that's that's the part where I'd say we have no one in the church at this moment who's who who would meet these criteria Not to say that we couldn't see a situation and step in and help. But he says if you have someone who meets that criteria, it's not just it's a good idea for you to take care of this person. You have to. It's your biblical responsibility. It's your biblical duty. Now, interestingly, can you see the parallel to what you see in the Old Testament? God had a way of meeting those who were truly destitute. And he has the exact same thing in the New Testament context as well. And by the way, I I I see with when I read these scriptures That a woman who would have met this criteria would not have just been idle in her house, but if she was physically able, she would have an area of service in the church where she was ministering in areas that she could could definitely do that. And that would be part of the expectation as to why she was going to be provided for. Not just the fact that she is destitute, but the fact that she is going to be to serve of the gifts that God has given her as long as she can do that. And you kind of see that in the context as he talks about the different scenarios of why we exclude these individuals and why we don't exclude these other individuals. But those would go in the category of duty. The church has to do this. We are not being responsible if we don't do this. In the same way that if a man is not taking care of his family, his household, he's being irresponsible. Principle number four. Embrace opportunities to invest in the advancement of God's kingdom. Now we would put this in the category of missions. And there's a lot of examples of this, but I want to highlight just a few quickly. Romans 15, 24. Paul says, Whensoever I take my journey in Spain, I will come to you, for I trust to see you in my journey. And here's the next statement. And be brought on my way, says the word, by you. Now why does he say that? He wants to partner with them. He wants them to help him go to Spain He's saying you have an opportunity to get involved in the ministry that I'm doing, taking the gospel to a place where there's no gospel witness. I'm coming to fellowship with you, and I want you to send me on my way. Opportunity. You know when we have missionaries come in in October, they're opportunities. And we can't partner with all of them. Some of them we shouldn't partner with. Some of them it's it's it's a toss-up. It's really hard to say. Should we or shouldn't we? based on our financial situation and based on the kind of work they're doing and what we could see of their of their character and their giftedness and their preparations. But Paul's saying it's an opportunity. You can get involved in it. But we see it even further in some of these other texts. Philippians 4, verse 15. He says, Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. Now that word communicate. Okay? Has the idea of quinunia. And there is a communion and there is a partnership. That's really the sense that we have there He says, even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity. He will want to know, do you have needs? Not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. Cool statement at the end is interesting. He's saying, you asked me if I had needs. It's not that I have mammoots and I just want stuff But I'm serving God. And when you give to what I'm doing, you are having a part in the fruitfulness of that ministry. That is the sense. That's what missions is. We're not going to Ghana. We're not going to Australia. We're not going to Honduras. We're not going to Palau. All these different places. But we are partnering with people who are going to these places and we have a part in what they're doing. We are contributing to it. We are partnered with these individuals. 2 Corinthians 11, 8. I robbed other churches. What a funny statement. Paul was a thief. Well, what you're going to see is how he explains how it was robbing. He says, taking wages of them to do you service. What he's really saying is this. I was ministering in your church, and it wasn't their responsibility to take care of me, it was yours. That's what he's saying. But When I was present with you and wanted, I was chargeable to no man for that which was lacking to me the brethren which came from Macedonia supplied. In all things I have kept myself from being burdensome unto you, and so will I keep myself from being. You know what Paul's saying? And interestingly, when you get into this passage and you dig into the context, you'll see Paul chose not to take support from Corinth at that time because they were so carnal they would misunderstand what they were doing. Fascinating. But what do you see there? You see the responsibility of the church to take care of those who minister in the Word, and you see the opportunity of those who are partnered with individuals who are taking the gospel when their church is not yet Responsible enough, matured enough, whatever the situation, you get to be a part of what's going on. Principle five. Minister to hurting people as an act of mercy. 1 Timothy 6. 17. By the way, when we go back to the Matthew 6 passage and he talks about alms, I think alms fall into this category, and we will break this down, Lord willingly, next week in great detail. But minister to the hurting as an act of mercy. 1 Timothy 6. 17. Charge them that are rich in this world. That they be not high-minded nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. That they may do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, and that's talking about being generous, willing to communicate, being generous. Now, God does not condemn people being wealthy. God doesn't say, well, you know, the true Christians and the real spiritual people, they're the ones that are destitute. I mean, this verse is telling you that if God blesses a person materially, they shouldn't feel guilty for it. But what they should do is not become proud. What they should do is not become stingy. What they should do is see how God has blessed them so that they can channel that blessing into very productive causes. Obviously the responsibilities first, opportunities second, and thirdly, the chance to actually minister to those who are hurting. And then principle six, be generous Deuteronomy 15, 7. If there be among you a poor man of one of thy brethren within thy gates, thou shalt not harden thine heart nor shut thine hand from thy poor brethren. Thou shalt open thine hand wide unto thy brother, to thy poor, and to thy needy in thy land. Proverbs twenty-nine, seven, The righteous considereth the cause of the poor, the wicked regardeth not to know it. Pretty amazing statement, isn't it? People that that love God, they notice hurts. They notice things They notice people's problems, they care about 'em. Other people they could care less. I got my own life, I got my own burdens, I don't care about yours. He puts this stark contrast between the two two. Proverbs 19, 17. He that hath pity on the poor lendeth unto the Lord. That which he hath given him will he repay him again. God has ways of turning blessing back on those who are generous. James 1. 27, pure religion before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. First John three seventeen Whoso hath this world's good and seeeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bows of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him. My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. I don't think I got a whole lot more to say about that. It's pretty clear, isn't it? God wants us to be generous. God doesn't want us to be calloused and hard-hearted towards other people. He wants us to take our responsibilities seriously. He wants us to look for opportunities to invest in the kingdom of God. He wants us to learn how to be merciful. And by the way, mercy is not foolish. There's wise and prudent ways to help people. And you see that laid out in the scriptures. So here are my final thoughts. Three words I want you to remember tonight. The first word is the word prioritize. Can you say that? Alright. I I don't I don't normally do this, but I'm going to alliterate tonight. Almost feel guilty, right? The first word is what It's prioritize, okay? We must put God first in every area of our lives. How we use our money is one of the surest ways to see what we prioritize. Pretty simple, right? Seek first the kingdom of God. Second word is proportionality. Can you see that Whoa, I'm getting some smiles just. We had we had prioritized proportionality. We must give in proportion to how God has prospered us. And the principle of the tithe seems to be a well-established pattern in scripture. So proportionality. Third word , this is where I had to kind of I had to it might not be the best word for this top this, but it's good. It's the word purity. Nothing wrong with that word, right? Purity. Give with pure motives, all right? So I'm not giving with a double heart where, okay, I'm doing this, but oh, I'm sure hoping God gives be something back. Or y'all again, but anybody notice what I'm doing? Like, okay, we're gonna address that next week, Lord willing. But the word purity. Our motives need to be pure. So prioritize proportionality and purity. That's our responsibility as New Testament Christians. And so I pray that the Lord will work in our hearts as we think about these things. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about the word, I pray that you will work in our hearts. If we need to be convicted, I pray that that's exactly what would happen tonight. If we need to think a little bit more carefully and we need to be more structured in the way that we prioritize our life and how we work through these issues, I pray that we would do that. Father, I pray that if motive is our problem , we are giving, and we're giving in a way that we should, but the heart's not where it needs to be. Father, help our motives To get back on track. Help us to give with a heart that purely loves you, doesn't care about the applause of other people. Isn't puffing ourselves up by what we do, but may we simply give as a pure demonstration of worship to you. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.