All right, well let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to the book of 2 Chronicles together, please. 2 Chronicles, and we are in chapter 24 tonight. And the passage in front of us is a fascinating passage because what it's going to do is it's going to teach us both the power and the limitation of a legacy. But the power and the limitation of a legacy. So let's go ahead and we will pick up in verse number one. We'll read the first two verses and then we'll skip Just because there's a lot of content, not unnecessary content, but for the focus tonight, I'd like us to pick up in verse 15, and then we'll read down to verse 25. So, 2 Chronicles 24. Excuse me, verse number one. Joash was seven years old when he began to reign. Anybody in here seven? Twenty seven year olds. Ooh. Riley, seven years old. Could you imagine being the queen at seven years old Alright, let's get back on track. Oh, oh, we got another one. All right. We got two. Wow, we could have king and queen. Seven years old right here. Alright. Joash was seven years old when he began to reign. How many of you'd want your kid at seven years old to reign? They're like, they already do. He was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned 40 years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was excuse me, his his his mother's name also was Zibiah of Beersheba. And Joash did that which was right in the sight of the Lord all the days of Jehoiada the priest. Skip down to verse 15. But Jehoiada waxed old and was full of days when he died, and 130 years old was he when he died. And they buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he had done good in Israel, both toward God and toward his house. Now, after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judah and made obeisance to the king. Then the king hearkened unto them, and they left the house of the Lord God of their fathers, and served groves and idols, and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for this trespass. Yet he sent prophets to them to bring them again unto the Lord, and they testified against them, but they would not give ear. And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiada, the priest. which stood above the people, and said unto them, Thus saith God, why transgress ye the commandments of the Lord that ye cannot prosper? Because ye have forsaken the Lord, he hath also forsaken you. And they conspired against him and stoned him with the stones, with stones, at the commandment of the king and the court of the house of the Lord. Thus Joash the king remembered not the kindness which Jehoiadah his father had done to him, but slew his son. And when he died, he said, The Lord look upon it and require it. It came to pass at the end of the year that the hosts of Syria came up against him, and they came to Judah and Jerusalem and destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people. And sent all the spoils of them unto the king of Damascus. For the army of Syria came with a small company of men, and the Lord delivered a very great host into their hand, because they forsook the Lord God of their fathers. So they executed judgment against Joash, and when they were departed from him, for they left him in great diseases. His own servants conspired against him for the blood of the sons of Jehoiada, the sons of Jehoiada the priest and slew him on his bed, and he died. And they buried him in the city of David, but they buried him not in the sepulchres of the kings. What an amazing passage of Scripture. We see good, we see bad. We see triumph, we see tragedy. And at the heart of this passage of Scripture are two individuals who left a legacy. One individual, in fact, was never mentioned, I believe, in the text as we read it. The other person is mentioned several times And so the first person that I'd like us to focus our attention on is this person who is not named in the text, but in fact his legacy is a significant part of the story that we're reading this issue uh this evening. And the name of that person is Ahab. Ahab was an infamous king in the northern tribes of Israel. And you might say, well, hold on a second. Joash is a southern king. He's from Judah. Ahab is a northern king. Why do you say that Ahab's legacy is influencing the life of Joash? I hope that's a question in your mind. Because that's an important part of understanding the drama of the passage in front of us. Look down in your Bible at verse number one. It says, Joash was seven years old when he began to reign. The question we should all ask ourselves is, how in the world does a seven-year-old become the king of a nation? Now you might say, well, there are some nations that have had rulers that acted like seven-year-olds. That would be true. But this is an actual seven-year-old. This is a kid. This is somebody your age. Somebody your age. Somebody just a little bit younger than some of you over here. This is a little boy. How does this little boy become the king of a nation? Well the answer is that there is a whole storyline that is that is the the the the history of turmoil in a nation. So the years before the reign of this boy, Joash, were very, very difficult in Israel and in Judah. And so to get this story, let's go all the way back to the story of Ahab and Elisha and all that we know about those people when we were talking about them several months ago. This goes back to a time when Ahab had a daughter who he decided to enter into league with a very godly, for the most part, King Jehoshaphat. And Ahab and Jehoshaphat become friends. They try to form an alliance to kind of bring the nation back together. And in that military alliance, they enter into a marriage alliance. And so what happens is Jehoshaphat 's son marries Ahab's daughter. Now, it just so happens that Ahab's daughter was a lot like her mom and dad. Because she is going to come into play in the story that we're looking at this evening. Now, as these two get married, they obviously have children. And so their son 's name was a man named Jehoram. And the Bible tells us that Jehoram was not a godly king. In fact, interestingly, if you're reading through this portion of scripture, you'll see that there are two people named Jehoram. They are not the same person. They are two different individuals. One was in the north and one was in the south. But this Jehoram is the son of Jehoshaphat and Asalia. And so when, and I'm probably going to mix up some details along the way here. When Jehoram becomes the king, he basically takes the nation not in the direction of Jehoshaphat, his father, who for the most part was a godly man. He did make some Some poor decisions. One of them was his alliance with Ahab. One of them was the marriage between his son and Ahab's daughter. But for a very short time, Jehoram reigns over Judah. In fact, it's only eight years. And the reason that he only reigns for eight years is because he was a very wicked king. And God struck this man with a horrible disease. You can go back in your Bible and you can read about it. You wouldn't want to die this way, I guarantee ya. And so here this man dies in absolute misery because he is an evil person. And then his son, Ahaziah, this is This is the son uh with his with his wife Atheliah, his son Ahaziah begins to reign But his reign is even shorter than his father's reign. And there's a reason for that, because God raised up a man named Jehu who was supposed to go and he was supposed to bring justice to the house of Ahab. Now when we talk about the house of Ahab, we're tending to think about those who are in the northern tribe. But what we have to remember is that Ahaziah is connected to the house of Ahab because of his mother. And so what does Jehu do? After one year of reign, he goes and he kills Ahaziah. And he does this because he was commanded to do this by the prophet. Now, the question is what do you do when there is a vacuum? You always see it get filled, don't you? And sadly, a lot of times vacuums are not filled by good people. Someone who is going to exploit the situation sweeps in and they gain authority, and that's exactly what happened in the case after the death of Ahaziah. His grandmother, or excuse me, his mother, Ethelia, seizes the throne and immediately attempts to cut off everyone that could potentially be a rival to the throne. And the question is, who would those people be? Those would be her children and her grandchildren. Okay? Not a nice person. She tried to have everyone who could potentially be a rival to the throne be cut off. By the way, this is significant and the story of redemption. You say, well, what does this have to do with the story of redemption? The question is if the house of David is completely cut off, and there are no rightful descendants to the throne, then what happens to all of those Davidic promises? I hope that question pops into your head. And the answer is, well then they fall short. And so what does God do? He intervenes to save, to preserve an individual who is the person we're talking about tonight. His name is Joash. And the question is, how does he do this? How does he preserve the life of this child who's about to be killed by his own grandmother because she has a lust for for power? And the answer is that he raises up a man named Jehoiada. Jehoiada intervenes to preserve the life of this child, a little baby. And he does it because this child is a rightful heir to the throne of his father David Assaliah has no legal right to the throne. She has taken this by force. She should not be in this position. Jehoiada goes and he preserves the life of Joash. And here's what it says in chapter 22, verse 10. When Athaliah, the mother of Ahaziah, saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal of the house of Judah. But Jehoshabith, the daughter of the king, took Joash, the son of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king's sons that were slain. and put him and his nurse in a bedchamber. So Jehoshabith, the daughter of King Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest, here is the guy Hid him from Athalia so that she slew him not. And he was with them hid in the house of God six years And Athelia reigned over the land. I asked myself this interesting question. How did Athelia not know that she didn't get this guy? I don't know. So sometimes the way that God intervenes in history, it could be in a miraculous way. Sometimes it's just his simple hand of providence. You don't even really look at it necessarily as a miraculous thing, but it is the hand of God working. Nothing's going on in the situation. And so Athelia's reign is a six-year reign of absolute tyranny and misery. She does not have the right to the throne. She murders her children and grandchildren. She aggressively pushes the nation into Baal worship. And this turmoil is a direct result of Ahab. and his legacy as a very wicked king. I think we could also add to this that part of the legacy of Jehoshaphat Here's this guy who made a lot of great decisions. When the Bible talks about Jehoshaphat, generally speaking, he speaks in very good terms of Jehoshaphat. But that decision to enter into league with Ahab and that decision to take his son and encourage him to marry Ahab's daughter is going to lead to all kinds of problems for the nation. So the first thing we see Is a legacy of evil. Second thing I want us to notice tonight is the godly stabilizing influence of Jehoiada the priest. Look down in your Bibles again at chapter 24, verse 2. It says, And Joash did that which was right in the sight of the Lord all the days of what does it say next? Jehoiada the priest. Now it would have been even better if it would have said all the days of his life, okay? But that's not what it says. All the days of Jehoiada the priest, Joash did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord. Now this gives us a little clue that things are not going to end well for Joash. It also gives you a clue that this individual, Jehoiada, is going to have a tremendously positive influence on Joash. And you can imagine, here's Josh. He's a little boy. He's grown up in the house. His life has been preserved. And the king, or not the king, but Jehoiada, the the the priest is really mentoring and he's teaching and he's protecting and he's guiding this little boy. You say, well what were some of the things that he did? Well one, he spared his life. It was actually his wife's action that spared his life, and then the husband's action to continue to preserve his life. He took care of this little child. It's almost a little bit like the story of Samuel. Here is Samuel, he's being taken care of by the priest, and so he's growing up amongst the priests, and he's seeing everything that's going on. This would have been the situation for Joash. We also see that he removed Athalia and anointed Joash to be the rightful king after seven years of turmoil. Look down in your Bible at verse number one of chapter 23. It says that in the seventh year Jehoiadas strengthened himself. That's an interesting way to put it He's about to take action to remove Athelia and then to establish Joash as the rightful king. He strengthened himself. You ever wonder how much time this guy would have been sitting there going, I've got the real king in hiding. He's growing up. He's a little boy, but he is the one who's supposed to be the king. What's going to happen when I decide it's time to put him in his rightful place? You ever wonder what would have been going on in his head? So here he is, he's thinking about this, he's mulling this over year after year after year, and he finally says, We've had enough of Aphalia. We've got to get the rightful king in his place. And so in verse 11 it says this. Then they brought out the king's son and put upon him the crown and gave him the testimony and made him king. And Jehoidah and his sons anointed him and said, God save the king. By the way, there's a lot more to that story than just what I'm reading. I'm trying to keep it a little streamlined tonight, but the truth is that there was a tremendous power struggle. A failure didn't go down easy. She said this is a treasonous act. She was trying to get those who are around her to stand with her and to fight against Jehoiada, but God's will prevails, and Jehoiada wins. And Joash becomes the new king. This would not have happened had it not been for Jehoiada's influence in the situation. We also see that after he establishes Joash as the king, he immediately recognizes that the nation needs to get back on track. It wasn't just that Ophelia was a ruthless person. She was that. But she was a very wicked person who wanted to influence the nation to go into Baal worship, just like her family up in the Northern Kingdom. And so the very first thing that Jehoiada does after establishing Joash as a seven-year-old king is he initiates a covenant between God and and the people and the king. Look down in your Bible at verse 16 of chapter 23. It says, and Jehoiada made a covenant Between him and between all the people and between the king, that they should be the Lord's people. Now think about it like this. There's been a very long history of God's relationship to these people, the nation of Israel. And most of that history has been negative. Most of that history, the nation has not been where they need to be. And this is one of the darkest, one of the lowest moments in the nation's history. And so here is this priest, Jehoiada, a godly man, who establishes the rightful king, a little boy, a seven-year-old, and he says, the very first thing we need to do is re-establish the covenant we have with God. And we need to remind this king who's just a boy that he has a responsibility to God. And there are things like he needs to copy the scriptures. He needs to rule according to God's plans. They need to cleanse the temple. They need to re-establish proper worship. They need to make sure that the priesthood is pure. They need to enforce justice in a godly way in the nation, we are God's people, not Baal's people. That's what he does. You think Joash would have done that as a seven-year-old boy? No. It was the guidance, the oversight, the influence of Jehoida that gave him that kind of footing The next thing we see is that he removes the idols that filled the land. In verse 17, then all the people went to the house of Baal. and broke it down, and broke the altars and his images in pieces, and slew Matin, the priest of Baal, before the altars. You say, what are they doing? They're removing idolatry from the nation, where God's people remove all that is against him, and then he assists and restoring proper worship in the temple. Verse number 18 of chapter 23. Also Jehoiada appointed the offices of the house of the Lord by the hand of the priests of the Levites. Whom David had distributed in the house of the Lord to offer the burnt offerings of the Lord, as it is written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, as it was ordained by David. I'll put it like this. This is a massive revival of the nation. By the way, we don't have bail here. I mean, not technically We got a lot of idolatry in our land. We have a lot of evil in our land. And the truth is, this would be a great moment in a nation where it has been drifting so far from the Lord. And through the influence of this one man, this nation is brought to a place where it needs to be. And then the part that I really love here is verse 15 of chapter 24. Jehoiada waxed old and was full of days when he died. And hundred and thirty years was he when he died. You say, why do you like that? I like that because here's what it tells you. God preserved this man's life a very long time because his influence Was so powerfully impactful in that nation. What a wonderful testimony to God's grace All these people before him, he reigns eight years and then he he dies in a very horrible way, and then one guy he rules for one year and then he's cut off, and then Athelia takes power and she rules for seven years and she's cut off, but for one hundred and thirty years. God preserved the life of this godly man and he influenced the nation for good. That's the grace of God. What do we see here? We see a godly legacy. One man, Ahab, has an evil legacy. Another man, Jehoiada, has a godly legacy. And I want to just put it in the simplest terms I can. You are leaving a legacy. It's not just having children, but it's your influence. Teaching a Sunday school, just being a consistent Christian who comes to church and and spends time encouraging people in the Lord, just being faithful and consistent and methodical, you know, that has a tremendous influence on people's lives. And so here this guy, Jehoiada, leaves a godly legacy. But there's a third piece of the story that sadly is here, and I actually wish it wasn't, but it is. And that is the tragic end of Joash. And you know what this tells us of? It tells us of the limitations of a legacy. By the way, Ahab was an ungodly man, but his legacy eventually was cut off. Thank God. And Jehoiada was a godly man. But after 130 years he died. And when he died, what he left had to be acted on. And sadly, this young man, Joash , did not handle things appropriately when Jehoiada was gone. Look down in your Bible at verses 17 and 18. In chapter twenty-four, verse seventeen-eighteen, it says, Now, after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judah and made obeisance to the king, then the king hearkened unto them. Now you might say, well What were they asking in? Well the next verse tells us they left the house of the Lord God of their fathers They served the groves and the idols, and the wrath of God came upon Judah and Jerusalem for their trespass. Yet he sent prophets to them to bring them again unto the Lord. And they testified against them, but they would not give ear. After all that Joash had been given He is set on a path to be leading a nation that is right with God. Joash did not have the personal strength. an integrity to stand on his own two feet when it was his turn. And this is one of the great tragedies of life. It's time to pass the baton at some point. And when you pass the baton, you can pass it well, you can run your race very, very well. Your leg was a good leg, but when you put that baton in the hand of the next runner, it's their turn to run, and what they do with it, it's on them. And you know what? Joe Ash. didn't do it well. I'm just going to speak to our young people here for a moment. The fact that you're here on a Sunday night with it snowing outside, I don't know if it's still snowing or not But the fact that you're here is because your parents love you and they want you to be here. And the fact that you have parents that are trying to teach you the word of God, some of you, you're You're homeschooled. Some of you are going to Christian school. Some of you are not homeschooled or Christian school. But your parents are doing the very best they can to teach you and instruct you in the Word of God. They're pouring their life into your life. And you know what? What they're doing is something that a lot of people don't have. But they can give you everything that you need. And you could choose to drop it. You could choose to let it go. And that would be one of the greatest tragedies you could ever imagine. That you would have someone give you this wonderful legacy, this wonderful heritage, this wonderful opportunity, this investment of resource and time and energy, and you'd drop it. And Joash actually did worse than that. He didn't just drop it. He literally turned around and aggressively turned against the ones who had given him the most. And so here's what we see. After his mentor dies, he does not stand against the pressure. Verses 17 and 18. And then in verse 19, he rejects God's warning through the prophets. Look down in your Bibles. God sent prophets, not prophets, prophets Okay, I mean it's more than one. He sends prophets to them to bring them again unto the Lord, and they testified against them, but they would not give ear. So here is Joash who has whose life has been by God's mercy and grace been preserved. He has this man, Jehoiada, who has taught him the right path. And by the way, Jehoiada wasn't perfect. In the passage it does talk about how Jehoiada brought him wives, not wife. Okay, that's a problem. So Jehoiada was not a perfect man. But what we see is for the most part, Jehoiada was a very good example in his life. And he gave him so much, he put his life on the line for him. And Joash would have grown up with this man's children. But, when the pressure came, what does he do? He gives into the pressure of the people rather than standing on the path of truth. God sends him warnings to the prophets. He doesn't hear what they have to say. And then in verses 20 and 21, we see it's like the height of the passage. As if it wasn't enough that God would send prophet after prophet to him, God sends one final prophet who seems like the one who's going to get his attention. Why is that? It's because of the relationship that this prophet had to the priest who had raised him. And this prophet, Zechariah, is not received, but he's rejected and he's killed. Look down at verses 20 and 21. The Spirit of God came upon Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada, the priest, which stood above the people, and said unto them, Thus saith God. Why transgress ye the commandments of the Lord that ye cannot prosper? Because you have forsaken the Lord, he hath forsaken you. And they conspired against him. and stoned him with stones at the commandment of who? The king. Did you catch that The people that were around Joash said, we got to get rid of this guy. He's a problem. We don't want to hear what he has to say. And Joash says, okay, go ahead. and kill him. Now this guy, Zechariah, is not only a mouthpiece for the Lord, but he is the son of the man who raised you He is the son of the man who put his life on the line to preserve your life. He is the son of the man who has given you nothing but good. And what does he do? He returns the favor by executing this man. That's not just tragic. That's criminal. That's extremely evil. And this is going to be the beginning of the demise of Joash. Because what we see is that when he does this, God turns his justice against Joash. And in verse 23 and 24 it says, It came to pass at the end of the year that the host of Syria came out against him. The army of the Syrians came with a small company. And the Lord delivered a great company, a great host into the hand, because they had forsaken the Lord God of their fathers. So they executed judgment against Joash. You know the story? of the nation of Israel coming across the Jordan River, and they go into Jericho and they have a mighty, a mighty victory at Jericho, and they realize that God has given them the victory. And then they see this little town of Ai and they're like, Let's take Ai, this will be a real easy one. They don't go to the Lord, they don't seek His guidance, they don't seek His care. A little group goes up and they fight against AI, this small city that's going to be nothing, and they get they get clobbered and they're like, what's going on? Where's this going on? God puts his thumb on the scale in life. And so here are these people that in their pride think they are strong, and God says you're weak. And your enemies have come out against you. And in fact, I have turned them against you because you are in need of judgment. And that's why they experienced this. And what the text tells us is that this man, Joash, was in the battle and something happened to him. We don't know exactly what it was. But it appears that he was wounded in some way in the battle. And so here he is. He's in a weakened condition. And in verses 25 it tells us that as his servants who are around him see him in this weakened state, they say, Now's the time. To take care of the king. Verse 25, his own servants conspired against him for the blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and slew him on his own bed, and he died. I think it's interesting it says sons. In other words, he didn't just kill Zechariah. He basically did what Aselia, his grandmother, tried to do to him. And you go, how in the world does this guy sink to such a place? The answer is, just because you're given something doesn't mean you do what's right with it. In his death, verse 25, he's buried. But not in the sepulchres of the kings. In fact, if you go back into the text, you'll notice that when they buried Jehoiada, what did they do? They buried him in a place of honor because he had been such a a witness for goods. And here is Joash, this boy who rules for 40 years, who had so much given to him, and in his death, nobody has respect for him. Why? It's because this man died an infamous death. You say, well, Pastor Joel, what do you take from this? Three simple things. The first thing is this. Our lives are going to always leave an impact for either good or bad. In this passage, one was good, one was bad. Actually two are bad. Ahab reigned for about 20 years, and his 20 years were absolutely miserable for the northern tribes. But his influence went well beyond those 20 years. Why? Because he had children and he had grandchildren. And they took his values and they lived out the worldview that they were given, and that worldview was extremely evil. In fact, Ahab's reign of 20 years influences about 50 years of both the northern and the southern tribes. Secondly, Jehoiada's life was long, 130 years. And what does he do at that time? He invested in what was good. And the people honored him in his death. Why? Because they realized he was a good man. He was a faithful man. Second truth: we cannot live life off of another person's faith. This is an important principle in life. You know, as a general rule, people are gonna take what you give them and then they're gonna do well with it. it right so it's it's sort of like this if I if I give my children good opportunities they're gonna take it and they're gonna do well with it right I mean that's a general a general true true principle but you know what's also true? They might not They might take a lot of opportunity, a lot of good, and they might waste it, and they might squander it. And that's exactly what happens here Jehoiada sets up Joash for success in every way possible. He preserves his life, he instructs him, he teaches him, he lives in front of him, he lives a very long time He makes a covenant with the people. His own son is a priest, excuse me, is a prophet. And so you can see there's a very godly legacy here. But what happens? When he's gone, Joash has no respect for him. Joash does not remember the kindness. Joash takes what has been given and he throws it back in the face of that family. And it's sad, but it's true. It happens in life There's a reason Ecclesiastes is in the Bible. Because Ecclesiastes tells us there are times that we witness things in life that in fact they really trouble us. It don't make sense. That is the life of Joash. Just because you're given something doesn't mean you will take it. You'll personalize it and you'll live in the life of it. And so I say this to all of our young people, don't do that. Your mom and dad love you. They're giving you opportunity. Take it and use it. By the way, just because you have poor examples doesn't mean you have to follow those poor examples. There are people in life who rise far above their parents and their grandparents. Why? Because of the mercy and grace of God. Because God brings people into their lives at the right time. And they listen to what they're given and they take action on it. Third truth. Ingratitude is a horrible evil sin By the way, when we go to Romans chapter 1, what does he say? When people knew God, they did not glorify him as God, and they were not thankful. And you know, when we are ungrateful to God, huge, huge sin. But ingratitude can also be playing out in the lives of our people here. When it comes to the people that invest in our lives, are we grateful to them? Are we thankful for what we're given? Are we accepting it and are we using it? God turned the enemies of Judah on this man Joash because of his ingratitude. And his injustice. His servants turned against him and his weakness. Why? Because it was so repugnant what this man had done. He was not honored in his death. Why? Because he didn't die in an honorable way. And so we see the legacy of ingratitude and what that does in the lives of people. So how do we apply this? Three thoughts. One, be faithful and leave a godly legacy. You can't control what the people behind you will do, but you can control what you leave them. Second, make the truth that's been entrusted to you your own. If you have people that love you enough to pour into your life, then take what they're giving and invest it. Thirdly, be grateful and remember those who have shown you kindness. The truth is over the course of our life there are many, many people that have invested in us, and those investments have really carried us to where we are today Our lives are built on the lives of people in front of us. And sometimes those people are not people that are well known. At the judgment seat of Christ, it's probably not going to be the pastors and missionaries. That are going to be receiving the greatest benefits. It's probably going to be mom and dad who invested in their lives. The people who prayed for them. The people who labored so that they could go and do the things that they did. The truth is that there are people all around us who have poured their lives into our lives, and we need to pause, we need to think about that, and we need to be grateful for it, and we need to express that to those who have done that well. So this is an encouragement to our kids. This is an encouragement to our young adults who are about to enter into life or you're there and you're kind of, where am I going in life? This is an encouragement to those who are raising children. We are leaving a legacy. May we do it well. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, I thank you for your word, and I thank you for its simple transparency. It does not gloss over the failures and the sins of others. But in fact, it highlights how you worked in lives and through lives and despite lives. And it's written for our learning so that we will not follow an evil and sinful pattern. Lord, help us to learn from these lessons. Help us to be people who leave a godly legacy. Help us to be people who express appreciation to those who have poured their lives into ours. Father, help us to take the truth that has been given to us and help us not to squander it, but help us to internalize it and help us to stand on the shoulders of those who have pushed us forward in life. Life. May you be honored and glorified as we seek to do that. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen