Okay, well we are back in the book of First Corinthians tonight, and we are working our way through the very first chapter of the book. And this evening we're going to read verses 18 through twenty-five together. So 1 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 18, here's what the scriptures say. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. 4. It is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block. unto the Greeks foolishness, but unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than man, and the weakness of God is stronger than man Now, the passage in front of us is such an important passage for us to understand. And it's important when we look at a passage like this that we ask ourselves a lot of questions about why Paul is saying the things that he's saying. For instance, he talks about the fact that he's going to destroy the wisdom of the wise and he's going to bring to naught the understanding of the prudent. And the S The question we should ask is, is this just this absolute statement that wise people, God just crushes their wisdom in all situations, or is this confined to something that's very specific? And the answer is Something very specific in the context. And then the question is, well, why does he talk about this issue of the cross and spend so much time to talk about how The cross is foolishness to some people, yet it's wisdom to God, it's weakness to some people, yet it's the power of God unto salvation. Why does Paul Take the time to say all those things. What is in his mind? Why is he so motivated to talk so much about the wisdom and the power of the cross? And the answer is that There's something about the thinking of these people that is very flawed and it's coming out in the way that they're living, and Paul's going to address that issue. So with that in mind, let's look at a summary first of all of these verses, and then from that we're going to start working our way through this passage of scripture together. Here's how I'd summarize the text in front of us. Paul understood that the Corinthians contentious spirit was rooted in a diminished view of the cross. Therefore he took great pains to call them back to glorying in it. Let me read that again. Paul understood that the Corinthians' contentious spirit was rooted in a diminished view of the cross. Therefore he took great pains to call them back to glorying in it. We must glory in the cross. Now, I think if you read through this passage of scripture before you get here and you think about the contentious spirit that's going on between these people, probably the very first thing that came to your mind would not be, oh, I know what their problem is. They have a diminished view of the cross of Christ. Would that have come to your mind? Probably not. You would have said, well, there's some very self-centered people in that church. There's some very self-promoting people in that church. There must be some people that they don't get along with others because they're mean spirited, they're unkind. And We would tend to look at all of these very superficial reasons why we think that these people would not get along with one another. Yet Paul isn't concerned with dealing with superficials. He wants to get deep down into the root of the problem that's going on in the church at Corinth. And so what Paul believes is that the answer to their practical trouble is to get back to something theological. It's something about the way that they think about God and the way that they think about the gospel and the way that they think about themselves. That is at the root problem as to why they are contentious, self-centered, self-promoting, greedy people. Guess what? That would be the same thing for us. If we find ourselves in this greedy, contentious, self-centered type of position, it may be that our view of the gospel, not saying we're not Christians, okay, I'm not saying that. But our view of the gospel is diminished and deficient in some way. Because what the gospel does is it kind of peels back all the things that we tend to kind of We latch onto those things. And what the gospel does is it says, hey, you don't deserve anything good from God. You're a sinner. You're under his wrath. You deserve justice. There's nothing you can do to remove the guilt that you have. You're in trouble. And so what does God do? He shows you grace, mercy, kindness. You don't deserve any of it. And all of a sudden it starts kind of giving us a realistic view of ourselves. And it also starts making us look around and go, you know, I compare myself to this person and that person and this situation and that situation, and I feel entitled to be uh dealt with in this kind of a way. And all of it's wrong because the cross says you're all guilty. You're all equally guilty. None of us have a hope of salvation apart from the terrible sacrifice that Christ had to pay on that cross. And so this is very important. So let's work our way through this passage of scripture, and I think more than likely, because of how much material there is for us to wade through, we probably are going to go into two parts on this issue. So the first truth I want you to notice from this passage is that a healthy view of the cross combats a divisive spirit. Now, before we look at what he says in the verses that we just read, I want you to go back to verse 10 because this is going to give us some insight into why Paul says the things that he says. And by the way, when we start reading in verse 18, notice the first word there. What's the word? For. So he's building on something that he's already said. So in verse 10, he says this: I beseech you, brethren. By the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, that there be no divisions among you, but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment Now, the question we should ask is, what is Paul saying when he says, same mind, same judgment? What is the thinking of the church supposed to be united around? Well, if you want to know what the answer to that is, is look at the content of what he says after that. For instance, in verse 13, he asks the question. He says, was Paul what? Crucified. Was he crucified? Now why does he ask that question? Because he's asking the question, why are you following these people? Who did not purchase your redemption? Only Jesus did. But notice how he talks about the cross there. Now it may just seem like an incidental thing. He could have just said, who saved you? Was it Paul? Was it Apollos? Was it Peter? Or was it Jesus? He didn't say it that way. He could have said, who saved you? Who's your Savior? He said Was Paul crucified for you? He's focusing in not on the person as much as who what he did for them. The cross. By the way, he could have even said, was Paul raised from the dead for you? He didn't say that. He said cross. Why? Because this is something that was a problem in the church. How they viewed the cross was deficient. He then gives this reminder, verse 17. He says, Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with the wisdom of words, lest the what? Cross Of Christ should be made of none effect. Interesting. He's mentioned the cross twice. Once in verse 13, once in verse 17, and then verses 18 down to verse 25, he's going to emphasize the cross over and over and over and over and over again. Do you think that Paul's making a mistake here? Of course not. Do you think that Paul's over-emphasizing the issue here? Of course not. But what is the problem that he's addressing? Well, the one that they're seeing is this issue of contention. So amazingly, Paul's saying, your problem really isn't contention, it's your view of the cross of Christ. And this is really important for us to take notice of. Paul's focus was on the heart of the gospel. And this is not something that's unusual with how Paul deals with the kinds of problems that people are dealing with. I'm just going to give you a couple of examples. So if you go to Romans chapter 12, this is what he says. He says, I beseech you therefore, brethren. by the mercies of God that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Now just pause and ask yourself a question. What chapter in the book of Romans was that statement made in? Was it made in chapter 1? No. Was it made in chapter 2? No. 3? No. Four? No. Five? Six? Seven, eight, nine, ten , eleven Twelve chapters. You're like, there it is. Why didn't Paul just open up the letter and say, hey guys Present your body as a living sacrifice to God, holy and acceptable unto him. This is your reasonable service. He could have said that. Why didn't Paul get into all these issues, how they deal with government, how they deal with issues of conscience, how they treat other Christians? Why does he not talk about that for 11 chapters? The answer is that the way you deal with the problem is to go to the root first. And this is what he does. I beseech you, therefore. And that therefore is talking about everything we read from chapter 1 to chapter 11. He expounds the gospel. Romans 1:16. He says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. He says, I want to preach the gospel to you who are at Rome also. Why? Because this is what Christians need to hear, the gospel. Then we go to Philippians chapter 2. Philippians chapter 2, verse 1, he says this, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels of mercy, Let this mind be in you which is also in Christ Jesus. Now, just to kind of step back and think about this, Paul could have simply said, you need to be humble. And that's true. They did need to. But before he goes to you need to be humble, he says, do you experience consolation in Christ? Do you experience comfort of love? Do you have fellowship with the Spirit? Do you experience bows of mercies? If the answer is no, don't listen to anything else I have to say. You need to be converted. But if the answer is yes, then the then I'm telling you, you need to let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus And then verse number later on he says that he talks about the incarnation, how Christ humbles himself and he becomes obedient to death, even the death of the cross. Well what's he doing? He's taking them back to the cross. He's talking about their position in Christ. He's going back to the gospel. Or we could go to Colossians chapter 3. Here's another example, interestingly. He says, put on, therefore, as the elect of God. What is that talking about? Are you a Christian or not? As Christ forgave you, so also do ye. Now, interestingly, when Paul is dealing with Colossians chapter 3, he's saying you need to be forbearing with people, that's patience, putting up with their issues. And you need to be a forgiving person. He could have just said, be patient with people, forgive them when they've wronged you. Period. That's true. They needed to do that. But that's not where he starts. He goes through all this material about the position in Christ, all the mis this material reminding them of what Christ has done for them. And he says, as those who are the elect of God, holy and beloved, as Christ forgave you, You need to forgive. It's amazing how God does that. Because he doesn't just want us to do the right thing. He wants us to do the right thing for the right reason. And so that's why we see the focus here on the heart of the gospel. First question: was Paul crucified? Answer: No Reminder, verse 17, I did not come to preach or to baptize, but rather to preach the gospel so that the cross of Christ would not be of ill effect. Truth number one, we have to remember, so very important, a healthy view of the cross combats a divisive spirit. Truth number two. A person's attitude towards the cross determines their relationship to God. A person's attitude towards the cross determines their relationship to God. Now there is a very common movement going on in the United States right now called progressive Christianity. Has anyone ever heard of progressive Christianity? I see some hands. Okay. Now the question is, what is progressive Christianity? And I'm not asking you to give me an answer, but I'm going to give you my sort of my my definition of what that is. Basically, progressive Christianity is saying, I want Christianity with all the stuff in the Bible that makes me uncomfortable. Like I don't want to talk about the cross. I don't want to talk about judgment and wrath. I don't want to talk about resurrection. I don't want to talk about some of the moral requirements of Scripture. And so what progressive Christianity basically does is it says, give me a Jesus that makes me comfortable because I don't like the Jesus that we talk about in some of these other passages of scripture. And so I'm just going to put it like this. Progressive Christianity isn't Christianity. It's not biblical Christianity. Because it removes what people don't like or what makes them feel uncomfortable and it replaces it with something that makes them feel comfortable. It's not real Christianity. It may use the term Christianity, but in fact it is not. And so how a person relates to God deals with this issue of the gospel itself and the very content of it. So look at what he says in verse number 18. He says the preaching of the cross is to them that perish what? Foolishness. Foolishness. But unto us which are saved it is what? The power of God. Now, interestingly, when we talk about the Judaizers that were very uh effective in their indoctrination of people in the early church. They were preaching a message that took out the need for the cross. And I want you to see what he says in a couple of other places, but we're going to get there in just a minute. According to this passage of Scripture, there's two kinds of people in the world. Those who are perishing and those who are saved. I mean, that's what he says. The preaching of the cross is to those that perish what? Foolishness. To those who are saved, it is what? The power of God. So he basically says there's two kinds of people in the world, those who are perishing and those who are saved. Those who see the cross as the power of God unto salvation, and those who see the cross as what? Foolishness. There's a singular focus in this text. And what is the text focused on? The cross. How do we relate to this Cross. And I think it's important for us to just kind of step back for a minute and think about it in the first century kind of kind of way I mean, lots of ladies they wear like a cross hanging on a necklace, or maybe they have a cross uh on their earrings, or we have a cross logo on our shirt, or something like that. And when we think of the cross, we don't think of an instrument of torture and misery. We don't think of someone hanging on that piece of wood in the sun being mocked. and dying as a criminal and their blood being poured out. We don't think about that. We just think of this this cute little thing that I wear. But that's not the way these people thought about that. I mean, let's remember these are first century Christians and they're people getting crucified while they are glorying in the cross of Christ. Like that's a really stunning thing to think about. So when they're preaching the gospel and they're saying, hey, there was this man named Jesus of Nazareth. He was crucified, nailed to a cross, and he died, and he shed his blood. And he literally rose from the dead, and you can be saved because you trust in him and what he did. People are like, that's crazy. There's no way I'm going to believe that message. He's a criminal. I don't want anything to do with him. That makes me feel awful. I don't want to be associated with someone like that. You see how there'd be this The stigma here? You see how there'd be this uncomfortableness? I mean, people are uncomfortable with a cross 2,000 years removed, and they don't even have any concept of the gore of the cross of Christ. But this is the singular focus of Paul's preaching. And he says there's two different dispositions toward the cross. Foolishness, power of God. I just want to ask this question. I would assume everybody here would say it's not foolishness. It's my one and only hope of salvation. But obviously there were people that Paul had to say, they're preaching and they're teaching, but they believe it is foolishness. I want you to think about some of the things he said in Galatians 5 and 6 and Galatians chapter 2. It's very interesting because it gets down to the heart of those who are preaching Judaizing, legalism, that kind of a thing. Those who preached circumcision were offended by the cross of Christ. And Galatians chapter 5, verse 11, he says, Why do I yet suffer persecution? Then is the offense of the cross ceased. Interestingly, Paul is saying, you know what? I'm preaching a message of the cross of Christ. And there are people that hate that message and they are despising me. And if I would just stop it and I'd quit talking about it and I'd say, do good, be good, be circumcised, follow God's commandments, that would be gone. They'd leave me alone. They'd stop saying, Paul, stop it. Notice that word, offense. It would cease. Or in Galatians 6. 12 he says, they constrain you to be circumcised, only lest they should suffer persecution for the Cross of Christ. Why were people that were a part of the early church encouraging believers to get circumcised and to start following the law? Because in their minds, that was more important than the cross of Christ. Galatians chapter 2, verse 21, Paul really puts it out very simply here. He says, I do not frustrate the grace of God, for if righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. He's basically saying if you could be saved by doing good, being good, if you could be saved any way other than the cross of Christ, then Christ wasted his time. That's what he's saying. That's a pretty stunning statement. So foolishness is on one side. The other is the power of God. And this reminds me of Romans chapter 1, verse 16. He says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. This statement is fascinating. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed. Question. How does the cross demonstrate the righteousness of Christ? You ever thought about that? That's what he's saying. The cross demonstrates the righteousness of God. How does it do that? How does a man hanging on a tree, shedding his blood in misery 2,000 years ago demonstrate the righteousness of God? And the answer is it's because his death was not in vain. It's because he was offering himself as our sin-bearing substitute. He was punished in our place. so that God could redeem us to himself. It says the just for the unjust to bring us to God. And so God cannot, God cannot forgive your sin if there's no cross. God cannot forgive sin and somehow escape being unjust in how He did it without the cross of Christ. Next thing I want you to notice is that God saves people through something that the world mocks. Now it really gets interesting here in verses 19, 20, and 21. He says this, for it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. I will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God. Isn't that an amazing statement? The world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. Now I remember years and years ago listening to this passage of scripture, and people would say the foolishness of preaching, like preaching seems like a really ignorant way to get people to get saved, but that's what God puts his stamp of approval on. And that's not what he's saying. He's talking about a very particular message. You know what that message is? The cross of Christ. It's the preaching of the cross of Christ that the world mocks. and laughs at and scorns and finds offensive. That message is what God uses to save people. It's important for us to understand this as Christians. If we don't have this message, we don't have a gospel. If we don't have a gospel, we don't have salvation. And if we're preaching a message that doesn't have this, we're preaching a message that does not save people from their sins. Because this is an essential element to the gospel message. And we see that Paul gloried in the cross. Listen to some of these passages. Galatians chapter 6 verse 14, God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I am crucified unto the world. Or Ephesians 2. 16 it says this, that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enity thereby. Or Colossians chapter 1, verse 20, it says, having made peace through the blood of his cross, and by him to reconcile all things to himself, by him I say, whether they be things in earth or things in heaven. And so what these passages of Scripture tell us is that as Paul is preaching the message, he says, nobody gets reconciled to God apart from the cross of Christ. Jews and Gentiles can't be brought into the same body apart from the cross of Christ. The enmity that is between me and God cannot be removed except by the cross of Christ. There is no reconciliation of creation to God without the cross of Christ. So what does Paul say? I glory in it. Why? Because it's what gives me salvation. Christ's sacrifice is what allows me to be reconciled back to him. Very, very important statements. He celebrated the superiority of God's wisdom to the world's wisdom. Let's kind of walk our way through these verses just so that we can kind of process them a little bit. Verse 19, he says, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. I will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. That's a pretty amazing statement, is it not? What's he saying? God doesn't care what people think about the cross. He really doesn't. If somebody says it's not fair for God to save us that way, it doesn't matter what they think. I don't think it makes any sense to me. Doesn't matter. That's offensive to me. Doesn't matter. He says, I will destroy Destroy the wisdom of the wise. I will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. All those who look at God and say, God, you could have done it another way. You should have done it another way. I don't like the way that you did it. God says, it doesn't matter what you think. I'm the creator. You're the creation. My way is the only way. That's what he's saying. Very interesting statement. Second thing we'll see is in verse number 20. Here's what he says. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? He literally mocks the arrogant musings of the world. Someone could sit down and they could give you all these reasonable arguments as to why this is wrong. Why this doesn't make sense? Why this is unjust? Why this is immoral? Why this is offensive. They can give you all those reasons. You know what God says? I don't care. I don't care what you think. That's not the truth. The truth is that the cross of Christ brings salvation. He mocks the arrogant musings of the world. Verse 21, he says, the world by wisdom knew God, knew not God. This is also a very interesting statement. When he uses this term that the world by wisdom knew not God, he's saying that people don't come to God because they think they're smarter than God. It's a form of delusion, it really is. And by the way, this is not just an issue with the cross of Christ. When we come to the scriptures and we look at the ways of the Lord and we see what he says, this is right and this is wrong. The world says I don't I don't think that's just. I don't think that's right. I don't think that's good. In fact, the number one reason I think that people are rejecting the gospel today in our current situation is not because they think there's not potentially a logical case for there being a God who created the world. But they say certainly not the God of the Bible, because he's immoral, he's vindictive, he's evil, he's unjust. I don't like him. I don't want him. That's the attitude of people today. What is that? The world by wisdom knew not God. And until the person humbles themselves and they say, you know what, God, what I think doesn't matter. Your word is the standard. You say this is right, you say this is wrong. I break your laws, I'm guilty. Is there any hope for me? He says, Yes, here it is. And they say, okay, I'll accept this. That's when the world bows the knee. That's when we bow the knee. And so people reject the cross because they think that their reasoning is superior to God's, but in fact It's not. The cross literally satisfies the Father's wrath against our sin. And I think there's a lot of scripture for us to dig into here, and I'm looking at my time. I'm just going to kind of like scratch the surface here, and then we'll dig into this even more, Lord willing, next week. But Romans chapter 5, verse 9 says this. He says, being now justified by his blood We shall be saved from wrath through him. Let me read that again. Being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. Now each of those little statements is a very important piece of what Paul is saying here. The first statement is being now. This has not always been our position. But it is now our position because of something that has happened catch this for us. In fact, if you want to really put a difference between the way the world looks at salvation and the way that the Christian worldview looks at salvation Honestly, it really comes down to who does the work. That really is what it comes down to. Okay? Am I working my way to God or did he provide the way through his work for me? His death, his resurrection, his righteousness, or my sacrifice, my obedience, my commitment to follow him, my righteousness. Is it me doing the work or is it him doing the work? That being now means that that's not how I was born. I wasn't born naturally in this position. I came to this position because of something that happened for me. Very important. Second statement. justified by his blood. And by the way, when the Bible talks about the word justify or justification, it's generally not used in this particular way. Usually we think of justification. We think of imputed righteousness. So we think of Romans chapter 3, and I will talk about this probably another day. And then we think of Philippians, where he talks about the fact that I'm going to be found in him not having my own righteousness, which is by the law, but the righteousness of God by faith, and he talks about that. But in this text he uses the word justified by his blood. This passage has the sense of what is being stated in Romans 3. 26, that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. The idea is that God is right and he is righteous to forgive a sinner whose sins have been paid for. I don't know if that makes sense I remember having these conversations a lot of times and we were missionaries. And I would ask somebody this question. I would say, can God just forgive us because he's nice? Can he just forgive us because we ask him to forgive us? Can he just forgive us because he's a benevolent God? And the answer is no. You say, well, you're telling me God can't do it? Well, it would be a compromise of his justice. It'd be a compromise of his character, his nature. And so the cross is essential. For God to be able to forgive a sinner, there has to be a payment made for the sins of that sinner. And that's why this issue of substitution is so very, very important. God can forgive me because my sins are paid for through Christ's sacrifice on my behalf. And so that's the sense of what he means by being justified by his blood. God is righteous to say not guilty, forgiven, and cleansed. Because a perfect substitute has taken our sin upon himself and has been punished in our place. Third phrase, very, very important, is this, saved from wrath through him. I think we should ask ourselves the question, who's wrath? Whose wrath are we being saved from? Now, if someone has wrath, that means they have a mind, that means they have emotions, that means they have a will, that means they have a sense of justice. Well, who is the one That has wrath toward our sin. The answer is it's God. We are saved from God's wrath against our sin. And that might make us a little bit uncomfortable. But ask this question, if God's holy, then what's he supposed to do at sin? I mean, is it cute to him? Is it okay with him? No. It's an offense. Christ did something to remove his just wrath against our sin. And by the way, when God has wrath against our sin, he's not being irrational or whimsical about it. This is pure, righteous, holy anger against sin that has been against the holy and righteous gods. He was not unjustly violating his justice in the way that he did this. Romans 5. 10 For, if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life Now do you see this progression here? We used to be guilty. We have been saved. By his blood. We've been justified by his blood. We've been saved from wrath through him. And then in Romans 5. 10, he says that we once were the enemies of God. This is our past condition That's what it means in Ephesians chapter one when he says, You at the equickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world. And he talks about the fact that we lived a life that was contrary and in rebellion to God. We were at enmity with God. We were reconciled to God. Who takes the step to establish reconciliation? The answer is it's 100% God. If there's no cross, if there's no salv , there's no offer of salvation, there's no reconciliation. God takes the burden of all of it upon himself. to remove our guilt and to establish a bridge that brings us to himself. This condition has been reversed and now we are no longer under God's wrath as his enemies. And that's why Romans chapter 8 is so important. He says, there is therefore now no condemnation. But that's not the way it used to be. And John, it says we have passed from death unto life. Death, life. Enemies, beloved. Isn't that an incredible thing to think about? God brings us to himself and he says, not guilty, declared righteous, beloved. You talk about all the different ways he describes his children. He loves us. In fact, when we think about John 3, it says that God loved the world, a world that was in rebellion against him. He gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God initiates this in love while we are his enemies. Absolutely stunning to think about. Romans 5. 8. He commended his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. That's the gospel, folks. And then he says it is by the death of his son. This removal of his wrath took place by the death of Christ. So I think we could come to this very simple conclusion. If Christ didn't die, if he didn't die on the cross, if he didn't shed his blood, If he wasn't a righteous, sinless substitute, if God had not, as it says in Isaiah 53, laid the iniquity of us on Christ and seen the travail of his soul and be satisfied, nobody could be saved. But he did all that. I'm going to pause and stop there because that's a lot for us to process. But let's just pause and think about this for a second. Do you think that that makes unsaved people uncomfortable? So then the passage makes sense, does it not? Do you think that there are unsaved people that look at that and say, that's the dumbest story I've ever heard in my life? Yes. Do you think there's professing Christians that would say the exact same thing? Yes. So, where does the scripture teach here? It teaches us that if we're on the side of truth, that we recognize that this message, which stings the world, actually is the balm that gives us salvation. When we talk about salvation, it's not just that he died, but that he rose again. But the emphasis of this text is on the cross. Interestingly, by the end of the book of 1 Corinthians, guess what he does? He takes an entire chapter and talking about the resurrection. Because people were missing that one too. And so when we think about this issue of the gospel, every single piece of the gospel is important. It's important that Jesus is God in flesh. Why? Because if he wasn't God in flesh, he could not take our sin debt. and be punished in our place and actually provide reconciliation to the Father. He couldn't do it. It's absolutely critical that he was born of the Virgin Mary, that he was sinless. He had no sin nature. Why? Because a sinful Savior can't save anybody. He would simply be paying for his own sins. It's important that he goes to the cross and he sheds his blood and that the Father turns his back on his son. And then the son says, into your hands I give my spirit, and he gives up the ghost. And he says it's finished. Why? Because as it says in Isaiah 53, the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. When we think about the fact that Jesus died, it's important that we recognize he didn't stay dead. If he had stayed dead, then he didn't save us from our sins. He has to give us life by triumphing over it in the resurrection. And so we think about all these pieces of the gospel, the person of Christ, the nature of Christ. The cross, the nature of the cross, the resurrection. That's all an essential component. Those are all essential components to the gospel message. And the fact is, when we go out and we do our evangelism, when we talk to people about the gospel, we recognize it's God who has to draw the hearts of people. It's God who has to convict. It's God who has to convince. It's God who has to humble. And it's the pride of man that resists the gospel message. Let me ask this question. Do you glory in the cross? Do you recognize it as the power and wisdom of God? I hope you do. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about the text in front of us, and as we will continue in this, Lord willing next week, I pray that you will help us to understand. Why the cross of Christ is so critically important. How we do not have a gospel if we do not have a cross. And if we have a diminished view of the cross, it's going to come out in the way that we think about ourselves and others and the way we relate to one another. So, Father, help us to think biblically about this issue. Help us to glory in your mercy and in your grace. And to be so very grateful that you would make such a sacrifice so we could be redeemed. Deem to you. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen