Let's all turn together to the book of Luke. We have been in Luke chapter 24, the last couple of uh services, and this morning we are going to look at the continuation of that first day of the week when the Lord Jesus Christ arose from the dead. Luke 24, we're going to pick up in verse number 13. It says, and behold, two of them went that day to a village called Emmaus, which is from Jerusalem about three-score furlongs. They talked together of all these things which had happened, and it came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were holding that they should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communication are these that ye have one with another as ye walk and are so sad? And one of them whose name was Cleopas answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem? Hast thou not known the things which come to pass there in these days? And he said unto them what things? They said unto him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people And now the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and have crucified him. But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. Beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre, when they found not his body, they came saying that they had seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it even as the women had said, but they did not see him. Then he said unto them, Oh fools. So of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ have suffered these things and have entered into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Let's ask the Lord to really bless our time together as we reflect on these truths from this text. Father, I thank you for your word. It has power to change lives. You know every person in this room, you know every burden, every every trial that they carry, you know the condition of their soul at this very moment. You know those who have embraced you as Lord and Savior and have placed their faith in the finished work of Christ and are rejoicing today in their risen Savior, and you know those who have truly scorned this message. Want nothing to do with it. Lord, I pray that every person here today, whether in person, on the live stream, every one of us would give careful attention to the Word of God. And as we hear the word and as we see the truths that are unpackaged from this text, I pray that the Spirit of God would open our eyes To the truths that we find here, that the weight of these truths would settle on our souls, that we would be so gripped by the truth that we would not be able to leave this place without having humbled ourselves. And gloried in a risen Savior who died for our sins and wants to save our soul. I pray that you would meet with us in a very special way this morning, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Whenever we come to a passage of Scripture, it's important for us to consider context. And what we're looking at today is a conversation, a very interesting conversation, between three individuals. In fact, this is a conversation that really is packaged within a story. And so I'd kind of like to draw your attention back to where we have been. over the last several weeks to consider the movement of the story that this conversation is found within. Nobody likes for words to be taken out of context. And these people in this passage of scripture shouldn't have their words taken out of context as well. So let's go ahead and kind of put ourselves back. into the story that leads up to this conversation this morning. First of all, we are reading a book, the book of Luke, that is really the unfolding of the narration of the life and ministry of Christ. And as Luke records these details, he does not record everything that could have been said about the Lord Jesus Christ. He hand-selected the very specific details that he wanted to communicate. And it wasn't just Luke's mind, but in fact it was the Spirit of God moving Luke to record those things. Luke is actually writing this book, and then the sequel, Acts So that a man named Theophilus would have confidence that the story that he's heard about Christ and the significance of that story, in fact, it is true. So that his faith would be found on a very sure and solid foundation. Now, if we're reading through the book of Luke, this is probably the climax of the book of Luke. In fact, nearly half of the book is dedicated to not the first two years of Christ's ministry or the first three years of Christ's ministry, but literally the last week of Christ's ministry. In fact, nearly half of the book of Luke is the story of Christ moving from Galilee up to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. Most of the conversations, most of the teaching, most of the parables. that we read in this book are dedicated to that portion of Christ's ministry. And the reason is because that is the culmination of everything. I want to remind you that only one week before this conversation, Jesus, who was going up to Jerusalem up in the mountains, was coming down from the Mount of Olives. And as he came down from the Mount of Olives, there's a procession of people that are crying out, Hosanna. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And they're basically saying, save us now. We believe that you've come at this pivotal moment to be our deliverer, our savior. They wanted a king. to crush the Romans and to establish them as a part of his kingdom. The problem is Jesus wasn't coming to establish his kingdom. He was coming to establish the basis for his kingdom. He was coming to die on the cross. In fact, that entire week was the Passover week. And the whole purpose of the Passover was to point to the Lamb of God who would take away the sins of the world. So literally as Jesus comes there into Jerusalem, each of those days of the Passover week All of the confrontations, all of the teaching, all of the things that are recorded for us, it is all about pointing us to the cross and then ultimately the empty tomb. What I think is very interesting about what Luke records for us is that he makes it very clear that when the Lord Jesus Christ was condemned to death. He was an innocent man. Three times Pilate mentions he was innocent. Once Herod Antipas mentions that he was innocent. Once the thief on the cross mentions that he was innocent. And once the centurion mentions that in fact he was innocent. Yet the Lord Jesus died on the cross. And if you remember back to our story two days or two weeks ago, it was more than just a man dying as a criminal, who is being humiliated by the Romans, but it was a man who is God in flesh, who is taking our sin upon himself. And he was dying for our sins. So here we are, three days after his death. And there is all kinds of confusion about whether or not he's alive. The first day of the week, the women went there to the sepulchre hoping to anoint his body because that would have been the appropriate thing to do. And when they come, he's gone. And now they are telling the other disciples that in fact he is alive, and they know that because angels have told them. And the response of the pet the people is this, I'm not sure. This doesn't sound like a great start to a movement that would shake humanity for thousands of years. But that is exactly what it was. I would summarize the text that we're going to look at this morning in the following way. The disciples' disappointment blinded them to the fact that Christ was risen. Till God in His grace removed their blindness and gave them firsthand confirmation that He is risen, just as the Scriptures promised. God wants all of us this morning to glory in the risen Savior. And I don't know what you are thinking as you're sitting here this morning, but I hope that's where you'll land by the end of the service. So to do that, we've got to dig into the text. So let's begin by first of all looking at part number one, an attempt to process An incomprehensible series of events. Look down in your Bibles at verses 13 through 16. It says the following. Behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus. Which was from Jerusalem about three score furlongs, and they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them, but their eyes were holding, interesting statement, that they should not know him. Now, I want to break this down a little bit so that we process what's going on. First of all, these men had a lot of time to talk. When it talks about the distance to Emmaus, it's about seven miles. If you were to walk seven miles, how long would it take you? Well, if you lived in the first century, it would only take you about three hours. So they had three hours to discuss together what was going on in Jerusalem. And during that time, there was a lot of heated discussion. There was a lot of frustration. I mean, think about it, when you're overwhelmed with circumstances, you're emotionally not thinking very clearly. And you're with a friend, and you're going back and forth about what's going on, and you're clearly not thinking the way that you should be thinking. That's what was going on with these two men. They're like, we thought that Jesus was the Savior, He's dead, and now these ladies are telling us He's alive, and we're not sure we can believe this, and none of this makes sense. And he was an innocent man. How could they kill him? There's all this discussion back and forth. They could not process what they were living through. Only one day. And there's a statement there that ought to catch your attention. It says their eyes were holden. You know what that means? They were literally restrained from being able to recognize Christ when he came up on them. You say, how does that work? God did not allow them to see what was right in front of their faces. And it's not because his desire was for them to be ignorant, it's because the timing of the revelation of Christ was very, very important. In fact, later in verse 31, it says that their eyes were opened, which would be the exact opposite. It's God has held their eyes so they can't see. And now he's opened their eyes so that they can see and they can see clearly. And the reason that God did not permit them to see is because he wanted them to hear from Scripture who Jesus was. what he had done, why it mattered, and then when it hit them, it would hit them with such force, it would change their life forever. Do you realize that God does that with you too sometimes? There are people in this room right now that you have lived your life with a complete deadness to the Bible A deadness to the gospel. Maybe you can look back at a point in your life where you were even antagonistic to the gospel. And there was a day that for some reason you can't even explain it other than the grace and mercy of God, he grabbed a hold of your soul and your heart, and the truth of scripture hit it hit you in a way that you had never understood before And it broke your heart, and you saw your sin and you saw the glories of Jesus who died for your sins and rose from the dead, and you placed your faith in Christ, and your life's never been the same since then. That is the experience of a true Christian. In fact, I'd go so far as to say if that's not your experience, you're not a Christian. Being a Christian isn't about being here this morning. Being a Christian is about being born again, regenerated, new life in Christ. genuine faith in the finished work of Christ, where you see your sin before a holy God and you recognize there's nothing you can give that holy God and in fact all that you have is the mercy and the grace of God. Christ's death, his resurrection, your only hope. Their eyes were holden, but then their eyes were opened Third thing we see is that this inability is actually a major theme in the book of Luke. This is really interesting. Luke chapter 8, verse 10, he says, this unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. But unto others in parables that seeing they might not see, and hearing they may not understand. Luke 9 45, they understood none of these sayings. It was hidden from them that they perceived it not, and they feared. to ask him of that saying. Luke 18, 34, they understood none of these things, and this saying was hidden from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken. You say, Pastor, why do you make a point to say that? Maybe we should ask Luke why he did. It's because it's the grace of God alone that brings people To humility and faith in Christ. Unless God mercifully intervened on their behalf, they would be unable to see what was get this right in front of their faces. There are some people that have had the truth in front of them all this time, but they couldn't see it. My prayer is that today God would open your eyes. Second thing I want you to notice here is that there is a guest who comes who's unknown to them. We see this in verses 17 through 27. Their conversation as they're talking back and forth is sad and it's hopeless. In fact, we look in verse 15, it says, they communed and they reasoned. Now the idea is that there was a pretty intense debate going back and forth. I mean think about a time where you got into a conversation with someone and it wasn't just an exchanging casually of ideas, but you believe very strongly what you were holding to and you were trying to convince the other person And they were doing the same. This is the kind of exchanging of ideas that are going back and forth with these people. But the reason that they are so passionate about this is because they're so confused. And they're so disillusioned. And they had given their entire life so that they would follow this man, Jesus, and now he's dead, and now they're saying he's alive, and they don't get any of it. Verse 17, they were sad. And as they are sad, and as they are debating back and forth, and as they are thinking totally emotionally and totally irrationally, not clearly. Christ interrupts them. And as he interrupts them, he asks them a simple question. What are you talking about? Oh, this is really interesting. So they're coming from Jerusalem. This is the Passover. All these people had flooded into Jerusalem. And as Jesus is coming down on the first day of the week, one week before, as he's coming down from the Mount of Olives, all these people are crying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord I mean, this is a huge disruption. And as Jesus goes into the temple on the second day and he rethrows the money changers, you better believe people were talking about what took place there in the temple. And when those religious leaders got in the face of Christ and they said, by what authority do you do these things, you better believe people are like, woo, they're not happy with him. And then when these people see him hanging on a cross, and there is total darkness for three hours, and they know that the religious leaders have delivered them purely out of envy. And the veil in the temple has been ripped in two. These people know what took place. And their question is: how in the world could you come from Jerusalem and not know what happened? This is a fact, folks. It really happened. And it was an undeniable fact. And they could not believe that anyone would not know what was going on. Notice what it says in verse 17. He says, what manner of communication are these that ye have one with another as ye walk and are sad? A couple things I notice here. One is God always takes the first step. These people were leaving Jerusalem, not going to Jerusalem. They weren't looking for answers in the right places. They were debating amongst themselves. And this is one of the most common ways that people relate to God when they have a heart that is troubled. A heart that is rebellious, a heart that is callous, a heart that is fearful. You know what the first thing they do is they run from God? They run from the place they can find real answers. The very first example of this in the Bible is Adam and his wife Eve. They go and they try to cover themselves because they feel shame. And as God goes and looks for them in the cool of the day, he says, Adam, where are you? Guess what? God's looking for him. Why are you hiding? Why did you cover yourself? He's asking all these questions. God knows everything. He didn't need to ask a single question. Why does he do that? Because God pursues people in their misery. You might be here this morning. You don't like to think about it, but you are the most miserable person you know. You are broken. You are empty, you are purposeless, your conscience condemns you, and rather than going to God, you are running from God. And what you don't realize is he's pursuing you all throughout your rebellion. He asks questions. People don't like questions because you know what questions do? They provoke conscience. And so Jesus asked them, what are you talking about? Why are you so sad? Why are you debating? His questions were leading to something that they couldn't see, but they should have seen it. Third thing we see here is that they were shocked that he could be so unaware of what took place in Jerusalem. Verses 18 and 19 he says, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem? Hast thou not known the things which are come to pass in these days? He said unto them, what things? These events had literally turned the city upside down. It was impossible for anybody to ignore what had taken place. But this really, there's some interesting things as they narrate their perception of what has taken place. There's a lot of interesting things that are being established by what they say. And I want you to take note of them. The first thing is they identify a person whose name is Jesus of Nazareth. Verse number 19, they said concerning Jesus of Nazareth, they're like everybody knows who Jesus of Nazareth is You realize that Roman historians knew who Jesus of Nazareth was? They spoke about him. They wrote about him. Josephus, a Jewish historian, he knew who Jesus of Nazareth was. He wrote about him. He narrates the history of Jesus' life, not as a believer, but as one who couldn't deny that Jesus lived and he existed and he was crucified and everybody knew that this had taken place and they knew that this had radically changed the thinking of so many people. They identify the person. They affirmed his public miracles and authoritative teaching. In verse 19, he says, he is the one which was a prophet, mighty indeeds. And in word before God and all the people. They said, Everybody knows what he's saying. Everybody knows his claims. Everybody knows his miracles. Everybody knows all these things because they're right out in the open. It's not hidden from anybody. How could you not know these things? And they communicated the content of their faith. And this is important. Verse 21, it says, We trusted it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. Here's the problem. He's the one. They're right. But they didn't get how he would do it. That's the problem. They didn't understand that in order for God to redeem humanity, the just had to take the place of the unjust. The Lord had to lay on him the iniquity of us all. His soul had to become an offering for sin. They didn't understand that. And that is why Jesus comes to them, their eyes are holden, and he says, how could you not understand the scriptures? And he lays it all before them. They communicated their brokenness, their confusion, their doubt. Verse 21, Beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done. Certain women also of our company made us astonished. Which were early at the sepulchre, when they found not the body, they came saying, They had seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. Certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it even so as the women had said, but him they saw not. Do you know what they're saying? We don't know that he's alive, but we know he's not in the tomb. And we don't know how to make sense of this. I just want to pause and ask you a question. Do they seem like the kind of people that could start A life-transforming, 2,000-year transformation where the gospel goes to the othermost parts of the earth. Do they sound like those kinds of people? Do they sound like the kind of people that you'd want to sell something for you? I would say no, they would not be, okay? These are not good salesmen. They don't believe in their product, okay? And so they are not convinced that Jesus is alive. They're confused. They're frustrated. They're disillusioned. But notice Christ's response. Verse 25. And this sounds harsh, but these are the words of Jesus. Oh fools! slow of hard to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Whoa, that is not what they thought they were going to hear from this man He seems so unassuming as he said, Why are you complaining? What's uh good 's going on? They were trying to teach him, now he's teaching them He says, ought not Christ to have suffered these things and entered into his glory and beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. They said to him, how could you not know what's going on in Jerusalem? And he turns it around and says to them, How could you not anticipate what happened in Jerusalem having lived your entire life reading the scriptures? Hearing them taught, following Jesus, how could you have lived all these years and not understood this is what had to happen? He rebukes them. He teaches them. The truth is this. Lots and lots of people When it comes to the Bible, they reject a book they've never read. They reject a book. That what few little pieces of the book they reject, they've never even begun to try to understand what they're saying. And they do it because they're too lazy to study it. They're too complacent in their position. They're too proud and self-righteous. Why could these people not see it? They couldn't see it. Because as they read the scriptures, it was just a part of their routine and tradition. Far too many people, this is a part of routine and tradition. And the reality is as Jesus opens the Word of God, I don't know what places he went, but I can tell you a few places I'm pretty convinced he would have gone. One of them being Genesis 3, the seed of the woman would crush the serpent's head. Or Isaiah 53, that he would be wounded for our transgressions. He would be bruised for our iniquities. The Lord would lay on him the iniquities of us all. His soul would be an offering for sin. He would justify many because he bore their iniquities. He would have most certainly have gone to those places. And as he would have laid this out, I can just see Jesus going, don't you need a savior? Don't you understand why this happens? And all of a sudden these people are going, who is this man? But they still don't get it. They still don't know who he is. So that moves us to a third thing. The grace of God that opened their eyes. In verse 28 it says, They constrained him, saying, Abide with us. And as he sat at meat with them, he took bread and blessed it and broke it and gave to them. And their eyes were opened and they knew him. Interesting when it says their eyes were opened, this is like the exact opposite of saying their eyes were holding. In fact, that phrase their eyes were holding literally is It's a statement that would have been used of someone who is captured and thrown into prison. They don't have the ability to get out. They're bound. And now you have someone who's being released. Their eyes are being opened. God is making clear to them what has always been there. The problem wasn't with their access to truth. The problem was in their own heart and in their own eyes that couldn't see. God opened their eyes to see it. And then it says they knew him. And their eyes were opened. They knew him, and he vanished out of their sight. And they said one to another, Did not our hearts burn within us while we talked? While he talked with us, by the way, while he opened to us the scriptures. And they arose up that same hour and returned to Jerusalem and found the eleven gathered. And them that were with him saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and he has appeared to Simon, and they told what things were done in the way, how he was known of them and breaking of bread. Now, there's a couple things here that are really, really important. The first thing is it is God that opened their eyes. There's no question about it. But what's really interesting is how he did it. They did not understand until the scriptures were laid before them. And what's really interesting about it is as their heart was relating to the scripture, they did not even understand what was going on inside of them. This is so interesting. It says, did not our hearts burn within us while we talked while he talked with us in the way, while he opened to us the scriptures. So literally what's going on is here are these people as Jesus is talking to them and saying, hey, don't you remember here in this passage? And don't you remember here in this? And he's just laying it out in their heart there's something going on, but they don't even understand what it is. Their heart, the way they describe it is it's burning within them. And you might even be sitting here right now and you're like, I don't I don't even know how to explain this, but as you're reading the scriptures and I'm thinking about Jesus Something's going on inside of me and I don't even know how to make sense of it. I know I've got a problem. I've been running from that problem for a long time and I cannot make sense of what's going on. That's these people. Their heart is burning, but they don't understand yet. He's opening their eyes. And then as he opens the scriptures, they get it. He is the one that all these scriptures are talking about. He did exactly what all these scriptures said he would do. He redeemed us through his death and resurrection. Their attitude immediately changed. It says, this is amazing. They rose up the same hour and returned to Jerusalem, and they said to the disciples, The Lord is risen indeed. Get this. They just walked seven miles. Okay? I don't know if they walked back seven miles or if they ran those seven miles. But seven miles, we're talking about more than a 10K here, folks, okay? So essentially, they have traveled 14 miles. Why? Because their heart has been changed. And I'll tell you why the gospel went to the uttermost parts of the world. There's only one simple explanation. Because God really saved those people. He grabbed their heart. He showed them their sin. And they were so convinced of the truth that they were willing to die for it. And the truth is there are people that want nothing to do with something. These people, every one of the disciples save John, died for the witness. of Christ the risen Lord. You know how many people will will lie to save their own skin? Everybody in this room. I'm not saying you are right now, okay? Don't get me wrong here. Oh Why do people lie? Because there's something to gain by it. People don't lie for something they're going to lose everything for. Why did these people go with such passion? And such fearlessness and such boldness. One answer, because it's true. And not only is it true, but it changed them. And folks, that's what biblical Christianity is. It's the gospel changing people. The risen Lord. That's what this is all about. So that leads me to a final question. What do we learn from this? Three facts. One, the death and resurrection of Christ are a fact of history. I feel like I've hammered this out over the last several weeks. And I have nothing more to say about it. It's true. It happens. We should believe in it. Secondly, these events were predicted exactly like they were fulfilled. And not only were they predicted hundreds upon hundreds of years, even thousands of years before they took place, not only were they fulfilled exactly as they were promised, but they were explained. That's what Jesus did. He explained the scriptures. He explained why this had to happen. He explained the significance of it, and it wasn't just understanding the facts. It was when the facts gripped the heart so much that it was personalized and they trusted in it, and that is when it radically transformed them. Thirdly, the truth is readily available. It's not hidden from any of us. Anybody can get online and they can read about the cross and the crucifixion. Now sadly there's going to be a lot of information out there on lots of different levels, but the fact is we even have the ability today to go back to first and second century sources that talk about the death of Christ. And the story of these people going all over the world preaching the gospel. There is no excuse for a person living at this time in this country to say, I don't know this, because it's available. That moves us to some questions. First question is this, are you like these two men? You say that's a little personal, it sets on my toes. That's what preaching is, folks. It's teaching and exhortation Are you like these two men? Have you been blinded despite your access to the truth? Has your spirit been troubled and unable to process the misery of your own life? This is really important. I'm I'm reading through the Book of Ecclesiastes right now in my personal reading. And you know what the whole point of the Book of Ecclesiastes is? Life is miserable and life is rotten, and life makes no sense if there's not eternity. If there's not a God in heaven, if there's not a gospel, this is a really rotten world. However There is a God who made you, who loves you, who wants to redeem you, has done everything necessary for you to be accepted. And he is even today drawing you to himself. If you have a troubled heart, there's a reason for it. There's a cause. If you're trying to escape your own conscience, God gave you a conscience for reason. If you feel like life is purposeless, that means there's something about your worldview that's wrong The fact is that when God made the world the way that he did, it was for our good. Turn to him. What is the solution? The answer is Christ is the only way for you to find real peace in your soul. What changed these people was the truth of the gospel. In fact, what's changed, many people in this room, you wouldn't know this, but there are people that if you knew their story of where they were at certain points in their life, you would say there's no way in the world that person is here today. in the position and frame of mind that they are today, because I know that people don't overcome those things. But you know what their testimony is? The gospel. That's it. This world was created and all of creation declares the glory and order of its creator. Our conscience continually reminds us that sin is a really big deal. God gave you a conscience, just like whoever designed your car gave you a dashboard light that says check engine so that it doesn't blow up on the side of the road and you're stuck there. So let you know there's a problem. Don't be proud and ignore the check engine light of your soul. There is hope, but this hope is only because of God's grace. And he has pursued you And confronts you and shows you what has always been right before you. The question is very simple. What will you do with this truth? The final analysis: nobody embraces heaven for you. Nobody trusts in the gospel for you. You must embrace it yourself By the way, nobody rejects heaven but you either. And nobody rejects the gospel but you. And on the judgment day, there's nobody you can turn to and say, It's their fault. He'll say it's yours. Let's bow our hearts for prayer. Before we close in prayer, I'm going to ask just a real simple question. Is there anyone here this morning that would say, Joel, I'm really not certain if I am saved? Or maybe they say, I know I'm not. I need to talk to somebody. I know this is a pretty pointed message, but I do not speak with such direct language without it being out of genuine love for your soul. And out of a heavy duty, a heavy responsibility to handle the Word of God accurately, God's love for you. Is the reason you feel that seeing in your heart? Don't reject it. Is there someone here this morning that say, Joel, I need to speak with someone about my salvation? My heart is very troubled, and I need to know the truth. I'm not gonna call you out, I'm not gonna ask you to stand up, I'm not gonna ask you to come down here, I'm not gonna ask you to make a speech, I'm I want to be a help. Is there anyone at all that would just raise up your hand and say, ask me, I need to speak with you? Anyone at all? You might say, there's no way in the world on Easter Sunday I'm going to raise my hand. Fine. You could still come by and speak with me. I'd be very happy to take how much time is necessary to work through the Word of God and give you, from the Word of God, the assurance That your sins are washed away and you're God's child. For everyone else, let's glory in our risen Savior. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, thank you so much for your word This is a very direct message, but it is desperately needed. Literally, eternity is in the balances. And Father, I pray that your Spirit, who comforts the believer with these wonderful truths, would convict the unbeliever of their need to repent and believe in the gospel. Father, I pray that when we leave this place, our hearts could be filled with peace and joy and purpose Because we have been reconciled to God by grace alone, through faith alone, and the redemptive work of Christ alone. Lord, as we sing this final hymn of praise to you, I pray that our hearts would be absolutely overwhelmed by the rich truths we express in song. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.