Well, good morning. I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 5. 1 Peter chapter 5, and we have been working our way verse by verse, chapter by chapter, through The book of 1 Peter, and we've taken a pause from our study for a while to look at the story of the gospel, and really we've walked through the entire chronology of that final week of the Passion Week of Christ. death and resurrection. In fact, tonight we're going to kind of give the summation of the closing of the storyline of the gospel. And we're going to move from the beginning of the story, being Palm Sunday and through that week. Now we're going to look tonight at the second coming of Christ and the significance of those events. So I hope that you'll not just join us this morning But I hope that tonight you'll join us for that continuation of that story and really jumping back into our revelation study, which several people have asked me, when are we going to finish the uh the series on revelation? Well We're going to be back in it, Revelation chapter nineteen. Well this morning we're going to be concluding our study on first Peter And so we've really been spending quite a bit of time here. I didn't count up how many messages we've gone through. It's probably close to 30, I don't know. But we've been working through the book of 1 Peter. Today we're closing it out. This is really the final section, and really a very important, a very practical section. of the book of 1 Peter. I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn with me to that fifth chapter, and we will look at verses 1 through 11. 1 Peter chapter 5, verses 1 through 11. And I read, The elders which are among you, I exhort, who am also an elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ And also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. Feed the flock of God, which is among you, taking the oversight thereof. Night by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being examples to the flock. ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility For God resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour, whom resist steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that you've suffered a while, make you perfect. Establish, strengthen, settle you. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Now as I read through this passage of scripture, and as I really dug into the the details of the passage I kind of debated as to whether or not to take this section and really to divide it into several different subcategories of statements of purpose. But as I looked at verses 1 through 11, I began to really see that the entire section is meant to emphasize one primary purpose. And so rather than dividing it up into about three different categories of discussion, we're going to look at different aspects of one main point. And so here is a summary statement for 1 Peter 5, verses 1 through 11. Peter closed his letter to the strangers scattered abroad. emphasizing the importance of the local church and the various relationships within the church so that those who are pressured would not neglect their very important role in the local church. In other words, when we read chapter 5, verses 1 through 11, it's not so much about pastors. and how to resist the devil, but it's about how we value the roles that each of us play in the local church. And you know, I think that at a time like this where we don't have the ability to gather together to assemble as we normally do and as we surely love to do, I think it's a great time to reflect. on the importance of this body that assembles together week in and week out on Sundays to worship the Lord together. What roles are we supposed to play in this very important body called the local church? And why is it even important? That's really what we're looking at this morning. As we think about the purpose of this section, I think what we'll see that God wants us to draw out of this and conclude is that He wants us to have a renewed sense of purpose. within the local church. Every person that's listening to this live stream, who is a member of Anchor Baptist Church, who assembles with us on a regular basis, who's a part of this body Who's placed your faith in Christ, who's been baptized, who's been joined together with this local assembly, every single person has a vital role to play in the health and the vitality of this local church. And if you've joined us today, and maybe your church isn't live streaming, maybe you've joined us out of curiosity, if you're a member of a local church that preaches Christ, then you have a vital role to play in that church. That's from the pastor to the deacons to the Sunday school teachers to every single person that sits in a pew week in and week out. We all have a vital role to play. How can we have this renewed sense of purpose when it comes to the nature of the local church? Perhaps one of the ways we can have a renewed uh ability to see that purpose is just to be withdrawn from it. The fact is the the reality is not being able to assemble makes us realize how important it is. There are people today that say, I need to be fed God's word. I need that exhortation, that encouragement, that fellowship. There's something enriching and something wonderful about standing next to somebody in the local church and singing praise to God as one heart. There's something wonderful about that. There's something wonderful about the fact that we give our offerings to God as a body, and we recognize that as He has blessed us, we give back to him for the advance of the gospel in this church and around the world. There's something wonderful about that. There's something wonderful about our hearts being knit together. And we pray together. And as one leads us in prayer, we bow together and we say, Amen. So be it. We as a body pray together. There's something wonderful about reading the scriptures together. And the truth is through a live stream we get a sense of that, but that's not the reality of it. That is not what we experience in this body as we gather together. There's something that's missing. So we do the best we can. But that separation helps us realize something. There's something very special. There's something very beautiful. There's something very important about the local church. And in 1 Peter chapter 5, Peter is going to lay out how if there's ever a time that we need the local church. It's when we suffer. He's writing to Christians who are scattered abroad. They're the dysphora. They're living in communities separated from their homeland. They're isolated. All they have is God's people in the church. And these people need each other. Folks, we need each other. It's important for us to pause this morning and to think about how much we need each other and why we need each other. And so with that in mind, let's dig into several very important truths about the importance of the local church, particularly when we are in a season of suffering. The first truth that we're going to find in the text is this. God created the local church because we all need to be under spiritual authority. Let me say that again. God created the local church because we all, and when I say we all, I mean we all. That's me and that's you. It's not just the congregation that needs to be under spiritual authority. It's the pastor. It's the deacon. It's those in leadership. We all need to be under spiritual authority. And what we will see in this text is that every aspect of our need to be under spiritual authority will be just laid out very simply in this text. Look at what it says in verse number one. The elders which are among you, I exhort. The elders which are among you I exhort. Now as I read those verses, that statement, I asked myself several questions. And I'm going to pose those questions to you this morning because I think as we answer those questions, our understanding of the significance of that statement will become richer and fuller and deeper. The first question that I jotted down was this, who are the elders? Well, these are men recognized by the congregation. as God appointed pastoral leadership and they were formally appointed to official capacities by the congregation. You say, well the text doesn't say that. Well the rest of scripture does. Let me give you a couple of passages that give us this the sum and substance of the statement that I just made. In 1 Peter chapter 3 verse 20, he says that a bishop must be. A bishop meaning an overseer, someone who is in that ca uh official capacity to involve the spiritual oversight of the congregation. And he lists criteria to be judged by the congregation. Ultimately for the sake of a formal appointment to office. In Titus chapter 1, verse 5, Paul writes to Titus, I left you in Crete. that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting or lacking. And then he puts it this way ordain elders in every city as I had appointed thee. In other words, the job of Titus was to go to local churches that at the time had people who were qualified to be in a pastoral leadership but were not yet formally appointed to the office. And so with the instructions that Paul gave, Titus was supposed to go to those churches, give the instructions that Paul had given, and then say, you must call out from amongst yourselves those individuals who meet the qualification. So that you can formally appoint them to office that they can lead the local church. That's what Titus 1. 5 is really all about. And in Acts chapter 20, verse 28, Paul calls the elders at the church of Ephesus, and he says this in verse 28. Take heed unto yourselves, and unto the flock over which the Holy Spirit hath made you overseers. Now, word overseer is the same word translated bishop in 1 Timothy chapter 3. The elders have been made overseers, bishops of the church at Ephesus. And then he says this, you need to feed the flock of God, the church, which he has purchased with his own blood. So in this passage we see that he calls the elders who are to oversee the church as pastors, feeding God's flock. Folks, when we ask the question, who are the elders that Peter is addressing, he's talking about those who are in pastoral leadership He's talking about people that are in the capacity that I am as the senior pastor at Anchor Baptist Church. That's what he means by elders. A second question that comes to mind is this. Why does he address the elders? And in verse 4, he says it this way. When The chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown that fadeth not away. Basically, we can put it like this. There is somebody in every congregation. There are men that God has placed in congregations. who are responsible to him for the spiritual well-being of the congregation. And not only are they responsible to God, but one day they will stand before God. They will give an account for how they labored in the ministry of the word, how they cared for the souls of the people, how they shepherded, how they led, how they oversaw God 's flock. He addresses these elders because they're responsible for the well-being of the church. A third question that comes to mind is this: What are these elders supposed to be doing? Well in verse number two he tells us, they are to feed the flock of God. Taking the oversight thereof. Let me break that down to two very basic responsibilities for those who are in pastoral office. The first is this. People need to be fed God's word. The primary duty of a pastor is to teach the Bible, not to teach their opinions. Not to teach their preferences, not to teach the traditions, to teach God's word. It's to feed them. In fact, the Bible uses the illustration of the shepherd taking care of sheep over and over and over again, because the reality is we need, as God's people, to be led and to be fed and to be taken care of. That is the job of the pastor. He says in 2 Timothy 2, verses 24 to 26: the servant of the Lord must not strive. But he must be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient in meekness, instructing those who oppose themselves. If God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledgement of the truth, that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who is taken captive at his will. In 1 Thessalonians 5. 14, the scriptures say, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient toward all men. That is the responsibility of the elder, the pastor, the overseer. A second thing we see is this: people need someone to look out for their souls He not only says feed the flock, but he says take the oversight. In other words, you're supposed to look out and lead and take care of those who are under your care. 1 Thessalonians 5:12 says, We beseech you, know them which labor among you, and are over you in the Lord. That's the idea of those who are overseeing your soul. And admonish you. In Hebrews chapter 13, verse 17, the writer says, Obey them that have the rule over you and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls. As they that must give an account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for this is unprofitable for you. In this passage, the scripture teaches That we need to be fed and we need to be led. We need people to look out for our souls and to care for our souls You might say, well, what about the pastor? Who's his authority? Who's his overseer? Who looks out for his soul? And you know what's interesting? This text talks about who looks out for the soul of the pastor. The overseer, the shepherd. Notice carefully some details that we may miss sometimes, but they're very important. Even pastors need someone to look out for their spiritual well-being. He says this, that they're not supposed to be isolated. Notice that he uses the term elderza. He doesn't say elder Peter is writing to people who are working as a team. And you know what that team does? It provides some accountability. Someone who's ministering in the Word needs other godly men who are part of a team working with them so that there's a mutual accountability amongst themselves. We see a second very important detail. They're supposed to rub shoulders with the congregation that they're leading. He says the elders which are Among you, and you know what's very interesting. When we go to 1 Timothy and we go to Titus, what we see is that the congregation is looking out at themselves and they're evaluating the spiritual qualifications and the practical ministry qualifications of those in leadership. In other words, when there's an appointment to office The congregation says, we see this, we recognize this. In other words, there's not only this fact where a pastor is accountable to those who he's working with. But he's also accountable to those who are under his care. There is a sense in which the pastor is looked out for by the congregation, not just those who he ministers with. Thirdly, we see this. Pastors need godly mentors. Notice carefully how Peter puts it. He says, I exhort you who am also an elder. In other words, though Peter is on some level equal to these men as another pastor, he says, as an older man, having more maturity. Having been in ministry longer, I exhort you, there's a mentoring relationship there. So very important. Even the pastor has people that need to look out for his soul. And ultimately we see this: that Peter reminds these men that they are ultimately leading Christ's flock under Christ's authority. He says, this is the flock of God. Not only do we have the accountability of a congregation, the accountability of other men who are in ministry, and the accountability of older mentors. But we have the accountability of God's word. The authority of the pastor goes only as far as the scriptures allow. Folks, we all need to be under spiritual authority. Question number four, how is this spiritual authority to actually be done and used? When verses two and three say it's not to be by constraint, But willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being examples to the flock. Putting it like this, it's not simply a duty, not constraint, not by constraint. It's not because you're greedy, not for filthy lucre. It's with an internal passion, a burning desire to care for others. If a person's a pastor and they have no passion to care for the people, they need to take a break. They need to do something different. The reality is unless God puts that in your heart, you will not care for and you will not lead the people of God as you ought. And then he says this with a ready mind, that internal compassion, and not out of intimidation, not as a Lord. A pastor has no right to bully people. A pastor has no right to back people in authority and abusively use that authority to hurt people and scare them into submission to his rule. Folks, that's not biblical authority. That's not caring for the souls of people. That's abusing those who belong to Christ. And lastly, it's to be by a compelling example. In other words, it's not so much what the pastor says, but it's the pattern that he leads before people. In other words, he's to be an example to the flock. Folks, that's what we need. I pray that every gospel preaching church in America Has men who will lead like the text tells us. That's my prayer. That's my burden. The reality is, we'd have healthy, vibrant, strong churches if the men leading those churches led as the scriptures command us here. But what does this tell us? We need spiritual oversight. There's a second truth we find in the text, and that's this. God created the local church because we all need to learn to get over ourselves. Now you might say that sounds a little harsh, and that sounds a little bit domineering, doesn't it? But Look at the details of the text, and you'll see that's exactly what it's saying. In verses 5 to 6, he says this: Likewise, the younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. All of you be subject one to another. Be clothed with humility. For God resisteth the proud. But he gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. Do you know what that passage is saying? You and I need to learn to get over ourselves. We are in our core very self-centered people. We're all about our own interests, we're all about our own preferences, and we will dominate the people around us if we have the opportunity. And you know what God does? God created the local church, not just so that people will care for your soul, but that you will be forced to learn how to get along with people. You'll be forced to learn how to submit yourself to the wills and the desires of other people. You'll be willing to lay aside your rights and say it's about the cause of Christ, not about my personal interests. We learn to get over our fleshly passion, to dominate and control our circumstances, and have our will be what moves everybody else's desires. Folks, God wants us to be humble people. He wants us to be people who understand what's the most needful. He wants us to be a people who are willing to release our preferences and let God's will be done. And that's why he created the local church. Because we desperately need to be in a place where we are forced by God's good hand and design to work through these details. There are two questions that I thought about as I thought about the verse in front of us. And the first question is this, in what ways do we need to get over ourselves? And I say we, I don't mean you. I mean you and me. We all need to get over ourselves. In what ways do we need to do that? He lays out several in this text Let me mention them. The first is this by showing honor to those who've gone before us. You know, we live in a day where those who are young and walking into the world sometimes look at those who have gone before them and they say, You can't do what you used to be able to do. The way that people conduct business has changed today. That thing called technology has changed the way we do stuff. And those who are younger have a tendency to look at those who are older and they don't appreciate the wisdom. And the experience and the years and the lessons that have been learned by those who have gone before him. And you know what the passage says? It says, submit and honor those who've gone before you. You younger, submit yourselves to the elder You know how many times younger people in the church say, you know, I don't care what the older people in the congregation think about such and such and such and such. We're the new generation. We're going to do it this way. And folks, the Bible would teach us not to have such an attitude. The younger need to learn to appreciate. Submit to the elder. Secondly, by learning to be peaceable, considering the interests of those ahead of ourselves. Those who are older might say, hell there it goes. You better preach to those young people. They need to learn their place. They need to submit to our wishes. The way we do it is how it needs to be done. The way it's been now and later, it'll always be that way. Let's just keep it as it's always been. But folks, there's kind of a check and balance here. Yay, all of you be subject one to another. In other words, it's not just the younger who submit to the older, but there's a time for the older to submit to the younger. What exactly does he mean by that? He's saying, learn to be peaceable with people. Learn to consider the interests and the needs of others. When a decision is to be made, don't feel like you're the only voice in the room that matters. And everybody else better respect your judgment on the matter. There's a reason God put us in the local church. It's to help us to learn to get over ourselves. Thirdly, he tells us it's by carrying ourselves with humility. He says we're to be clothed with humility. The idea is that we're to be adorned with a humble, gentle, peaceable spirit. God's people aren't to be arrogant. They aren't to walk into the room and everybody goes, I know that guy's full of himself. Look at how he relates to the people around him. Look at how he speaks. Look at what he expects. There's this error about this person that they're the center of the universe. Folks, the Christian ought never be that way. The truth is, when someone sees us, they ought to say, that's a humble man. That's a humble woman. That's a person who cares about the interest of others And their own desires are secondary. That's what God wants of his people. Fourthly, by drawing upon God's grace as we wait for him to humbly advance our interests. You know, the world says if you want it, then you get it. And you get it by any means necessary to make sure you get it. You know what God says? If you want it, let God give it to you. He says it this way in verse 6, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God that he may exalt you in due time. In other words, if God wants to give you that position, if God wants to give you that honor, if God wants to give you that responsibility, He'll do it when the time is right. And you need to trust him to do it in his time. You need to realize that God may withhold you from some honor that you feel you deserve or that I feel I deserve because it's not appropriate for us And because the time is not right. First question, what ways we need to get over ourselves? We need to honor those who've gone before us. We need to be peaceable considering the interest of others. We need to be clothed with humility and we need to draw on God's grace as we wait on Him to do for us what is right. Question two, why is it important? And here's the answer in verse 5. This is how we taste the sweetness of God's grace. In verse 5, he says, For God resisteth the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. You know, as I live my Christian life and as I study my Bible, I can learn all these facts, all these facts about God, all these facts about how we grow. All these facts about doctrine, all these facts that I can teach to other people, they're in my head. But God wants us to be more than just knowledgeable about facts. He wants us to experience an intimate, personal walk with God. He wants us not to just know factually, God is sovereign. God's in control. God is gracious. God strengthens his people and circumstances. God matures people. He doesn't want it to just be, I know it factually. He wants us to know it practically. He wants us to know what it feels like to walk through the valley and to draw on God's grace and to look back and say, I could have never gotten through that without his grace. He wants us to not just know intellectually he's sovereign. He wants us to feel it. He wants us to believe it in practice. He wants us to actively trust him. He wants us not to just say, I love God in a sterile way, but you feel a deep warmth and affection as you think about his goodness towards you. Folks, the only way that you experience the grace of God is by going through the valley and humbling yourselves to trust Him. That's what the text is saying. To put it in another way, we grow on the experiential side of our faith and the experiential side of our fellowship with God when we humble ourselves. And we draw on his grace. God wants us to be living a vibrant Christian life, not just a bunch of intellectually stimulated Christians. Truth number three, God created the local church because we need to stand together in the face of Satan's onslaughts. To me, this is perhaps one of the most interesting of all the points we'll look at this morning. I want you to look down in verse 8 and I want you to notice the details of what are stated for us. God created the local church so we could stand together in the face of Satan's onslaughts. Verse 80 says, be sober. Be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Let me give you another example of what is being stated in this passage. In 1 Thessalonians 3, verses 1 to 5, listen to what Paul writes of the church at Thessalonica. He says, wherefore when we could no longer forbear, we thought it good to be left in Athens alone, and we sent Timotius, our brother, and minister of God. Here's why we sent him, to establish you and to comfort you concerning your faith, that no man should be moved by these afflictions When we were with you, we told you before that we should suffer persecu or tribulation, even as it came to pass, and you know. For this cause when I could no longer forbear, I sent him to know your faith And listen to what he says. Lest by some means the tempter have tempted you, and our labor be in vain Now you say, what's the connection between 1 Peter 5. 8? Be sober, be vigilant, your adversary the devil is a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour, and 1 Peter or 1 Thessalonians chapter 3 verse 5. The connection is this. Both groups of people were suffering. Both groups of people were in a place where Satan was attacking their minds and their thinking. And both people needed other people to come alongside of them. And encourage them. That's the connection between the two. And I want us to dig for just a moment into this very important principle that we find in the passage. You might ask the question, Pastor Joel, why is it that today you emphasize this issue of a corporate body And the together side. As I read those verses, I saw the phrase, be sober, be vigilant, your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he native Aaron. I don't see anything about a local church there I don't see anything about them. I see something about you. And I say something here. There's something that you haven't seen. Until you dig deeply and you ask the question, when Paul is addressing these people, is he addressing Abe an individual? Or a group of people. You see, why does that matter? You'll see in just a moment. The reason that Peter emphasizes the togetherness is because all of the commands in this passage Are given in the plural. Let me show you what I'm talking about. In verse 5:8, he says, be sober. He doesn't say you by yourself be sober. He says, you, all of you, be sober. In verse 8 he says, be vigilant. He doesn't say you individual be diligent, be vigilant. He's saying you, all of y'all , you need to be vigilant. Verse 8 he says your adversary, the devil. And when he says you're, he's not just talking to you as an individual. He's talking to all y'all, a group of people. Why is that so important? Folks, it's important because his emphasis on the collective nature of the struggle is an emphasis on the creat the on how we collectively have victory. In other words, he's not just saying you by yourself, you need to be sober and vigilant. He's saying you, a part of a body together, need to be sober and vigilant. Question two, why does he give us such a sense of urgency? It's because the command was written to express a sense of urgency. Notice the details of how he puts it. Satan Is a slanderous enemy. Verse 5, he says, your adversary the devil. That word devil has the idea of one who slanders. You know what slander is? Slander is when you speak about another person and it's not true and it's to destroy the reputation. Folks, that's what Satan does He plants slanderous thoughts accusing you and me. They're not true. They might have been true, but they're not today. He takes those thoughts, those lies, he plants them in our minds, and he debilitates us. He crushes us under the load. He crushes us, and we feel as if we can't serve God. We can't move forward in victory. We feel like we're done. Satan is the accuser of the brethren. In fact, he's a master of intimidation. And verse 80 says that he accuses as a roaring lion. I don't know if you've ever watched a nature show or if you've ever been in a zoo and you heard a lion roar, but it's a terrifying thing to hear. I want to ask this question. Why does a lion roar? And when does the lion roar? It's kind of an interesting question or two to think about. Does a lion need to roar? He's got some powerful jaws, does he not? He has some powerful teeth. He's a powerful beast that can kill just like that. Why does the lion roar? Let me tell you why and when the lion roars. I'd encourage you to look it up. It's very interesting. The lion roars when he's old, and he can't do what he used to do. As that lion gets older, he doesn't go out to hunt anymore, he begins to assume a position in the pride not as the hunter, but as the ruler of his kingdom. He can't go out and do the things that he used to do, but he wants to assert his authority and his power, and he intimidates with this loud and ferocious roar. When he's trying to exert this dominance over the pride, though he's not as strong as those young lions that are under him. He can't go out and catch the prey like he used to, but he wants to keep his power over them. When he's trying to exert his authority over a territory that he wants to intimidate those who are in that area. You know what's interesting, that's the analogy that Peter uses. Satan, the slanderer, walks about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Yet I want to remind you something about Satan's power. Satan's power was crushed at the cross. In fact, it's interesting, one of the scriptures talks about those handwriting of ordinances that stood against us. The very things that Satan throws into your face and says, You don't do this, you're crushed, it was nailed to his cross And it says that God made a triumph openly as those rulers, principalities, and powers came behind him. He says, I've conquered them. And so what does Satan do? He roars to intimidate. His power is gone. The power he has is only the power you give him. Yet he roars to intimidate. And he's always on the move. We see this in this text. Not only does he roar, and not only is he an adversary who slanders, but he's busy. He walks about. Satan is always looking for opportunity. He's always on the move. He's busy at work. He's always looking for opportunity to destroy. In verse 8, he says, he's seeking whom he may devour. Folks, you know why you need me and why I need you and why we need the church and why the church needs us? Do you know why we need one another? It's because we have a terrible adversary. He's a slanderer. He's an accuser of the brethren. And you know what he does when you're down and you're discouraged? When you have failed again and again and again, he accuses you. He puts stalks in your head that will overwhelm you and crush you. And if you're standing alone And you have nobody to come alongside of you. You don't have the body of Christ, the local church, you don't have people looking out for your soul. You don't have people exhorting you and encouraging you. You will be crushed under those lies. But godly people and God's wisdom are to come alongside of you and to love you and to speak truth to you. To care for your soul, to be an encouragement and a nourishment. Folks, God did not design for you and me to grow in independence of everybody else. God designed for us to grow in community. In fact, I think about what Paul talks about when he talks about the Christian's armor. And he talks about the shield of faith whereby you may be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. I remember talking about that passage. And as I was studying that picture of the sword, he's not talking of the of those of those shields. He's not talking about a little shield that you hold in front of you and you go into battle with your sword and you got that shield in your hand. He's talking about a shield that's the size of your front door. And you're locked in and locked with another person who does has a shield the size of a front door. And they're next to another person who has a shield the size of their front door. And they're all locked together and they move together in unison. And in the ancient world that That movement was like a tank. It was practically unstoppable. And the picture that Paul wants us to see is that the way that we face those lies hurled by the devil As we're locked together in unison one with another. Folks, this is why the local church is so important. This is why you need the church, and the church needs you We come to a fourth and final truth I want to mention this morning. And that is that God created the local church because this is the primary tool he's appointed to bring each of us into spiritual maturity. Look down at verses 10 and 11. He says, the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus. After that you have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen Let me mention three very simple yet important observations from the statement we just read. The first is this he uses the plural to indicate the nature of the process. He says, who hath called us? He doesn't say he's called you individual. He's called us. He's talking about the body. He says, ye have suffered. He's not talking about you, the individual. He's talking about the body. He's called us as a body. We suffer together as a body. We bear the load as a body. He's emphasizing the nature of the process is in the local church, the community. But then he uses the singular to emphasize the finished products. What happens when we're called together into one body? And we bear one another's burdens, and we minister to one another, and we read the word together, and we listen to the preaching of the word together, and we sing together, and we give together, and we pray together, And we are united as a body. What happens when we do that Here's the product. You, the individual, he will make perfect, fully matured We talked about 2 Timothy chapter 3. It talks about the sufficiency of Scripture and how the Word of God thoroughly furnishes us for every good work. He talks about us becoming perfect, matured, complete. That's the exact same thing he says in this text. He says, you individual, he will make perfect. In other words, when you don't neglect the body, he makes you as an individual matured. So wonderful to consider. You'll be stable, established. You'll be strong, strengthened. You'll be firmly rooted. Settle you. If you want to be spiritually mature, you cannot neglect the local church. I can't say that more important. I can't emphasize that enough. If you want to be spiritually mature, You cannot neglect the local church. Folks, every time we have the opportunity to assemble And worship. You have a vital opportunity to be nourished and strengthened and encouraged and to worship together. You need that to grow. And that is the sense of the text in front of us. I close with this text, Hebrews 10. We opened with this, we'll close with this. Hebrews 10, 23. Let us hold fast. The profession of our faith without wavering. He is faithful that promised. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. Folks, Hebrews chapter 10, verses 23 to 25 simply lay out the exact same thing that 1 Peter 5, 1 through 11 lays out to us today. God wants you to have a renewed sense of purpose within the local church. And my prayer is that God would have stirred up your heart through this text of Scripture. You know, it might be that there's a person here today that's joined us via the live stream. You see, I'm not a m I'm not a member of a local church. I'm not even a Christian. I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I've never even thought about the importance of the local church. And what I've heard today is something that I want. It's something that I wish I had. Folks, I want you to realize that today you can turn to the Lord Jesus Christ and trust in his finished work. You can call on the Lord to save you from your sins. You can have an eternal home in heaven by simply trusting in the gospel message. Jesus died for your sins. He rose from the dead. He provided for you the only way you can be saved. And if you will turn to him humbly, And trust in what he did for you on that cross, calling on the Lord to save you, the Bible tells us with a heart, man believes and he's just Justified. If you don't know the Lord as your Savior, I hope today you'll trust Christ as your Savior. And if you say, I I think I need to talk to somebody about this. I don't know for sure I'm saved. And I appreciate what you've said, but there's a lot I don't understand. Can I talk to somebody? I want you to know that at the end of this message on the last slide There are two email addresses. I hope you'll reach out. One is the office and one is my pastor's email account. If you don't know for sure you're saved, you want to talk to somebody, please send me an email. I'd love to talk to you about how you can be saved. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to work through his word in our lives. Father in heaven, it has been good. To be under the ministry of the word today. I am so privileged. I'm so blessed by the opportunity to get to open the Bible and share it with your people. And I pray that the things that were said today would resonate in our souls. Father, help us to see that the local church is something that if we neglect, we will not grow. Help us to see that you have appointed this body so that we can go on to spiritual maturity. You use the authority of the word in this place to grow us and mature us and strengthen us. Father, help us to have a renewed sense of the importance of the church. And Father, if even one tonight, one this morning has not trusted you as savor and they're hearing this message, I pray that they would desire deeply to have what every Christian has as a part of the local church. They would desire to be a part of God's people who have placed their faith in the finished work of Jesus, whose sins are forgiven, and who are growing into Christ's likeness. And I pray that today they would understand the gospel, place their faith in Jesus as their Savior. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen