All right, teach your Bibles, turn into 1 Corinthians chapter 15. 1 Corinthians chapter 15, and we have been uh studying The topic of the rapture, and as we've been looking at this topic, one of the things that I've tried to emphasize to you is that when we get the big picture of what the rapture is and the whole purpose of that teaching I think that that's a pretty simple thing. But when we come to this issue of timing, we need to understand that the scripture never explicitly states This is the moment that the rapture is going to take place in light of God's timetable. What we have to do is we have to study the topic carefully. We have to look at all of those passages. We have to really dig down into them. And as we look at those passages, I believe that a compelling case will begin to develop for the timing issue. And so what we've been looking at over the last few weeks is the rapture and specifically the pre-tribulation position of the rapture. We're going to go ahead and look at 1 Corinthians 15, 51 to 58. And then I'd like to kind of catch your mind up a little bit on some of the things that we've talked about. And then we're going to continue in this study tonight. First Corinthians fifteen fifty-one Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump. For the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, And this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Let's put our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to help us to understand this topic very thoroughly and help me as I present these passages tonight. Father, we pray that this evening you would speak and work in our hearts in a very special way. We recognize that all the passages we'll look at were given to us by your Spirit. Your Spirit guided these men to write these very words. And Father, we need your assistance. We need the work of the Spirit to help us as we look at these passages to understand the weight and the significance of these things. Father, help me as I communicate these truths to do it in a simple way, in a way that each person can follow and can understand. And I pray that as we walk away, we would be encouraged, as we consider that one day we will be with you forever, we'll have a glorified body, we'll experience eternity in glory. And we ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. A summary of our discussion on the rapture could go this way. The reason that these passages are written are number one to encourage us. If we are scared, if we are discouraged, we don't understand the teaching on the rapture correctly. Two, we will experience eternity in a real body. We're not going to be spirits floating around in heaven forever. We're going to have a real body, but the body's going to be different than the one that we have right now. It's going to be able to taste, it's going to be able to feel things. It's going to have experiences just like we do today But one distinct difference is that it will be a body without corruption. We won't have a fallen nature. We're not going to be tempted to sin. We're not going to be able to sin. We're not going to want to sin. And this body will not get sick and it will not get weary. It's not going to experience what you and I experience as fallen creatures in a fallen world. But it will be a perfect, glorified body. The third thing we see is this those who die before the events that we're talking about, the rapture specifically, and these eschatological events, are not going to miss out on anything. Whether someone dies a thousand years before these things, or two thousand years before these things, the year before these things, or whether someone doesn't die, they are raptured to be with the Lord immediately. They're all going to be able to experience what's talked about here. Four. God is going to preserve his people in the face of wrath. Even though the teaching on the rapture shows us that God's people will not face the wrath of the tribulation, it does not mean that we won't face wrath from men in this life before the rapture or the the period of the tribulation and before the rapture. And God preserves this people. He strengthens his people. When people go through terrible difficulties, God gives them exactly what they need to be able to be victorious in those circumstances. And lastly God is going to remove his people from the wrath to come. So with those in mind, we began to look at this issue of the timing of the rapture. What exactly is the pre-tribulation position? It's the teaching that God is going to rapture or catch up his church to be with him. And when we say the church, we're not just talking about the church who is living. We're talking about believers who have already died. So those who have died and those who are living are going to be caught up to be with the Lord at the same moment. And this event, the rapture, is something that can happen at any moment. It's imminent. We should be looking for the return of Christ. This is going to take place before the time period that we call the tribulation. If we're looking at Daniel, it's Daniel's 70th week. And so we talked for a few moments, well for a while last time, about a little bit of a breakdown of those things. We got into question two in our discussion, and the question was why is the tribulation position the most compelling explanation for the timing of the rapture. And we began with a couple of different thoughts. The first thought was this the teaching on the rapture is something that's only addressed in detail in the epistles. It's a mystery. And so when we look at the gospels, when we look at the teachings of Christ, we don't see specific teaching explaining this concept of the rapture. When Jesus is teaching, his disciples understood he was going to go and he was going to come about come back and receive them to be with him. But they didn't understand that there are going to be people alive who are going to be snatched up to be with the Lord. That wasn't actually explained So that specifically helps us when we come to a passage like Matthew 24 to understand that in that passage we don't have discussion about the rapture, but we're actually looking at tribulation saints. People have gotten saved after that tribulation time period begins, and how they are to respond at the middle of the tribulation during that period known as during the event called the abomination of desolation. We moved on to a second fact, and that's this. When we look at this concept of the return of Christ, the return of Christ is really a description of two different kinds of returns. One kind of return is talked about in First Corinthians fifteen. For instance, Paul writes that a trump will sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we will be changed It talks about people being snatched up to be with the Lord. In 1 Thessalonians 4, 16, it says, the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout. with the voice of the archangel and the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first, and we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds. Now when we look at those passages, we don't see passages that talk about Jesus coming and landing on the Mount of Olives. and bring in an innumerable multitude of people with him to come and to establish his kingdom. Instead, it says, he's coming in the clouds, and people are going to meet him in the air, and they're going to go to be with him forever. And so this is very different than some other passages like in Acts chapter 1 where the disciples are standing there on the Mount of Olives and Christ has just ascended into heaven and they're looking up into heaven and going, well, what do we do next? And an angel comes and says, Why are you standing here gazing into the sky? This same Jesus, who has just ascended up into heaven, will come back in the same manner. And he's referring to what we call the second coming of Christ. He's going to land on the earth, physically, bodily, on the Mount of Olives, and he's going to come to establish his kingdom. We come to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, 13. It talks uh excuse me, 1 Thessalonians chapter 3, verse 13, it says this. I write to the end that he may establish your hearts unblamable in holiness before God. even our Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. Now what's interesting is that statement about the coming of Christ gives us the instruction that when Christ comes, he's going to have his saints with them. When we look at 1 Thessalonians 4 Or when we look at 1 Corinthians 15, it's not saying that he has saints with him. , They're going to come and be with him. There's a distinction between those two things. In Jude 1, it talks about the Lord coming with ten thousand of his saints to execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds. In Revelation 19, he talks about this. In fact, I'd encourage you to read to turn there for a moment so that you can kind of see this passage for yourself. What we're trying to get caught up with the fact is that when the Bible talks about the return of Christ, it's not always referring to the rapture. It's not always referring to the second coming. It's actually referring to two different events. And they're very distinct in the way they're presented. But look carefully at the details of Revelation 19. Here's what it says in verse 11. And I saw heaven open, and behold, a white horse, and he that sat upon it was called faithful and true. In righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns. He had a name written that no man knew but he himself He was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God. Now, who is this passage talking about? Clearly talking about Christ. Now, does this sound like 1 Thessalonians 4 to you? Is that anything about a trumpet blast? People being snatched up to be in the air. No, it's a very different scene here. In fact, it's going to get even more clearly different in just a moment. He says this. Verse 14, the armies which are in heaven follow him upon white horses, fine linen, white and clean, and out of his mouth goeth a two-edged sword. And with it he should smite the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the wine press of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And he hath on his vesture and on his style a name written King of Kings and Lord of Lords. In this passage, Jesus is not snatching the church to be with him. They are already with him. He's coming to do something different, he's coming to establish his kingdom. He's coming to wage war with those who've rebelled against him. That's the picture that we have here. The reason I draw your attention to the distinction between rapture and second coming. is that one of the things we sometimes do and we're sloppy is we blend these two things together. We can't do that. We have to notice the details. One of the reasons why I personally hold a pre-tribulation position Is because I believe that the second coming is distinctly different from the rapture. And when the scripture talks about the rapture, it talks about the coming of Christ in a way that is imminent. It can happen at any moment. There is nothing on God's timetable that has to take place before he snatches up the church to be with him. But when we talk about the second coming, And you read the Old Testament and you read the New Testament, what you will see is there are lots and lots of signs that are going to take place that say, now you know the second coming is about to happen. Beginning with the midpoint of the tribulation and the things that go on, the abomination of desolation. There are lots of things that when you see those things, it should signal Christ is about to come at his second coming. One is imminent, meaning there's no sign that is coming. It can happen at any time. The other is preceded by many signs. We come to a third point, and that's this. And I've kind of already mentioned this. The rapture is imminent. That means that it can happen at any time. There's nothing left on God's prophetic timetable to happen between now and then. And I want you to see those passages. So turn with me to 1 Thessalonians 5. 1 and 2. And we're going to read that together and see exactly what it says. 1 Thessalonians 5. 1 says this. Of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. Now I ask this question. Uh the last time, if anybody's ever been robbed in the night, I have. I have. While I was in my house, when I was living overseas So I know what it's like. It was about two or three in the morning and uh it was a very eerie thing. You wake up in the house and you know something isn't right. And you notice that your windows have been slashed and And things have disappeared from your house. I didn't hear anything. It completely caught me off guard. Well, the Bible's telling us in this passage, there's no reason for you to look for signs of the day of the Lord, or even we could say the rapture which would precede the day of the Lord. Because the day of the Lord's going to come like that. It's going to catch people by surprise. They're not going to be sitting there going, oh, there's a sign of of the day of the Lord coming. And there's a if the signs were there, they'd be ready for it. But they're not. And that's what he says. Listen to what Peter says in 2 Peter 3, verse 8 He says, Beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. And what he's basically saying is this the fact that Jesus doesn't come today doesn't mean he ain't coming back. Okay? A day, a year, a hundred years, a thousand years, it's nothing to God. Okay? He is eternal. He is outside of time. He's not bound to our little our little time periods. God isn't on our timetable. But this is what he says, he continues. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. Now, if Peter would say this, how much more do you think you and I maybe might feel like Peter feels? You know, Peter was expecting that Christ would come in his lifetime. After Christ ascends into heaven, when Peter's preaching at Pentecost, you know he is preaching in a way that gives us the understanding that he believed that Christ could come back at any time. When Paul is writing 1 Thessalonians and Paul is writing 1 Corinthians, he believes that Christ could come back any time. Now Peter is an old man. He's near the end of his apostolic ministry. And he's writing in this kind of a way because he's trying to tell the people, look, I've anticipated the return of Christ my entire ministry life. It hasn't happened. But that doesn't mean that God isn't going to do this. And that's the point that he's trying to make. That tells us that Peter understood that the return of Christ was imminent. It could happen at any moment. He says this, God is long-suffering to us who are not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. He uses the exact same phrase that Paul used. In which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with a fervent heat, and the earth and all the works that are in there shall be burned up. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of person ought you to be in all holy conversation, looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of the Lord Where the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved and the elements shall melt with a fervent heat. Nevertheless, we according to this promise look to a new heaven and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Now listen, when he talks about the earth burning up, he's not talking about events that precede the day of the Lord. He's talking about what's going to take place during the day of the Lord. And so what Paul or what Peter is basically saying is the day of the Lord can come at any moment, and you need to be ready for Christ. Return. And these are the kinds of things that are going to take place. It's going to be a terrible time. It's going to be a serious time. He establishes the day of the Lord is something that's imminent. It can happen in any moment. So then the question is, what exactly is the day of the Lord? Is the day of the Lord the rapture? No. Is the day of the Lord the second coming of Christ? No. Is the day of the Lord the tribulation? No. Is the day of the Lord the millenni Kingdom, no. The day of the Lord is a period of time that encompasses all those things that I just mentioned. From the time that God raptures his church up to the tribulation time period, the abomination of desolation, all the things that are going to take place during Daniel's 70th week. During that seventy or that seven-year period, all of those things are a part of what we call the day of the Lord. When he comes at his second coming, that's a part of what we call the day of the Lord. When he comes and establishes his kingdom for a thousand years, that's a part of what we call the day of the Lord. And you say, well, if it's a day, then why is it a period? Because that's the way prophetic language works sometimes. In fact, for you to be able to see that, I'm going to mention a couple of passages. I'm not going to read these passages in their entirety. I'm mentioning them because I want you to write them down and I want you to read them and I want you to kind of digest the content of what's in these passages. passages. The first one is 2 Peter 3, 10-13. I already read it, so I won't read through it again. But it talks about the kind of things that are going to happen During the tribulation, aspects are part of the day of the Lord. We have another passage, Malachi 4, 1-6. I'm going to read a little bit of it. It says this: It says, Behold, the day cometh. That shall burn as an oven. All the proud, all that do wickedly, shall be stubble, and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts. And it shall leave them neither root nor branch. But unto you that fear my name shall the Son of righteousness arise , with healing in his wings, and ye shall go forth and grow up as calves of the stall. Ye shall tread down the wicked, for they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet. Remember the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded unto him in Horeb for all Israel and the statutes and judgments. Behold, I'll send to you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And he shall turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers. Now let me talk to you for just a moment about the content of that particular prophecy. In that prophecy, you see good things mentioned and bad things mentioned, okay? You have God coming and he's dealing in harsh justice He's going to crush those who rebel against him. That's talking about the second coming of the Lord. That's coming about, talking about that battle that is going to happen right before the millennial kingdom of Christ. It talks about terrible things that are going to happen in the world. And that's talking about the kinds of things that we see mentioned during Daniel's 70th week, the seven-year tribulation. He talks about God sending a prophet, Elijah. Now it's interesting. Some people believe that Elijah is literally going to come into the tribulation time period, and he's going to be a preacher. And when we read the book of Revelation, we see there's going to be two prophets that God is going to send to the world, specifically to the nation of Israel. And these two prophets are going to preach And people are going to turn to God. How do we know there's going to be people who are saved during the tribulation? Talks about it all over the book of Revelation. Talks about how many people from each tribe in Israel are going to become believers. And those men are going to preach. And what's going to happen? It's going to turn the hearts of the father, the hearts of the children to their fathers. Basically, he's referring to Israel being awakened as a nation. He's talking about a huge moving of God's Spirit where many, many people who have rejected the Messiah are going to bow the knee in repentance and faith and trust in the Messiah. They're going to be saved during that tribulation time period. And those people are going to be a part of a time of peace and a time of blessing. All of those things that I'm talking about, if you look at the details, they're in that text. So when we talk about the day of the Lord, it encompasses this entire time period from the rapture to the tribulation, second coming of Christ, and then into the millennial kingdom. All those things are encompassed in that time period. We go to Joel chapter 2. I'm not going to read the passage, but I want to encourage you to read it. In fact, when Peter is preaching at Pentecost, it's interesting. He refers to the Joel passage. And he says, we are living in the last days. He believed that he was about to experience what we 're talking about. He was going to see Christ come back. He was going to see the establishment of the kingdom and all those things. Joel's prophecy talks about the day of the Lord. The point that I want to emphasize, though, is this. The day of the Lord is imminent. There's nothing that needs to happen. There's no sign that needs to be given before the day of the Lord comes It's going to come as a thief in the night. It's going to catch people unaware. All those things that are talked about in the Joel passage. And these other passages, it's going to happen. And it's going to happen quickly, and people will not be ready for it. The next thing I want to mention is this the church Will not be on earth during the tribulation, but rather in heaven because we're not appointed to face wrath. Now, when we talk about the pre-tribulation position, in my opinion, this is probably Next to the concept of eminency, this is probably the second, or perhaps the most compelling argument for the fact that the rapture is going to take place before the tribulation. It's interesting. The word church is used eighty times in the New Testament. I say the word church. Obviously the word is ecclesia. That word ecclesia is not always referring to church in the sense of how we understand the word church. But eighty times in our New Testament we find the word church, or essentially a derivative of that. Of those eighty times, nearly twenty of them, nineteen of them, are found in the book of Revelation. But you know what's interesting? Out of those 19 times, they're all, save one, all of them are mentioned in the first three chapters. You say, well, why is that important? Because the first three chapters are written to the seven churches. When we come to chapter four and we go all the way to the end of the book, we don't see the word church ever mentioned again. And I ask you a question, is that not a little weird to you? I mean, the word church mentioned 19 times in three chapters and then never mentioned again. Why is that? It's because the church isn't in the book of Revelation. When the tribulation happens, the church is gone. The church is with Christ. The church is not a part of those things. In fact, in Revelation 3. 10, this is what it says. Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I will also keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon the world. to try them which dwell upon the earth. Now that one verse by itself is probably not enough to convince anybody that there's a pre-tribulation rapture. But that verse, sitting alongside so many other, we could say, proofs or convicting principles. To me is quite compelling. In 1 Thessalonians 5, listen to what Paul writes. And this is kind of a parallel concept. In 1 Thessalonians 5, he writes this. Of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you. For ye yourselves know perfectly the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. For when they shall say peace , and safety, suddenly destruction shall fall upon listen to the word he uses, them He doesn't say you. He says them. And why do you think he does that? Because they aren't going to be there. Continues on. As travail upon a woman with child, and they shall not escape. Again, he doesn't say you He says, they. Why is that? Because you aren't going to be there. He then continues. Verse 4: But ye brethren are not in darkness that that day should overtake you as a thief. He's made a very distinct difference between the people who will experience the tribulation and the wrath of God in that 70th week of Daniel and those who won't. You are not going to be a part of it, he says. Ye are all the children of the light and the children of the day. We are not of the night nor of the darkness. Let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober. It then goes on to verse 9. He says this, God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation. By our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, that whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with Him. Wherefore, comfort yourselves together and edify one another, even as also you do. In my mind, that's a pretty compelling argument for the fact that the church is not going to be a part of the tribulation time period. He would have said you. Instead he says they. He says, but you, and he makes distinction. And then he says later, you're not appointed to wrath. Comfort yourselves together with these things. We move on to the next point. And to me this one is extremely important. It's one I'm going to camp on just a tiny bit. The tribulation is a period of time focused on re-establishing the nation of Israel. for the purpose of fulfilling God's covenant promises made to Israel. You might say, why is it that God raptures the church And keeps them from the tribulation. Well, in part it's because he wants to preserve them from the wrath of the tribulation. But another factor Is that God is moving back to rework with his people, the nation of Israel. You say, I thought the nation of Israel rejected Christ. I thought he hung them up and left them to the to the side and said, I'm not having anything to do with you. Well go back and read Romans chapter 9, Romans chapter 10, and Romans chapter 11 and see if you still have that same conclusion. I hope you won't. Go back to Genesis chapter 12 and Genesis chapter 15 and notice carefully the way that God talks to Abraham. He makes a covenant with Abraham that is unconditional. There are no conditions tied to that covenant He tells Abraham, I am going to bless all nations of the world through you. I'm going to give you the promised land. He even lays out the extent of the promised land. He even tells them where It's gonna be. I mean there's a lot of argumentation today about you know who has the legal right to control the lands where Israel and Palestine are today. Well, I hate to say it. Well, I don't know if I hate to say it, but it's really a mute point, folks, because at the end of the day, what God says is going to happen is going to happen. And the nation of Israel is going to control from the Mediterranean to sea all the way to the river. All right. It's going to happen. God said it's going to happen. There's nobody living today or nobody living in the future who can stop that. It's going to happen. No matter what your position is on Israel and Palestine and all those things, it's about God 's promise to Abraham. He's going to follow through with it. He's going to give his people the land. That he promised to Abraham and his descendants. And so when we come to the tribulation time period, God is reworking with the nation of Israel. There's a reason we don't see the church, because the church isn't really on the radar anymore. God's focusing on a nation. He's bringing a nation to their knees where they'll repent and trust in their Messiah. The one that they rejected they're going to embrace. In fact, when God's people as a nation embrace the Messiah, it's going to be an incredible tribute to the power of God. His faithfulness to his word. Revelation six, fifteen says this. The kings of the earth, the great men, the rich men, the chief captains, the mighty men, every bondman, every free man hid themselves in the dens of the rocks of the mountains. And they said to the mountains, Fall on us. Let us hide from the face of him that sitteth on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of his wrath has come. Verse chapter seven, verse one says, This after these things I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth holding the four winds. I saw another angel ascending from the east, having a seal of the living God, and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels. And he says, Hurt not the earth, neither the sea nor the trees, till we've sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads. And listen to what it says. And I heard the number of them which were sealed. And there were sealed in 144 ,000 of all the tribes of the children of Israel. Now, just pause for a moment. There's a religious group today. That believes that they themselves are the 144,000. Well, their numbers are now well beyond 144,000. So all those who are joining their ranks, I'm not sure like how they're working that out in their minds. But he's very clear about this. These people are not Gentiles. These people aren't French. They're not German. They're not Italian. They're not Hispanic. They're not African. They're Jewish. Okay? They are direct descendants of Abraham He says of the tribe of Judah we're still 12,000. Of the tribe of Reuben, we're still 12,000. Of the tribe of Gad, of the tribe of As Asher, the tribe of Naphthali, Manasseh, Sunion, Levi, Is cards, Bebulon, Joseph, Benjamin. He names all those tribes, and how many people are going to be sealed from those groups? He goes on to say this: after this I beheld and lo, a great multitude. Which no man can number of all the nations and kindred and peoples and tongues stood before the throne, before the lamb clothed with white robes and palms of their hands. Hold on a second. Who are the people in the presence of God? Well, that's the church. He talks about those who are on the earth who've been sealed He talks about the church who's in heaven. Later on in verse 14 it says this, Sir thou knowest. These are they which came from that great tribulation, which have washed their robes, made them white in the blood of the Lamb. They are they, they are before the throne of God that serve him day and night in his temple. He that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them. He says later on God will wipe away all tears from their eyes. The reason that I bring up that particular passage is I want to emphasize something to you. When we talk about the book of Revelation, there's a reason the word church isn't talked about from chapter 4 on. Because the church is not there. There's a reason that there's a focus on the nation of Israel. Because God is going back to his promises to Abraham and He's saying, I have unfinished business. I'm going to focus on this people. And what's interesting is the nation of Israel is going to see a revival and a restoration as they've never seen before. And they will be the evangelists that proclaim the gospel throughout the rest of the world. All the people that come to faith in Christ during that tribulation time period are either going to be Jewish people or they're going to be people who come to the faith through their message. It's a pretty amazing thing to consider. I shouldn't say all, but a very large percentage of them. So I want to kind of pull this to a close. What exactly should be the response of you and of me to what we've read here? I want to move to question. I'm going to skip question three. I have something about objections, but I don't have time to really deal with it. So if you have questions, I have a whole section of objections. We could sit down and talk about them one-on-one. I no no problem doing that. You know, we could shoot the breeze for as long as you need to get through that, all right? But I want to bring this to something very practical How should you, how should I respond to the teaching on the rapture? I want us to go back to 1 Corinthians 15 again and look at how Paul concludes the section. Verse 57. He writes, Thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, is this not an appropriate passage to refer to on Resurrection Sunday? What a wonderful capstone to a wonderful day. Thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast. Unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. The fact that we study the rapture The fact that we know that there's going to be a day when God takes his people and they're going to be with him. Those who have died in Christ and those who are alive in Christ. He takes them to be with him. The rapture. So what? How do we respond today? Response one, we need to be grateful. He says, thanks be to God Folks, if it wasn't for this, we would have no hope. This life would be worthless. Read the book of Ecclesiastes. And think about Ecclesiastes in the light of no resurrection. You know what you have? What's the point of life? You know why suicide is at an epidemic proportion in our nation to I went to a youth conference this week. I see a youth conference. I went to a conference this week where one of the speakers talked about Generation Z. You know who Generation Z is And he made this statement. We have an epidemic in our schools. You know why? Because we have a generation that doesn't know who they are. Doesn't know why they're here and doesn't know that there's consequence for what they do. And they look at this life and the pain and the suffering of it, and they have no tools to deal with it at all And they say, what's the point? What's the point? But folks, we have hope. We have something to be thankful for. Response two, confidence. He gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. The fact is, folks, no matter what you deal with, no matter what sin plagues you till the day you die. No matter how many days you stumble, no matter how many seasons you go through and you just say, I have been a failure. If you're in Christ, you're victorious. You're an overcomer. And that's reason to be confident. Three, we need to be unshakable. He says, be steadfast and be unmovable. Folks, because of the resurrection, I can go through whatever waters God calls me to face. I'm not inviting God to put me or you or any of us through horrible difficulties. I'm not. But I can tell you this: if in his providence he says this is the path you have to walk. You can be steadfast in it. You can be unmovable in it. You can be unshakable in it. Because of the resurrection of Christ Christ. Three, four, diligence. He says we should be always abounding in the work of the Lord. Folks, we need to serve Christ. Take opportunity. Man, praise the Lord for some folks having opportunity to share the gospel and have gospel conversations with people. Folks, don't think I have to get through the Romans Road with this guy today, right now, or I'm I'm guilty. You know, his blood is on my hands. No, you take whatever opportunity God gives you and you plant the seed to the extent that you can. Be faithful with that opportunity and let God do the rest. And he may bring you along multiple times in somebody's life. You may be at the end of the road where the person ends up coming and placing their faith in Christ. You may be one of the first people that actually plants a seed. In their life. But be diligent in God's work. And lastly, be focused. He says, ye know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. I have said this before. I'll say it again. We have people, not necessarily in our church here right now as we sit here, but we have people who are dealing with very hard situations. They're caring for an elderly family member. Someone who is not going to get better. They are not going to get stronger. They're not going to beat whatever they're dealing with. It will be their last battle. And as they are caring for that person, it is an act of mercy and it is tough. You know it's one thing if you have a child who gets sick and you say this child's going to get better and they're going to live another 50, 60, 80 years. But when you have someone who has a terminal illness at the end of their life, that's hard. And someone says, What's the point? Does God care? Does this have any value? Let me tell you something. If you give a cup of cold water to somebody who's thirsty, Jesus sees that. He says that. If you're caring for an elderly person , You're involved in some labor behind the scenes that nobody else knows about, nobody else cares about, but God sees it and you are faithful in it. Let me tell you something. Your labor's not in vain in the Lord. God calls us to be faithful in all of our duties. The big ones that everybody sees The ones that that person got saved, the new name and glory, that's a church that's being established, there's an incredible movement going on, those things, but how about the little things? How about cleaning pews and Taking care of kids in a nursery, dealing with an elderly parent, someone who is very sick. Being involved in duties that they don't seem to have a whole lot of value. Your labor is not in vain. As we think about this topic of the rapture, I hope you don't get lost in the detail of the fight over the timing. In my mind, the argument's pretty compelling for a pre trib position. Maybe in your mind it's not. That's okay. But I hope that you won't miss the intention for which the Holy Spirit moved through Paul and Peter and these other men to write these things. It was so that you and I would be faithful and unshaken, diligent in the Lord's work. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, we thank you so much that your son can come back at any moment to take us to be one. With him. Even tonight, even in this week, we know not the day or the hour, but most certainly you can come. And we say, even so, come, Lord Jesus. Father Till, you send your son to take us to be with you. I pray we'd be faithful men and women. Help us to be diligent in our daily duties. Father, help us to be faithful in the mundane. Father, help us to be steadfast and unshaken. Father, help us to see the glory of serving our Savior. We thank you that we are not the most miserable of men. In fact, we are people with hope because we have a Savior who has risen. And he's going to take us to be with him. Bless the words that have been presented tonight, the passages we've looked at. May you get the glory in them in Christ's name. Amen.