Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And if you've been joining us this week, we've been looking at the last part of Luke, Luke chapter 24. and Jesus' conversation on the road to Emmaus. And essentially the summation of that whole entire conversation is that Jesus literally died. He literally rose from the dead And we absolutely need to believe on Jesus Christ the Savior. That is really the summation of that. Well what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to do a bonus episode that's going to go back and is going to examine one of the details that was included when John was writing about the crucifixion. And if you joined us for our Good Friday service, you would have heard these details in that Good Friday service. So it'll be a little bit of a rehashing for your sake But many of our church members and many that follow these uh devotional thoughts were not there. So these will be details that um you may not be aware of or maybe uh you've not heard me address them, but you're aware of these details. And so I'm really looking forward to digging in this passage. The details will be found in verses thirty-two to thirty-seven. So if you have your Bible, let's turn there together and let's read it please. Here's what it says. Then came the soldiers and broke the legs of the first, and the other which was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was dead already, they break not his legs. One of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came out blood and water. He that saw it bear record, his record is true. He knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe. For these things were done that the scriptures should be fulfilled. A bone of him shall not be broken. And again another scripture saith, They shall look on him whom they have pierced. Now this morning what I want us to focus in on is the last statement in verse number 37. Here's what it says. Again, another scripture saith, they shall look upon him whom they have pierced. Let me ask you a question this morning Why is that statement so significant to John telling what took place when Jesus was crucified on that day thousands of years ago? Why is that detail so important? Well I'm going to submit to you this morning. that there are at least five very important foundational truths about God that we can unpackage that are directly linked back to that statement. And you might say, how in the world are you going to find five fundamental truths, foundational the Christian faith, that are that are in that one little statement. Well hopefully if you'll bear with us through this video you'll find those five truths and they are in fact very important to the gospel. So let me work my way through these and just kind of lay them out for you. The first doctrine that we're going to find is the utter brokenness and utter hypocrisy of man-made religion. Now we're going to find this in verse 31. Here's what it says. The Jews, because it was the preparation, demanded that they break the legs and remove these people who had been crucified Now that little detail may not mean a lot to you, but it was a very significant detail in why they pierced Jesus' side. What it shows you is that the same people who were willing to take Jesus and they were willing to lie about him and to revile him and to mock him and to beat him and to reject what the scripture said predicting who he was and and all of the verifications of who Jesus was, that same group of people in self-righteousness and pride said we do not want to leave people hanging on crosses on this high and holy Sabbath day. And so They decided to have a system whereby they would be taken off of the crosses. Now you might say, well, why does that matter? Well, why that matters is because what it tells you is that these people who are willing to turn a blind eye toward their own sin of hatred towards Christ are willing to uplift themselves by by creating this arbitrary standard that was going to ultimately lead to the fulfillment of prophecy What it ultimately shows us is what man-made religion does. And we know what the Bible says about humanity. The Bible affirms two things about people. Number one, well lots of different things, but two foundational matters about humanity. One is that we were created with with dignity and value to God. God values people because we are created in his image. He was willing to send his son to the cross to die for our sins so that we could be redeemed and brought into relationship with him. So you and I Have tremendous desire to God. But on the same side it also affirms in the strongest of terms possible That we are broken creatures, that we are sinful, that we are rebellious, and that we violate God's laws continually. And one of the ways that you can see the brokenness of humanity is in the kind of religious systems people create to justify their own conscience and to try to bring them into fellowship with God through their own devices. And the scriptures are so clear. There is one and only one way of salvation. is the finished work of Christ. So we see that detail. That is a fundamental, foundational matter to the gospel. The second doctrine we're going to see. is the meticulous sovereign care of God over everything. Now in verses 36 and 37 there's a statement that is very important. It says, these things were done so that the scriptures should be fulfilled. Now just pause for a moment and think about how this came about practically. The reason that Christ uh had had a pierce in his side, and the reason that his legs were not broken is ultimately because of two issues. One was the disposition of the religious leaders They wanted to have these people taken off the cross, and so traditionally they would break all these legs, but Jesus was already dead, so that's one side. And on the other side, you have the Roman soldiers who were just doing their job When they came to Jesus that day and they saw that he was dead while the others were alive, they simply wanted to verify that he was dead. And by the way, this is what they did as their professional occupation. I mean it's hard to imagine this, but but literally what they did was they executed people in the most horrific of ways. And so these Roman soldiers, as they're going about their normal daily task, doing what they've been doing day after day after day for some period of time, when they were assigned that role in the Roman military The fact is they had absolutely no idea that they were fulfilling Psalm 34. What does it show you? What it shows you is that even though that people have a will and they can choose to do what they want to do, What they do not realize is that there is a God in heaven who is providentially working through the circumstances of life, accomplishing his purposes. And we see this concept all throughout Scripture. Romans 8. 28. We know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. The lap is cast into the lap, and the whole disposing of is of the Lord. There's lots and lots of scripture that talks about God's providential, sovereign care over his creation. And we see that in this passage of scripture. A third doctrine I want to emphasize. is this unbreakable connection between both the Old Testament and the New Testament. It is common thinking for New Testament Christians to sometimes come to the Old Testament and say, I don't need the Old Testament. It's not necessary for me to study it. It's not necessary for me to understand it. I'm a New Testament Christian. So the New Testament is what matters to me. But I asked this question. When the Apostle Paul would go to the synagogues and he would preach the gospel out of the scriptures, where did he preach the gospel out of Did he preach it out of Romans? Well, if it wasn't written, he did it. Did he preach it out of the Gospels? The answer is no. The Apostle Paul preached the gospel out of the Old Testament Scriptures. He went to places like Isaiah 53 and he talks about how Jesus was despised and rejected of men, how the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. He talks about things like the Lord seeing the travail of his soul and being satisfied. And we go through passages like Isaiah 53, and what does it do? It tells us exactly what Jesus was going to do and what Jesus has done. And so what we see in the Old Testament is the implication, or we could say uh we could say it was the promise so that people would would believe on the promise, and then when it took place They could verify that these things were true. Notice what it says in verse 36. It says, A bone of him shall not be broken. And again, another scripture, they shall look on him whom they have pierced. Notice the tense of the word used. It's in the future tense. They're going to not break any bones. They're going to look on him whom they've pierced. This is telling us that this is a promise. This is a prediction. And when that comes to pass, when it's fulfilled, then it becomes a verification of Christ's person. His work and the fact that those Old Testament scriptures were absolutely true. What it shows us is that the Old Testament and the New Testament they fit together. They harmonize. The Old Testament. Drives people to the work of Christ. The New Testament drives people back to the work of Christ. And so both testaments bear record to the gospel. You could be saved in the Old Testament, trusting in the prophecies. You could be saved in the New Testament, trusting in the redemptive work of Christ that was Promised and fulfilled. Very, very important foundational matter. The fourth doctrine that we're going to see here is the literal death and the literal resurrection of Christ. Now this may seem to you like maybe it's not a big deal, but this is actually an extremely important detail. You do not have a literal physical resurrection without a literal physical death and you do not have remission of sins without the literal shedding of blood. You do not have the the wrath of the Father being satisfied against our sin without the literal substitutionary death of Christ. The word we use is the word propitiation. God's wrath against our sin was fully satisfied in the literal sacrifice of Christ. Notice what it says in verses 33 to 35. He says, when they came to Jesus and saw that he was dead already, one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side. Forthwith came out blood and water, and he that saw it bear record, and his record is true. He knoweth that he saith true, that you might believe. Notice the emphasis He saw it. He bears record of it. His record is true. He knows that he says the truth, so you will believe. What's the point? The point is that the scripture doesn't just say Jesus died, and that's the end of it. He gives us graphic verification that Jesus died. And he puts his own word on the line and he says, I saw it. In fact it is true. And so this is a very important detail. The fifth doctrine, the final one that we're going to mention, is the uniqueness of Christ's person. Now, one of the things that is so important to us as Christians is to understand the distinct difference between the Father and the Son and the Spirit, yet the unity that is unbreakable between them. When we talk about the unity, we're talking about the fact that the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, at the same time and in the same way, they are fully God. When you're looking at the sun, you're not looking at half God and half man. You're looking at someone who is fully God and fully man. When you're looking at the Father, you're looking at someone who is fully God. When you're looking at the Spirit, someone who's fully God. And so the scriptures affirm very clearly the full deity of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit. There's a distinction of person and there's a distinction of function in our salvation. The Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. The Father has the plan of redemption, and the Son goes to the cross, and he dies and he rises from the dead. And the Spirit is the one who regenerates us and indwells us. So you see the distinction of person and function within the Godhead. But this passage is very important in affirming the uniqueness of Christ person, fully God, fully man. Here's what it says in verse 37. They shall look upon him whom they have pierced. Now, in verse 37 John is referring back to a passage in Zechariah. And let me read to you from Zechariah so that you can appreciate what John is ultimately saying is being fulfilled. that he is recording for us. And in Zechariah chapter 12, verse 1, it says this. This is the burden of the word of the Lord. That's capital L-O-R-D. Or Yahweh or Jehoma. We don't actually know how to pronounce the name. But he's using his covenant name. This is obviously God speaking Thus says the Lord. Alright? In verse number 10, he says, I will pour on the house of David and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and supplication. And the next statement is absolutely critical. They shall look upon me. Did you catch that? Me, whom they have appeared. Go to Zechariah twelve, verse number ten, and read it carefully. They will look upon Me whom they have pierced. Who is talking here? Well, obviously in the context, the person talking is God The person talking is also the Messiah. So the wording of the passage reveals to us that the Lord is the focus of the passage, and in the same way, at the same time So is Jesus Christ the Messiah. What does that tell us about Jesus? It tells us that Jesus is God in flesh. In other words, the scriptures are affirming the uniqueness of Christ. And we can when we talk about the person of Christ, we can dig into all kinds of other areas. We can talk about his humanity, we can talk about his deity, his distinction of person between Father, Son, and Spirit. But in this particular passage, what we are focusing in on is this perfect blending, this uniting of full humanity and full deity in the same person. Jesus Christ is a man who died for our sins, and Jesus Christ is God who took on flesh and literally went to the cross and died for our sins. The second person of the Trinity physically died for our sins. That's what the passage is telling us. And so this is a critical uh component in the gospel. If you remove this in any way, or if you diminish it in any way, or cheap it in any way, you miss A key foundational matter to the gospel. So all five of these details are extremely important for us understanding the faith So here's the question I want to close with. Here's the implication, the application. The question is, does this not compel you to rely upon this person for our salvation? The scriptures verify who he would be, and when he lived the life and went to the cross and rose from the dead, then those scriptures that were pointing to him, those scriptures were fulfilled, verifying who he was, what he did, and why it matters. That's what it's all about. You and I should have a strong confidence that when we place our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ for our salvation, we are putting our trust in the Lord Jesus who is truly God in flesh. He is the one who meticulously guides and preserves and cares for his creation. ultimately leading it to glorious ends that bring glory to him and are ultimately for our good When we place our faith in the finished work of Christ, we are reminding ourselves that he fully accomplished the work that he promised to do. And all of those Old Testament passages of scriptures, they were pointing us to his sacrifice that was accomplished. And lastly, we should be strengthened in faith, reminding ourselves that our future inheritance is absolutely secure because He did this for us. Our our our our our future inheritance isn't secure because of something we do for him. Or something that we purpose to do for him or something that we promise to do for him. Our future inheritance is secure Because this person died for our sins. And so this morning I want to leave you with a very simple thought. We need to marvel and rejoice in the person and work of Christ. It might be possible that somebody listening to this this morning has not placed their faith in the finished work of Christ, dependence alone in his work. I want to encourage you, do not leave this video. without responding to the gospel. Place your trust alone in what Jesus did for you. Rely alone on his work and his righteousness. And believers let 's be encouraged today. I hope this passage has been a challenge to you. I love the text. I love studying it. I love thinking about it, delivering it, and I hope it's been an encouragement to you this morning. Lord Willing, tomorrow we're going to look at one more bonus episode before the weekend, and I think it's going to be a great text, and so I'm looking forward to giving that as well. Have a blessed rest of your day by now.