Well, let's turn together to the book of 1 Corinthians, and we are still in chapter 1, but uh Lord willing tonight. or potentially another week from now, we are going to finish this chapter together. And the text in front of us is 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 26. Down to verse 31, and this is a continuation of what Paul has been dealing with over the last couple sections, and that is how to help a church That's dealing with contention. And so this evening we're going to look at the humbling reality of the Christian's position. And so let's go ahead and read our Bibles together. Here's what the scriptures say. For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty. and base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen. Yea, things which are not to bring to naught things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. That according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. Now, the passage in front of us, it's important for us to remember the context of what we're dealing with. The Corinthian church was a church that was very richly blessed. In fact, Paul is going to say a lot about the fact that they're a blessed people. They're a group of people that have a lot of good qualities. They have many spiritual gifts being practiced in the church. But they also had a problem. The problem was not their giftedness, the problem was how they were handling that giftedness. And the church also was a troubled church. In fact, they're going to talk about a couple of the ways it was troubled, but what we see in the very the various issues that Paul addresses Is that there was a root of pride at the heart of all of these things that Paul is going to address? Reminds me of Proverbs 13. 10, where it says, only by pride cometh contention. But what the well-advised is wisdom. That proverb is so practical. It's so pertinent to all of our lives. And we have contention with other people There is pride in the middle of that contention. In fact, sometimes people will say, I don't understand why I always seem to have these difficult people everywhere that I go. And uh maybe it's because you're the difficult person that creates the contention. You draw that out of people. Or maybe you just choose your friends Ver very poorly. I don't know. You say, well it's not my friends, it's my family, right? No, but I didn't mean that in a bad way. But th the point is this when we deal with contention in our lives There's pride there. That pride that says hey I am I am better than that. I don't deserve this. The way that you spoke to me, I'm above that. You have no right to do it. Maybe maybe you could make an argument that a person did treat you wrong But the question is, how do we respond in those situations? And often pride leads to pride on both sides. And so when one person responds this way, then The corresponding response gets worse, and then it just descends into a very chaotic situation. And so we're reminded that we need to be well advised. So when we feel these grievances and these angers and all those kinds of things, when you talk to somebody who's godly, get their perspective, and what they may say is, you know, that grievance is probably not really appropriate. Or you need to let that go. Or you do have a valid point there, but the way you went about it was totally wrong. And so at the heart of the problems that Paul's going to address is a root of pride. And so think about some of the examples that we have in 1 Corinthians. If we go to chapter 1, we see that there are political party mindsets in the church. And they were following certain teachers, and if somebody was more of a rhetoric person or someone was more of a logic person, they would say, that's my guy. I follow Paul. I follow Apollos. And if someone was very pious, they say, I follow Jesus, which we all are followers of Christ, right? But the idea was, the mindset was that I like that teacher, that's the one that I follow. And what was it? It was pride. It was about identity. A lot of Christians fall into this. We're in this niche within the Christian church. Well, it's kind of like who cares? Okay? Honestly, that if that's your identity, then you have a problem. And so that was the first issue we addressed. Then we go to chapter five. Their tolerance of open unrepentant sin in the church was ultimately rooted in pride. And he is he is really blunt about it. Paul says, you are puffed up. He says you should address this issue, but instead you're proud and won't do it. Then we move to chapter 6, where there's an abusive use of the law court. What was the cause of that? It was pride. Chapter 8, their attitude towards Christian liberty was rooted in pride. I have the right to do this no matter how it affects you. You need to get with the program. I understand my liberty. You don't understand your liberty. I'm going to force you to understand your liberty by putting you into situations where you're going to have to violate your conscience because your conscience is wrong. That's what Paul is saying they're doing. What is that? It's pride. I'm right, you're wrong. I'm going to prove it. I'm going to make your life miserable till you get on my side. That's what he's saying. Chapter 11. A horrible attitude toward other Christians at the Lord's table. And when we look at that passage, that's probably one of the most shocking of all. Not that the I mean, actually they're all kind of shocking. if we're to totally be frank about it. But the Lord's table, such a sacred moment that it it reminds us of the death of Christ, his body broken, his blood shed, a time where we should be humble, where we should be introspective, look at our lives and ask the question God, is there any reason you should accept me? The answer is no, except for what Christ did. And hey, we're all in the same position. All of us are part of this church. Instead, there's pride and division. And then chapter 12, their attitude toward how they were using their spiritual gifts. So yes, God had blessed them, but the way they were using that blessing was completely arrogant. It's like a person who is gifted and they know they're gifted and they're going to let you know that they're gifted and you're like, okay, I get it. You're gifted. That's a problem. He said the purpose of spiritual gifts isn't to puff ourselves up. It's not to lift ourselves up. It's not to draw attention to ourselves. It's to minister. It's to serve other people. And he really deals with that issue all the way from chapters 12, 13, and 14. And then at the end in chapter 16, interestingly, he talks about his concern for their attitude towards Timothy. That they're going to have this dismissive attitude towards Timothy because he's a young man. And so in every single one of those situations, Paul is concerned that they are expressing sinful behavior because at the root of it is an arrogance and a pride. And so the following section is a continuation of what he has said about the root of pride and how they need to uproot this root and they need to replace it with a healthy viewpoint. So he starts with the gospel. He starts with the death of Christ. We talked about the cross. By the end of the book, he's going to deal with the resurrection. He emphasizes the foolishness of the cross when the world looks at it, versus the wisdom of the cross in the way that God views it, and the weakness of the cross in the way that the world views it, and the power of the cross. And how God views it. And so that moves us to the text we're going to deal with this evening. So let me summarize it this way, and then we will jump into the truths that we find in the passage. When Christians become self-absorbed and contentious, they need to remember who they were before they were saved and put to death. that tendency to promote self as they glory in Christ and his grace alone. Whenever we get into a position like this, and all of us do at times, We find ourselves in the exact same position. Nobody arrives. In fact, sometimes somebody might get this at you like, you know, it's really good. I've been very humble lately. I've been so patient lately. When you get that thinking, guess what? You just imploded it. If indeed you were starting to think humbly, you're not when you start meditating on it in such a way. Or someone says, you know, you're such a humble individual, like, I know. That's a problem. That's a problem. So we've got to take that tendency that's in all of us, and we've got to put it to death, and we've got to replace it. So let's work our way through the passage, and I hope that tonight this will be very helpful and encouraging to you. Truth number one, remember, and that's the word that we want to remember, the word is remember, do not forget who you were. Now, I am not suggesting that we should wallow in the misery of what we were before we were Christian, if in fact that is a very miserable thing for us to think about. However, it is true that there are times when we start getting to a place in the Christian life where we think we've arrived and we think that we are God's gift to all the people around us. We need to remember what we were. Because if it wasn't for the grace of God, that's who we'd still be And the fact is it is the grace of God that keeps us from drifting back into that kind of mentality and that kind of behavior that we had before we were Christians. Verse number 26 he says, For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty men, not many noble are called. Now, when he uses that word called, there could be a little bit of debate about what he means, but I don't think that Paul is suggesting that these are people who are being called to an office. Like you've been called to be a pastor, or you've been appointed to be a deacon, or you've been called to some kind of work. He's talking about the fact that when the gospel came to them And they understood that. They were convicted in their heart, and they turned to God and they placed their faith in Christ's finished work. So when he uses that word call here, I think he's speaking in terms of their conversion when they became a Christian. And the point that he's making is that it is God's grace that led them to this point, and they needed to remember who and what they were before they became Christians. Now, I want to take us back to the story of the birth of the church of Corinth, and we're not going to rehash the whole thing, but I just want to hit a couple of highlights so that we don't forget these. Paul's initial plan was not to go to Corinth. His initial plan was to go into the region where Ephesus was. And there's a vision that is given to him there where he sees the Macedonian vision and he says, Come over and help us And so then what Paul does is he changes course instead of going down into Asia Minor and probably Ephesus at the time, instead he works his way through that Aegean Peninsula area, what we would call modern-day Greece. And what's fascinating is in every single city that he went, he didn't get to stay there because he got run out of the city. But in each of those places, a church was planted and then he had to run. And the church was planted and he had to run. The church was planted and he had to run. And then he goes to Athens and there's no church planted, and he leaves because nobody wants to hear what he has to say. And he goes to Corinth to wait for his people to come back. And that is where he meets Aquilum Priscilla. And that is where he stays for 18 months. Pretty amazing. It was not Paul's plan. It was not Paul's timing. It was God's plan and God's timing. And so, what does God do? He shows Paul that he's in charge, not Paul. He stays in Corinth for a year and six months. despite initial disruptions, and many people were converted in the church from diverse backgrounds. The statement that we read here is covering two major thoughts about these people. The first is that some were converted out of obscure backgrounds. So when he says, not many wise men after the flesh, what he means by that is that when the world thinks of wise people, you don't meet their criteria. You're not a philosophical person. You say, well, sounds like you're kind of demeaning the church. He's just being honest. That's all he's doing. These were not people that were philosophical. Some of them were, but most of them weren't. He says, not many mighty. He's saying you weren't strong people. Not many noble. That word, the Greek term that's there, has the idea of these are people with worldly status. These are people who are very noble. They have a lot of preeminence in the society. Now we know that there are a couple of people in that church who were well known in the city. But for the most part that was not the background of the people. A lot of the people were servants, or to use a word we don't like to use today is the word slaves. Huge numbers of people in the Roman Empire, more people in the Roman Empire were slaves than were free men. And many of the people in this church would have fallen into that category. So he says, listen guys, you didn't become a Christian because you were so philosophical and so intelligent. Or because you were really strong, or because you had a noble birth. That's not why you became a Christian. There's a second part to this as well, though Some were converted out of very dark backgrounds. And you say, well, how do we know that? Well, if you think about the city, it was a really dark city. But in 1 Corinthians 6, he talks about some of their lives. He says, do you not know that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? He says, be not deceived, neither fornicators. nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates, nor abusers of themselves with mankind. Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. Now, let me explain kind of briefly what some of those things mean. We know what a fornicator is. This is someone who is sexually immoral. He talks about someone who is Uh an idolater. Well obviously the the the world that these people were being saved in was a very idolatrous world. Most of the people were going to pagan temples. In fact He's going to talk in 1 Corinthians about the problem of them going to the pagan shrines and seeing prostitutes in these pagan temples. Huge problem, right? He talks about them being adulterers. They were not faithful to their marriage covenants. Effeminates and abusers of themselves with mankind is two different ways of describing homosexual behavior. I'll just put it like that, okay? He talks about people who are thieves. They were covetous drunkards. By the way, everyone that went to the pagan festivals was a drunkard because They would get intoxicated and they would be involved in all kinds of licentious behavior. He talks about people who were revelers. These are people who would go to wild parties. Extortioners, they use their power to cheat people. And this is what he says. These people will not inherit the kingdom of God. And you're like, well, I'm glad nobody in the church has that kind of a background. He says, oh, and such were some of you. Ah. What's he say? In this church, there are many people who that was who they were. Not who they are now, but that's who they were. And so it reminds us that when Paul talks about these people, he says, you were not worldly wise, you were not worldly strong, you did not have worldly status, and many of you lived very dark and very sinful lives. And so why is Paul doing this? Is it because he wants to rub their face in the dirt and say, ah, you're worthless? It's like, no. He says you need to realize it's the grace of God that you are what you are, and that's it. That's the point. These people needed a reality check. And interestingly, Paul says similar things to other churches. For instance, in 1 Thessalonians 1. He says that they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had into you, how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. They were idolaters. This morning I was listening to a message by Martin Lloyd Jones, and it was when he was really old and the sound quality was really bad. But he was talking about what it's like to engage a pagan culture. Now he was preaching this message in the 1970s, and uh I think we've even come beyond that by this point in our own culture. And what he's talking about is he talks about Paul before Felix. And interestingly, he talks about the story of Felix and all of the people that were there in the court. And he describes in somewhat detail, the kind of lives that they had lived. And he said, you know what? These people called Paul because they were just curious. They just wanted to hear what he had to say. And he's just blunt right to the point. And he says, you need to be converted And he preaches the gospel to them. And what is he saying? He's saying that, listen, here are people that would have never thought, oh, that's somebody that's going to hear the gospel. They're going to want to hear the gospel. They're going to want to embrace the gospel. But he says that's what he did. He just preached the gospel. No fear, straight to the point. Now, why does Paul start out here? It's because our conversion is a miracle. And it's a powerful testimony to God's grace, not our wisdom, not our strength, not our status, not our righteousness. We should never forget that. And by the way, that is true of everybody in the church. Even those who become Christians when they're little kids, growing up in Christian homes, what a blessing it is to grow up in a Christian home, hear the gospel from the time you're a little kid. and be preserved from so much nonsense in the world. But it's the grace of God that you did not end up in those places. Truth 2. The word is observe. So the last word was the word remember. We want to remember, remember. Now we're going to remember the word observe. Look at how God accomplishes his work in the world. Fascinating to me how he says this. In verses 27 and 28 he says, but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. And God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty, and the base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught things that are. Now that word confound has this idea that when someone looks at it, they just cannot make sense of it. It's like a person who is examining something that is it's more complicated than they can wrap their minds around. And as they observe it, they say, I do not know how to make sense of this. This is beyond me. He says, when the world looks at how God works on this planet, they sit back and they say, I have no idea. How that actually works out the way that it does. I mean you think about the statement, the heart of the king is in the hands of the Lord, as the rivers of water he turns it whithersoever he will. So what does God do? He takes Nebuchadnezzar and he says, Nebuchadnezzar, you're going to eat grass if you don't humble yourself. And he's like, alright. Look at all these things that I've made. And he's like, all right, you're gonna eat grass. And then what does he do? He puts him back in power. I mean, can you imagine that? It's it's stunning. It's absolutely stunning. But God did that. Or you have a Hasuaris, and here he is, he can't sleep at night. He's like, could you guys read something to me so I will go to sleep? And they start reading him all of this chronological record of this happening and that happening. He's just, uh And he's like, what somebody's trying to kill me? Yeah, somebody's trying to kill you Well, whatever happened to that guy that foiled the plot? They said, nothing. He's like, that's wrong. We're going to change that. And guess who's coming in when he's talking about it? Ah, Naaman. Naaman. Haman. Haman walks in. He says, hey, I got a question for you. What do you think should happen to someone that the king desires to honor? Haman goes, Well, he's talking about me. I'll tell you what you should do. And he gives them this elaborate thing, and Haman says the king says, Great idea. Go do that to Mordecai. Whoo, that's crazy, isn't it? I mean, like what an absolute reversal right there. But that's the way that God works. Or God takes a guy like Paul. And here Paul hates the church, he's persecuting the church. He has pushed against the gospel for all this time that Jesus is preaching and teaching. And he says, I don't believe it. And what does God say? I'm going to take that guy right there. The most passionate, most zealous hater of the church, and I'm going to make him an apostle to the Gentiles. That's pretty awesome, isn't it? That's how God works. He takes people that you say they have no gifts, they have no ability, there's no way that God could use them. And he says, that's not true. Watch me do it. This is the way that God works. And interestingly, the cross is the foremost example of this principle. That's why he talked about it in verses 18 and 24. He says that the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But to Christ it is the power of God and the wisdom of God. So when the world looks at the cross, they say worthless, foolishness, weakness, God says, wrong, redemption. Then Paul's ministry plans were another great example. I mentioned this earlier, but in Acts 16, he wanted to go down into the region of Galatia, down into Asia Minor. And what does God say? No, you cannot go down into Asia Minor. You need to go over to Macedonia. And then in chapter 18 of Acts. Paul receives a vision from God that says, Be not afraid, speak and hold not thy peace. I am with thee. No man shall set on thee to hurt thee. I have much people in this city. And he continued there a year and six months teaching the Word of God among them. Now why did Paul have to get a vision at Corinth? Well the reason is because every single other place that he had, when things got bad, he ran. Or the people told him to leave. So God said, No, you're gonna plant yourself here. Because I have people that are gonna be saved to your ministry. And so go and do the work. Don't get discouraged. Don't run. Don't let people tell you to leave. Just do it. Be faithful. That's what he's saying. But then we think about Paul as a man. Now, we don't know what Paul looked like. We don't have any pictures of him, right? But what we do know about Paul is that people mocked how he looked. And what we also know is that Paul was a boring preacher. Because there's a passage where it says, he went long into the night, and there's this guy sitting in the window, and he falls asleep, but he just he falls to his death. But listen to the way that this is described in 2 Corinthians 10. He says, this is what the people are saying. His letters say they are weighty and powerful, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech is contemptible. He's a small, ugly , high-voiced man, and nobody wants to listen to him. You say that was Paul? That's what they were saying. I mean, were they right or wrong? I don't know. But the idea is they mocked Paul. They said, this isn't a guy who has the power of God. His letters are big. But when you see him, you're like, who is this guy? God used them. So what's the point? God uses overlooked, disdained, and unassuming people and circumstances to accomplish his work in the world. And when when God has used us, we should look back at it and just marvel that He did it. That's just the honest truth. We should marvel that he did it. The things that God does through people are things that should surprise us. Not things that we're like, oh, I just know this is going to happen. Why is that? Because God chooses to work in a way that's different than we do. If we're doing a little job interview, what do we do? We want to hire the best candidate and make sure that they got all this education just right and that they have these skill sets and they have all these background references and we want the best of the best of the best. Well, what does God do when he picks people? He says, I'm going to confound the wisdom of the world. That's what he does. It's pretty amazing to think about. It 's because he's going to get the glory. I think about the story of the nation of Israel. Listen to what God says to the people in Deuteronomy 7. Moses writes, the Lord did not set his love upon you or choose you because you were more in number than any people. Ye were the fewest of all people, but because the Lord loved you and because he would keep the oath which he had sworn unto your fathers, hath the Lord brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you out of the house of bondmen, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Now therefore know therefore that the Lord thy God, He is God, He is faithful, He keepeth covenants and mercy with them that love him, He keepeth his commandments to a thousand generations. Why did God choose the nation of Israel? Because of his grace. That's why he did it. That's what he's saying. It wasn't because of their strength. It wasn't because of their wisdom. It's because of his grace. That's the whole point of Romans 9, 10, and 11. Why did God choose Jacob? Because he wanted to. That's why he did it. Truth number three, the word to remember is the word beware. Be wary of your tendency to glory in self. And I shouldn't say you, our, our tendency to glory in self. He says in verse 29, he says, so that no flesh should glory in his presence. It is natural to boast of our goodness. And that is why we have to repent in order to believe. Isaiah 64, 6. We're all as an unclean thing. All our righteousness is as filthy rags. James 4, 6, God resisteth the proud but giveth grace to the humble. Why does someone have to repent in order to believe? It's because they believe they're good They believe that they're righteous. They believe God should accept them because of who they are and what they do for him. They've got to be confronted with the fact that they believe a lie about self. And then they have to turn to Christ and accept his sacrifice and his work and his righteousness. And they have to recognize it's all of God's grace, it's not of their works. No person should believe that they can boast in God's presence. Romans 3:19, we know that whatsoever things the law saith, it saith to them who are under it that every mouth should be stopped. And all the world guilty before God. By the deeds of the law, no flesh shall be justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of your sin. Verse 27, where is boasting then? It is excluded by what law? Of works? Nay. But by the law of faith. Therefore, we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. Ephesians 2. 8. 9 It is not of works. It is the gift of God. Why? So that no one can boast. Matthew 5, 3, blessed are the pure, or excuse me, are the poor in spirit. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. How does a person become a Christian? They have to acknowledge from the heart, I've got nothing to give God. All I can do is receive this free gift of what he did for me. Nobody gets saved in arrogance. They get saved in spiritual poverty. They realize they have nothing to bring to the table. It's all of what God has done for them. So what's the point? We have to be honest with the tendency of our heart to think better of ourselves than we should and to lift ourselves up above others. Now, do you see how practical this is in helping people resolve disputes with one another? And how this is something that can diffuse the contentions that we experience in our lives between one another? Especially when you have people that are Christians, both believing people that say they believe this gospel, how in the world can Christians not get along? Scripturally, it's unthinkable. I mean, I understand because I see it, okay? I understand what it's like to see people have contention. I know it's like to have contention with other people. But it's unthinkable for the Christian to be in such a position. Truth number four. The word is reflect. And when I say reflect, I don't mean like reflect like the sun reflects off the moon. I mean reflect like pause and think and ponder Meditate is the word that we could have used there. Consider the significance of your relationship to God through Christ. Notice what he says in verse 30. He says, but of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who is of God, who of God is made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Now there are at least, in fact, if I was to sit down and really think about it even longer than I did, I I wouldn't be surprised if I could find another one or two in connection to what is here. But there are at least six things. that he states about our relationship to God that came through Christ's work. The first thing is that we are saved by his work on our behalf. Notice the phrase Of him are ye in Christ. Now, how did we get all the benefits of the gospel? Who is the one doing the work? It doesn't say of you are you in Christ. It says, of him are ye in Christ. So who's the one doing the work? Well, obviously it's God. Titus 3. 5, it is not by works of righteousness that we have done, it's according to his mercy that he saved us. Ephesians 28 and 9, I already mentioned this passage, but we know it is a gift and it is not of works, lest anyone should boast. So the first thing that he's drawing our attention to here is the fact that our salvation is all the work of God. He works for us. Of him are ye in Christ Jesus. But there's a second piece to that statement as well. And the reason that I see a second piece to that is because of the next thing he's going to say. He's going to say Of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom. Now that statement is very interesting because it sheds light on a part of what he means by of him are ye in Christ Jesus. This is what he's saying. Your salvation started with God's initiation, not yours. Now that is not in any way saying we don't have responsibility to respond to the gospel, repent and believe. We have to do that. God commands us to repent and believe. But the question is this, do we go looking for him, or does he come looking for us? I mean, if you go out and you evangelize, you'll you'll learn very quickly people aren't looking for God. And what does it say in Romans chapter 3? It says, There's none righteous, no, not one. None who understands, none who seeks After God. So then how do people get saved? God goes to them. God brings the gospel to them. God convicts them of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. Notice some of these statements. James 1. 18, of his own will begat he us by the word of truth. We should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. 1 Peter 1 21, who by him do believe in God that raised him up from the dead and gave him glory that your faith and hope might be in God? 1 Thessalonians 1:3, remembering without ceasing your work of faith. Now all of those statements are focusing in on the fact that God has to convict us of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. And when he convicts us of sin and righteousness and judgment, what does that do? That leads us to repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. But what does it say in Romans chapter 10? It says that without hearing the word, we will not believe, because faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. He says, how can they hear without a preacher? And how can one preach unless he is sent? And then he makes the point that God has sent people. And so the idea Is that our salvation is the work of God and how it is accomplished, it's also his work that brings us to him. And when we respond to that message, we should look back and say, God, thank you for interrupting my life. Drawing me to yourself by your grace. That is in no way eliminating our responsibility. It is in no way eliminating our responsibility to respond to the message or to give the message. But it's a clear indication that when we trust Christ, it's because God has done a special work in our life. Next, we see we have come to see the beauty of the wisdom of Christ in the cross by his work in us. Notice he says, who of God is made into us wisdom. Now the point that he just made in the verses previous is that the world does not see the cross as wisdom. So how does this person who mocks the cross and thinks it's a waste and thinks it's foolishness How do they come to believe that it's actually the one and only way they can be saved? The grace of God working in them And so we see that in 1 Corinthians 1. 18. The preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but to us which are saved, the power of God, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. Fourthly, we are justified by his imputed righteousness. He not only says who is of God made unto us wisdom, but he is also made unto us righteousness. Romans 3:21, but now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested. Even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ, it's unto all and upon all them that believe. Another way to put that is this righteousness is available to anybody, but it's only applied to those who receive it, who trust in it. Galatians 2. 16, a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ. that we might be justified by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified So do you see how he's saying you're declared righteous because of what God did, not because of what you did. Because of his righteousness, not your righteousness. Fifthly, we are set apart to God as holy in Christ. And He is also unto us what? Sanctification. Now I think when we think of sanctification, we tend to think of it as our progressive growth in the Christ's likeness, how we grow and how we mature. That's how we tend to think of that term. But there are also a lot of passages in the New Testament where he uses the term sanctification in reference to position. 1 Corinthians 1:2, unto the church of God at Corinth to them who are sanctified in Christ Jesus. That's a position. He could have said, those who are being sanctified, but it's not how he put it. They are Sanctified in Christ Jesus. They are called to be saints. They're supposed to live like they are. Or 1 Corinthians 6. 11. Such were some of you, but you are washed. And you are sanctified. Not you're going to be sanctified or you're being sanctified. You are sanctified. These are talking about the position. That's why it is appropriate to call a Christian a saint. Maybe not Saint Lee, but a saint. Sixthly, we are redeemed to God at the price of Christ's death and redemption Romans 3. 24, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Ephesians 1. 7, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. Hebrews 9. Neither the blood of goats or calves, but his own blood he entered in once into the holy place having obtained eternal redemption for us. What is the common denominator in all of these examples that he gives? The words grace, not of works , goodness. All of these things are an indication That we are a blessed people because of what God did for us, not what we did for him. That's in no way suggesting we shouldn't live for God. Or that we shouldn't be obedient. That's not what the scripture teaches. But that is not why God accepts us. He accepts this on the basis of what he did for us. You know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things, like silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers But with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. We have no basis for boasting in anything we've done for God or any spiritual blessing we possess. All is from Him by His grace. The last thing I'm going to mention here is the word replace. We are to put to death our sinful passions to glory in self. And replace those sinful passions with a true delight in Christ alone. Verse 31 says, according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. He said, instead of glorying in self, based on all of these things that I have laid before you, who you were, how God works, what you have in Christ, all of those pieces. You need to glory in him, not yourself. We see both the negative and the positive side of this. The negative is put off, boasting in self. The positive is put on glorying in Christ. And we see the concept of putting off and putting on several times in the scriptures. Sorry, I threw you off there, and it's it's black instead of white. What in the world? Not sure how that happened. Anyway, I guess I didn't change the color Might not even be able to see it now, right? Alright, put off those negative boastings and self and put on glorying in Christ Ephesians 4. 22, put off concerning the former conversation, the old man, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. That you put on the new, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. We covered this on Sunday in our Freedom That Last class. Romans 6. 19, as You have yielded your members' servants to uncleanness and to iniquity, unto iniquity, even so now yield your members servants to righteousness unto holiness. He's saying, just like you used to be passionate about doing the wrong thing, be passionate about doing the right thing. In the same way that we were all about ourselves and so self-absorbed as unbelievers, now that we're Christians, what should we be doing? Passionate about glorying in God, not ourselves. That's the idea. So the point is stop boasting in self, but rather glory in Christ alone for what he has done for you. So how do you put it all together? Here's my final thought. Those words remember, observe, beware, reflect, replace. We need to put those to practice. Our conversion is a miracle, powerful testimony to God's grace, not our wisdom, not our strength, not our status, not our righteousness. It's all his work. Remember that. Look at how God uses the overlooked, the disdained, the unassuming, the circumstances that nobody ever thinks could accomplish anything. Observe that and realize something. That's the way God works. When God uses us, there's people that go, I don't know how it's going to work out. It's okay. Sometimes when people go on the mission field, there's some people that are like, yeah, I don't know how it's going to work out. Stay at it. See what God does. Sometimes the people get married. People go, I wonder, that's going to work out. Stay at it. Be faithful. Be a good husband. Be a good wife. When it comes to raising our children, when it comes to so many things, God confounds the wisdom of the world by how he works. The third word is beware. We must be honest with the tendencies of our heart to think better of ourselves than we should and to lift ourselves up above others. Be careful. Fourth word is reflect. We have no basis for boasting in anything we've done for God or any spiritual blessing we possess. All is from Him by His grace. The last word is reflect. Stop boasting in self, but rather glory in Christ alone for what he has done in our lives. Let's bow for prayer and ask the Lord to help us with that. Our Father, as we think about your word tonight, as we think about these truths, help us to internalize them and help us to live in the light of them. As we spend time together in prayer, I pray that our hearts would be knit together. Our fellowship around your word would have been sweet, and that the things that we're thinking about would really Stick deeply in our souls. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be a humble people who truly delight in you and love you because of how kind you've been to us. And may we treat one another with kindness, with humility, as brothers and sisters. I pray that you will work in our time together tonight in Christ's name. Amen