Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our very first morning edition of Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflections. It's been two years since we have done an Anchored in the Word Reflection. And I'm excited about getting this series going again. In fact, you may not realize this, but though it's been almost two years since we last did an anchored in the word study, we're actually picking up in the exact same place where we left off And so what we're going to do is we're going to be working through the book of Luke at the same rate that we're going through in our church on Sunday mornings. And the passage we're going to look at this morning and that we will look at throughout the week is the par the passage that we looked at in church on Sunday morning. That's Luke chapter 7. I'd like to read the passage to you, and if you're not familiar with the passage It's dealing with the Lord Jesus healing the centurion's servant. Luke chapter 7, verse 1 says this Now, when he had ended all his sayings, and the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum, a certain centurion's servant who was dear unto him was sick and ready to die. And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant. When they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly saying that He was worthy to whom he should do this, for he loves our nation, and he hath built us a synagogue. Jesus went with them. When he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord, trouble not thyself, I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof. Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee But say in a word, My servant shall be healed. For I am also a man set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth, and another come and he cometh. And to my servant do this, and he doeth that When Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him and turned him and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, knew not in Israel. And they that were sent returned to the house, and they found the servant whole that had been sick. Now we're going to look at this passage of Scripture in several parts. And I want to begin with an introductory thought to kind of help set the stage for understanding what is the significance of the passage in front of us. There are three words that I want you to think about each time we come to this passage of Scripture. The first is the word authority. This passage is going to show us, it's going to demonstrate visibly the authority of Christ. And that is a central theme in these verses. The second word is the word mercy. Mercy describes the motivation that moves Christ to demonstrate the authority that he has ultimately in healing the centurion servant. The third word that I want you to think about is the word perspective. A central theme to these verses is not just the authority of Christ or the mercy that motivates Christ to do what he does. But it's the perspective of the people that are coming to Christ. The perspective of some people who believe that there was a case to be made. for Christ being obligated to do what he did, and another who said that Christ is under no obligation to do what he's doing. My only hope is his mercy, and I believe that he has the authority to do what I'm asking him to do. I believe that he's good And so I'm appealing to his mercy. Those three words are very, very important. And so as we move through this text of scripture and as we look at the various details, I hope that you will not forget those words. Really the big takeaway from this passage is going to be a simple one. God wants us to have a renewed perspective, a perspective that's consistent with our position before him, his authority as God. And the mercy that He loves to demonstrate to people that are in need. And so for us to understand that, I want to talk about some introductory thoughts this morning with you. The first is I want you to understand that the passage in front of us serves an important function in what Luke is trying to present of Christ to a man named Theophilus. Now If you want to understand what the book of Luke is all about, you go back to the beginning of the book in Luke chapter 1. And this is what Luke says to Theophilus as he's writing the book. He says, I've delivered unto you that which was from the beginning through eyewitnesses and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me, also having had perfect understanding of all things From the very first to write unto thee, In order, most excellent Theophilus, and here's the key, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. The book of Luke actually is functioning as an apologetics type of a function to strengthen the faith of a man named Theophilus. Now it would appear that Theophilus already is a believer. And Theophilus is a Gentile believer. And so what Luke is trying to do is trying to come alongside him and say, let me give you some some truths about Christ's ministry, conversations that he had, miracles that he performed. The significance of those things, I want to lay this account out to you so that when you read these things, your faith will be strengthened and you will say, I know without a doubt this is true. So that's a very important function of the book of Luke. And specifically this passage fits into that. And Luke is different from the other gospels. In the sense that the focus is to a Gentile individual. Like, for instance, when we go to the book of Matthew, it's focusing on a Jewish audience. And so We see statements like it it was it happened that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, and then he talks about Isaiah or Micah or some other prophet. He makes those references because his audience is people that they know the Old Testament very well. And they're anticipating a Messiah that is the fulfillment of those Old Testament passages. And so Matthew's constantly making that connection. That is his audience. That is his purpose. Or for instance when he talks about the genealogy of Christ, he doesn't go all the way back to Adam. He goes back to Abraham. Well, that's significant because he is the son of Abraham, he's the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant But he also does it through Joseph. And Joseph is not the biological father of Christ. He is conceived in the womb of a virgin. That's a very, very important detail when we talk about the incarnation. But he still makes that leak through Joseph back to Abraham to show the legal connection that Christ has back to Abraham. When we go to the book of Luke, we see something very different. We see a different genealogy, not not because Luke is trying to confuse us, but because his purpose is distinct. He he takes Christ's lineage through Mary all the way back To Adam himself. And so he is trying to show that Jesus is not just a Jewish man, but Jesus is. A man. He's God in flesh, and he's coming to be the savior of not just the Jewish people, but of the world. He not only does that, but many times when he quotes from the Old Testament, Intriguingly, a lot of times he quotes from the Greek translation that was used in those days, the Septuagint. He does that because his audience is primarily a Greek-speaking audience. And I know that all of the New Testament books are written in Greek. But the audience, if it was primarily a Jewish audience, would have been reading the scriptures in in in in the Hebrew language and not just in the Greek language He also substitutes Greek terms, Greek for Aramaic terms, and so there are a lot of interesting distinct features of the book of Luke. But I really want us to focus in on the purpose of this particular section. In Luke 7 and 8, he's recording or retelling the story of many of the miracles and conversations that Jesus was having because he wanted this man, Theophilus, to know in fact this is who Jesus is. It really goes all the way back to what was stated by Simeon in Luke chapter 2, that he is God's salvation, which God has prepared before the face of all people. a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of God's people Israel. And so when he talks about Jesus being the light to lighten the Gentiles, that would have really resonated with a Gentile like Theophilus. I also want to know I also want to make note that in these verses he takes a lot of time to emphasize Gentile type uh themes. For instance, he's talking about a centurion servant And Luke talks about centurions quite a bit. He talks about the centurion that was named Cornelius in the book of Acts, where Peter is told by God to go to this man through a vision, and ultimately he's going to lead this man to Christ, he's going to expound the gospel to him. His whole family is going to be converted. And they're going to be filled with the Spirit. They're going to be baptized with the Spirit, placed into the same body of Christ that the Jewish Christians are placed into. And um, and so this is a theme that is very common in the book. So why do you think that that actually matters? Well, it matters because Jesus is not only demonstrating That or Luke is not only demonstrating that Jesus is the Messiah and the gospel is true, but he's emphasizing that this true gospel is for the Gentile also. It's for this man, Theophilus. I think it's important when we read the Bible to recognize that these verses were given to a very specific audience And it helps kind of give a fuller understanding of the purpose behind what is given. And so as we get into these verses, don't forget That Gentile dynamic. Don't forget the fact that Jesus is taking the time to minister to a Gentile man who is ruling in a Jewish city because He wants to demonstrate the gospel 's not just for the Jew. This morning, I hope that you were encouraged by the things that we talked about I hope that as we get into this passage of Scripture, you'll also be encouraged by the content. That'll be practical, that'll be challenging, that'll be encouraging, and most importantly, that'll keep you thinking on the Word of God throughout the week. Thank you so much for your time this morning. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will get our series continued as we move our way through Luke chapter 7. Have a great rest of your day.