I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter six, please. Ephesians chapter six, and we've been working uh verse by verse and section by section through this little discussion of the Christian's armor. I'm going to go ahead and read verses 10 to 16 tonight. We'll comment on the main point of the passage, and then we will dig into one particular part of the Christian's armor that is extremely important. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all this stand, stand therefore, having your loins skirt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness. And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, and take the helmet of salvation. And I'll stop there. The main point that is trying to be communicated in this passage is that Paul understands that there is a constant battle going on in the life of every Christian. There are no exceptions. No matter where you find yourself in the Christian life, whether you're a brand new Christian, whether you've been a believer for 50 years, it doesn't matter how long you've been a Christian, it doesn't matter where you are in the ups and downs of life, you will face spiritual opposition. And not only will we face opposition, and that is the reality that we find ourselves in, but God has given us everything that we need as Christians to be able to face that opposition victoriously. Now that does not mean that we'll never stumble in the Christian life. It doesn't mean that we'll come to a place where we no longer experience uh temptation of any kind. The fact is that from this point in our lives until the day that we die and stand before the Lord, we will face temptation. But God has given us everything that we need so that we can be victoriously victorious. And if we are willing to take those instruments and we're able to put them on and we're able to take those things and use them as God intended for us to use use them, we can experience victory. Not just victory today and for a moment, but a prolonged season of victory. We have that available to us. And so Paul is strengthening these Christians by reminding them of those instruments that God has provided for them. Today we're going to look at an incredibly important part of the Christian's armor, and that is the helmet that we are to put on. We're going to see in this text that God wants us to focus our thinking on the reality of our coming salvation. when we are the most prone to discouragement and the battle that we face. Let me say that again. God wants us to focus our thinking on the reality of our coming salvation. When we are most prone to discouragement in the battle. Some of you might say, well, I thought I was already saved. Well, in one sense, you are saved. In one sense you are being saved, and in one sense you are not yet saved, that day is coming. And we're going to dig into that for just a moment. But what we're going to see in this passage is that God wants us to arm our thinking with what we have in the gospel, the guarantee That when we stand before God on that final day, we will be saved from his wrath, we will enter into his eternal kingdom, and we will experience eternal life free from the presence of sin and a fallen world. That's really where we're going tonight with this particular piece. So how can you and I, as God's people, put this piece on? Well, I want to review the articles quickly, just so that it's fresh in our minds. The first article that was mentioned was having a belt of truth. And the way that it's put in the scripture is we are to have our loins gird about with truth. And it is the truth and it is our connection to the truth and the fact that our Minds are filled with the truth that enables us to have stability so we don't trip and we don't stumble. And we talked about that illustration quite some time ago. The second article that was mentioned is the breastplate of righteousness. And it's interesting, we're going to look tonight at a parallel passage. that explains to us that the breastplate of righteousness is not the practical it's the practical righteousness that we have as Christians. Not the positional righteousness that we have in Christ. Yes, every believer in Christ is righteous before God because Christ's righteousness has been imputed to us. But this particular instrument that he's telling us to put on is practical righteousness, and we will see the parallel tonight Article number three, we need to have our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. And basically what we saw is that when that soldier went into the battle, his shoes would be very similar to the kind of shoes that an athlete would wear in a soccer game or in a football game or in a baseball game. Those shoes would have metal spikes that can grip the ground so that that person is able to stand his ground, is able to move quickly, is able to do whatever they need to do in the battle. That instrument that gives us stability is the gospel of peace. The fact that we know that we as Christians are at peace with God. It's something that gives us stability no matter what Satan will throw at us. We then move to the fourth piece, the shield of faith. And I loved this particular illustration because the shield of faith is not just something that I'm to put on personally myself Where I go into battle standing alone with this shield in my hand, but literally the picture that was presented is that all these soldiers would move as a unit. And each individual would lock his shield with the person next to him, and in the front they had a wall of shields, and on the top they had a wall of shields. And as those shields moved forward, they were able to quench those fiery darts. That were hurled at them as they were moving as a unit. We saw that that shield provided by God is a healthy, maturing faith. Tonight we look at the fifth instrument. And yes, it is one of the last. Take the helmet of salvation. What exactly is a helmet of salvation? That is the question that we're going to start with. And I want to read to you a comment made by Dwight Pentecost in his book, Designed to Be Like Him. Very practical book. This book is in our library and this book is also I want to say a resource center. That's in Ghana. It's in the bookstore. This is what he writes. No Roman soldier would think of advancing into battle without a helmet. to cover his head. This helmet was usually a cap made of leather to which metal plates would have been fastened. Some helmets were made of solid metal cast in the form of a head covering. Whatever the external form of the the helmet The purpose was the same. It was to protect the head from the blows of the broadsword. Simply put, for the soldier, the purpose of the helmet was to protect his head. When that man went into battle, he wore his helmet because he wanted to protect his ability to think clearly, his brain that was going to keep him doing what he needed to do. That is the illustration that Paul chooses to use by the Spirit's guidance in this particular piece. So let me talk about a couple of facts of this helmet. The first fact is this, the helmet was a defensive instrument meant to protect how the Christian thinks. The helmet is a defensive instrument meant to protect how the Christian thinks. I'll put it this way. The state of the Christian's mental health is perhaps the single most important thing that is true about him. I want to say that again because I think it's incredibly important The state of the Christian's mental health is perhaps the single most important thing that is true about him. How I think as a Christian, how you think as a Christian, is vitally important as to whether or not we will be victorious Satan's battle is primarily to attack your mind. He wants to attack how you think, how you process your trials, how you process the good and the bad in your life, how you process the circumstances that you're dealing with, how you process certain passages of Scripture. The reality is that what Satan wants to do is he wants to undermine good, sound biblical thinking He wants to trouble you in your mind so that you are unsettled and you're not able to think clearly and rationally and biblically. How we think as Christians is extremely important. And so we must give all diligence to make sure that we guard how we think. If you and I are not thinking in a healthy manner, we are going to be set back and we're going to stumble as Christians. We have to put on this helmet. Every single Christian in this room needs to have freedom from internal restlessness. That's really important. I know that there are times that we go through seasons that are very difficult and we are very restless and we are very troubled and we go through difficulties. But I want you to realize God wants you and God wants me to have an internal sense of peace and settledness. There's a very important book in our bookstore. It's called Changed into His Image, written by Jim Berg. That book has a lot to say about this concept of dealing with internal turmoil and trouble. There's another book that he's written and there's a study that he did that deals primarily with dealing with noise in our soul. You might say, well, what do you mean by noise? What are the kinds of things that cause me as a Christian to be unsettled? A lack of confidence that you're saved. You know, if I'm struggling with doubts as to whether or not I'm a Christian, I'm really going to have internal noise. Having a conscience that's not clean. I'm weighed down by sin. How many times do we read in the Psalms where David is expressing how he was in tremendous turmoil in his heart? Because his conscience wasn't clean. How many times are we battered around by the opinions of other people? Our high points and our low points are completely connected to whether or not somebody says something good or bad to us. If somebody says something that's not appropriate, not kind, does it set us off for the next week? Or are we free from the bondage of people's opinions? A freedom from lust and materialism. Confidence in God's providence An all-consuming passion for God's glory and God's kingdom. The truth is, God wants us to have freedom from internal restlessness. And so if we are restless in our soul, if we have noise, if there are things going on inside that are troubling us and are affecting the way that we think, we need to be able to figure out what is causing the noise. so that we can address the problem. Really, this issue of having a sound mind is extremely important as Christians And if you're unsettled in your heart, I really want to encourage you. God wants you to have a settled confidence, a freedom from restlessness. And you can have that if you'll get into the scriptures. A second fact that we see about this helmet is that putting on the helmet is an illustration of the Christian choosing to think about something specific. He's choosing to focus his thinking on his salvation as he's in the face of tremendous spiritual opposition. In other words, there are times as Christians that we have to kind of talk to ourselves where we have to think, what I'm thinking right now is not correct. I bring truth to mind and I begin to confront those lies and those problems with biblical thinking. We have to be purposeful in what we choose to think about as Christians. I think about what the Book of Philippians says, where it tells us that we're to think on things that are true and honest and just and pure and lovely and have good report if there's any virtue, if there's any praise, think on these things. That passage doesn't tell us if it's not true, don't think about it. It says, if it is true, think about it. There's a difference. Because if I'm constantly thinking about what I should not be thinking about, what am I doing? I'm thinking about it In fact, I remember when I was a teenager going through some areas where I was having some major internal turmoil. It just I can remember sitting on my bed just in agony about the thoughts that would pop into my head. And I would say, I know I'm not supposed to think this and I would purpose not to think this. And what would happen? It would just dominate me And I remember when it finally occurred to me that what God says to do is not stop thinking this as much as start thinking the opposite. It really helped a lot. The fact is, as Christians, we have to be very purposeful in what we think. Our minds are not a vacuum that we can just leave like that We constantly think. And so we have to remove wrong thinking and replace it with right thinking. What aspect of our salvation does the text encourage us to think on? And that's a very important question for us to ask. So let me talk for just a moment about this concept of salvation. I know when I was a kid I used to think about salvation being being basically dealing with one thing. I trusted Jesus as my Savior. I'm going to heaven. I'm not going to hell. God saved me. Now that's true I'm not saying that that's false. But that's not the only way that the word salvation is used in the Bible. The fact is that the word salvation is used in the Bible in lots of different contexts. And basically the context determines the nature of the salvation that we're talking about. When we talk about a person being justified, I think of Romans 5, it says, having been justified by faith, we have peace with our Lord Jesus Christ. What is that passage telling us? As I stand here today, I'm in a position of justification. God saved me in the past. And because he saved me in the past, today I have peace with God. When we say that God saved us, we're saying he's forgiven me. He's justified me. He's cleansed me. He's made me his child. It's in the past. It has already happened. Justification isn't something that I'm looking forward to. It's something that's happened. But when I talk about sanctification, that's a different matter. Is anybody in here sinlessly perfect? Don't put your hand up, because we'll know you're lying. Okay? Every person in this room is dealing with sin on a daily basis. Moment by moment, temptations flood into our hearts. There are things that we think that we shouldn't, things that we should do, that we don't do, things that we shouldn't do that we do, attitudes that we harbor. We constantly battle with sin. And what is sanctification? Sanctification is this process whereby God is saving us from the power of sin. In fact, in Romans chapter 6, what does Paul say? He says we must reckon ourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. He says, don't let sin reign in your mortal bodies. The reality is as we go from the point where we trust Christ as our Savior and we're saved in the past, God is continually working in us and making us more and more like Christ. He is sanctifying us so that we become more and more like Jesus. And so there are many passages in the New Testament that are dealing with this issue of sanctification where Paul says we're being saved. Don't read that passage and think that we're now Catholics. We're not Catholics. We don't believe that justification is a process. Sanctification is a process. I am saved. But in another sense, I'm being saved. Is that what Paul's talking about here? I don't think it is What I think that Paul is talking about is something that is coming in the future. And for us to get the sense of that, turn with me to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. In 1 Thessalonians 5, we see a parallel to what is being talked about in Ephesians chapter 6. As I begin reading this little section, you're going to see the parallel. 1 Thessalonians 5, 8 to 9 says this. Let us who are of the day be sober. Putting on the breastplate. Sounds like something we've heard right now, huh? And it's interesting. He says it's the breastplate of faith. And love. What is he talking about? He's talking about the practical effects of a healthy Christian life. A person that has put on the breastplate of righteousness, being practical righteousness, is someone who's growing in faith. His faith is maturing. He's walking by faith, and that's what he's referring to. When he talks about love, he's talking about the fact that this person is growing in Christian love. And so we see the parallel. The breastplate is not the positional righteousness we have in Christ, but it's the practical righteousness of a healthy faith and a vibrant love. And then he says this, and for an helmet. The hope of salvation. And I talked about this in another passage. When the Bible uses the term hope, it's not using it in the sense like, I think there's a good possibility. That word hope basically is talking about probability. If someone is very unreliable, and I say I hope so, basically what I'm saying is this. It's possible but unlikely. If somebody is fairly reliable, and I say I hope so, I'm saying it's 50-50. If someone has never lied to me, they've never let me down, they are consistent, and I say, I hope so. I'm saying this is highly probable, but anything can happen, they're human. When we use the term hope and we're dealing with God and the concept of salvation, that word hope means absolute steadfast assurance. Because the Bible tells us our salvation is rooted in the promise of God who cannot lie. So when the Bible talks about the hope of salvation, it's not saying this is a possibility, this is 50-50, this is highly likely, this is absolutely certain because it's on the basis of God's promise. And God cannot lie. When he talks about the helmet of salvation, he's talking about that future aspect of our salvation that we've not yet experienced. In other words, as I stand here today, I'm saved. God has justified me when I place my faith in Christ Today, I'm in the process of being saved. It's a different aspect of my salvation. I'm growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. I'm becoming more and more like Christ. And as I sit here today, there are aspects of the gospel's work. That saving work that God has for me that I've not yet tasted. I'm looking for that day. I'm waiting with anticipation. In other words, today I sin. On that day, I'll be sinless. Today I get sick. On that day, there'll be no more sickness or death or sorrow. These days Have pain. On that day there'll be no more pain. On these days I weep, but on that day he'll wipe away every tear from our eyes, and there'll be no more of those things In other words, there's an aspect of salvation that I anticipate that I'm not yet experiencing, but it's 100% guaranteed. This is what Paul is referring to in this text. Let me give you a couple of aspects of this part of our salvation that we're looking for. 1 Thessalonians 5, 1 to 9, I just read it, but notice some of the details. He says this. We are saved from the wrath of God, both in the tribulation and for all of eternity. He says, yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the lock in the night. Now this is actually a subset of our revelation study. Some of you might have forgotten that, but yes, we're still dealing with revelation. We're kind of moving back to that. But one of the things that we did is we talked about the concept of the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord is this period of time where God is going to judge the nations and God is going to re-establish the nation of Israel as his people. He's going to bring volumes of people to faith in his son. And God is going to deal pretty harshly with the world at that time, too. The tribulation is a part of that time period called the day of the Lord. And in this passage, Paul writes, you need to know that you will not experience the day of the Lord. He says, Brethren, ye are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief. Therefore, let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober. Let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love and the helmet of hope. For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation. By our Lord Jesus Christ. That little statement, God has not appointed us to wrath, is an extremely important statement. It means I'm not going to face the wrath of the day of the Lord. It also means I'm not going to face the wrath of eternal destruction in the lake of fire. God is going to save us from his wrath at that time period and in the eternal state. Yet I've not yet experienced that salvation. That's something to come. A second aspect of this salvation is found in Romans chapter 8. And I know I've said this, but this is one of my favorite chapters in the Bible. I love Romans 8. Save from the corruption of our fallenness and our fallen world. Romans 8:18. I reckon, apparently Paul was a southerner. Brother Chris, you like that, I know. I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Now this is interesting. Paul doesn't stick his head in the sand and say we don't suffer. That would be a lie. It's not true. We do suffer. But he says the sufferings that we face on this side are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is accomplished by God in us through the suffering. He says the earnest expectation of the creation waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. He says the creation itself shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption. You know, when I walk out into the world and I enjoy what I see, I I enjoy that cool morning like today and watch the beautiful sunrise and well last night the sunset was incredible. That's beautiful. But you know, I also see terrible things in nature. Look at this hurricane. Get on, you know, watch the news and see what it did in the Bahamas. What is it that causes storms like that to happen? Well, we live in a fallen world. Because we live in a fallen world, there are terrible things that take place. And the fact is that all of creation groans and labors and it anticipates the day when we're not going to deal with hurricanes. anymore. We're not going to deal with death and sickness and all the terrible effects of living in a fallen world. We won't deal with cancer anymore. We won't deal with people having a heart attack. We're going to be free from those things. He says the creation will be delivered from the bondage of corruption. And we ourselves groan waiting for the adoption, the redemption. Of our bodies. I'm glad that when I'm in heaven forever, I'm not living in this body. And you know what? You're glad that when you get to heaven, you're not gonna be living in that body. Because this body gets tempted, and this body gets tired, and this body gets sick, and this body's gonna die. And when we talk about the hope of salvation, And putting on that helmet of salvation, it's focusing on the fact that the bondage of corruption in this world is going to one day be gone. Lastly, I mentioned this. will be saved from the grip of sin and death. 1 Corinthians 15, 51, behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. This corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. The scriptures say, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? Thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ Fact three about this helmet, the aspect of our salvation that is emphasized is the believer's blessed hope, our future deliverance from this fallen world and the entrance into God's eternal kingdom. I have a second question. I'll move quickly through this. How does Satan attack us in this area? In verse eleven, Paul writes, Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. He's a traitor. It says in verse 13, that you may be able to stand in the evil day. He is a ferocious enemy, and one day he is going to attack you and you will face his full fury. The way that Satan attacks us, when it comes to this area, there are numerous ways. He seeks to capitalize on every moment of weakness that we face, whether it's self-inflicted or otherwise. The longer I live, the more I believe that our problems are generally because we create them. At least, maybe I'm different than all of you guys. But a lot of my problems, they're self-inflicted. But whether it's self-inflicted or whether you didn't do anything to create that scenario. Satan is waiting to capitalize on that. And he's wanting to attack the way that you think, and he does it in so many ways. A health crisis, you go through a relational crisis, financial difficulties. Hardships in life. And it's not just the hardships that we face, but it's when we see other people suffer. You watch a dear friend or a family member go through tremendous suffering, and that affects you, not just them. This constant struggle with besetting sin. I can't tell you how many Christians really are downcast, not because they're losing the battle, but because the battle's there. I remember one time in a seminary class, the professor made this statement. He says, We all struggle. Not just you. We all struggle. struggle. And the fact that we struggle shouldn't surprise us, and the fact that we struggle shouldn't discourage us. That's called reality. The fact is that there are times that Satan takes the presence of the struggle and he uses it to attack the way we think He seeks to convince us that we cannot stand when we face the relentless waves of intense troubles. He seeks to convince us that the battle will never end. He seeks to draw us into a short-sighted perspective where all we can see is what's happening now rather than the glory that's yet to come. How many times is that where we are? We cannot see past this point right here. And because all we can see is what's right here. We are downcast and we are discouraged and we think that we have no hope. And if we could just hold out two more days, we'd be past that issue. It's true, it happens. Think about the conversations that we have with our kids, the incredible struggles that they face. And we look at them with compassion, realizing, ah, I was there one day. I remember what that was like. A few months later, it was just a lesson learned. And that's how a lot of life is. He seeks to convince us that this battle will never end. To draw us into the short-sighted position. He seeks to convince us that God is not good. But he doesn't care, or he's unable to use our current circumstances for our good and his glory. That last statement is a really important one. Satan will use every opportunity to convince us God's not good. God doesn't care. God is not able to take that situation and turn it for good and his glory. And many times we embrace that. the lie. Question three, how does this piece of the armor meet the need? I give you this illustration. I am starting to run again There was a day when I used to run a lot. I've never enjoyed running Statement of a fact. I ran in high school because my mother told me I needed to do it. And I remember running And you know, if I didn't have somebody at every mile marker saying, here 's your time, I don't know if I would have finished the races. You know, it's a lot easier to run a route that you've run repeatedly because you know all the markers, and you know what that does? It kind of encourages you on the way. Oh yeah, there's that barn again. There's that house again. Oh, this is where I turn again. Once you've run the route a couple of times, what does it do? It gives you some perspective so that you know how far you are. When you're running it for the first time and you have no markers to give you how far you've gone, it's really mentally tough. In other words, running a race with perspective works a lot better than running without. God wants us to run this race with perspective. He wants us to have a sense of mile markers, but he wants us to have our eyes fixed on one mile marker that is absolutely certain, and that's that we will finish the race victoriously. In other words, God wants us to put our current plight in perspective. There are answers to why this world is the way that it is There are answers to why we struggle with sin. There are answers to why we face physical infirmities. There are answers as to why God doesn't insulate me from every problem. The Bible gives us. Principles that help us to understand those things. It instructs me that the battle is not without purpose and not without end. It instructs me that God will reward my faithfulness in that day and that the struggles will have been worth it. It instructs me that I can stand by the enablement of our Almighty God, and there's glory yet to come in the future. I don't know what you're dealing with right now. You may be dealing with a very, very trying season of life. There may be some something or some things that you are carrying in your heart that you really don't want to share with people And you carry them alone, and you're very discouraged, and you feel that you're faint and you cannot continue to move forward. I'm not predicting that, I'm saying it's possible. It's possible that you have been dealing with certain temptations your entire life and you go, will I ever get victory over this? And you feel like quitting. And you're discouraged. And you feel weary. Whether you realize it or not, whether you've processed it in this kind of a way or not, Satan is planting in your heart the lies. that opportunity provides. And he's focusing on your thinking. And he wants to undermine your confidence in God's goodness. He wants to undermine your confidence in God's purposes. He wants to undermine your confidence in God's ability to use whatever you're facing. He wants to make you think that the battle won't end. And you know what you need to do in that time? You have to put on the helmet. The helmet of salvation. You need to get that perspective that the Word of God gives you once again. You need to get your eyes focused on the ultimate end of the Christian life. You have been saved, but there are aspects of your salvation you've not yet experienced. You will stand before Jesus, and he's going to let you into his kingdom. Why? Because of the righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ. When you stand before Jesus, if you've been faithful, there will be rewards for that faithfulness. You need to keep your eyes fixed on that day. You face temptation today, you won't for eternity. You face sickness today, you won't for eternity. You face the trials in so many different areas, you will not for eternity. There's coming an end to that struggle. And you need to get your eyes fixed on salvation. I want to encourage you, God wants you to focus your thinking on the reality. of that coming aspect of your salvation, when you are most prone to be discouraged, and nobody is exempt from that. Let's purpose to establish the daily discipline of focusing our attention on our final salvation. We are saved, but not yet, in every single area. And we look forward to that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, you know our weakness. You know every moment of agony in our souls You know the discouragements that we face. And you know how Satan loves to exploit the trials of our faith Father, we pray that this evening our eyes would be fixed on the fact that we will stand complete in Christ on that final day. That He will reward our faithfulness, that as we enter into our heavenly home, we will enter in a body that is real and free from sickness and pain and sorrow. And death, that we will never experience temptation to sin again, that we will enjoy the glories of heaven and a glorified body. We will experience your creation as you have intended it since the moment you made it. And Father, we look forward to that day And we pray that that that focus would encourage us in the heat of our darkest days. Father, encourage every person in this room tonight. May you be the center of their hope and their delight and their joy. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.