Well, good morning. Good to see each of you today. I hope that you're having a good Lord's Day. I want to remind you of a couple of activities that we have going on this week. week and in the coming weeks, first of all, uh this Wednesday, that's August the 25th, our children uh have a special pizza party and it's also uh dress up as a pirate night so uh for our kids please make sure that you come prepared for that on Wednesday night. Also our next men's breakfast and Bible study is going to be on the 20th So that uh is coming up. Also, I wanted to remind our families with children that are uh the age of truth trackers and tiny trackers that we are doing our registration and payments right now. So uh Either you can do that online or you can do that in the lobby, but please remember uh to sign up your children for the fall upcoming uh Truth Tracker. And tiny trackers. We also have an opportunity to be involved in the pregnancy clinics ministry walk and run for life. And that's been in the bulletin for Several weeks, but I want to remind you that that's coming up in a couple of weeks. And if you want to be involved in that, please reach out to uh either Joanna Snow or Kayla Nicky. for that information. Also, please remember that we have a junior and teen rally coming up. And so for our junior age kids and our teenagers, please sign up for that. That we'll know how many to prepare for to take you guys to the edge camp on September the 25th and October the 2nd. And also we have a ladies' retreat on October the 8th and the 9th. I know that a lot of the ladies are aware of that but if uh for some reason you didn't know about that and you're planning to go to that please do sign up uh sign up is online and you need to do that as soon as possible. If you're visiting with us today, we want to uh give you a warm welcome. And uh if you received a visitor card, we'd ask you to just take a moment and fill that out and put that in the box. box in the back and that'll be a way that we can uh reach out to you throughout the week. Our opening scripture is going to be in Psalm 2, and so if you could turn there for just a moment, we're going to be looking at The entire Psalm for our opening scripture. Psalm 2, and it's verses 1 through 12. Here's what the scriptures say. Why do the heathen rage and the The people imagine a vain thing. The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord, and against his anointed set saying, Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us. He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision. Then shall he speak unto them In his wrath and vex them in his sure displeasure. Yet have I set my king upon my ho my holy hill of Zion. I will declare the decree the The Lord hath said unto me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. Ask of me, and I will give thee, the heathen, for thine inheritance in the uttermost parts of the earth for thy Possession, thou shalt break them with a rod of iron, thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Be wise now, therefore, O ye kings. Be instructed, ye judges of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the son, lest he be angry and ye perish from the Blessed are all they that put their trust in him. This morning as we focus our on attention on continuation of our Luke series, we're in Luke chapter two. We're going to focus on worshiping the Lord by rejoicing in his sovereignty. And the fact is that God reigns over all, he uses everything that goes on. to accomplish good purposes in the world. And this morning we are going to look at that particular concept from Luke chapter 2. Let's bow together in prayer and ask the Lord to bless our time together. Father, we come before you this morning, first of all, being very grateful that we serve a God who is sovereign, who rules and reigns. Reigns over all. There's nothing that goes on in this world that will not one day be held to account in your in your courtroom. I pray that you'd help us as a people to be comforted by your sovereignty. Help us to be comforted by the fact that you are just and you are righteous, and one day you will deal with all sin and justice. I pray that you'd help us this morning. To trust you in all of your ways. Help us to rejoice in how good and how kind you are to us in the midst of difficult circumstances. Father, we pray especially for those who are in harm's way to us today. We know that there are many believers, there are churches, there are individuals in Afghanistan right now that are facing very intense current persecution. And per perhaps very long term. I pray that you would comfort and strengthen those that are in harm's way. I pray that in your care you would protect individuals and help them to get to places where they can be safe. Safe and where they can uh we they can serve you freely. I pray that those who are facing this intense uh persecution that you would strengthen and encourage them uh And help them to find their strength in you at this time. Father, we pray for missionaries that are all around the world today, that are meeting in congregations. Just like ours that are expounding the scriptures, that are singing praise to you, that are that are laboring to honor and obey you and to be faithful to you. I pray that you would help these congregations. To be faithful and strong. Help them to be diligent about your work and help them to do it in the spirit of the Holy Spirit and in obedience and submission to your ways. Father, we pray for those in our congregation who are carrying heavy burdens. You know each of those burdens. You know the specific situations. And so I pray that in these very specific issues you would demonstrate Your power and your love and your kindness in their lives. Father, help us to be faithful no matter the challenges that we face as individuals. Father, I pray that this morning as we as we stood under the Ministry of the Word, and as we sing praise to you, that our hearts would be knit together as a triumphant body that glories in the Lord Jesus Christ and His power and wisdom and ways. I pray that we would be encouraged and strengthened through the ministry of the Word of God. And that as we go forward in this next week, that you would guide us in our thinking and in our actions by the very thing Things that we're reminded of this day. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good morning, everyone. As we take our handles, we will open them up to page eighty-one. Page eighty Stand with me and we'll sing a mighty fortress is our God. All four verses. Sing that this morning. Our game work is our God, I'll work never. Are no free of them out for the man For several seek to work his graph and are The dark Google Bible and then If we know I don't like it , no tree for God will God 's old remaining, for still are in the most. The work that we are playing away , all day to away the train, and we 're playing. I thought it was the walls to God We will not be working. That 's good for all the food makes who never All our new website The Downlight So thou be they make it cost through Amen. We'll turn to page twenty six. Page 26 and sing three verses of praise to the Lord Almighty First, second, and the fourth, and race all in along. Praise to the book for wind beyond the Oh my soul praise and Lord Gaelation. Oh you look at it. Praise to the for your all things. Shelter be out of his wings and shall not stay. Thy Lord have been overday unwed. Praise the Lord all that all that they may all that life and red come now. Let me understand from his people like him. Amen. Please have a seat. We're going to turn to page 38 in the hindbook. Page 38. And sing how great thou art. Here. When I 'm sure all the world I can I see welcome to the road life as we have a constant day Then save my soul, my favorite God. I'll break down, I'll break thou save my How great thou art, how great thou art on the third And when I think that God is not very sent him to die, I scarce can think That on the cross my burden gladly pray he blade to take away my sin I'll break thou. I'll break thou say Oh great. When Christ shall come, with shallow acclamation, and take me home, but joy shall come by home Then I shall thou in humble adoration and their proclaim My God, how great thou change my soul, my king How great thou great thou? I think my soul might be How great thou great thou Amen. That's good. Okay. Alright, this time we'll have the scripture readings from Luke chapter 2. We're going to read verses 1 through 6 in continuation of our morning messages from the book of Luke. And the scripture says, and it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria, Syria. And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city. And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea. To the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be taxed with Mary, his espoused wife, being great with child. And so it was that while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. And we'll continue. Continue with a couple more songs from our red book. Turn to page 120. Page 120. We'll sing both verses of God. Makes absolutely no mistakes. My yeah do a new See I pray, and I glor by your precious day. All I do is say Come to make lead me Command of the Holy World God makes no mistakes Every and every time I leave almost the way everyone Oh, God , we break, there's a burning I want to cross the game, but I 'm sure He is righteous as the guy creates a little people. Oh my heart is break the women I seen a change for I like that Let God Amen. Isn't that a blessing that he may No mistakes. I like the song leader up here. Alright, we're gonna turn to page 30 in the blue book this time. Amen. And page thirty, and we're going to be singing his robes , Warba, all four versions. There might be my suffering a trade For in my place in God , I claim the price and marble that for cause is as forsaken God and speak from God. My life is not my own, my great goal. Let me work myself His rooms for mine What more than I for King Ball See by my Lord, my glorious death and mine, I wake up prize and marvel at the cause , tis thy forsaking. My experience from God, my life is the Lord, my life is that my law, my praise, my God. Shall be your Christ. Stand with me on the third. His rooms for my God just is Jesus is passed, let's not follow us please, I speak of that , last year that God is done Since we played a should I play the brother said all the horses She does forsake a strange regard, like thy small death by your For praise my law, now we for Christ on the land Is will I such wings are holding my start decline? And so we praise and love the I claim the prize in the gold and the gold Jesus forsake and not a strange reign, but my thought my life is not my own My praise my law will be more. Amen. Please be seated. Okay, well our children uh who are in Junior Church can be dismissed to the back. And the rest of you I want to ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to Luke chapter two. Luke chapter 2, and you've seen that this morning there's been a very distinct theme, and that theme has really been on the greatness of God, the sovereignty of God. Lots and lots of majestic statements of God's power and God's might. And this morning as we look at this passage in Luke chapter 2, what we're going to see is a testimony to the meticulous sovereignty of God. This passage is a very interesting passage because when we think of the passage, we're almost always looking at it in a Christmas context. We're almost always looking at it as a really just part of the Christmas story. But what I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to Take a step back and look freshly at this passage, not as a Christmas passage, but as a passage that talks about how God, who is sovereign, works through what is sometimes difficult Decisions that people and authority make, sometimes sinful decisions, evil decisions, destructive decisions, yet God has ways of taking even those decisions and using them to draw good out of them and to accomplish things that are far bigger than what we see in those immediate circumstances. The passage we're looking at is Luke chapter 2. We're looking again at verses 1 through 6. I'm going to read it and then we're going to dig into some very important truths about Luke chapter two, verse one, the scriptures say, and it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus. That all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Serenius was governor of Syria. And all went to be taxed, everyone, into his own city. Joseph also Went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David. To be taxed with Mary, his espoused wife, being great with child. And so it was that while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered Now, when we look at the passage in front of us, it's always important for us to kind of see the passage in light of the overall flow of what Luke is trying to communicate to this man, Theophilus. A man who is a believer who needs his faith to be strengthened and fortified and encouraged. The passage in front of us is about Christ's birth. It gives us the details of how he came to be born in Bethlehem of Judea rather than s than Nazareth, which is the hometown of his mother Mary, and also Which is what we would have expected to see if we had been friends or family members of this couple, it was ultimately that he would go to uh he would be born in Bethlehem. And the Reason for that, the ultimate purpose behind why he was born in Bethlehem rather than Nazareth was that this is ultimately to fulfill Micah's prophecy regarding the birth of Now I think it's very important that when we think about the prophecy that Micah made many hundreds of years before these events, Micah said nothing About the events that would unfold that would ultimately cause the Lord Jesus Christ to be born there in Bethlehem. Now, what's very interesting is if you had heard this prophecy during the time of my And you heard that the Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah, was going to be born in Bethlehem, you would have said, Well, that makes complete sense. Because Bethlehem is the city of David. And the Messiah is going to be from the lineage of David. So it makes complete sense that the Messiah would be born in the city of David because he is going to Well, what the people did not understand at the time the prophecy was given is the geopolitical circumstances That would unfold in the hundreds of years leading up to the birth of Christ and the geopolitical circumstances that would be taking place at the moment that the Messiah would be be born there in Bethlehem. They had no idea that the Jewish people would be under the oppressive rule of the Roman government. They had Had no idea that the woman that God would use to bring this child, the Messiah, into the world, would not be living in Bethlehem, but would rather be living in Nazareth. A little village on the Sea of Galilee. Those details would have never been in the mind of anybody that read this prophecy in the hundreds of Of years leading up to the birth of Christ. Yet that's exactly what happened. This child, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah, was born Born in Bethlehem rather than in Nazareth. And this story tells us why it happened in that way. The thing that I think The Lord would have us to see from this passage is that God wants us to trust Him in all of His ways, even when life is frustrating and appears Now I haven't had the privilege to sit down and have a conversation with every person here today. But I am sure if we were to have a very personal Personal conversation, I said, how are you doing right now? How do you feel about life? How do you feel about the circumstances that you are dealing with right now at this moment? I'm talking about on I'm talking about within your family context. I'm talking about within our nation. I'm talking about within a geopolitical sense. If I was to ask you that question. I am very sure that many people here today would say, well, I'm doing okay, but it's probably how a lot of us would feel. But what I want you to see from the scriptures this morning is no matter how frustrating and out of control our lives may appear, there's a God in heaven who is Sovereign. He rules. He reigns. He's in charge. Even when the circumstances that we are dealt with as people are very difficult, very troubling, sometimes unjust and painful. It does not mean that God has somehow fallen by the wayside, ignored us or has no longer the hand to control the events of life. This passage is a testimony to the fact that God rules and that God rules through human Instruments. This passage wants us to see again freshly the sovereignty of God. And so I want to begin with this first very simple truth. God Is sovereign. Now when I say that God's sovereign, I'm not suggesting that God is personally responsible for all the decisions that you make, that I make, or that people in the world World make. Him being sovereign doesn't mean that he causes us to do the things that we do necessarily. God is never the author of sin. God is never responsible for our sin. Sinful decisions, but God does manage the circumstances where we make good choices and we make bad choices. We make decisions that influence glorifying God kind of scenarios and destructive kind of scenarios. God still rules and God still reigns. He is managing I will add to that, God is also going to hold every single one of us responsible for the child. Choices that we make. Life in a fallen world is full of complex frustrations and complications, sin, difficult circumstances. Human frailty, injustices, the list can go on and go on and go on. But I want to remind you that in the midst of all of those things, God is still in charge Charge. God generally allows people the freedom to make choices, even choices that are sinful, arrogant, destructive to the people You know, when we read the Bible, we see that God allows people the freedom to choose. And when people make choices, many times God is patient and He's long-suffering. And he continues to allow them to chart a course that is going to end up in very difficult and dark and destructive places. God, generally speaking, allows people To choose. However, God is also working in circumstances to many times limit those choices. There are times that God will allow a person to chart a course and And then at a moment in time, he will do something very disruptive that will bring them to their knees, bring them to their senses, humble them unlike anything Else in the world, and you say, why did that happen at the moment it happened in the way that it happened? And the answer is it's because God is sovereign. God is What God allows will never thwart what he has purpose to accomplish in the world. Let me give you a couple of examples of this. First of all, in Romans chapter 8, verse 28, we see that he uses all things to accomplish good in the lives of his children. It says, we know that all things work together for good to them that love God. To them who are of the called according to his purpose. Literally, God takes the decisions and the flow of circumstances and the events and all the things going on in our lives. And while those things as individuals Individual decisions and situations can be sinful and hurtful and painful and wrong. God will take those things and He weaves them together in a way That is outside of our ability, outside of our power, and he weaves them in a way that can draw good for us, that brings glory to him in a way that's beyond I give you the example of Joseph. Joseph looked at his brothers who had mistreated him. They had sold him as a slave in Egypt. experienced incredible injustice and at the end of that story he looks his brothers in the eyes and he says you meant it for evil that was your intent that was the nature of the choice And he would accomplish something that was a lot bigger than the moment we were living through at that particular time. That's the way that God worked. And only God can do that. I want to remind you that even evil men are simply instruments in the hands of a sovereign God to accomplish his purpose Jesus. Jeremiah forty-three verse ten. Listen carefully to what Jeremiah says. And if you read the book of Jeremiah, you'll understand that Jeremiah was living through one of the of the most difficult, one of the darkest moments in all of Israel's history. This is a nation that was in terrible rebellion against God. It was a nation that God had repeatedly sent prophet after prophet after prophet to. God had warned his people. God had brought situations to bear on his people that was meant to harm. Humble them and they became harder and duller and more desensitized with every wave of God's judgment and God's warnings and God's prophecy. And in Jeremiah 43, verse 10, it says the following: Behold, I will send and tape Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant very interesting statement I will set his throne upon these stones that I have hid. He shall spread his royal pavilion over them and when he comes And I will kindle Of fire in the house of the gods of Egypt, and he shall burn them and carry them away captive, and he shall array himself with the land of Egypt. Literally, God was going to use Nebuchadnezzar to judge Israel as a people, a rebellious people, to judge the Egyptians, who were a constant thorn in the side of the And then a few chapters down he says the following in continuation of this thought. Jeremiah forty six twenty-five. Behold, I will punish the multitudes of Noah and the Pharaoh in Egypt, and with their gods and their kings, even the Pharaoh, all them that trust in him, I will deliver them into the hand of And to the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and into the hand of his servant. Afterwards it shall be inhabited as in the days of But fear not thou, O my servant Jacob, and be not dismayed, O Israel. Behold, I will save thee from afar off, and thy seed from the land of their captivity And Jacob shall return and be in rest and at ease, and none shall make him afraid. Fear thou not, O Jacob, my servant, saith the Lord, for I am with thee. I will make a fool and Of all the nations whither I have driven thee, but I will not make a full end of thee, but correct thee in measure, yet will I not leave thee wholly unpunished. These verses show us that God knows when to put the pressure on. God knows when it's time to judge. When God judges, he's not out of control. He is very measured in how he sets a distinction between those who will die and those who will live, those who will be humbled and restored, and those who God has his ways in all of these things, and even evil men like Nebuchadnezzar, who had no thought about I'm doing the The command of God on being used as a tool in his hands. This arrogant, idolatrous man was a tool in God's hands. It's an incredible thing to consider. We see that he accomplishes his purposes even through the highest levels of government. Daniel chapter four, thirty-five, he says that all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing He doeth according to his will in the army of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? Now my question should be Be who is writing these words? Who is speaking these words? That very man Nebuchadnezzar, who was an arrogant, destructive pagan Who God humbles in one of the most unusual and amazing and remarkable ways. This man said, All the inhabitants of the earth Are nothing. God does whatever he wills. No one can stop God from doing what he has purposed to do. As we look at the situations of life, we have to understand something. God is not caught off guard. God is not wringing his hands in heaven going, what do we In Proverbs twenty-one, verse one, it says that the king's heart is in the hands of Not only does God accomplish his purposes through those on the highest levels of the In Proverbs 16, verse 1, it says that the preparation Now, when you think about that, he's basically saying when a person is sitting down and they're thinking about what they're going to do and why Why they're gonna do it while that person is plotting and scheming and planning and purposing to do something. There's a God in heaven who while he allows that person to do that, he is still overruling and working in circumstances to turn things to the direction that he's purposed to do it. Proverbs 1633 says that the lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing is of the When he talks about a lot, that's something like rolling a dice. Something that seems so we could say insignificant, doesn't seem to matter very much. big deal. What's amazing is that as we look at history, we see how there are moments in time, little statements, little conversations, little things that happened that didn't seem like a big deal. But at that right moment, God did something and it turned something in a direction. And you say, only God can do that. I think about the example of the apostles when they were preaching after After Pentecost. And those men who were part of the Sanhedrin look at those disciples and they said, These people are turning the city in an uproar. They're turning the whole world against us. What are we gonna do? Let Kill these men. 's And one of the oldest men, Gamaliel, stands up and he says something like this If these people are not doing this because it's God's will, guess what? It's gonna f Fall flat whether you stop it or not. If these people are speaking the truth and God is behind it, you and I can't stop it at all. You and I are just gonna get ground under the mortar and pestle. He didn't use those words, but the idea is if it's of God, you can't stop it. If it's not, it's gonna It may not happen at this moment. It may take a little bit of time, but as this process unfolds, what God has purposed will be where it goes. Folks, the real the real the reason he would say that is because he understood, you know, God is sovereign. He accomplishes his good purpose. I mentioned this earlier, Genesis fifty verse twenty, and I love what Joseph says. Against me. Joseph was not acting as if his brothers actually had good intent to what they did. He speaks plainly about It you sinned against me. Your desire was to kill me, was to get rid of me. You didn't want to deal with me anymore. You meant it For evil, but God meant it for good. To bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive Joseph was in Egypt. His brothers' lives were preserved. Their family was preserved because he ended up in a place that had food. And God brought him to a position of power and authority. And he gave him the wisdom and he gave him the freedom to actually take all this food that had been growing in abundance. And to store it, and God brought his brothers to him. He didn't bring Joseph to them. How did all that happen? It was the hand of God. On the sin and on the evil, and and it was there, don't get me wrong. He was four he was focused on the good that God was accomplishing through the decisions of his brothers. I wish we all had that perspective. Rather than always focusing on every little wrong and every injustice and every problem, we should say, what is the good that God is doing is doing in spite of all this nonsense. In Acts chapter 2, verse 23, it says Christ being delivered by the determinate Counsel and foreknowledge of God, whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death, because It was not possible that he should be holding of it. Probably the greatest example in the Bible of people who had evil intent, but God used their actions to accomplish good is the cross. It's the cross. The Sanhedrin wanted to kill Jesus not so he could die for their sins. They wanted to kill Jesus Because they despised the man. They envied him. They didn't like the disruption that he brought. They rejected his message. They hated Jesus, and out of malice, they did everything in their power to kill him. Yet what was the purpose of it in God's plan? Redemption. Folks, God accomplishes his good purposes despite evil intentions. So that brings us to the passage in front The second truth we see is that the birth of Christ demonstrates this reality as a testimony to how God works. The first fact that we find in these verses that's very interesting is that Mary and And Joseph were from Nazareth, yet Christ was born in Bethlehem. Look at what it says in verses four to six. Joseph went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea. unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David to be taxed with Mary, his espoused wife, being great with child. And so it was that While they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. Now we've got to ask the question, what was it that got into Joseph's head that made him say, You know, why don't we move at this time when Mary's about to give birth to a child and all of you who have born children a few weeks before you were going to bring That child, would you like to ride on a donkey a couple of you know days? Would you like to experience the heat and the dust and the dryness of that region? The answer is no. Probably you would have killed your husband if he would have suggested such an idea. Well, what was it, not literally, okay, but you would have wanted to do that. What was it that got into Joseph's head that would say Oh, let's go to Bethlehem. The answer is that Joseph was going because it was against his will. Joseph didn't want to go to Bethlehem. Joseph had no desire to take her to that place at that time. Yet what we see, fact number two, his decision to travel to Bethlehem. Abraham with Mary in the final weeks of her pregnancy was by force. Verses one through four, it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be attacked. And this taxing was first made when Sereneus was governor of Syria. All went to be taxed everyone to his own city. And so there's this man in Rome who doesn't know Joseph, doesn't know Mary, doesn't know the prophecies about Jesus being born in Bethlehem. He knows nothing about those things. He doesn't fear God. He's an idol worshipper and he says, you know what? We need to raise some money so that we can go conquer some more nations. We need to raise some money so that we can build some more infrastructure. And build some more roads. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna send everyone back to their hometown. They're gonna have to register, and then we're gonna determine based on their status and all these things how much they owe us. Now when he's making those decisions, he was not in any way thinking about God, thinking about prophecy. He wasn't thinking in a Benevolent manner. It was a completely self-centered, self-absorbed decision. And that is the reason that Joseph had to go To Bethlehem. By the way, Joseph wasn't the only man who had to take his wife to a city where she was going to give birth to a child. I'm sure that there were many women at the exact same time Who were in the exact same series of circumstances that were going with their husbands to the places where they were going to have to give birth as well. Mary was not the only pregnant woman in Israel at the time. Lots of people probably grumbled and complained and were defiant and were very irritated by the decision that was Was coming down from the highest, highest courts of government. Yet they had no choice. It wasn't like they could resist and say, No, I'm not gonna do that. There was Was the force of law. There was the force even of the government that could take their lives at any moment. And so Joseph obeyed. Do from an emotional standpoint, from a pragmatic standpoint. But that's exactly what Joseph did. The third fact that we see is that these actions, while explainable on a strictly human level were ultimately guided by God's sovereign hands. You say, did God make this man make such a decision? The answer is No, he didn't. But God used this man to accomplish a purpose that was far bigger than what this man really In Micah 5 2 it says, Thou Bethlehem Ephrata, though thou wilt be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall come forth unto me That is to be the ruler of Israel, whose goings forth have been from old and from everlasting. The real reason That this man did what he did in the eyes of God's unfolding plan of redemption was to take the Messiah from Nazareth and have him The fourth fact we see is that the timing and the unfolding of these events are an overwhelming testimony to God's sovereignty. The fullness of time. Listen to what it says in Galatians chapter 4, verse 4. When the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman made under the law. You say, well, what does he mean by in the fullness of the time? I guess the best way to put it is at just the right time. You say Well, what determined it to be the right time? Well, the answer to that is actually found in another prophecy in Daniel chapter 9. The timing of Christ's birth was recorded for us In fact, when we talk about this prophecy, it was called Daniel's 70th week. It was the 69th of those 70 weeks. Let me read to you what the prophecy says that doesn't just tell us the nature of Christ. Christ's ministry, but the timing, the timing of Christ's ministry. It says in Daniel chapter 9, verse 24, seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city To finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision of God Now, that's talking about what Jesus, the Messiah, is going to do. He's going to finish the transgression. He's going to make an end. Of sin. He's going to provide reconciliation. He's going to bring in everlasting righteousness. He's going to fulfill all the prophecies that are connected to redemption. The next statement is not about what he's gonna do, but when he's going to do it. He says this: know therefore and understand that from the going Going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem, and the Messiah, the prince, shall be seventy week or seven weeks and three score and two weeks. That would be sixty-nine weeks. Now when he talks about, and I'm not going to get into the weeds here because there's a lot of uh there's a lot to break down here, but I just want to look at in a general Sense. Basically, what Daniel is saying is that there is a period of time, 69 weeks, these are seasons of seven, that are going to go from the decree. That Jerusalem is going to be rebuilt till the time that the Messiah is going to be here and accomplish these things. Now, my question is: could someone who is a diligent student of the Scripture Sit down and think through what's being said and figure out the amount of time that's got to go from that moment to that moment. What's the answer? The answer is yes. In fact, there's a reason that we know the answer is yes, because there are some people that showed up in Jerusalem at a particular time, and there was a reason that they came to Jerusalem at the time that they did. It's because they understood the timing that was talked about in these verses. So he says that Messiah the prince shall be seven seven seven weeks, threescore and two weeks, and the streets shall be built again, the walls even in troubless times, and after threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off In other words, there were people that were listening that are saying, okay, I know when the decree went out for the rebuilding of the Jerusalem. I can count the amount of time and ask the question, how old is Messiah going to be when he's cut off? Based on all these calculations, I can figure out, generally speaking, the time Timing of the birth of the Messiah. And there were people living in Persia, the place where Daniel wrote these details down, these prophecies, who had access to these prophecies, believed And when they saw this star in the sky, they said, You know what? That right there is a sign that this prophecy is coming to pass. In other words, they understood in general that this was going to take place when it was, and when they saw the star, they said, That is what's telling us it's time. So in Matthew chapter two, verses one and two, it says, When Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wild Wiseman from the east to Jerusalem. That's Persia. Saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and are come To worship him. These men understood the timing. You say, well, Pastor, why do you make so much of a point about this? Because the timing of that command to go and be registered and be taxed, it was all connected to the very moment that the Lord Jesus Christ needed to be Born into this world. What does that tell us? God rules. His timing is impeccable. His ways Are ways that we cannot figure out many times in the moment, but when we step back and we see the big picture, we go, God did something amazing there. That's what this story is all about. This story is there to tell us, look, there's a God in heaven who doesn't fall by the wayside and ignore and he's not wringing his hands like this. The world is out of control. He says, I'm in charge and I'm working deliberately at just the right time and just the right way to accomplish my purpose. purposes. Folks, this being true, I asked this question. How should we live since Christ really rules? That's the third truth is this we need to live Let me give you a couple of very simple and practical things that I hope will help you to think about how to respond to this truth. Because God really rules, let's be people who take personal responsibility for actions. Folks, when we read a passage like this and we think about what the Bible teaches about out God's authority, his sovereignty. I hope nobody in this room throws up your hands and says, well, you know what I do doesn't matter then because God's in charge and I did this because he moved me to do this. That's the wrong way to look at this, folks. The right way to interpret this is to say, because God rules, and because God gives me freedom, He's gonna hold me up Accountable. I'm going to stand before him as a judge on that final day. If I've rejected the gospel, I'm going to be equal Eternally judged because of my rejection of the gospel. If I'm a child of God and my sins have been placed on Christ and I'm forgiven and I'm cleansed, I'm still going to answer to God For the way that I manage the resources that he gave to me, the opportunities that he gave to me. I'm gonna stand before him with either shame or comfort, recognizing that I did well and I was faithful with what he gave me. Or I wasted it and I was irresponsible with what he gave me. Because God rules we need to act responsible. The second truth is this: because God rules, let's be people who walk with humbled confidence in his ways rather than doubt and fear. He is in control, and our lives are entirely in his hands. It's very easy for us to get very fixated on the little movements on a day-by-day basis. It's kind of like a person who loves To watch stocks come up and down. Now listen, if you look at the movement of a stock over a 10-year period, what you're going to see is gradual increase. If you look at it over a one-year period, you're going to see a lot of ups and downs. Maybe it's even down before it goes back up. If you watch it on a weekly basis, you're going to see even more of that. And if you watch it on a minute by minute basis Basis, guess what? You're gonna get sick to your stomach watching this thing go up and down. But that's how we look at life a lot of times. We look at life the way that a day Day trader who gets crushed every day or hopes to exploit the movements of a stock gets sick to their stomach seeing the ups and the downs. We need to step back like your stock advisor who says Just put it there and let it stay. Let it play out. Let it grow. Let it mature. Let that compounding interest develop over time. Just Just leave it alone and let it play out. Folks, we have to look at life in the same kind of way. Rather than being terrified, rather than having these doubts and these fears, because we're seeing every single movement. Like a person Who watches the news 24-7 and they're just their blood pressure is up and down and up and down. We have to be stable and step back and go, what is God doing in the big picture? He 's in charge. The third thing, because God really rules, let's have eyes to look and to see the good in what God is doing in these difficulties. Difficult circumstances. He is always working all things together for good, and we should look expectantly for the good his doing. You know, every single person in this room experiences pain. Every person in this room experiences hardships and setbacks. And there are times that we sin and that we stumble. There are times we need to be flatly rebuked. There are times we need to be encouraged. And the bottom line is that when we look at our lives, we tend to really fixate on the negative negative things that are going on. We focus on the sin. We look focus on the failure. We look at the injustice. We look at the pain. And we get so focused on all those things we become fully blinded to the good God is accomplishing through that. The fact is when God let me stumble, he may have very well let me stumble so that I'd be humble enough to look up and he could give me his grace. There may be moments that he closes doors to open others. There may be times that he's moving us from a direction that we're moving so that we'll end up in the direction And so rather than getting so fixated and so frustrated , And so angry and so bitter and so disgruntled about all these little details that are just little blips on the radar. We need to say, What's the good that God is doing for Through this , because he is. Let's have confidence in God's justice. All men, no matter how strong No matter how arrogant, will one day face his justice. You and I are not in the place to be the judges of all humanity. You and I don't have the power, we don't have the authority delegated to us by God to resolve every single little area of life. But we can be thankful that there's a God in heaven who has full authority because he owns it all. And because he owns it all, and because he has full authority, there will be a And we can learn to live life freely in such a way because we say, you know what, it's not My place to deal with this issue. It's not my place to be bent out of shape. I'm gonna let God handle this in his own way, in his own time. And lastly, let's rejoice in God God's masterful ways. Glory, his continual strengthening hand, all of those things are on display in a fallen world. And if we can step back and if we can see the big picture and And we can understand what God's doing in the big picture, all of a sudden we can glory in him. We can glory in his ways. We can mur we can we can rejoice humbly in Worship and how he works. But in order to do that, sometimes we have to take a step back. We have to get our eyes off of the little jumps, the ups and the downs, and we have to To see the big picture, the trends. Where is this going? Folks, I want to encourage you this morning with a very simple truth. God God 's sovereignty is meticulous. I don't know what frustrations, fears, angers, bitternesses. I don't know What's going on inside? But I do know this. If you'll look up and see him as he is, it can help you deal with those things in a godly way. God wants us to trust him in all of his ways. Even when life is frustrating and appears out of control, let's renew the commitment of our hearts to live in a godly way. That focuses on his Sovereign care. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, I thank you for the passage in front of us. Thank you that we could examine This morning in the light of your sovereign care. Father, you know every heart, you know every struggle, every burden, every fear. Every irritation. And I pray that you would take those struggles and help individuals to turn from the little momentary struggles and to see the trend, to see what you're accomplishing in their lives and the lives of the The people around them to bring glory to yourself and to reveal yourself in a very personal and wonderful way. The good that you're accomplishing and what you allow. Help us to be people that trust unreservedly in your justice. Help us to be people who trust in your wisdom and your ways. Help us to be people that are very grateful that the most powerful person walking this planet is not outside. of your careful hand. Use these truths to encourage each of us in Christ's name. Amen. If you could let's take our hymn books and turn to him 100 The song that we will be singing for our closing is Great is Thy Faithfulness. We're going to sing the first, the second, and the third verses, and I want to encourage you if if you need to reach out, if you need to talk about some issues, just need to pray with someone, please don't hesitate to reach out. We want to be an encouragement Encouragement to you and help. Maybe you say, I don't need to go to talk to Pastor, but I can go to a really godly friend who can be a rock and an encouragement. We can pray together and we can weep together. We can work through this issue. I want to encourage you, let the word of God take root in your heart and accomplish the purpose that He's intended for it. Let's stand together. We're going to sing hymn 109, Great Is Thy Faithfulness. We'll sing the first, the second Second and third verses together, please. Great is thy faithfulness, O God my Father. There is no shadow of turning with thee Now changest not thy compassions, they fail not, as thou hast spent, thou forever with me Wait is thy faithfulness , great is thy faithfulness, morning by morning. For I have needed thy hand as provided , greatest thy faithfulness for We are sending summer and winter and springtime and corpus, sun, moon, and stars in their Forces of joint with all nature and man in the land To thy great failure, mercy, and God to greatness thy greatness Wait is thy faithfulness for in thy morning mercies I see For my feet and thy hand, greatest thy On the last and for sin, and thus he sat indoor, nine on dear present And to my strength fortune, a pride for me to find with them For in my mercies I seek, all I have been in thy hand have to find Great is thy faithfulness for unto me. Amen. Aren't you saying? Well, I hope this evening you'll be able to come back and join us. We are going to pause uh from our Ecclesiastes study, and we need to uh take some time. To look at a very important issue, and the issue we're going to look at is the importance of church purity. I'm going to be talking about church discipline tonight. And so I would encourage you if you're a church member here to come. And to listen to that. We also have a business meeting after the service. So if you're a member, I hope that you will stay for that. It's very, very important. Please do encourage one another in the Lord today. This passage, I think, is one that it's foundational. It's foundational to how we live the Christian life. And so having this confidence that God rules is very, very important. So I want to encourage you to go back to these truths, think about them, and encourage one another. Than the Lord, and uh I hope that you'll be able to be back tonight. Uh Mr. Jenny, can you close us in prayer and then uh we'll be dismissed? Heavenly Father, we're so thankful that we do have a God that is faithful. Lord, we're so thankful that you are sovereign, that you are in control of everything that's happening in this Day and age, Lord, that we're confronted with some difficult situations. Lord, I thank you for this passage as we forced this morning. The encouragement we get from the Word that you are faithful You are sovereign. You're strong. You're omnipotent, Lord. We just thank you for the way that you've cared for our church. Thank you for the way that you've protected our church. We pray, Lord, that you would just continue to to be with us as we have the privilege of being a lighthouse here in the Chesapeake Bay area, Lord, that we might guide uh men and women, boys and girls to the light of uh Christ, Lord, that they might have the uh joy of coming to a saving knowledge of you, that they might look forward to spending eternity in heaven with you. Lord, I pray your blessing on each one of us as we go our separate ways today. Bring us back safely tonight, and we'll give you the praise for that in Jesus' name. Amen.