So anyway, it's good to see each of you tonight. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will do our uh our hymn to get started. So let's pray. Father, thank you for the opportunity to gather in the middle of the week and to pray together, to sing together, to sit under the ministry of the scriptures together. And I pray that tonight you would open our understanding to these wonderful truths. Uh help me to be able to able to communicate these truths in a way that is spirit-filled and empowered. And I pray that you take these truths and just drive them into our hearts and help us to be strengthened and encouraged and challenged tonight. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, the song we're going to sing is hymn two hundred and fifty-one near the cross. Let's all turn there, two hundred and fifty-one. We'll sing the first, the second, and the fourth verses together, please. Near the cross. 251. Let's really sing it out. You can stand if you want. I'm okay with that. Jesus came near the cross, there a precious fountain Free to all the healing stream flows from Calvary's mountain In the cross, in the cross, be my glory. Till my raptured soul shall find rest beyond the river on the second Near the cross a trembling soul love and mercy found me There the bright and morning star sets its beams around me. In the cross, in the cross, be my glory ever Till my raptured soul shall find rest beyond the river, on the last Near the cross I'll watch and wait, hoping, trusting ever Till I reach the golden strand, just beyond the river In the cross, in the cross, be my glory. Till my raptured soul shall find rest beyond the river Amen. Let's be seated. And if you could, let's take our Bibles together and turn to 2 Timothy chapter 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3. And we are continuing in a very important passage of Scripture. And I want to remind you that this passage really is very practical for the times we're living in. And I think it's important for us to remember that we are living in the last days. That means that the Lord Jesus Christ could come and could return at any moment, and it is so important that we are ready for the Lord's return. And what we saw in the passages that we've been looking at is in the last days, the Bible says that perilous times will come. That means that the times that we are living through are perilous times, they're difficult times. And we need to be prepared to overcome. And so the focus of this passage of Scripture is the character of someone who is an overcomer. The character of someone who is an overcomer. So 2 Timothy chapter 3, verses 9 through 15, here's what it says. But they shall proceed no further. For their folly shall be manifested unto all men, as theirs also was. But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life. Purpose, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience, persecutions, afflictions which came unto me at Antioch and Iconium and Lystra Well persecutions I endured, but out of them all the Lord delivered me. Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus Now I want to remind you that the main point of the passage that we're looking at is that Paul is commending to Timothy the kind of character that he needs to develop if he's going to be a faithful man who is going to triumphantly overcome in the ministry that God's called him to. And when we look at the life of Timothy, we see that Timothy was a man who was a very principled man. He was a man who had a big heart. He was a man who served. But it also appears that Timothy was someone who needed to be challenged to step up and to stand strong. And so that's exactly what Paul is challenging Timothy to do. Sometimes people that are very compassionate have a hard time standing strong. Sometimes people that stand very strong have a hard time being compassionate. And the reality is God wants us to stand strong. The right way. And so he's challenging Timothy in this kind of way. Timothy needs to be a strong minister of the gospel. He needs to live a well-ordered life. And that's what we're being challenged with this evening. So last week we saw the first part that overcomers are to learn from godly examples. And just to remind you about what happened, Paul talked to Timothy, or he referred to Timothy referred to Timothy to remember what had taken place at Iconium, Lystra, and Antioch. And if you remember, the Apostle Paul met Timothy and led him to Christ and led his family to Christ during the time that he's actually referring to. Now when Paul was ministering in these cities, Paul was seeing a fruitful ministry. He was seeing churches established. In fact, those churches were at a point when Paul came back that he was actually able to establish leaders, elders in those churches. He went and he established those churches having pastors. You'd have to assume if they had pastors, they also had deacons. These were churches that were able to function well. But during the time that Paul was in those cities, he suffered intensely for the gospel. And so what Paul is doing is he's reminding Timothy, Timothy, do you remember what I experienced at Antioch and Iconium and Lystra? Those cities where I was stoned to death and God raised me up, and I went back into those very cities where I had been persecuted. where the gospel had gone forward with tremendous power and there were fruitful ministries, I went back to those places and I strengthened the believers and I warned them That you're going to enter into the kingdom of God through lots of affliction. Just like I have experienced trouble, you're going to experience trouble. So Paul is reminding Timothy. That Timothy needs to have a heart and he needs to have a kind of character, disp disposition, that he's going to be able to stand in those kinds of situations. Now the second thing we're going to look at, we're going to look at tonight, and that is that overcomers are to live well-ordered Christianity Christian lives. Let me say that again. Overcomers are to live well-ordered Christian lives. I want to have you look with me at verse 10 and see what the scripture says. He says, But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life , purpose , faith , long -suffering. Charity, patience. Let me say that again. He says, Thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering. charity, patience. Paul is going to mention seven qualities that were to be characteristic of Timothy. If Timothy is going to be a man that has a well-ordered life, he needs to have this kind of a character quality. He needs to imitate the Apostle Paul, who was a spirit-filled man. who walked with God, he needs to have the same qualities that the Apostle Paul had. And one of the things I want us to notice about these qualities is that these qualities give you a well-rounded person, a spiritual person. For instance, he talks about doctrine. What is doctrine? Well, he's talking about the way that he thinks about God and himself. We could say it this way. Paul wanted Timothy to be a young man who had a sound theological view. He wanted Timothy to be somebody who understood understood God's character, that understood what people are like, that understood the gospel, was able to communicate the doctrines of the Christian faith effectively. He says you have to be a man whose life is built on truth. And that's the very first thing that he mentions. In fact, if you don't have a life that's built on truth, then the way you live is not going to flow out of truth. Or when we talk about having a purpose, the purpose, what is driving you, is going to be misplaced because it's not built on the truth. And then when he talks about faith and long-suffering and charity and patience, You're going to see that that those list of qualities are the same qualities that are mentioned in the book of Galatians when he talks about the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace. Gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Again in Ephesians, he mentions a lot of these qualities. And so these are qualities that flow out of a spirit-filled life. A spirit-filled life that's built on. Truth. So the order that Paul is giving is very, very important. But I want you to notice it's not just about order, but it's about there being a well-ordered, well-rounded life. In other words, he doesn't want Timothy to just be a student of the Word. He wants him to be a student of the Word, but not only a student of the Word It's like a person can go to Bible college, a person can go to seminary, a person can read a commentary, a person can study the Bible, they can become extremely knowledgeable, and they may love to study the Bible. Some people like to study the Bible just like they like to go fishing, or like they like to work in a garden, or like they just like they like to work on a car or whatever their hobbies are. Some people studying the Bible is something that they actually enjoy as a hobby. Okay? What I want you to understand though Though, is that it's not just studying. He wants more than just a mind filled with truth. He wants that, but not just that. Does that make sense? Then he talks about his manner of life. He needs to have a life that is lived flowing out of a well-ordered system of thought where he understands truth and the truth is impacting what he does. So there are some people that will focus a lot in the Christian life on what they do, but they won't focus on why they do it. There are a lot of people that focus on why you should do something, but they don't focus on doing it. And the reality is you need both. You need the truth to be saturating your life. It needs to be the foundation of your life, but it needs to influence you to do something. Needs to be actual labor and service in the Lord's work. So he says, not just my doctrine, but my manner of life. The third thing he mentions is purpose. This is a really important one. The overcomer lives with a sense of clearly defined purpose for what they do. Now think about this. If you are doing something for a motive that falls short of God's expectation, guess what's going to happen when you get persecuted? will stop. Or if you're doing it because you want people to see what you're doing and they don't see it, guess what you'll do? You'll stop. Or maybe they see it and they don't approve of it to the extent that you want them to approve of it. What are you gonna do? You're gonna get angry But when a purpose, when the purpose of a person's service is properly ordered, and it's about God's glory, it's about obedience to him. It's flowing out of a love for God. Whether people notice or not, it doesn't matter. Whether you meet people's expectations or not, it doesn't matter. If the pressure comes and it builds and you get knocked down, you're going to get back up. Because what's motivating you is not yourself, but it's him. And so he's saying, Paul's saying, Timothy, you need to think right doctrine, you need to live right manner of life, and you need to be guided by a purpose that's bigger than yourself. The glory of God. God wants us to have a Christian life that is well-ordered because it is fully healthy. In fact, when we talk about ministry and service, ministry and service is something that should flow out of a healthy walk with God. And a lot of times we focus on the doing, but we're not healthy internally. And if we're not healthy internally, the doing will not be done well, it won't be done for the right reasons, and it won't be done long. But then he goes to a final area, and that is the character of Timothy. He says, faith. Overcomers are people who walk with a humility and a dependence upon God. Faith. Can't tell you how many times as a pastor I get into situations And when I'm in those situations, I don't have some answer that I got from Bible college or seminary. You gotta go to the Word of God and sometimes you see what the scriptures are saying and you go, I know it is right, I know I need to do this, but how God is going to work this out, I don't know. And you know what we have to do? We have to walk by faith. We have to trust God. We have to humble ourselves and say, it's not my way, it's not my opinion. Your word, your truth. I'm going to follow what you say. I'm going to trust you. So he mentions faith. And then he talks about long-suffering The idea is that the overcomer develops the virtue of enduring strength. We have to learn how to not just suffer for five minutes. Or 10 minutes or an hour or a week, but we have to live sometimes under the pressures of extended pressure. The truth is that as we go through life, what God does is He builds our endurance. Some of the things that we experience when we're fifteen or sixteen years old. old. And they just they are weighing us down and they are crushing us. God builds us through those. And and He He builds us so that we can endure greater struggles when we're in our 20s and our 30s. And as people get older, what happens? God builds them, he matures them, he strengthens them, and Paul is saying to Timothy Timothy, Timothy, you need to be a man who has the virtue of enduring strength. , It is the long-suffering enduring strength that Paul had that gave him the strength to say, you know what? I'm gonna get up and I'm gonna go right back to those cities where they chased me out. It's that kind of virtue, that strength, that was going to cause Timothy to be faithful at Ephesus, even when he had his naysayers and things were tough. He mentions a fourth, excuse me, a third quality, charity. Overcomers are passionate about their Lord and Savior, which will flow into loving expressions of active, self-sacrificing service. Folks, if we're going to serve the Lord effectively, it doesn't start with loving people. You do not naturally love people. Nobody does. It starts with loving God. And as we love God, we see the value of people. And we see God's love for those people. And we begin to see them from God's perspective more than from our own perspective. And what God does is he begins to channel his love through us. And as God channels his love through us, he begins to work in people's lives. And so he says, Timothy, that's the kind of ministry that you need. You need a ministry that flows out of a God-centered love, and this God-centered love is going to cause you to become a channel through which you will allow me to touch the lives of other people. Whether it's evangelism, leading a person to Christ who doesn't know the gospel, or someone who is hearing the gospel but resistant, and then at that moment God uses uses us as a channel through which he opens their eyes and convicts their heart and brings them to repentance and faith or whether it's a brother or sister in Christ who is beginning to move to the side of where they should be or someone who's discouraged and we come alongside. Whatever the scenario, God wanted this young man and he wants us to develop this quality of charity. The last one that he mentions is maybe one of the hardest, and that's the word patience. Overcomers are to develop the virtue of loving restraint. With others. Patience. Folks, everything in life that has real value takes time to to take place. You know what I'm talking about? You want to talk about something as simple as, you know, planting garden stuff. Okay? It doesn't like start producing fruit the day that you put it in the ground. Think about the things that have value in life. You know, raising our families, building a biblical foundation and understanding the truth. Truth. The fact is, our Christian lives, anything that has real value, it's going to take time. And when there are problems in life that have to be worked out, God moves slowly and persistently Consistently and patiently, and he teaches us through the way that he moves. The reason that we bring these up is because Paul is saying, Timothy If you want to be faithful, if you want to endure, if you want to overcome, you've got to have these qualities in your life. And you and I I need them as well. want to And by the way, it's not just for the pastor, not just for the missionary, not just for the evangelist. This is for every single Christian. Every single one of us has an area where God has planted us, and in this area where he has planted us, he wants us to serve him and be a channel through which he reaches people. On the most basic level, our own families, our kids, and from there our neighbors and the people that we work with. People we come in contact with in business, the people that we interact with within the church setting, people that we don't necessarily know, but we come in contact with them for a short time. season. God gives us all areas of ministry and we need to develop these qualities. These are the qualities that really define spiritual maturity. What you believe, why you do what you do, what you actually do, what you are becoming, what drives you, what motivates you, those are the things that really define where you are spiritually. Spiritually. And Paul gives some examples of this in his own life. Let me give you two. Philippians chapter 1, verse 12. This is what Paul says. I would that you should understand, brethren, that the things Which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places. Many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Some indeed preach Christ out of envy and strife. Some also of goodwill. The one preaches Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds. The other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel. What then, notwithstanding every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached, and therein do I rejoice? Now let me just give you kind of the big picture of what Paul's saying. When Paul wrote the letter to the church at Philippi, he was writing from a prison cell. Now there are lots and lots of people that care about reaching into the lives of other people. And sometimes people say, man, you know, it would be really neat if the President of the United States came to Facebook. faith in Christ got saved or one of those Supreme Court justices or some of the people that work in the Congress. You know, that would be a wonderful thing if some of these people that are in positions of authority, power, got saved and their lives were changed. And you know what? That would be a wonderful thing. And we should pray that that happens. We should pray that those who are Christians will stand for truth and do what's right And those who are not Christians, that God will bring the gospel to them and bring them to their knees, and that they will be saved. We should pray that way. But think about if you're living in Paul's day. Man, imagine if the emperor got saved. Imagine if some of the people in his household got saved. Imagine if some of these wicked Roman soldiers got saved. Some of them did. And you know how it happened? Paul went to prison. Bottom line, that's what happened. Paul was arrested, thrown in the prison, and in the prison, what does Paul do? He talks to whoever is chained to him. Whatever person is stuck having to be next to Paul, Paul is talking to that person. And you know, as Paul is in the prison, the gospel gets out of the Prison. Why? Because some of those guards went back to their homes and went back to their areas where they interact with people. And Paul says, I want you to realize the things that I've experienced Experience are not all bad. There are some bad things, but they're not all bad. Because through my bonds, the gospel has gone even to the palace of the Emperor. Imagine that. Paul's like, I never get a hearing in that place. But there's some people that I get to talk to. Get to, have to, have everyone look at it. I'm talking to them because they're stuck with me and I'm stuck with them. But you know what? God used it. He says, you know, there are other Christians who they're really afraid. They are terrified. They're They're fearful. But because I am bold and I'm not going to back down, they're encouraged. They're encouraged Encouraged. You know, sometimes the people around you would develop more of a backbone if you did. That's kind of the way that it works. So when Paul stands up and does what he's supposed to do. Well, some of the other po folks that were maybe not being so tough themselves, they said, you know, I can do this too. I can follow his example. I can be faithful But this is the one that should really get your attention. It's very interesting. He says there are some people who are preaching the gospel. Now when Paul says that they're preaching the gospel, he's not saying they're preaching something they call the gospel. It's not really the gospel, but you know, they're they're they're just kind of like You know, they're given some really shallow, simple message. It's not really the full gospel message, and they're just trying to get people to get he's not saying that. He's saying these people are really preaching the gospel. They're preaching the death, the burial, the resurrection of Christ. They're talking about sin, righteousness, and judgment. They're saying that there is no other way under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. They are preaching the truth. Truth, but their motive is not pure. He says, some preach out of envy. What does he mean by that? Well, they're they're like selfishly ambitious. They're like a bunch of Baptist preachers out of Baptist Preachers Fellowship. Hate to say that, but it's true. How many you got in Sunday school? This, this, this month. Yeah, you know, we didn't didn't do pretty good in COVID. You know what I'm talking about? Well no, you guys haven't been to a preachers fellowship. I have, unfortunately, been to some preachers fellowships. And you know what, you know what it is? It's all about Let's just call it envy. That's what it was. Hey, you know, if God's blessing, that's wonderful. And if you're really sharing it purely because you're thankful God's word , that's great. But if it's really about telling the other guy, you know, we're doing good and you're not, that's exactly what Paul's talking about. Yet the person who they were trying to kind of like one up on was Paul because he was in jail Pretty amazing. Envy, strife, competition. It's like people are being competitive in ministry. Ministry's not about us. It's shouldn't be about us. It should be about him. We should be grateful for whatever opportunity we get. But there are people who are preaching the real gospel, the truth What they're preaching is really going out, and people are getting saved. But their motive is envy and strife. He said, but there are some that preach out of goodwill. You know, there are some people that are well motivated. There are some people that genuinely care about the Lord and they're not doing this for themselves. But he says, you know what? Whether it's sincere or whether it's out of contention The bottom line is this. In the big picture, you know what I'm thankful for? God's working through them in spite of them. That's what he's saying. By the way, if it wasn't for God doing that, then then a lot of churches wouldn't see much happen. Because a lot of us At certain times in our lives, we end up in the envy category, the strife category, the contention category. We do. It shouldn't happen, but we are fleshly people. Sometimes we are doing the work of the ministry just because we want to get some kind of accolades. But you know what? Paul was thankful that God is bigger than the mess that Peeply works through. Kind of an interesting concept. You know what Paul's basically saying? He's saying, Timothy, that's the kind of guy you have to be in the ministry. You have to be the kind of person that stays the course because your life is built on truth. And the truth that your life is built on flows out into ministry. And you know what? There's a bigger purpose than yourself, and you're driven by that bigger purpose, the glory of God. And by the way, your life is being built spiritually. You are growing, you are maturing. The fruit of the Spirit is coming out in your life. That's what you need So if the guy next to you preaches the truth the wrong way, it's not going to stop you from glorifying God for the work God does. And it's not going to set you off so that you can't keep doing what you're supposed to do. And you'll let God deal with that situation. And you'll also say, God help me not to be that man. And forgive me if I have been that man. A second example is his attitude towards even his own life. This is amazing. So a few verses later in verse 21 he says this. He says, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. Yet what I shall choose I want not, for I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better, nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for yeah Now this is an amazing statement. Paul's basically saying, you know, here I am, I'm in prison. When people end up in a room in prison, they know that the next step is they're going to get their head cut off. Okay. They're gonna go get thrown to the lions. They're gonna get made a public example of because they have violated the Roman laws and the Romans were very Authoritarian. They were harsh folks. And he says, you know, I actually, as I sit here in the prison, go, I'm okay with going to meet Jesus. I'll actually be better off if I'm with the Lord. I won't be sinning anymore. I won't have to deal with the struggles of this broken world. I'm going to see my Savior face to face I'm going to be receiving the fullness of my inheritance in Christ. You know, I'm living my life anticipating the moment that I stand with God. Why should I fear this? That's his attitude. But then he goes, you know what? Maybe it's not my time yet There are people here that God has put me, planted me in their lives, and he's working through me to reach them. And maybe it's better off for them that God doesn't take me yet. And you know what? I don't really know which one I want. So I'll just leave that up to God. That's what he's saying. He's saying, you know what? I would love to be with the Lord right now. But if it's not my time, I'm going to be faithful to invest in the people that he puts in my life until he says You have run your race. That is selfless. That's the kind of character that should motivate us as Christians. And so when Paul talks about having a well-ordered life, these are just two little snapshots of how Paul conducted himself in the ministry. We could go to lots and lots of other examples, but the point is this if we're going to be faithful to run the race with patience that God has set before us. up. Whatever is on that race, whatever hardships we face on that race, whatever temptations we face on that race, we have to have this kind of character. We have to follow this kind of example if we want to be faithful. And so let me give you just a couple of practical implications in closing. The first is this. I asked the question: Do you believe that you have a well-ordered life? When I say well-ordered, I don't mean like you love theology, but you don't really You know, serve the Lord, or you are very focused on service, but you're not really studying the word. Or you do study the word, you do serve, but you're not growing in maturity and Depth. The fact is, Paul wants the complete picture because spiritual maturity is dealing with the heart of the matter and then what flows out of the heart of the matter. Is healthy ministry, healthy walk, healthy character, healthy focus purpose. So I ask you, are you living a well-ordered life? According to the passage in front of us. Second, are you taking conscious steps to develop this kind of Christian virtue and discipline? Now, there is a side to this that you don't confront. You do not control your circumstances. If you're going to grow spiritually, there are two catlass that are very important. One catlass is circumstance. God is sovereign and he controls circumstance. And by the way, some of the circumstance we pass through is hard. It's precious. It's painful. But that's part of the catalyst that causes us to grow. That's what develops Christian virtue. You don't get patient. without pressure. You do not develop a long-suffering character without suffering for a long time. Okay? You don't learn how to love until your motives that are not pure get brought to the surface and you see them. Are you taking the conscious steps to develop Christian virtue? On the other side is your responsibility. You've got to be in the Word. You've got to be submitting to what God's doing. You know, when we get angry at God because of the people we deal with or the circumstances What we're really doing is we're saying, God, that tool that you're using to shape me, I'd like you to use a different tool. So take that tool, put it to the side, and give me the tool that I want. And he goes, No, no, no, you don't understand I am the one who is shaping you, not you are the one who's shaping you. You are my workmanship, not your your own workmanship And so as we chafe at what God's doing, or we neglect the scriptures, or we neglect the fellowship of other believers who are going to help us grow and walk with the Lord, we're not taking those conscious steps to develop. Develop spiritual maturity and discipline. And so I asked this question: Are you developing a well-rounded Christian? Walk. Lord willing, next time we will continue with talking about how overcomers are to submit to God's purposes. And this is a super practical little section, but we'll get into that The next time. So I want to challenge you with that. Let's be a people who allow the Lord to shape us in these areas where we are growing, where we are serving, we are growing in knowledge, we are having a real Reshape a focus so that God can really use us. Let's bow together for prayer and then we'll pull out our prayer bulletins and go over our prayer list. Father, thank you for the time we've spent in the Word. Tonight, I pray that the truths that have been presented would not pass us by, but would settle in our souls. That we would go throughout these days Just not forgetting what we've heard, but continuing to chew on these things. I pray that as you desired to shape Timothy, you would shape us. Help us to be faithful men and women in the areas that you have placed us, and help us not to chafe at your ways. Help us not to be resistant or arrogant or frustrated with you. But help us to bend the knee and help us to invest in the tools that you have provided so that we can grow into Christ's likeness. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.