Let's take our Bibles together, please, and turn back to Psalm 25. And uh the 25th Psalm is a really rich Psalm. And uh generally I just spend one message on a psalm, but this one is fairly long, and I felt like as I was working through the psalm that there's really a lot that I would like for us to reflect on. So Psalm 25, we're looking at verses 1 through 7. I'll remind you again of a couple of the things that we talked about this morning, and then we'll dig into a continuation of what we looked at in the morning service. Says unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. O my God, I trust in thee. Let me not be ashamed. Let not mine enemies triumph over me. Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed. Let them be ashamed which transgress without cause. Show me thy ways, O Lord. Teach me thy paths, lead me in thy truth, and teach me. For thou art the God of my salvation. On thee do I wait all the day. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies and thy loving kindnesses. For they have been ever of old. Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions. According to thy mercy, remember thou me for thy goodness' sake, O Lord. You know, many times when we read through the Bible, we read to kind of get a doctrinal understanding of what is going on. That's the way that I tend to read the Bible. I I'm looking for details and I'm thinking about theological concepts. But the truth is there are times that we need to read the Bible simply to reflect, simply to let the scripture sink into our hearts, and as it sinks into our hearts It begins to really challenge us. In other words, there are times that we need to read not just for theological concepts, but also for some devotional concepts as well. We want it to be a communal interaction with God. God's word was written to us. And when I say to us, it was specifically written to people at a time in history. But as we read what God gave to those people and the storyline that's going on there, God's given this information for our sake, for our benefit. Well, this morning when we look at this passage, we spend a lot of time discussing the difference between what we call our union in Christ and our communion with Christ. Our union with Christ is a theological concept. It's a positional concept. It's a truth that is steady and it's sure. And there's nothing that we've done to contribute to that position that we have in Christ. Our union with Christ is something that is entirely rooted in the finished work of Christ. It's his righteousness. It's his sacrifice on the cross. We don't get saved and then grow in our position in Christ. We're in that position and it's steady and it's sure. But then there's an experiential side to our salvation. And when we talk about sanctification, we're getting into the experiential side of our salvation, and that's our communion with Christ So many of the scriptures that we looked at gave truth about our forgiveness of sins, our future inheritance, all those things. They're really rooted in the positional side of our salvation. But when we talk about the joy we experience as Christians, we talk about this concept of growth and maturity into Christ's likeness. These are experiential sides to our salvation. And we need both of these things to be understood when it comes to how we live as Christians. Well, when we get into this psalm, what we're really seeing is insight into how a man who walked with God, who enjoyed fellowship or communion with God, at some of his highest moments, and when I say his highest moments, I don't mean He felt like he was on top of the world, but I mean those moments where he was really walking closely with the Lord, in those psalms, we see insight into how he thought. Now we have other psalms that show us what he the way he saw it when he was at his lowest moments. When he was in agony, when he was afraid. When he was overcome with grief, when he was dealing with torment in his own heart about his sin. We see psalms about those experiences well, and there's a lot we can draw from those things. But in this particular psalm, we're saying how he is thinking as a man who walks with God. The first thing that we saw this morning is that This man, David, as he's communing with the Lord, is someone who has a reverential offer, God. We saw that expressed in verse number one, where he says, Unto thee do I lift up my soul. So the psalmist is not just talking about a physical position like someone who is bowing down in reverence physically, but he's talking about someone whose heart is bowed low before God and he's looking up to God and he's saying, I need you. I'm in trouble. You're my only hope. He has this reverential awe, this humility, and the presence of God, and we spent a lot of time dealing with that concept this morning. The second concept that we looked at this morning was the fact that David, a communing saint, was tested in his dependence on the Lord. And so David says in verse 2, he says, I have trusted in thee, let me not be ashamed. Let not mine enemies triumph over me. In other words, David is saying, look, God, I have trusted you, I am trusting you, I'm going to continue to trust you, and I'm asking, I'm pleading with you. Let the people that are my enemies that have evil intentions against me don't let them mock me and get away with it. Let them see at the end of this whole process That in fact you are faithful and your promises are sure. And when I've trusted you, I found you to be faithful. I have demonstrated, or you have demonstrated your faithfulness, and I've grown in that. So we see this tested dependence. The third thing I'd like us to look at is what we'll start with this evening. Look down in your Bibles at verse number 3. This is what the scripture says, and then I'll give you the truth that we're going to look at for the third truth this evening. And verse number three says, Let none that wait on thee be ashamed, let them be ashamed which transgress without a cause. What David is going to express in these verses is that he has a patience toward God. For instance, in verse 2 he says, I trust in you. Verse 3, let none who wait on thee, be ashamed. That word weight is very important. I'd like us to focus in on that word weight. Is there anybody in here that's kind of like me that has a hard time being patient? Anybody like that? Okay, I just spent over two thousand miles in a vehicle with the whole family driving all the way down to Florida and back. And I can tell you that I am not someone who is by nature patient. Okay? I've learned, I've grown, got a long way to go, as all of us do. But that word weight's really important In fact, that word weight that's expressed in verse number 3 is a word that David uses in a lot of other texts. Let me give you some examples of it. Psalm 37, verse 3. Here's what he says. He says, rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself. Let me read that again. Psalm 37, 7. He says, Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself. Another example, Psalm 27, verse 14, he says, wait on the Lord. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. Who do you think David's saying wait to? He's speaking to himself. There are times when we're in situations where we're saying, okay, God, I'm trusting you, and I'm going to keep trusting you. And by the way, I need to be patient in this process. You know what that word wait teaches us? It teaches us that God doesn't move according to our timetable. God's ways and our ways. They're not always the same. And nobody in here likes that. I'm sure of that. I most certainly don't like that. But the fact that God's timetable and my timetable are not the same doesn't mean that God is wrong in Him being causing us or forcing us to have to be patient in the process. God wants us to progress into Christ's likeness. But this progress will not happen without Him carefully orchestrating a process in our lives. I want you to get the picture in your mind of someone who is a coach. So when we were down in Florida at my my parents' house we watched this uh movie that was put together. It was about a young lady who was a runner and she was being coached. Maybe you've even seen this movie. It's a it's a faith-based, Christian-based movie. And the whole storyline is basically that this coach is going through a long progression of getting this young lady to the point where She ultimately beats the state champion. She wins the championship. And in the process, she had a plan. The coach had a plan. The coach didn't even explain this whole plan to the athlete. The coach didn't explain this this process to the rest of the coaches that were coaching the team. Even up till the last day when the girl went and ran the race. It's amazing. She didn't understand entirely what her coach was doing. But that coach had a plan. And so what the coach did is they thought through how this young lady could get faster and how she could eventually beat her opponent. And she was doing it progressively in such a way that the runner didn't even know what was going on, didn't understand the process. You know, God does that in our lives too. He has perfect wisdom. He knows what I need. He knows what you need in order for us to get from this point in our growth as a Christian to this point. He knows what process we need to go through. And that's what the circumstances of our life are. They're God taking us through this process. There's so many scriptures that talk about. Let me give you some examples. God trains us as a loving father. The first example, Hebrews 12, 6. It says, whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. He says he does this for our prophet that we might be partakers of his holiness. He says, no chastening for the present time seemeth to be joyous. but grievous, nevertheless, afterwards it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Now, as I have read these verses for many, many years, I used to always think in terms of chastening is like God giving me a whooping, okay? You know what I mean? Like I'm giving a spanking. I've gotten out of line and he's correcting me. But that word chasten actually doesn't really have that sense. That would be part of what he means by chastening, but the word chastening is talking about the entirety of developing someone in their growth to maturity. In fact, another example of this word that's translated chastening here used is in the book of Ephesians where it talks about how fathers are to train their children. It says, fathers do not provoke your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Believe it or not, the word that is translated chasten in Hebrews chapter 12 is the word that's that's translated, bring them out in the nurture, nurture An admonition of the Lord. Nurture is the word. Not admonition, nurture. You say, what's the point? The idea is that this word chastening means that there is teaching involved. There is coming alongside and encouraging. Most certainly there are times that there is correction when someone has done wrong. So there's a disciplinary side to this. But there's an instructive side to this. There's an encouraging side to this. This word encapsulates a lot of different concepts. God, as a perfect father, trains us. And so he pa causes us to pass through difficult circumstances, not because he's cruel and harsh, but because he wants to come alongside of us and he wants to lift us up and build us and strengthen us and point us to where we need to be in our walk with the Lord. Train. A second verse that I think is very important is that the process flows According to God's perfect wisdom. In Romans eleven, verse thirty-three it says, O the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. Who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counselor? Now what's very interesting is that he is talking about how God dealt with the Jewish people and the Gentiles in Romans 9, 10, and 11. By the way, a fairly complicated passage of Scripture, chunk of the book of Romans a very important chunk of the book of Romans. Because as the Jewish people are hearing, Jewish Christians are hearing about the setting aside of the law and all those kinds of things, And their minds are starting to go, well, what about God's promises that he made to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob and to the nation of Israel? Has God set aside his people indefinitely? Is God done with the nation of Israel? Is he not going to follow through with his promises? And what does Paul say? He says, No, he is. But God's timetable is different than yours and mine. And he says, by the way, it's according to his wisdom. Are the depths of the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. The point is that as God trains us, And molds us and shapes us and matures us, he's doing it according to his wisdom. Not our wisdom, not the people around us' wisdom, his wisdom. When we walk with God, we learn to be patient with him as he works all things together for our good to conform us to the image of Christ. You know what's interesting? We tend to think of this concept of patience as in God has to be patient with me, and he does. Okay. He's patient with us. But we have to be patient with him, because the way he moves and the way he works is often not what we think he should do. Those who walk with him learn to submit to him in the process. For instance, in James 1 it says, Brethren, count it all joy. When you fall into diverse temptation, knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect work. That's one of the most difficult scriptures in all of God's word to live. Not to read, not to understand what he's saying, to live It all goes back to the fact that when people walk in fellowship with God, they learn that they need to be patient with God in his ways. And one of the best things that God does for us many times is cause us to trust Him to endure in trust so that our trust becomes deeper and it becomes more matured. Truth number four. Second one we'll look at tonight. Communication saints long for God's ways rather than their own ways. Look down in verses 4 and 5, please, so we'll see this truth. David writes: Show me thy ways. O Lord, teach me thy paths. Lead me in thy truth, and teach me, for thou art the God of my salvation. On thee do I wait all the day. Let me read that again. He says Show me thy ways, teach me thy paths, lead me in thy truth. Now, when you read those words, show and teach and lead, in your mind, is there really any difference between those three words? We would say that they're synonyms. They're kind of all in the same general context, leading, showing, and teaching. Those are just different ways of expressing how a person learns. But what's very interesting about those three words is that they have a different nuance to them. And I want us to kind of look at that for just a moment tonight. So that we understand what David is saying when he says, God, I need you to show me, and I need you to teach me, and I need you to lead me. Somebody who's walking in fellowship with God recognizes that their wisdom is limited, and they learn to submit themselves to God's wisdom. David expressed a longing to know God's ways in three ways. The first one is he wanted God to teach him. He wanted God to be his teacher. That phrase, show me thy ways, has the idea of cause me to understand what you say is true. It's almost like you're sitting there in a classroom and someone's giving you all this information and you raise your hand and say, I don't get it And they say, okay, hold on a second. Let me give you an illustration. Anybody ever been in that place? Now you had one of those teachers that said, just write it down and figure it out. No, no. Clearly over here is laughing, right? That's the way math is No, a teacher is going to say, okay, hold on. Let me think about how we can illustrate this. An illustration helps you to take a fact, a principle, a truth, and to kind of internalize it and understand it. David is saying, God, cause me to understand your ways. Like a teacher who illustrates truths, help me to understand this. David says this in lots of portions of the Psalms. Listen to a couple of these examples. Psalm 119, 18. He says, open thou mine eyes. That I might behold wondrous things out of thy law. I love this verse. Many times when I open up my Bible in the morning and I begin to read, I will say, God, please, here's the verse, open my eyes. To behold wondrous things out of the world. I'm reading it. My mind is processing it, depending on how early it is and how awake I am, and if my coffee is kicked in or whatever, you know But I'm saying, please cause me to understand what your word is saying. The significance of these things, the weight of these things. Help me to understand it. Psalm 143, verse 8. I love this one. Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning, for in thee do I trust. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk, for I lift up my soul unto thee. That phrase, cause me. To hear and cause me to know is a great example of what he means in these verses when he says, Show me your way. Help me to understand exactly what you're saying. Psalm 143, verse 10. Teach me to do thy will, for thou art my God. Thy spirit is good. Lead me into the land of a brightness. So the first way that David expresses his desire to know God's ways is he's saying, teach me, cause me to understand, help me to get it. Get it in my thick head. Get it into my heart. Let it saturate my heart. That's what he's saying. But there's a second aspect to this causing me to understand. And that is what we find in the next phrase. Teach me thy paths. Now this word teach has a little bit different nuance in the original language. It has the nuance of someone who is training. Now a teacher gives you information. A coach takes you through a process. Do you understand the difference? In fact, as parents, we kind of do both of the well, we're supposed to do both of these things. We're supposed to give information to our kids But we're supposed to actually train them. We're supposed to actually help them to develop the disciplines. Some issues of wisdom are not just issues of having information, but they're about developing skill connected to that information. There are lots of disciplines that if somebody doesn't help me through this process, I'm going to take a long time to get it. Okay? And so he's saying, God, don't just teach me or cause me to understand, but train me. Help me to not just know the truth, but help me to develop disciplines within this context of your ways. We need God to train us through a process. And one of the scriptures that comes to mind with this side of what David is expressing is Psalm 119, verse 71. Here's what it says. It is good for me that I have been afflicted. Anybody feel this way? Good for me that I've been afflicted? Well, we don't feel this way. That's what David said. He said, it's good for me that I've been afflicted, so that I might learn thy statutes. So it's not good that he was afflicted because pain's good. It's because the pain caused me to get something good. It's like a person who goes to the gym. If you tear your muscles, you're in pain. That's not good. But if you tear down your muscles so they can rebuild, now that's the kind of pain that's good. That's the kind of pain that you get in training. So if an athlete's going to develop some strength and develop skills and develop those kinds of things to be effective in athletics. They have to go through a process that involves some pain, some affliction. And so David is saying, God, thank you for allowing me to go through this process because I'm learning your statutes. God is the ultimate coach, trainer in our lives. But then there's a third one that is very important. And that is the phrase, lead me in thy truth. So the first one has the idea of cause me to understand. The second has the idea of train me. The third Is a different kind of illustration. He says, lead. Lead me in thy truth. That word lead is connected to something that David knew a lot about, and that was the work of a shepherd. David loved using the illustration of shepherd. You know what's so funny? When we read through the Bible, I encourage you to just in your mind take note of how many times the shepherding illustration is used. Of God in the Bible. And as you do that, take note of the nature of this shepherding care that God gives you. And you will be richly blessed. I am sure of that. David understood, like he took care of sheep when he was a young boy, that he needed God to shepherd his soul. He needed God to lead him and care for him like a shepherd leads sheep. Let me give you a couple of examples. These are not all of them, but these are some of the great ones. Psalm 23, 1. The Lord is my shepherd. Isn't that a great Psalm? Psalm 95, 6 and 7. He says, Oh come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for he is our God and We are the people of his pastures and the sheep of his hands. Psalm 77, 19. This is a great one. Thy way is in the sea and thy path in the great waters. Thy footsteps are not known. Do you know what he's talking about? He's talking about when the nation of Israel had finally gotten out of Egypt Okay, all those plagues came and went, and finally God delivers them out with a strong hand, and they're all excited, and they're moving their way towards the promised land. And they get to the Red Sea and they're camped out by the Red Sea. And as they're camped out by the Red Sea, they start noticing something in the far-off distance. And It wasn't like Maryland where you can't see all around you. It was more like Texas or Oklahoma or Arizona where you look and you could see for thirty miles and they see dust. That's not like wind dust, that's like human dust. Okay. And they see glistening armor and they realize something. Somebody's coming to get us. And you know, let's be honest, when when you're in a desert area, you could see that for quite a while. People got disturbed. People got upset. People were afraid. People told Moses, hey, it would have been better if we would have died in Egypt than to die here at the hands of the Egyptians, at the mouth of the at the the the the the shorelines of the Red Sea. And you know what God said? God said, My way is actually in the sea. And he parted the sea and they went through on dry ground. And God did an amazing work where he destroyed their enemies and he demonstrated once and for all, well, for many, many times he did this, but he demonstrated, look. The sea doesn't stop me from doing what I'm going to do. But here's the next phrase. It's so very interesting. He says, Thou lettest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. Psalm 80 verse 1, give Eero shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock. Psalm 100, verses 1 through 3, make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness, come before his presence with singing, Know ye that the Lord He is God, it is He that hath made us. We are his people and the sheep of his pastures. These are just a few of the examples. There are many more. John chapter 10, verse 11, Jesus says, I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. John 10, 14, I'm the good shepherd, I know my sheep, and they know mine and they are they excuse me and I am known of mine. 1 Peter 5, 2, feed the flock of God. They are God's heritage. When the chief shepherd appears, you will receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. All of these scriptures drive home a very simple point. God shepherds his people. And so when David says, I want your ways, he says, I want you to teach me your ways. I want you to train me in your ways, and I want you to shepherd my soul. in your ways. Folks, that's what people who walk with God want. People who walk with the Lord want God to teach them his ways, train them in those ways, and shepherd their souls. But there's a third, or fifth, depending on how we're looking at it, that I want to mention finally. And that is that communing saints have a continual sense of both their unworthiness and God's goodness. Now this is a really interesting concept. I've mentioned this several times in other settings where there are certain tensions that we experience in the Christian life We experience joy and sorrow at the same time. You know what I'm talking about? We experience grief and we experience comfort. We experience the conviction of the Holy Spirit when we are faced with our sin, and we experience the joys of God's grace as we think about the cross of Christ. We experience the joy of being positionally in Christ, and nothing can separate us from the love of God, and also recognizing that the way that we live does matter, and there is a judgment seat of Christ. We want to grow into Christ's likeness. The Christian life is full of many tensions. This is one of those examples. And this is something that if you're walking with the Lord, you know What is going to be expressed here? You understand this on some level. You may not have thought about it. You may not have broken it down to the extent we're going to do tonight, but you've understood this concept on some level. Listen to what it says in verses 6 and 7. He says, remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies and thy loving kindnesses, for they have ever been of old. Remember not the sins. of my youth nor my transgressions. According to thy mercy, remember thou me for thy goodness sake, O Lord. You know what's really interesting? The Bible tells us that when we place our faith in Christ, our sins past, present, and future, forgiven. There's a verse in the Psalms where it says, as far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us Why is it that David feels compelled to go to God and say, please remember your tender mercies? Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgression. According to your mercy, remember me for your goodness' sake. Why does David express that? Because though God has chosen not to dwell on our sin, sometimes we do. I don't know if that makes sense. You know, there are times in the Christian life That there are things that they are under the blood of Christ. They've been forgiven and we've been cleansed. And in a moment where we are very frail and vulnerable, God takes all those things. Not God, Satan takes all those things. And he throws them our face and says, you remember this? And this and this. You know what I'm talking about Every single one of us has things that he can throw in our face. We all do. And so David experienced something that we need. A sense of this humility recognizing I'm unworthy, but also a sense of the sweetness of God's forgiveness. David could not help at times, but remember, I have been in these places. But then he says, but God, I know you're merciful. I know you're gracious, and I know that you're good, and I know that I'm forgiven. David continually remembered his sinfulness and his unworthiness. But he also continually remembered the depths of the riches of God's goodness. In verse 7 he says, remember not the sins of my youth. In verse 6 he says, Remember, O Lord, your tender mercies. Remember, O Lord, your loving kindness. According to your mercy, remember thou me for thy goodness. What do we see? We see that David understands the goodness of God and the positional forgiveness that he has in Christ to come, okay? But he also recognizes his unworthiness. You know what's very interesting when we come to the Lord's table, many, many times, Christians have a hard time, depending on their background and all that, feeling comfortable, coming to the Lord's table and partaking. And the reason is because when they read in 1 Corinthians, it says, Whosoever partaketh unworthily shall be guilty of the body and blood of Christ. You know what I'm talking about? I'm confident there are people here tonight that understand what I'm talking about. And the reason that we struggle is because we didn't read the word correctly. It doesn't say whoever partakes as an unworthy one. It says whoever partakes unworthily. There's a difference. Nobody in this room is worthy. Okay? And then of yourself who you are before God. You don't have anything in you that makes you acceptable to God. Your acceptance is entirely rooted in the grace of God. The redemptive work of Christ. That word unworthily is talking about how you come to the table, your attitude. It's an adverb, okay? It's not describing you, but how you come. I don't know if that makes sense. That's very significant. That's very important. In other words, every single one of us, when we come to the Lord's table, we recognize that fellowship with God's not something I'm worthy of. It's not something I deserve. It's not something I've earned. In fact, when I'm remembering the blood of Christ shed and the body of Christ broken, I'm remembering that's the only reason I can come into your presence. That's the only reason I can have fellowship with you. And I'm remembering that that's what I have right now. In other words, he says don't take a cheap, light view of what you are doing. The Christian feels the sweetness of God's grace, but they still feel that conscience struggle. I understand this. You know what's very interesting? 1 John chapter 1 actually talks a good bit about this. Communion with God is described as walking in the light. And when you walk in the light, you see things more clearly than when you walk in the darkness. And the more you walk in the light, the more clearly you can see than when you walk in the darkness. Let me read to you what it says. First John chapter 1, verse 5 says, God is light and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But If we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. If we say that we have not sinned, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we say that we've not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. My little children, these things write into you that you sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins. 1 John 1, verse 5 isn't talking about how you become a Christian. It's talking about how Christians walk in fellowship with God. And what's very interesting about these verses is that these verses reveal to us that fellowship is like stepping out of the darkness into the light. It reveals the depths of our sin, the depths of unwort of our unworthiness, and the more we step into the light, and the more we're exposed to the holiness of God, there is a greater degree to which we feel the weight of our sin. That 's something we can't get around. The more I walk with God, the more unworthy I realize that I am. We never stop being sinful though we're forgiven. This is one of the great truths of the Reformation, came out of the Reformation. That we are simultaneously just and a sinner at the same time. I'll save you the the the Latin on this. But the idea that the reformers understood God has forgiven me and God has cleansed me and He's called me righteous in Christ. But I'm still practically a sinner. What's the point? We never stop being a sinner though we're forgiven. It forces us to see two things. One is sin in our experience, and two, the sweetness of God's continual supply of grace and his willingness to commune with us. What's so interesting about this thing called fellowshipping with God is that it brings this tension in my heart. For instance, I am humbled because the closer I walk with the Lord, the more I realize how sinful I am. I'm also uplifted because the more I begin to see my sinfulness, I see the weight of his grace. I see the power of the cross. I see the depths of his love. In other words, I'm being humbled and I'm being lifted up at the same time. You go, which one is it? It's it's both intention. Or I'm broken and I'm also restored. It's like I realize how fallen a creature I am, how broken I am, how messed up I am in my head and in my heart. And then I'm reminded of God's restoring hand and this thing called sanctification. We see this tension between those two things. I'm grieved by my sin, yet I'm rejoicing in my Savior. These are tensions. It's like in Romans chapter 6, he says, Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. And so now he talks about how we are to walk because there's no condemnation to us in Christ Jesus. You see this tension. Well, that is exactly what I think this Psalm is expressing. That as people walk in fellowship with God, they feel the weight of their sin. And they feel the lifting up of the burden as they think about the cross of Christ. I ask this question. Do you feel both? Do you feel both? In other words, as you think about your sin before a holy God, does it grieve your heart? But don't stay there. Do you feel the uplifting of his grace As you look at the cross and you remember his sacrifice and you remember what he's done for you, does that not uplift your soul and uplift your spirit? When your mind goes back to those former days, or Satan reminds you of some dark moments in your past. And you feel the weight of that burden, are you not reminded again of the cross of Christ? That's what the psalmist David is expressing. I feel both. I feel this tension. Folks, when we walk with the Lord, there are some tremendous fruits that are produced in our lives. The fruit of a hungering and the thirsting to know God and His ways. The fruit of the tension of the weight of our sin, but the uplifting of that burden as we bask in the grace of God. God uses this time of communion to shape us and mold us into the image of Christ. We begin to develop a patience With God's ways because we recognize his wisdom is greater than our wisdom. He's doing something that I may not fully understand, but I know that his intent and what he's going to accomplish is for my good. I learn to trust him. So I close with a couple of final thoughts. First of all, some questions. Do you walk with the Lord? I don't mean perfectly. I don't mean you don't have ups and downs and difficult days. But as a pattern of life, do you walk with the Lord? Do you get into his word? Do you commune with him in prayer? God wants us to walk with him. He invites us into his presence. Do you love God's presence? Do you love being in his presence, recognizing what he has done for you? Do you delight in his ways? Are you growing on the experiential side of your Christian faith? Folks, Christianity is not just this box that we like lock ourselves into. Christianity is a walk with God. It's a walk with God that's established by the cross and the empty tomb and the righteousness of Jesus. But it is a walk. It is a growth. It is a delighting in the Lord. Several truths to consider. Nothing will shape you in your thinking and character like walking with him. Nothing. Do you feel deficient as a father? Do you feel deficient as a mother? Do you feel deficient in uh in your labors and all those things? Well, I tell you, you've got to get into the word. You've got to allow the word of God to shape who you are as a person. Nothing will shape your thinking. Nothing will shape your character like walking with the Lord. There's no worthy substitute. There is none. Nothing is more tragic than failing to embrace this opportunity to its fullest God is inviting us into his presence continually through Christ to enjoy fellowship with him. Are you taking him up at that invitation That's the question. May God help us to walk with him, to enjoy him to his to its fullest, or this relationship to its fullest. To recognize this is what he designed us for. We will delight in this life when we delight in him. And that is my encouragement this evening. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. And then Tori 's going to come and lead us in a couple of songs as we prepare for a baptism this evening. So let's bow for prayer. Father, it is truly a good thing that we have been in your house, we have gathered with your people. This psalm is full of rich treasures. And I pray that you would help us to dig into these treasures and let them settle in our hearts. Father, help us to commune with you, to fellowship with you, to have hearts that are overflowing with gratitude and love towards you. I pray that we wouldn't miss out on the tremendous privilege and opportunity that we are invited into. Father, I pray that you would take these truths and use them for your glory. So thankful for the baptism that we will have in just a few moments. I pray that you would bless Laura as she is publicly professing her faith in Christ and her desire to follow you. I pray that you would help us as a church to encourage and bless her as she is taking this step of obedience. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.