Good morning. Welcome back to Anchored in the Word edition number three for the week and hope that you're having a really good week. Looking forward to digging into this text again, and we're halfway through the week, so If you have your Bibles, let's turn together to Luke chapter 10. We're looking at verses 21 to 24. If you remember back on Monday, we did some introductory thoughts yesterday. We look at the importance of recognizing that humility is a prerequisite to understanding, and God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. And so he talks about the fact that God was not revealing these things to those religious leaders who were self-righteous and they believed they had everything figured out. Instead, God was revealing these things to the simple, to those who were humbled. And we see that principle all throughout Scripture. Well, this morning what we're going to do is we're going to look at how the only way to know the Father is through the Son. And we're going to talk about the Son's role. in revealing the Father. And he talks about that in these verses. So here's what it says. In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth. that thou hast hid these things from the wise and the prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. Even so, Father, for so it is good in thy sight All things are delivered to me of my Father, and no man knoweth who the Son is but the Father, and who the Father is but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal him. And he turned him unto his disciples and said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see. I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see and have not seen them, and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them. Now as we dig into this text, we're going to notice the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ reveals the Father And the Father reveals the Son. In fact, what Jesus says in these verses sounds very similar to a theme that we see repeated over and over through the book of John, because John emphasizes the the connection between the Father and the Son. He talks about how relationally They are in communion with one another. He talks about when we talk about the essence of the Father and the Son, they're of the same essence. They're both God. Yet he talks about the distinctiveness of their person and the roles that the Father and the Son play in our redemption, our salvation. And so those are some things that we're going to talk about a little bit this morning as we examine what Jesus has said in these verses. So in verse 22, he says it this way. All things are delivered to me of my Father, and no man knoweth who the Son is but the Father, and who the Father is but the Son. and he to whom the Son will reveal him. You can see the distinct difference between the Father and the Son in person Yet you can see the communion that they enjoy, and they are of the same essence, though that is really not the emphasis so much of this passage. And then we see the fact that if you want to know the Father You have to go to the Father through the Son. And if you want to know the Son, well, the Father has to reveal him to you You see this connection between revelation and God revealing himself to us through the person of Christ. And so the simplest way to put this verse is this. You cannot know the Father outside the Son. You cannot know the Son outside the Father. That's what the simplest explanation of these verses are. And there are three distinct ministries of the Son that I want to draw your attention to. We we could make an argument there's many more ministries of the Son than the ones that we're going to talk to talk about this morning. But this is an essential aspect of what we are breaking down here and how the Son reveals the Father. The first of those ministries is the ministry of revelation. And we see several verses in John particular that talk about how the Son reveals the Father. So in John 1, verse 1, and John 1, verse 9, he says this: In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Verse 9. This was the true light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world. Now when he says that he is the word, the idea is that Jesus is the one who reveals the Father. And when he talks about the fact that he is the light of the world, again we are getting into this issue of revelation. People are stumbling in the darkness, they have no ability to see the truth. And what does the son do? He comes and he sheds light in the darkness, ultimately to reveal the Father. In John 1. 14 he says this, that the word was made flesh, and he dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. And the next statement's important. The glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. So when you see Christ and you see the glory of Christ, you are seeing the glory of the Father in the Son. John 1. 18, he goes even further than this. These statements are kind of building on one another. And so he says, no man hath seen God at any time. He says, the only begotten son , that is the Managones, the one-of-a-kind, unique son, which is in the bosom of the Father. He hath declared him. So we see that he is the word. We see that he was made flesh and he dwelt among us. When you see the glory of the Son, you see the glory of the Father in the Son. And then in verse 18 it says, he has declared him. But then as we work our way through the book of John, he he kind of unfolds this concept even more. In John 14, verse 7, he says If you had known me, ye would have known the Father also. From henceforth ye know him and have seen him. What's Jesus saying? If you've seen me, you've seen the Father. And so he states that very explicitly in the next two verses, verse number nine. He says, he that hath seen me hath seen the Father. And how sayest thou, show us the Father? Now, Jesus is not saying that the Father and the Son are the same person. He's saying, if you want to see God, you see him in me. If you want to see the glory of the Father, if you want to see the righteousness of the Father, if you want to see the wisdom of the Father, if you want to see the po Furn the father You see all of those things in me. That's what Jesus is saying. So the first ministry that we're going to mention is the ministry of Revelation. Jesus reveals the Father. But there's a second ministry that is critical to knowing the Father. It's not just telling us about him. It's about literally bringing us sinful people, unrighteous, unholy, rebellion in rebellion against God, at enmity with God. bringing the sinner to the Father. And we'll call this the ministry of reconciliation, because that's what the Bible calls it. So in 1 John chapter 4, verse 10 it says, hearin is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to breathe a propitiation for our sins. That word propitiation is such an important word. It's at the heart of the gospel because propitiation is a word of relationship. You have someone who i is is under wrath and the wrath is satisfied so that a person can be brought into re can be reconciled to The Father, we can be brought into relationship with God. So what does propitiation do? It removes the wrath through the payment of a price the death of Christ, and it brings us to the Father. Or in John 5, 6, or not John, Romans 5, 6 through 10, the same concept is unpackaged. He says, when we were without strength, In due time, Christ died for the ungodly. He says, God commendeth his love toward us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. He says this, he says, much more than being justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. If when we were enemies, we were, here's that word, reconciled to God through the death of his son. So it's not just that Jesus reveals the Father. But he also provides a basis for us to be reconciled to the Father. And then there's a third aspect that I want to mention as well that I think is very, very important. And that is the ministry of intercession. And so he reveals the Father, he brings us to the Father, and then he intercedes on our behalf. And there are lots of scriptures that talk about this concept, but there are two that I think are extremely important for us to examine. The first is Romans chapter 8, verses 31 to 34. Here's what it says. He says, if God be for us, then who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay any charge to God's elect? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather is risen again, and is even at the right hand who hears that statement. maketh intercession for us. So what these verses are saying is that when Christ has reconciled us to the Father, It is true that we are still sinners, but God does not relate to us as sinners. He relates to us as declared righteous sinners in Christ on the basis of the righteousness of Christ. And anytime a person were to hurl an accusation against the believer, the son stands up and says, I stand as one who has paid his penalty. My righteousness has been imputed to his account. And so he literally pleads on our behalf on the basis of his death. and his resurrection and his righteousness. And so he basically says there is no charge that can be brought against the believer. He is in Christ. He is God's possession. And the Son will intercede on his behalf at the right hand of God, saying, his case is closed That's what Romans 8 is all about, the ministry of reconciliation. Or again in Hebrews chapter 7, verse 24, it says, This man, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. Wherefore he is also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth and maketh intercession for them. For such an high priest became us who is wholly, harmless, undefiled, separated from sinners. and made higher than the heavens, who needeth not daily those high priests to offer up sacrifice first for his own sins and for the sins of the people, for this is he who died once when he offered up himself. So we see that Jesus offers to reveal the Father. He reconciles us to the Father through his death. And then he intercedes on our behalf because his death, his burial, his resurrection, his righteousness, they stand as having settled our account in the presence of a holy God. And so the simple way to put this is this. You cannot come to and know the Father except through the Son. And Jesus put it this way in John 14, 6. I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. I want to ask you this simple question this morning. Have you come to the Father through the Son? To understand that this is the only way that you could stay in the presence of a holy God. It's through Christ's death, burial, and resurrection, his righteousness. Have you embraced the gospel and placed your faith in his finished work? That is the encouragement this morning. You cannot know the Father apart from the Son. Hope you have a wonderful morning. If you have any questions, you need to talk to me about this, please send me a message. Share it with someone who could be encouraged by it. Share some feedback. And I hope that this will be an encouragement to you throughout the rest of your day. Have a blessed day. Bye now.