Let's turn together to the book of Luke. And we're in Luke chapter 19, or excuse me, Luke chapter 18 this morning. And we have been working our way through the book of Luke for quite some time. And uh Lord willing, by the end of this year, we will finish the book of Luke. And as we've been working our way verse by verse through this book of the Bible, there have been so many practical things that we have dug into together. And this morning, as I look at the text in front of us, I feel that this is perhaps one of the most significant, important of all the texts. that we have dealt with up to this time in the book of Luke. And I know that a lot of the texts that we've dealt with are very theologically deep. We've talked about who Christ is, we've talked about what Christ would do. We've talked about lots of Christ's teaching. And this morning what we will look at is one of the most important factors and what puts a person's heart in the position to be born again. And that is a description of what it means to repent in order to be able to believe. And so, Luke chapter 18, we'll begin reading in verse 9. We'll work our way to verse 14, and then we'll bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to really help us to understand his word together. It says, and he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves. that they were righteous and despised others. Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee, the other a publican The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all I possess. The publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes into heaven. But smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased. He that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Please let's bow together for a few moments and ask God to really speak to our hearts through his word. Our Father, as we think about the text in front of us, I pray that the words of Christ recorded for us nearly 2,000 years ago Would hit our hearts in a very fresh and powerful way. Father, help us to see the weight and the significance of what it means to repent and believe in the gospel. Father, help us to recognize that before the throne room of a holy and righteous God, there is none that is righteous. Not even one. There's not even one of us who truly understands the greatness of our plight. There is no such thing as a just man on this earth who does good and does not sin. save Christ God in flesh. And so I pray as we read your word and as we dig into these truths that the Holy Spirit would press upon our hearts The great weight of these truths, and that we would see how we are to respond as individuals to the Word of God. I pray that the Holy Spirit would move in our midst this morning. And that you would have your way, as your word does not return void. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. As I mentioned, the text in front of us is probably one of the absolute most important texts. That we have dealt with in the book of Luke. All of Christ's teaching and all of his parables are important. But the truths that are taught in this parable are some of the weightiest. of all of Christ's teaching. One of the things I love about studying the ministry of Christ and his teaching is how much overlap and how much concepts that are presented in one teaching context And concepts that are presented in another teaching context, how much they harmonize with one another, how much Christ says the same thing over and over and over and over again. Because we need to understand these things and we need to respond to them. Well, this text in front of us in this parable is something that Christ actually addresses often in his teaching, but he addresses it in a very fresh way for the people that are listening to his teaching in this text. If we understand this parable, then we are in the position to repent and believe. If we don't understand this parable, we do not understand the gospel. And that's a startling thing for us to think about. If we can read this text and not get what Jesus is saying, we are not Christians. We are not believers in Christ because we do not understand why we need to believe on Christ. Yet this text will lay out before us what we need to see about ourselves first. We must understand what he is saying. We've got to respond to what he is saying. We've got to see how it directly impacts our lives. And the heart of this parable could really be summarized by two passages of scripture that I think about when I read this passage. The first one is one where Jesus is going to actually speak just a few verses later. In fact we'll deal with this text not this week, but in a in the weeks to come In Luke chapter 18, verse 17, it says, Verily or truly, I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. Again, let me say that whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. We have to come to God with a heart that is being described in these verses as the heart of a little child. Fascinating statement. But another passage that really stands out to me, and that is Romans chapter 10, verses 1 through 4. Listen to what Paul says. He says, Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel. is that they might be saved. For I bears in record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. For they, being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law of righteousness to everyone that believeth. Now I want you to think about those two statements. One is the statement of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the other is the statement of the Apostle Paul. Jesus says, unless you become like a little child, you can't enter the kingdom. And Paul says, I desire that my countrymen be saved. And the reason I desire this is because I know that they are going about to establish their own righteousness. Because they are ignorant of God's righteousness and they are passionate about this. They are zealous about it. They're working really, really hard to build their credentials, but they're not submitting to the righteousness of God. The righteousness of God is available in Christ. They have not embraced it because their view of righteousness is wrong. So let me summarize the passage we're going to look at this morning. Do not be deceived by your personal standard of righteousness. God wants all of us to humble ourselves and cling only to his mercy, provided in Christ. Do not be deceived by your personal standard of righteousness. You know, I've learned something about human nature. What I've learned about human nature is all people have a conscience. And number two, everybody does everything in their power so that they can convince themselves that they are good. That's what people do. People go around throughout life trying to build up credentials for their own heart and their own conscience to have that settledness because they know that there's a problem. And there are different ways that people do this. One way that people do this is they look at the people around us, and you know what? You will always find someone who does better than you, and you'll always find someone who does worse. That's just the truth. Even within a household, and you see kids growing up, there'll be one kid that everybody's all that's the kid that never got in trouble. That's the kid that always does it, mom and dad say And you say, well, that's the one that's always in trouble. Maybe some of you in this room, that was you. You were the one that always got in trouble. And maybe some of you you're like, I was the one that everybody said, oh, they never get in trouble. But what is really that? That's really a comparison. People looking at their brother, looking at their sister, looking at a parent, looking at their spouse, looking at a neighbor, looking at somebody they go to church with, looking at somebody that they work with, and they say, I don't do what they do. I do these things, they don't do these things. It's very common. It's human nature. One of the things that we learn about as we study the life of Christ. Is that there was no group of people that Jesus was more passionately against than the religious elites of his day No group that he was stronger in his condemnation than those who built up their religious credentials through the things that they did for God and the things that they desired to present to God. There was no group that Christ was more aggressive with, more passionate against than those who fell into this category of having a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. going about to establish their own righteousness, being ignorant of the righteousness of God. Let me ask this question. Do we in any way have the same mindset? as the people that Christ speaks to in this text. So let's dig into the Word of God and see what it has for us today. First thing I want you to notice is the audience that Christ is speaking is parable to. And it's helpful for us sometimes to step back and to ask the question, why did Jesus say the things that he did? Why did he present it in a certain way? In fact, in a couple of weeks, we're going to talk about the rich young ruler, which is going to follow up on what Jesus has just said in these verses. And when we read what the rich young ruler says, we're almost going to have our jaws hit the ground because he's going to say, Master, what good thing can I do to inherit the kingdom of God? And Jesus says, there's nobody good but God himself. And we go, how could he say this after the things that we're going to look at this morning? We've got to consider the audience of Christ's parable. And what's great about the text is it tells us not just who. But what was going on in the hearts of these people? Verse number nine. And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves, that they were righteous. and despised others. Isn't that an amazing statement? He spake this parable unto certain who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and they despised other people. It's sad, but it's true that a lot of people who are non-Christians in our culture Have a mindset that Christians are self-centered, self-righteous snobs that go around telling everybody, you need to do good and be good and look good and be like us. Let me tell you, if that understanding of Christians is correct, then those who are being evaluated do not understand the heart and the soul of the Christian gospel. In fact, this text of scripture addresses a group of people that were very religious and very morally good in the eyes of those around them, but they were very, very lost. Notice how he describes his audience. Three ways. First of all, he says they trusted in themselves. The idea is that they had a trust problem. The object of our faith is really a critical question. What are you resting in? What are you trusting in? Maybe another way to turn it is if someone was to ask you, hey, if one day when you stand before God, which all of us will And he was to ask you the question, why should I let you into heaven? , Not that he's going to do that, okay, but just to kind of get to the heart of what we believe, what would you tell God? I mean, a lot of people would say, Well, you know, I got baptized when I was a little kid I went to church from the time I was a little boy, or a little girl. You know, I've done a lot of good things in my life. I I never treat people badly. I I'm always careful about the things that I say. You know, I actually give to my church. I give extravagantly. I'm a very giving person. I look out for people that have need, and I I put myself in their shoes, and I'm kind to them, and they they list all of these things that they do that are good. That is very, very common. That would be the mentality of these people. They trusted in themselves. Everything that I say that I'm doing for God Or everything that I'm presenting and saying, look at this God, accept me on the basis of this. Another way to put it is you trust in yourself. That's all that there is to it. You say, well, I mean, God's important, and his law is important, and I mean Jesus is important too, but he does his part, I do my part. Another way to put it is trusting in self. If you in any way are a part of the equation, what you do for God, what you present to God, what you point to that God should look at, if that's a part of the equation, then you would find yourself as one who trusts. in yourself. And that too, this parable is written too. The second way that he's described, that these people are described is that they were righteous. Now this is an important thing for us to consider. They had a standard problem. If somebody tells you this is right and this is wrong, the first question you should ask is by what standard? Why do you ask that question? Because the question is: is your standard yourself? Is your standard a friend? Is your standard a culture? Is your standard a country? Or is your standard someone who is bigger? Then all those things, God Himself. By what standard? The standard that these people had for righteousness was not God's. It was Kind of like what Paul says in Romans chapter 10. He says, these people being ignorant of the righteousness of God are going about to establish their own righteousness and have not submitted to the righteousness of God. Or we go to Romans chapter 3, and what does he say? He says, Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, because by the law is the knowledge of sin. So God's standard is there to say you fall short. You are guilty. You're in trouble. In fact, Isaiah 64, 6 says, all of our righteousness is as filthy rags. These people had a standard problem. They had a trust problem, they were trusting in themselves. They had a standard problem, they believed they were righteous, but they were ignoring the standard that really mattered. God's standard. A third thing that they had was an attitude problem. It says they despised others. And I have seen that this is true. I see it as I read the scriptures, I see it in the interaction that people have with one another. But when you are the standard , And you have justified yourself by your own standard. Everybody around you that falls short of your standard, you look at them with disdain. Because they fall short. They don't measure up. In fact, the more you want to build yourself up, the easier it is to put them down. Because what it does is it builds this chasm between you and other people. This was the attitude of the Pharisees. It shouldn't surprise anybody. If your standard is wrong, if your trust is misplaced, then you will most definitely have the wrong attitude towards the people around you. So I could break down their problem this way. Their trust problem was that their faith was in themselves. Their standard problem was that they were blinded by pride to the unapproachable height of God's standard. And thirdly, their attitude problem was that they were constantly trying to justify themselves, which meant they needed to tear down the people around them to quiet their own disturbed consciences. Let me ask a question before we dig into this a little further. Can you in any way identify with that? Now, the fact that you maybe can doesn't mean you're not a Christian, but what it might mean is you're not thinking like a Christian. You're not living consistent with the Christian viewpoint that begins with this understanding, I'm a sinner. I'm unrighteous, and the cross is my only hope. In fact, if we go back to the Sermon on the Mount, what Jesus says in Matthew chapter 5. He basically says, unless you have a view of your righteousness that it is worthless and it is undone, that's what it means to be poor in spirit. You won't be in the kingdom of God. He says, unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the Pharisees, you can't enter the kingdom of God. So the idea is that my standard can't be what I see around me, it's got to be Him. Second thing I want you to notice is the actual content of the parable. We see this in verses 10, 11, 12, and 13. He says, two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee that I almost feel like I need to read this like in a different voice. God, I thank you that I am not like other people are. You know what I mean? You gotta say it like that, because that's probably the way that he said it. But he says, God, I thank you, I'm not like other people are He says, I'm not an extortioner. I'm not a just. I'm not an adulterer. I'm not like that publican right there. Could you imagine? The guy's like, he's like sitting there and he's like Yeah, he just nailed me like every single one of those. Extortioner, unjust, adulterer. That's why he's laying on the ground saying, God be merciful to me a sinner The Pharisees looking at this guy and with every single word, it's like he just feels like his ego is just pumping up, you know, like, oh no, like him He says, I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that I possess. And the public in standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven. But smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. We have two very different people in this passage of Scripture. The one guy is a Pharisee. To put it in the simplest way I can, this guy is the greatest example of first century Jewish piety. You will not find an example of a more honest, upright, morally sound devoted, meticulous individual than the Pharisee. And what does the Apostle Paul say? He says, I was a Pharisee of Pharisees. I was the best of the best. These are the kind of people that would have walked out in their garden and they would say, here's how much how much mint I have. I've got to pick off the right amount to tithe herbs out of my herb garden and give it to God. Now we come this spring, nobody needs to bring your produce here, okay? I'm just going to tell you that, right? But that's the kind of meticulous care these people took. Now, the question is why? Why did they do it? It was pride. It wasn't a love for God. It wasn't as an expression of gratitude. It was about building a case for God to accept. And so here are these people who are so pious, meticulous attention to detail, highly motivated, outwardly very, very impressive. The second person, he is like the exact opposite. In fact, if we were to go to another portion of the gospels, it's like looking at the difference between Nicodemus and the woman at the well. Okay? So what do we have? We have Nicodemus. He is like, he is like a teacher of the teachers. And we have the woman at the well, go call your husband, and she's like, I don't have one. He's like, ah, five. And the one you're living with isn't your husband. Isn't it amazing how Jesus draws these contrasts? Here is this very morally upright guy, very knowledgeable, very respected, and he says, Hey Nicodemus, unless you're born again, you won't see the kingdom of God. He says to this woman, the woman at the well, he says, Do you want water that when you drink it you'll never thirst again? She's like, yes. You know what's amazing about those two stories? They get saved the same way. It's not about who they are before their conversion. It's about who they are in Christ. And we see the same kind of thing. We see this Pharisee, the best of the best, we see this publican. He is broken under the weight of his sin. He's a traitor to his fellow countrymen. He's dishonest in his dealings. He is morally compromised. I mean, just step back and think about it. Here's a guy that when the Romans came in and they established rule, he didn't fight against the Romans. He didn't resist the Romans. He didn't say, let's hold fast to our Jewish traditions. Let's make sure that we don't lose the worship of the one and only true God. He says, I'll work for the Romans and I'm going to extort my countrymen and I'm going to become very wealthy and very prosperous on the backs of my own countrymen. Like, oof. Can't even think about it, right? And then my question is, who do you think this guy hung out with? Well, we hung out with people like him. People who are morally compromised People who didn't care about their countrymen. People that use the arm of the law to abuse and take advantage of people. And so you see these two people walking into the temple, and it's pretty obvious in this parable who the good guy and who the bad guy is, right? Actually, it's not. Because by the end of the story, he's going to take the mentality of the people, he's going to turn it upside down. And he's going to say the guy that you think is the good guy is actually not. And the guy that seems like he's unsavable is going to go to his house with a clean conscience, sins washed away right with God. You say, how is that even possible? It's called the mercy and grace of God. But we also see two very different attitudes. The Pharisee, he's filled with pride. It says he stood and prayed thus with himself. I get in the back of my head another passage of scripture when Jesus is teaching on the Sermon on the Mount. And he talks about people who stand on the corners of the streets and they make long prayers. And what does he say? He says, God doesn't care about that. Why did he say that? Because that's what people did. So here's this guy. He walks into the temple. He stands up so that everybody can see what he's doing. He's like, God, I thank you. I'm not like these people. I don't do these things. I do these things. I'm a good guy. It's kind of fascinating too how he says he prayed thus with himself. Who is he talking to? Who is he talking about? Really could be looked at one of two ways. One is he's basically just expressing to God all the things that God should be impressed with about him, which clearly he was doing, or it's saying his prayer wasn't hitting the top of the ceiling. It wasn't going to God. God wasn't listening to his prayer. He says, I thank you, I'm not as other men are, especially this publican. Extortioners, those who are thieves, who abuse their power. Adulterers, those who are unfaithful and sexually immoral. Unjust, those who take advantage of others. You know, every single one of those things that that man said about the publican was probably true. It's true. The guy was an extortioner. I would have to assume that the guy was an immoral man, and most clearly he was unjust. You know what's amazing though? You read the Sermon on the Mount, you know what Jesus would say? The Pharisee was the same thing, too. That anger in his heart, he said, that's the same as murder. That lust in your heart, that's the same as adultery. In other words, God says the standard is not what people see, what people perceive. The standard is God's righteousness himself. He not only talks about the things that he doesn't do, he says, look at the things I do. I twice I fast twice a week. Anybody I'm not going to ask you that would be a problem in a sermon like this, right? But in your own heart, did you fast twice this week? So I might say, well, I I got a colonoscopy. So uh yeah, I fasted. That's not what I'm talking about right there, okay I'm talking about a religious fast. You say I'm trying to lose weight after the holidays. No, I'm not talking about that. I mean dedicating time to God to worship Him. This guy, this is his pattern of life. He did this every week. I give tithes of all that I possess. The fact is that this guy was impressed by what he didn't do. He was impressed by what he did do. But he was impressed because he didn't consider the standard. The publican has a totally different attitude. He is broken under the weight of his sin, and he simply says this. About the man standing afar off, he would not lift up so much as his eyes into heaven, but smote on his breast and said, God be merciful to me, a sinner. So the Pharisee walks into the temple, and this is his domain. This is the place that he works and he teaches, and this is the place that he's very comfortable in. The Pharisee knows what he's doing. The publican walks in and he's like, I don't belong here. The publican walks in and he stands off to the side. He's like, I don't have any right to be in this place. I don't have any right to come into the presence of a holy and righteous God. Totally different attitudes. And he falls on his face and he says, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And what's amazing about the language that I think The senses, are you saying this over and over and over again? God be merciful to me a sinner. He is he he is broken by the weight of his sin. You know what this is? Poor in spirit. This is repentance. This is a man who's come face to face with his own sinfulness and brokenness. And folks, that is an absolute prerequisite to being a child of God. You do not become a Christian by saying, God, look at all the things that I've done. You become a Christian by saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner, and you look to Jesus and you trust in his death and his resurrection and his righteousness is imputed to you, and you stand righteous and forgiven and cleansed. in his death, his resurrection, his righteousness, not yours. This is how people become Christians. Repent and believe. Turning to God in humility, recognizing you have nothing to bring to Him, and you look only to His righteousness And only to his sacrifice, only to his mercy, only to his grace. This is an absolute essential element to a person becoming a child of God. It's not just about saying, yeah, I'll sign that card. It's about the heart being broken before a holy God and placing your faith in the only one that could save you Third thing I want you to notice is that Christ applies the text for us. You know what's great about this passage of scripture? I feel like I'm preaching some Jesus just tells us all of it. He tells us who he's talking to. He gives us the content of the message, and then he applies it. I feel like it's the easiest thing in the world, right? This is a very simple In verse fourteen it says, I tell you this, man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Christ gives two very basic applications. The first is an application that is directly connected back to the gospel and salvation. And the second is a general principle that is being illustrated by this direct example of salvation. So first, first, not second, first. First, I tell you this, this man being the publican Went down to his house justified rather than the other. What does that mean? To put it very simply, this man was saved. The word justify is a word that is often used in the scripture in reference to how a sinner is declared not guilty in the presence of God. How is a sinner declared not guilty? Is it through his labors? No. Is it through climbing up that ladder of the law? No. Is it by striving to do better and to try to do good and to stop doing those things and to turn over a new leaf? The answer is no. A person is justified by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. Ephesians 2. 8 and 9, for by grace are you saved through faith. It's not of yourselves. The gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. This man was saved Because rather than looking at his own efforts and rather than looking at his own righteousness and rather than leaning on his own religious system, he turned from those things to trust only in the work of Christ. It's a gift. It's free. That is the most significant application of this passage of scripture. Jesus is saying, Nicodemus, you have to be born again. Woman at the well, I can give you water and you'll never thirst again. The Pharisee can't be saved until he's humbled. The publican Can be saved because God's mercy and grace is available through Christ. And he has humbled himself and he's ready to receive it. He needs to turn to the only one who can save him. him. The second is this, a general principle that applies in lots and lots of concepts. He says four, notice how he's connecting back to what he just said. This is a principle that applies in this context, but it applies in other contexts. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. So the person that says, God accept me, I've done this and this and this and this, and I stop this and this and this and this, and I'm going to do this and this and this and this, that person will not be saved. Why? Because he's exalting himself. He's going to be abased. But the one who humbles himself, God be merciful of me a sinner. It's not what I've done, it's what he did. God will save that person He'll lift them up. As it says back in the Sermon on the Mount, blessed are the poor in spirit. There's the kingdom of God. Blessed are those who mourn. They'll be comforted. Why? Because that one who is brought down and finds their comfort in Christ is lifted up and comfort. Listen to some of these other examples. Luke 14, 10. When thou art bidden to go and sit down in the lowest go and sit down in the lowest room, when you are bade, when he that bade thee come, he may say unto thee, friend, go up higher. Then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them that sit at meet with thee. For whosoever exalts themselves shall be abased. He that humbleth himself should be exalted There's that same principle. It's in a different situation. It's not talking about how we get saved. This is talking about when you walk into a social context. You put yourself in the position of honor, somebody might say, hey, step down. That's not your place. An embarrassment, right? You lift yourself up, you'll be put down. James 4, 6, he giveth more grace wherever he saith , God resisteth the proud, giveth grace to the humble 1 Peter 5, 5. Likewise ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility, for God resisteth the proud. And give it grace to the humble. Humble yourself, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Here's what we see in this passage. If you want to talk about a social setting, guess what? God resists the proud, he gives grace to the humble. You want to talk about interpersonal conflicts with other people? God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. You want to talk about how a person becomes a Christian? He resists the proud. He gives grace to the humble. This principle applies into all kinds of areas. And so what it shows you is that Christ's primary focus is to the person who needs to be born again. But he's also applying this to whoever hears the parable. So how do we apply the text in a very personal way? Let me give you two very simple explanations. I hope will be helped to you this morning. The first is from the example of Paul. Paul understood both sides of this parable. In fact, when I think about the Bible, I can hardly think of a better example of a person who got this on both sides. He knew what it was like to be the Pharisee. Who is building up his religious credentials before God? And he knew what it was like to be the publican. He said, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Listen to what he says. 1 Corinthians 15, 9. I am the least of the apostles. I am not me to be called an apostle. I persecuted the church of God, but by the grace of God I am what I am. That amazing statement. He got it. He talks about how he came to understand this. Philippians chapter 3 verse 7. What things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. Yea, doubtless I count all things but lost for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I suffer the loss of all things, and I do count them but dung that I may win Christ. And be found in Christ not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness of God by faith. You know what Paul's saying? Before I became a Christian, my mentality was, do good. Be good, look good. Compare yourselves to all the people around you. And as long as you are better And you are more meticulous in your care and your moral position is superior to theirs. God's good with you. All those things that he heaped up as his credentials and said, God, look at these, accept me. He came to a point of brokenness. And he said, God, it's all rubbish. It's dumb. It has no value. God be merciful to me, a sinner. That's what he did. And he says, at that moment I was found in him, not having my own righteousness, which comes through those things. But the righteousness of God by faith, the righteousness of God by faith, that is justification. That's how a person is made right with God. So to the unbeliever, there are few systems in this world that are more destructive and evil than self-righteous religion. It doesn't matter what form it comes in by name. It could be in a church just like this one, to be very honest with you If the mentality of people is that we are accepted by God through the things we do for him, it's a system that is absolutely destructive. But when we understand we come to God through the grace and the work of Christ alone, that's true Christianity. You cannot allow yourself to be deceived by a faulty standard of righteousness. God alone is the standard, not us or the people around us. New life in Christ starts with repentance toward God and leaves us to faith alone in the gospel. There might be someone here this morning, but the application for you is you need to turn to Christ and you need to place your faith in what he's done for you. I don't know. I mean, I don't know everybody that's here today. I don't know your heart. I don't know what's going on. I I certainly don't know everyone that is listening on the live stream this morning. Or the great thing about the internet is somebody might watch this 10 years from now. And this will be just as pertinent on the day they hear it as it was on the day it was preached. But there may be a person who listens to this. And the Spirit of God is pointing to you and saying, you are the Pharisee. You are Paul before he was converted. You are Nicodemus. And you need to humble yourself and turn to God and place your faith in what Christ did for you. And if that's what the Spirit of God is telling you, why don't you obey him? Why don't you listen to what he's saying? God commands all men everywhere to repent. Believe in the gospel. But I understand that the vast majority of people who are listening to this are believers. And there's also an application for us The self-righteousness of the unbeliever should never characterize us as Christians. And many, many times, we as Christians, though we know theologically how we're saved, in practice we live as if we don't get it. And and we betray that thinking when we have a problem with another person. We betray that thinking when it comes to why we come to church. why we give and why we pray and how we do it and and and and how we order our families and we're very, very concerned, not so much about just doing right because we love God, but it's all about building up credentials in front of the people around us. And ultimately before Him. And so this mentality of self-righteousness should never characterize us as God's people. We should be humble. We should be loving. We should be gracious. We should be merciful. We are sinners saved by grace. That's my second point. We are sinners saved by grace alone. We're unworthy and unrighteous outside of Him. We've done nothing to earn this position. We should kneel humbly in it. This humility should permeate every facet of our lives. One of the reasons it's so practical and so good for us as Christians to hear the gospel preached. is because it freshly reminds us of the most basic core values of what it means to be a child of God. His grace, his mercy, his work, it's a gift. It's free. We don't deserve it. And we should live like people who have been forgiven of the greatest debt imaginable. May God help us to be those people. Let's bow for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed before we close in prayer, I'm going to ask a simple question. Is there anyone here this morning that say Joel, as I listened to that message and I read those truths, I realize I'm not a Christian. I've never placed my faith in Christ. And I need to do that today. I need to say, God be merciful to me a sinner and I need to place my faith in Christ. Is there anyone that would raise up your hand quietly and say, that's me, Joel? I need to do that. Anyone at all. I need to cry out, God be merciful to me as sinner. I am that sinner who has been trusting in my own righteousness. And I need to turn to Christ There might be someone here this morning that says, I know the gospel and I'm saved, but I'll tell you I don't I don't live practically like I like I should. Those things that were mentioned at the end, the pride, it characterizes my heart. It characterizes my interactions with other people. I want to live like the person I am. That might be you. Let's bow for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to apply his word this evening or this morning. Our Father, we thank you for the word of God. It is powerful to humble us. And to provoke us to turn to you. And I pray that the Spirit of God would be doing his work even now, that the truths of Scripture would be pressed into our souls That we would be built up in the truth, would be humbled under the weight of it, and that we would rejoice in the beauty of it. Father, if there's anyone here, either listening virtually or here in person that does not know you as their savior, I pray that this morning they would reach out. That they'd be able to come to a saving knowledge of Christ Jesus. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.