Um take your Bibles, please, and turn to Colossians chapter 4. Colossians 4. And uh I just want to walk you through a couple of um key things and a passage that uh for me is one of those passages that uh I know I've read it Many times in my life, I I I've I've read my Bible many times in my life. I know that uh I studied through the book of Colossians years ago. Um but it wasn't really until preaching through the book uh for our church there in Lima, the second half of last year, and and coming again to this text that Just started to make some con understand some connections there in Paul's arguments that really became very impacting for me, in a sense clarifying for me some things I was coming to believe. And then to see Paul saying those things in a in just a very succinct way was really helpful to me. And I want to try to unfold those for you here in just a few moments. moments that we have. Colossians 4, let's start in verse 2. He says, um Colossians 4, verse 2, continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving. Withal praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance. to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in bonds, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. And if your Bible has a break there of any indication, I want you to kind of push through that. And I think Paul's argument is pushing through into the next verses. I don't think there's a natural separation there in Paul's thinking. So verse 5, walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the time. Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer every man. Some key, key things in that verses five and six. We'll get to them in a moment. Father, I take your word and help me just in unfolding it. I pray that your Holy Spirit would take it and apply it in just some very uh powerful and impacting ways tonight uh for for for us and uh we pray that in jesus name amen So to give you a framework here, there's three things I want to help you to see, and we're going to sit more on the last one. So I'm going to push through the first two more quickly. And we'll sit on the last one and stay there for a little bit longer time. So one, I want you to see what Paul has to say about proclaiming the mystery of the gospel. And I believe that that phrase is right in there, the mystery of Christ, verse 3, which explain in a moment he has in his mind the mystery of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So first proclaiming the mystery of the gospel, second praying for the advance of the gospel, and then thirdly clarifying the answers So first of all, proclaiming the mystery of the gospel. And if you just read this text without any Any pretext there, any notions of what may be coming here? One of the first things that jumps out to or should jump out to is that Paul has a sense of urgency. About proclaiming the mystery of Christ. I'll pick up in verse 3. With all praying also for us, what pray what? That God would open unto us the door of utterance. A door for the word. That word utterance is the Greek word lagos. It's a door for the word to speak the mystery of Christ. So he's urgent. He wants them to pray that God would open these doors for the word. So they would speak the mystery of Christ. He says, I'm so urgent about it. This is why I'm in bonds. This is why I'm in prison. Verse 4, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. Now I'm not going to take time to go all the way back, but this mystery of Christ, you see, we're in Colossians 4. He's already referenced this several times in the book. Colossians 1, Colossians 2, again in Colossians 4. This mystery of Christ. Now the way Paul deals with it in Colossians is a little different from how he deals with it, for example, in Ephesians. But he's driving at the same thing. When he uses the word mystery, he's talking about really this. This view of the gospel that is that is so panoramic that it starts in Genesis 1 and goes all the way to the end of Revelation. It's encompassing all of time. And so the mystery unfolds from Genesis 1 and 2. God created everything w perfect. And then in Genesis 3 it all got messed up. And you push your way all the way through the Old Testament. And one of the things, it's by no means the only thing, but one of the key things that runs all the way through the Old Testament is, the way I'm going to put it is this. It's this lingering question of this project that God began with creation and got messed up in Genesis 3. It's this lingering question of, is there any hope? Left? Has God abandoned his project? And we know all through the Old Testament that he maintained a level of commitment to his project um to to humanity, to s to rescuing them, to saving them. There's these constant references to a coming Messiah. God would send prophets to call the people back. He gave them one or two great kings , great leaders, he gave them his law, and yet you get to the end of Malachi, and then comes this four hundred years of silence, and the question is lingering. Is does God still care? I mean, you can put yourself as a Jew in the time of Jesus, but before Jesus really comes on the scene publicly, Wouldn't that, if you're a serious Jew, serious about God and the Word and the Old Testament and the law, I mean, wouldn't that be a reasonable question? Is God still committed to to the project? It's a mystery. It was a mystery. And so in the death And the resurrection of Jesus Christ, the mystery is explained. The mystery is is showed. It's explained. You ever wonder why Jesus would heal someone? They'd want to go out and tell the whole world and he'd say, no, no, no, no, no. It's that silence of not yet. When the three disciples went up to The Mount of Transfiguration, Jesus was transfigured. They come down and he says, don't tell anybody until. Do you remember what the until was? It was until I have risen from the dead. And why the silence still? Because until the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ took place, there wasn't a a, the mystery wasn't fulfilled completely yet. It wasn't fully understood yet. So if they had gone out before the death and resurrection and began to proclaim a full gospel , It wasn't there to proclaim that they struggled to understand the death. The disciples did, the death, the resurrection. And God in his grace And that time after the resurrection made clear to them. In Acts 1, he was explaining to them what the kingdom was all about. It is all about new life in Christ because of the death for our sins. And the resurrection, new life. And that's why in Matthew 28 he turns and says, Now go tell everybody. Everybody. Everybody. It's to the uttermost parts of the earth. So that's the mystery. And Paul is just, it's just this profound sense of urgency in all of his writings about proclaiming it. That's the first thing I want you to sense in this passage. How urgent? He's in jail because of it. So you and I need to be gospel. proclaimers. Now, we're gonna s switch gears for a second because the second thing I want you to see here. It's Paul praying for the advance of the gospel. So this urgency about proclaiming the gospel. But then you see him And right parallel with that, that urgency about proclaiming, he says there in verse 4, pray that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak, make it clear. But he says, pray these things. And specifically in verse 3, it's pray that God would open unto us a door of utterance. Now, think about that illustration that he uses. A door. So a door, and we're to proclaim the gospel, and yet there are some very natural limitations to proclaiming the gospel. Uh missionaries immediately when they land in a different country where it's a different language, immediately they're confronted with the fact that until they Learn the language well. They it's going to be very difficult to push that door open. to be able to proclaim the gospel to them. And actually, in the way Paul uses the illustration of a door, the point is that you and I can't open the door because he says, pray that God would open a door For the word, a door of utterance. And I remember as I as I study this text out a few months ago, God used it to kind of settle in my heart. A deeper sense of the need for prayer in this in this way. And it was that as urgent as the senses in Paul's heart about proclaiming the gospel. He could put that right alongside of the fact that he knew he was inadequate to actually produce any fruit. That was totally out of his hands. So he says, you need to pray, because if God doesn't open a door, then we're just not going to be able to see any fruit. And that's the, I 'm going to call it a tension, but a balance that it looks to me like Paul lived in. And that's where I want to live, especially as a missionary. But all of us as Christians need to live in that, which is that we don't back down in our hearts any sense of the urgency about gospel proclamation? Paul's in jail because of it? And yet at the same time, we go to our knees praying that God would open the doors in people's hearts and doors for sharing the gospel in places that are difficult. Why? Because we just can't open those doors. So we have to pray. And that's that's that tension and balance that I want to live in. Now let me take you to the last thing. And this to me is just I think it will help bring those two things together for us. But specifically it will help counsel us on how we do gospel proclamation. So as we're praying, the God would open doors, Paul immediately turns. That's verses 3, 2, 3, and 4. And then immediately he turns in verse 5, and he's going to get very, very practical with this. Now the first thing you need to see is this, is the fact that I believe Paul's on the same line of thought. There's no break in his line of thought here So when he turns in verse 5 and he says, Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, the key in my mind that shows us he's still thinking about gospel proclamation. is the fact that he's he's saying walk in wisdom toward a specific group of people and he describes them as the ones that are without. And what he's saying is those that are outside. Outside of what? Outside of the gospel. That are not believers. That's who he's talking about. So that's the clue to me that he's still talking about gospel proclamation. So the walk in wisdom is not just a general counsel to try to live your life wisely. That's not what he's saying. What he's saying is, toward people that don't know the gospel, we need to do gospel proclamation wisely. We need to walk, live our lives, interacting with them. And again, gospel proclamations on his mind. He's just said, pray the God would open doors. Pray that we would make it manifest and clear. Now you, how do you do it? Well, you've got to be wise about it. So here we are. And Paul is shifting now the com he's shifting the the context here to now looking at us, looking in his mind the Colossus the Colossian believers, and saying, now for you. What about gospel witness? Okay. Walk in wisdom toward them that are without. Okay? How do I walk in wisdom toward them? Well, the first thing is redeeming the time. So that phrase We could put it in these terms. It really is taking advantage of the opportunities. That's really the word time there. There's two words in the Greek for time. The one he uses is the one that really has to do with opportunities. Time in the sense of a unit of time here or there and different times. And so it's it's it's redeeming those. It's taking advantage of those So that's that's his first real practical counsel about gospel witness. Now look at verse six. And verse six, I mean each additional phrase to me just gets better and better and more practical and more practical. practical. Because he turns in and he says, let your speech. Now again, he's not talking about general speech. He's talking about gospel witness. That's the context. So let your gospel witness, your speech Speaking the gospel, not just living the gospel, it's actually it's both, but it's it's it's clearly speaking the gospel. Let your gospel speech Be always with grace seasoned with salt. And man, this is great counsel. This is tremendous counsel. So the way we do gospel witness It cannot be , it should not be in a way that is really mean or irritating to people. We're not called to get under their skin with the gospel because he says our gospel speech needs to be the balance of grace seasoned with salt. So the gospel message it's not um It's not a message that is irritable, and I'm looking for words, and I'm not coming up with them. It is a message that confronts our hearts in deep, deep ways. But it that that's the salt part. You know how salt works in a wound? That it it's sometimes you really need it, but man, it kind of pricks you there And so what does the gospel do? It actually is very confrontational with us. It has to prick our conscience. It needs to point out the fact that what we've been seeking is not sufficient. So a man's been seeking the answer to his life. And a successful career. And the gospel actually comes along and confronts that idol and says, you'll never find what you're looking for and vocational success. And what you're actually looking for, Jesus, and the gospel is the answer. And it says to a mother who all of her life is wrapped up in the success of her children. And it says, they are going to fail you. You cannot find the answer to your hopes and the success of your children. And what you need is to find it in Jesus and the gospel. You see, it's very confrontational. That's the salt part. But we present it in such compassionate, gracious ways because the gospel message is a gracious message. So you see his counsel there? It is salt and grace together. Not backing down from either one of them. those. It's not even a balance of those. It's both of those completely. And so as you confront with the gospel, it has to be in a way that's just counts with so much grace that it becomes um something desirable to the person. Because if you're going to ask them to give up seeking their hopes, in what they've always been seeking it in, so they will actually embrace the hope of the gospel, then it must be with so much grace that they can seek it. See that. Now, I don't even think that's the best counsel he gives here. I think the best one's still to come in the last phrase. And look at the last phrase in verse 6. That ye may know how ye ought to answer. Every man. I've already kind of prepared the way for this, but let me explain. I think the key word there is the word answer. And Paul is very careful with his words, you know that. So he chooses the word answer on purpose. Why? Because the gospel Is actually, and this is very practical for us, is an answer to the deepest longings in every human heart. So what do you what what do we expect missionaries to do? We expect missionaries to go and learn the culture. And what does that mean? It's not just figuring out that they don't mind being late and that they really like to have long family reunions or that, you know, whatever that they solve problems differently. It's actually spiritually something much deeper, which is that a missionary needs to learn what are their hopes and what are their aspirations, what are their idols. What are they seeking? What are they looking for to find satisfaction, to find fulfillment? What are the things that give them identity? It's learning their culture so well, their hearts, so that you can actually say it exactly you can explain themselves to themselves. Almost better than they can. And when you can do that as a missionary, then what happens? Then you can come in with the gospel and you can answer That's his word. That's Paul's word. You can answer with the gospel. So let me just give you three examples, and we'll be done here. Let's take the issue of guilt. So some people live with a constant sense of guilt over past failures. Lots of people live that way. So what is the gospel answer to a person who is consumed with guilt? They just can't get beyond their past life. What is the gospel answer to a person? I've met many people that they just in essence they're they look at me as I share the gospel and it's like, but I'm too bad. I'm too bad for the gospel. I got you know I've just done too many bad things, too much guilt. What how does the gospel answer that Well, one of the ways to answer that, maybe the most powerful, my favorite, is to go to Romans 8. 1. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. That's the gospel answer. to the person who is consumed with his own guilt or her own guilt. Do you see that? So so so that person that that they need Romans 8. 1 probably more than they need other texts that are also gospel texts. But the one that answers the great struggle in their heart best is a text like Romans 8. 1 because it addresses what they're struggling with. You see, the gospel is the answer. to the deep need in their heart. Here's another one. What about the issue of doubt? Some people feel such tremendous pressure from the secular worldview today that they have a very hard time accepting the fact that the Bible could actually be true. How do you preach the gospel to someone like that? How do you preach it in a way that actually answers those doubts? How do you do that? Well, listen, I'm not very good at it when I actually have to do it. But I can at least explain to you the approach I try to take. Which is this, and it is that I believe that the Bible is the most compelling and convincing explanation of our existence. It begins with creation, answering the questions of our origins. Continues with the story of man's fall into sin and the resulting curse that God placed on the whole creation, answering the question of what's wrong with the world. So people having these doubts. Is the Bible trustworthy? I want to take them to Genesis. Listen, the Bible says this everything started with a good God who has always existed and he created something very, very good. And then I want to take them to Genesis 3 and say, but it all got messed up when man sinned and rebelled against his creator. And so the deep problems of the human heart are actually inside of us. And you because you compare that to what if they have a secular worldview, what they believe, they actually believe something that's the opposite, which is they believe that the problems are outside of us. It's a bad environment, a lack of education, bad uh not enough finances. And I want to show them that actually the Bible answer to those deep questions, where do we come from? What's wrong with the world? Where is history advancing toward? Where is it going? Those deep questions, the Bible's answers are profound and very believable and deep. And they actually satisfy the answer those deep longings. See the secular worldview has no good answer for where is history going. They don't believe it's going anywhere. And the Bible says no. Well that deep deep question in our hearts, that deep sense of no, there there is some ultimate purpose to this life, the Bible gives it just a profound answer. to that. It is that Jesus Christ died for our sins and the resurrection shows that new life is is possible. And you go to Revelation or Romans 8 and you see that that God's going to renew all of creation. And so to those deep, someone with those kind of doubts, the gospel answer to them, I think, is best formed in those terms. Do you see how the gospel does answer those one more and then I'll be done? What about a person that lives with such constant stress in their lives that they feel like a mouse running on a wheel that will never stop. I hope I'm not describing your life. What do you do with a person like that who's unsaved and that that's just the way their life operates? And every time you get with them, like, oh man, things are so stressed at work and at home and da-da -da. How do you speak the gospel to a person like that in terms that will make sense to them? I think one of the best ways to do it is to take him to Matthew 11, 28, where Jesus says, come unto me all who are who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. You see, that person needs to understand that Jesus came to give us a rest that their rat race will never give them. Why are they in the rat race? Because they want more stuff or they want they want more success or or they just feel like if they stop running that that they won't know what to do with themselves. And what is the gospel answer? It is that in in in Christ there is a profound rest and of course in that they need to understand that that only comes through understanding Jesus' death for their sins and the new life in Christ But you remember how Jesus was with different people. He talked in very different ways. With Nicodemus, he was somewhat abrupt with him. He took the man that that was very morally upright and he said, all of that is worthless. You need to throw it all out. You need to be born again. None of that legalism or moralism will do any good for you. You need something radically different. And then in John 4, he turns right around to the woman at the well and speaks to her in very different terms. Same Jesus, same same message eventually, which is that In Christ alone there's sufficiency for for for for the deep longings of every human heart. But he he he he put it in completely different terms with the woman at the well because she was coming from a different a different setting. Different longings of the heart. Her issue, I think, was she was seeking satisfaction. She was just seeking it in the wrong places. And he comes along and says, what you're looking for, actually I'm the only one that can give that to you. And so the gospel is the answer, Paul says, I just want to set on your hearts first that urgency about gospel proclamation. Secondly, the sense of the need to pray because we can't open all those doors. Then thirdly, that you would ask God to help you get better and gospel clear. And answering with the gospel. And what it will probably take is that you spend more time thinking. That's the wisdom part, walk in wisdom, thinking about the person you want to share the gospel with. And how is it that you need to show them that Christ is the answer to what they've been looking for, even though they don't know that? Father, thank you for our time. I pray you'd help us in that and help me. It's not easy. I can get up here and talk about it because I've written out my notes, but it's not easy for me out on the street. or in a park or wherever I meet unsafe people. And Lord, so help all of us to really understand that, to embrace what Paul's saying here. And then just to keep really desiring to get better at that. And and uh so just help this to be the case for us. We're grateful now in Jesus' name. Amen.