We're looking forward to our service tonight. Uh let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to really bless our time together tonight. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to gather today and to be fed in your word and to sing praise to you and to share a time of fellowship together with other believers. And I pray that tonight the testimonies that are shared and the songs that we sing and the scriptures that are read, that these would all direct our attention to you and prepare our hearts for the things that we'll encounter in the week. And we ask for your blessing on this time. In Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening. Let's stand and open our hymn books to hymn number 411, the solid rock. We're going to sing all four verses of hymn number four hundred and sing out this evening. My hope is best on nothing less than Jesus Lord and Christmas. I dare not trust us, we just bring but only with our Jesus name I bring us on the call and When the wind went to raise in every morning. I enter the neck and open holiday, primarily while the ground is the more. Break swinging, please be seated. as we turn over to hymn number 418. Trust and obey. We'll sing the first, second, third, and the fifth verse. Trust and obey. When we walk with the bike. We are mine. Nothing like mine , what is my way? I'm a green more, I'm a brother, but I can have a Great singing this evening. Let's turn back to hymn number three. Three hundred and fifty-five. Three fifty-five, Jesus paid it all. Let's sing all four verses. I beat across the earth, I pray that the wheel goes everywhere. And the dead feeders Great singing this evening. Thirty one verse three Yes, first three. He cried apart the iron grip of sand and gave us strength Violent And one sixty-seven in the blue book And verse three, the brilliant light the stone removed. Let's do two sixty five and the red book. Christ arose Oh , let 's go break you on the prayer, where we are. Eighty one in the Red Book. Eighty one A mighty fortress is our government. Three seventy-one A passion for thee Yes, uh six twenty-nine. Six twenty-nine Kind of suspiciously late in the hymn book. Let's see. Got one from that family. I'm trying to get each family here. Uh all right. Uh yes, add on. Forty two in the red book. All right. And Maya four hundred and eighty-two. Oh, that sounds suspicious. Sounds like a veto coming Do I dare? Chris. I'm not singing if I don't know it tonight. What is it? All right, let's start with the blue book. One sixty Hmm, you played through once. I We'll learn this one and next time I'm up, I'll do it. All right. Six twenty-nine in the red book. Six twenty nine. Oh nice. Well let's hang on to this one. I want to close with this one. Forty two in the red book. I will sing of my Redeemer Right, and four eighty two. Dwelling and oh I know why this one's picked. I'm bringing you things on the prayer from the. . Amen. Alright, let's all stand and turn to When was it? Forty no. Uh 629. 629. Let's stand on. Love this chorus. Wonderful. We'll sing both verses. Sing it out this evening. Acá hay un tal de alineamiento. Turn with me, please, to Exodus nineteen. Tonight we begin a two part look at what is commonly referred to as the Ten Commandments. And I hope that by looking at these We'll have a greater appreciation for what Jesus told the lawyer in Matthew 22 When he came up to Jesus and asked, which of the six hundred and thirty or thirteen commandments of the Torah was the greatest? Jesus' answer to this Young, possibly lawyer, was a naturally profound one. Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. So with this in mind, we're going to examine the Ten Commandments and the events that surround their being given. in two parts. We're going to look at the first four, which primarily deal with our interaction with God. And then we'll look at the last six, which primarily focus on our interaction with one another. But before we actually get into the Ten Commandments, we need to look at the events and the circumstances surrounding chapter 20. by looking at chapter 19 along with it. Because when we look at those two chapters, we're going to find that they introduce Not only the events and interactions surrounding the establishing of the Ten Commandments, but also the covenants between God and his people Israel. And what we're going to find in all these interactions surrounding the giving of the Ten Commandments is that God wants us to know Him personally in an intimate yet sobering. relationship as his people. And how we're going to begin that tonight is by looking at three, I would say general But they are profound truths about our God, along with some of their m important implications. To start out tonight, let's begin by reading the first nine verses of Exodus 19. It says, In the third month when the children of Israel were gone forth out of the land of Egypt, the same day came they into the wilderness of Sinai. For they were departed from Rephedim, and were come to the desert of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness, and there Israel camped before the mount. And Moses went up unto God, and the Lord called unto him out of the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel. Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, and how I bare you on eagle's wings, and brought you unto myself. Now, therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people For all the earth is mine, and ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and an holy nation. These are the words which shall thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel. And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before their faces all these words which the Lord commanded him. And all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord hath spoken, we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people unto the Lord. And the Lord said unto Moses , Lo, I come unto thee in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with thee, and believe thee forever. And Moses told the words of the people unto the Lord. Now as we begin as we begin looking at these profound truths that help us to understand Him personally in an intimate, sobering relationship as his people, we're going to find from these verses that our God is knowable. Now, when I say knowable, I don't mean that we fill our minds with some facts or intellectual thoughts about our God. Rather, I'm saying that he is noble in the sense that he wishes to express who he is to a specific people. And he does so with a very intimate pursuit. The way we see him as noble in these verses is that he is a God who desires A people for communion. So about three months after the Exodus, the children of Israel were led to the base of Mount Sinai. And there God spoke to Moses to initiate the covenant that he would establish with Israel. In so doing, he uses some very beautiful language to communicate that not only have they been separated from their lives in Egypt, but they have been brought into a new context. All through the tender grace and favor of the Lord. And by separating Israel from that former context, They are now in a context in which God may commune with them through Moses, Aaron, and later the priesthood, and even now directly through the cloud. Now, when I use the word communion, it simply means an act or an instance of sharing. Another way to look at it is an intimate fellowship or report. You see, God desired to commune with Israel in so much that he wished to communicate his word to them so that they would worship him according to a knowledge of him. This is not so different from how God wishes to commune with us. First John 1:3 reminds us that our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And God has always desired an intimate, intentional communion with his people. While the Israelites had a very distinct means of communion through the tabernacle, through the temple worship, through the priesthood. While they have the visible glory of God manifest to them, we have fellowship and communion because of Christ's finished work on the cross. And we and our acceptance of the gospel brings us into the body of Christ, which Paul describes as the temple of the living God. And because of that gracious privilege in Christ, God dwells in us and is present among us, for he is our God, and we are his people. So he is a God who desires a people for communion. But there's a deeper Purpose to his making himself known to his people that we see in the latter half of that passage that we just read. He not only seeks communion with his people, but he also desires a people for affection. You realize that when man is in rebellion against God, when we are in our natural state apart from Christ, God Must utterly cut off not only himself, but his love as well. Psalm 5, 5 and 11, 5 remind us that the wicked shall not stand in his sight. He hates all workers of iniquity. But with Israel, he chose them to be a people, not because of their merits. Or anything that they have done, but surely by his own grace, and that they would be recipients of his love if they would obey his voice and keep his covenant. Now I recognize that this is a national, it's not an individual mandate. While we can be sure that not every citizen of the nation of Israel understood or even believed God and his word We can be sure that God's desire was to have a people with whom he would not only commune with, but demonstrate his personal love and affection toward. Such is evidence from Moses ' final blessing on the children of Israel before his death. Deuteronomy 33, 2 and 3 states. The Lord came from Sinai and rose up from Seir unto them. He shined forth from Mount Peran, and he came with ten thousand of saints. From his right hand went a fiery law for them. Yea, he loved the people. All his saints are in thy hand, and they sat down at thy feet, every one. Shall receive of thy words a deep affection that God had for his people of Israel. But we who are in the body of Christ may look to that passage in Ephesians 5, where it says that Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. Why? So we can have a good role model for how we should be as husbands and wives. Not the it's not the main reason. So that he may sanctify and cleanse the church with the washing of water by the word that he might present it to himself. A glorious church not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. You see, in this age, God is gathering together a people, not as a sovereign nation state, not as an ethnic people group. But as a body of born-again believers purchased by the blood of our Lord Jesus Christ. Why? Because he wishes to love us. He desires us as a man desires to love and be with his wife for as long as they both shall live. A pure, committed, selfless love. That requires sacrifice and daily communion. A love that tells us that God is personally knowable. Our God is knowable. And that is important for us to understand as we seek to Understand this God who seeks personal, intimate relationship with his people But as we move through this passage in chapter 19, we need to see that our God is not only knowable, but he is powerful. And the description here is quite striking. We're going to see that, first of all, his power in this passage is demonstrated through his perfect holiness. Notice in verse 10. It says, and the Lord said unto Moses, Go unto the people and sanctify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes and be ready against the third day. For the third day the Lord shall will come down in the sight of all the people upon Mount Sinai. And thou shalt set bounds unto the people roundabout, saying, Take heed to yourselves that ye go not up into the mount or touch the border of it. Whosoever touches the mount shall surely be put to death. There shall not in hand touch it, but he shall surely be stoned or shot through, whether it be beast or man, it shall not live. When the trumpet soundeth long, they shall come up to the mount. And Moses went down from the mount and unto the people and sanctified the people. And they washed their clothes. And he said unto the people, Be ready as the third day. Come not at your wives. Beginning in verse 10, we see God through Moses preparing the children of Israel for his physical descent upon Mount Sinai. I can't even imagine. What a scene like this would have looked like in person. This unique event in history and in the lives of these really sinful people, as we saw last week, required a sobering mindset in those who would take witness. And that mindset was accompanied by certain actions which God stipulated to ensure that the people were aware of the God whom they were dealing with. It's the same God that they were earlier complaining about in the wilderness about food and water. It said that they had to wash their clothes. They had to completely eliminate any physical filth. They had to set boundaries around the mountain that would not be crossed by either men or animals upon penalty of death. They even had to refrain from lawful pleasures to maintain, I believe, a sober-mindedness that this was a holy God coming down into their physical presence. And that leads me to his power not only be being demonstrated in his perfect holiness, but also in his great presence. We looked at God's presence a couple weeks ago when we saw him with the Israelites going through the Red Sea But I feel like this particular passage, we see almost a more fearsome, great manifestation of his presence. In a very visual way. When I say great, I'm talking about something that's large, significant, powerful. It's kinda like how we say, not like Frosted Flakes where we say that's great. I'm talking about something that is great, has weightiness to it. In German we say the word gross. It means it has great significance. When God descended in a cloud upon Mount Sinai, it is likely that Israel quickly realized That the God who brought terrible judgment upon Egypt, the God who defeated the Amalekites in just the chapter before this, was the same God as I mentioned before, whom they complained about. In near rebellion. Notice how God makes Himself manifest in verse 16. And it came to pass on the third day in the morning that there were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud upon the mount. And the voice of a trumpet is exceeding loud, so that all the people that was in the camp trembled. And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God. And they stood at the nether part of the mount. And Mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the Lord descended upon it in fire, and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke of a furnace And the whole mount quaked greatly. And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice. And the Lord came down upon the Mount Sinai on top of the mounts. And the Lord called Moses up to the top of the mount, and Moses went up. And the Lord said unto Moses, Go down, charge the people, lest they break through unto the Lord to gaze, and many of them perish. And let the priests also, which come near to the Lord, sanctify themselves. Lest the Lord break forth upon them. And Moses said unto the Lord, The people cannot come up to Mount to Mount Sinai. For thou chargest us, saying, Set bounds about the mount and sanctify. And the Lord said unto him away, get thee now, and thou shalt come up, thou and Aaron with thee, but let not the priests and the people break through to come unto the Lord, lest he break forth upon them. So Moses went down unto the people and spake unto them. We see these thunders and lightnings, this trumpet sound that caused the people This hot burning smoke, this quaking of the mountain, all leading to a charge stating. If anyone would go through these boundaries, they will die. This is a terrifying, sobering scene in history. And it's one that every person should read and take into serious account. We cannot be flippant. about our God, or diminish the terror of who He is in light of our sinful state. Like how Jonathan Edwards Uses vivid imagery of mankind and how he stands with with God, where he describes man as an insect being held over a flame. Kept only from falling in by God's merciful hand. But as dreadful and as terrifying as this realization should be There is another realization that we must come to on this side of the cross. This God Who rightfully should cause fear and trembling in the hearts of a sinful people is the same God who willingly took on flesh. Was born in Bethlehem, grew up as a child in Nazareth, hungered and wandered around the Roman province of Palestine, died in humiliation and agony on a cross outside of Jerusalem. Being holy, he still ate and sat with publicans and sinners. Having a powerful presence, he still sat and supped with his disciples. With John the Apostle leaning his head upon his chest as he spoke to him. Being the living, powerful God, he rules and reigns now at the right hand of the Father. And we can know him. He is a God who is powerful and knowable Which leads us now to chapter 20, where we begin the Ten Commandments, and we see that our God is not only knowable and powerful. But he is worthy. And here I will say he is worthy of worship. And not just a worship that encompasses as a single act or a series of acts. I'm talking about a posture, a lifestyle that is living in light of God's presence and work in our lives. In verse one, we say, and God spake all these words, saying, I am the Lord thy God. Which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me. And showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh day of the set is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work, thou nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day, wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. We see that our God is worthy. In the first command, we see that he is worthy of soul worship. Pantheism and pluralism and religious syncretism was virtually universal to mankind when God first gave these Ten Commandments. It was vital, it was important that the children of Israel understood that Jehovah was not one of many gods. He was not the most powerful of all the gods. He was the one true God who created the heavens and the earth and all that is in them. Having this distinction, the God of Israel is the only being in any existence worthy of receiving worship and adoration. And we as Christians are not immune to the worship of false gods, and not all of them are visible either Anything, anyone, any philosophy, any false perception of even our God and Savior Jesus Christ has the potential of receiving worship that is due only to the one true God. Even in part. Our God is a jealous God, as he mentions in verse five. That means he desires the love and the affection and the worship that is due to him alone. As a spouse who is jealous for the love and the affection and desire due within a marriage relationship, we belong to God. As does all of our love and adoration. He's worthy of soul worship. In the second commandment, we see that he's worthy of proper worship. He goes on to say, Thou shalt have no other gods before me, to saying, Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. Seeing that God is alone, the only one worthy of any form of worship, he gets to decide what is appropriate in his creation's worship of him. He stipulates that unlike any other God commonly worshipped in that age, he would be worshipped as the invisible God. This is crit critical. It's not that God would not be willing to give us a visual glimpse of himself. You know that because Jesus Christ is the express image of the Godhead bodily. It's not even necessarily that God would forbid a visual portrayal of Himself as Muslims would believe. The point is that God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. He's not to be worshipped like any other false God. He is to be worshipped according to his character and his commandments. This is so important because As verse 5 reveals to us, idolatry is a sin that affects not only one generation, but multiple. It is a sin that can destroy the faith of a person's children. Of a person's grandchildren, of a person's great-grandchildren, and great-great-grandchildren. Yet while God holds each generation accountable for their unbelief , Verse 6 serves as a reminder that our God is merciful. Countless generations have and will continue to overcome the sins of idolatry. To become recipients of the grace of God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And listen: the fact that we are in here tonight is a testimony to that fact. We are here because a generation chose to worship God. He is worthy of soul and proper worship. He's also worthy of consistent worship. He says, Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Now we generally understand that the point of this is not necessarily about using God's or Christ's name as a curse word. Rather, it's about using God's name for vain or unworthy things, including our own lives. Doing this is dangerous. If we are calling ourselves Christian, we are literally calling ourselves Christ's followers. But when our lives, which ought to be characterized By being a living sacrifice is filled and characterized by vanity or frivolity. We cannot say that our worship in life or in any other form is consistent with our position as God's people. That is why Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 10, whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever ye do , do all to the glory of God. We must be intentional about how we live our life and do so in a way that is consistent with a worshipful lifestyle before God. So we know that he is worthy of soul, proper, and consistent worship. Finally, we see that he is worthy of intentional worship. He says in the fourth commandment, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Now it would be an understatement to say that this commandment out of the ten is Either the most neglected or the mis misunderst most misunderstood among people in general. Remember the Sabbath day. Keep it holy. The emphasis that people tend to place on it lies in the work aspect. They assume that by not working on the seventh day of the week, they're keeping the Sabbath. That's not the case. Others may assume that by setting apart the Sabbath as a day for corporate worship, then they're keeping it. But that's also missing the point. The emphasis that God places on the Sabbath is the fact that he rested on it. Israel was commanded to acknowledge this fact by refraining from the kind of work that tends to distract our attention from God. The fact that God rested on the Sabbath indicates that it is a day that was set apart by God for the purpose of seeing all that He had made and seeing that it was very good. The Sabbath isn't about not working. It is about celebrating the goodness of God for his creation. So then what about Sunday? As Christians, it's important to understand that while God did design mankind to have a day of rest, that does not mean that the Sabbath was changed to Sunday for Christians. Now that we understand what the purpose of the Sabbath was, we need to understand that we gather on Sundays. For the sake of celebrating the resurrection of our Lord. The phrase the Lord's Day is one that the Apostle John uses in Revelation. The fact that we meet on the first day is a testimony to what first century Christians did in Acts 20 and 1 Corinthians 16. This isn't even something that was ever commanded in the New Testament, but rather it is a precedence that was set by that first century church. The takeaway is this: there are significant events in history that are worth acknowledging on certain days. But that does not mean we need to diminish any other day. Every day that God allows us to live on this earth is a day to worship Him, whether it is Saturday or Sunday or Monday. But we need to be intentional. We need to keep in mind that worship isn't a single act. It is a mindset and a lifestyle before our living God. So as we've looked in these two chapters to see how God wants us to know him personally in this intimate, sobering relationship. We know that he is knowable. We know that he is not only knowable, but he is powerful. He is most certainly worthy of our lives, of our devotion, of our worship. Of all this and more. And he doesn't do it just simply as a master over his puppets. But he does it as our creator. He establishes with us a relationship that he may give to us his love, his compassion. strength. And we in turn have the opportunity to intimately adore our Savior. Father, we bow ourselves before you, thankful that through our Lord Jesus Christ, We can do that. We sit here tonight as a people Who would say, We are yours? And you are a God who says yes. I would have you know me. I would have you know my power. I would have you worship me. In spirit and in truth, in this present life and in the life to come which we have through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Christ. I think the theme of the day has been fairly clear. We serve a transcendent God. And he is a God of infinite power, yet he cares for us as individuals, and he's personally involved in our lives, and he calls us into his presence. And the the last thing about the Sabbath day. It's the Lord's Sabbath, and He invites us for our own good into His presence to stop all of our labor and to delight in Him. That's what He he does. And so I'm thankful that uh he does that for the rest of our bodies, the rest of our minds, and really a recalibration of our our thinking toward him. Let's go ahead and stand together as we sing our final closing song. Not our final closing song, our closing song, which is our final song. The Lily of the Valley. And it's not a number, it's an insert in the back. So if you have your books in front of you, we'll sing the first three verses, or all three verses of the Lily of the Valley. I have found the further If you need me with a layout , I call every day and all my heart. Well I hope that you'll be able to come back on Wednesday night as we continue our study dealing with how to deal with temptation. And I know that the the kind of the framework or the focus of that is helping our children, but uh it's also helping us too. So uh Lord willing we're gonna finish that little section um this Wednesday. So hope that you'll be able to make it out for that. And teens, don't forget that you have a synspiration tonight. So um as soon as the service closes, please head to the back for uh to get ready to to head over to the Ventola's house tonight. And so they're looking forward to hosting that. Tim Brock, could you please come and close us in prayer tonight? And uh good to see each of you out tonight. Pray for those in our church who are uh dealing with sickness. We have quite a few. Pray for the bets, as uh they got a little one, and uh it's very exciting, so be in prayer for Them. A lot of folks in our church need prayer, so uh keep them on your hearts. Father in heaven, it's been good to be in your house today and to worship you and to learn about you and Just remember you. Um, thank you for your incredible kindness to us. Thank you for bringing Mr. Bill through his surgery safely. I pray for Janine and her struggles with her cancer. Um just so many in our in our church that are sick. I just ask that you would be in each of those situations. We know that you'll never leave us or forsake us. So as you watch over us. Please help us to know your presence, to know your love, and we thank you for the love that sent you to the cross to die for all our sin. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.