Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 12, and we are inching our way toward one of the most familiar passages in all of Scripture Also also one of the most challenging to actually live out, and that is 1 Corinthians chapter 13. But before we get there, I think it's important for us to look at this bridge passage that kind of connects the end of chapter 12 to what Paul writes in chapter 13. And so the the topic we're addressing is the more excellent way. The more excellent way. And in fact what we're looking at is how Paul is saying we should always exercise these spiritual gifts that have been the topic of discussion for quite a bit of the book of 1 Corinthians. And by the way, they're going to continue to be an issue of discussion for a little bit longer. So this issue of spiritual gifts is actually one of the most significant things that Paul addresses in this book. And so he's getting at the heart of, no pun intended there, the heart of how we are supposed to look at this issue. So 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 27. Now, ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular. God had set some in the church first, apostles secondarily prophets, third teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversity of tongues Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles? Have all the gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? And somebody's like, that's a lot of questions, Paul. And the way that it's written is, and of course, they don't all have those gifts. They aren't all those things. That's actually the way that it's written in the original language. And so then he goes on to say this, but covet or earnestly desire the best gifts. And yet show I unto you a more excellent way. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not charity, I am become a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries, all knowledge, though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I'm nothing. Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. What an amazing passage of Scripture. Well, first of all, let's begin by summarizing this section that we're looking at. God has called all of us to serve the church as he has fitted us. In genuine Christian love. It's not just about a serving, it's about a serving with a proper motivation. And really within these verses there are lots and lots of things that I think we need to digest a little bit. We are going to break this down maybe a little bit more than we sometimes do because I want us to try to grasp what Paul is getting at here. But first of all, let's do some introductory thoughts. This section further develops how we're to exercise our spiritual gifts. And I look back at that summary that Paul gave in the last couple of verses, verse 25. He tells us that the way we're supposed to exercise our gifts are to be looking out for other people. The members should have the same care for one another. And the idea is that we're all parts of a body, and each of us needs to look out for the other. Second thing he says in summary in verse 26. Whether one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. So take interest in the burdens of others. And the truth is that we all do carry burdens. Sometimes when we come into the church context, we are carrying a heavy load. We don't want to We don't want to tell people that. We don't want to give that impression. But the reality is that we are. And sometimes it takes a time like praying together and just going through prayer requests and then you feel like, okay, maybe I'll say something or You know, you get into a conversation and then you start sharing those things. Well, the idea is that we need to be a group of people that take a genuine interest in the burdens of our brothers and sisters in Christ. On the opposite side, sometimes we experience great blessings, and part of the joy of the blessing is being able to share that with other people. And there's nothing sadder than when you go to somebody and you tell them about something wonderful that's happened and they look at you like, so what? I don't care. And you're like, do you not care? This is a wonderful thing. And so it's not just about carrying burdens, but it's also about rejoicing with people. who've experienced blessing. And so he says, or if one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. And the last thing, verse 27, he says, is that we need to see ourselves as a family. You 're all the body of Christ, and your members in particular. So we move from what he's already talked about, verses 25 to 27. And now we're looking at what we could say is like the capstone of this entire discussion. It's like I've laid out all these things about the importance of seeing yourself as a body and how we all have individual gifts. And now I'm going to put the capstone on top and tell you this is something that's that's pertinent for everybody, no matter what the situation, no matter what your gift, you need to know this principle that I'm going to give you. And so here is the summary of what Paul is going to say here. The first thing he's going to do is he's going to talk about remembering who you are. And that is a really important thing for us to recognize as Christians. Our behavior starts with who we are. So I'm supposed to work out of that. So he says, ye are, and we're going to talk about what he says in just a minute. The second thing that he talks about is to remember who is in charge. And the answer is it's God. God hath set, and then he talks about all these individual gifts. The third thing that he says, and this is what is going to really be the focal point here, is desire what is the best for the body. Earnestly desire the best gifts. That's a very interesting statement. And then lastly, follow the best possible practices. I show you a more excellent way. So that is actually the outline of what we're going to cover in this section. Remember who you are, remember who's in charge. Desire the best for the body, and then follow the best practices. So with that in mind, let's start working our way through those pieces. First of all, we are, remember who we are, we are the body of Christ. And see what he says in verse 27. Ye are the body of Christ, and you are members in particular. And what Paul is going to get at is something that he actually references quite a few times. in the book of 1 Corinthians. And that is the fact that we as a body have both, there's a sense in which there is a collective sense that he's going to talk about, and also an individual. And one of the things that we we sometimes don't do well in our Western society is we don't do the collective thing very well. We think as individuals I I'm I'm an independent person. I'm self-reliant. I I'm I'm gonna do it myself. Pick yourself up by your own bootstraps. That kind of tends to be the way that we think. And I'm not saying that uh resilience is a bad quality or being willing to stand alone is a is a bad thing. Those are really good things. There's no question about it. But what is also true is that it's important for us to recognize that we're not just independent. Our lives have been bound together with other people. There's a reason that God created the family. Two are better than one. So it takes two individuals, one man, one woman, to create life. God creates marriage. He creates the family. So that's God's plan. He wants us to not just be individuals who are all by ourselves independent, but he wants us to be connected to one another. And so we have we have our our spouse, we have our children, we have our grandchildren, if we live to be old enough. great grandchildren, and we have those connections. We have our church family and we are united together as a body. God wants us To not just be individuals who are doing it all alone, but he wants us to be a part of this body. And so he draws attention to that. The first example is the one that we're looking at here Where he talks about the union of individuals into one body, his church. But there's a little part to this that I think is a little challenging for us to see in our English translation. And the reason for that is because in English we do not make the distinction between singular and plural as clearly, especially in our modern English. as they did in the Greek language. So if you're looking at a Greek text and you actually understand how to read it or how to study it and use it, you can look at the the form of the word and it'll tell you the singular the plural and it's important for us to make that distinction in verses like these because it gives us insight into what Paul's communicating. So For those of us who maybe are not seeing that, I want to just kind of lay it out so we can get the picture here. And then I'm going to kind of give you a reason why it matters. So, first of all, we have the word ye here. And that word ye is a plural, which means it's referring to all the individual members of the body. So another way to put that is Hey, this is for all y'all. We're not southerners here, but that's the way that they would say it down south. For all y'all, all right? So all of you are members of a body. That body is is that singular or plural? A singular. So what he's saying is everybody in this body here, all of us, we are united into one single singular body. And what's he referring to there? Well, he's talking about the church. the body of Christ. Okay? So we as individuals are not just out there wild, wild, west. We're all individually saved. By our own personal faith alone in Christ, okay? I don't get saved for you and you don't get saved for me. I have to personally choose to trust Christ. But when I do trust Christ, I am placed into this body And so what's the conclusion? We as individuals are united into one body, the body, the church. But what's very interesting is Paul actually talks about this concept in several other parts of 1 Corinthians. The next example I want you to is go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and look at verse 16. And I know that this is a scripture that we are somewhat familiar with. He says, Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. Now, let me break down the singulars and the plurals here because I think it's very interesting the way he does this. The first statement, ye are, is a plural reference to all the individuals, okay? In the same way that we just had this in the last statement that we're looking at. Then we have the word temple. That's obviously one temple. So we're not temples, we're a temple. Okay? We as individuals have been Placed into this group that is called the Temple of the Holy Spirit. And it's not talking about a bunch of Holy Spirits, but one. But then he makes the statement, he also dwelleth in you, and he says that in the plural again. You say, well, what does that matter? We as individuals are the temple of the Spirit of God, and he dwells in us as individuals. Well, here's what he's saying. He's saying we as individuals are joined together as his temple, but that is because he indwells each of us So when you and I trusted Christ as our Savior, we were placed into the body, the body of Christ, and the Holy Spirit came and dwelt us as individuals. But there's also something very interesting that is being communicated here. We as a body are the temple of the Holy Ghost. And you know what that tells us? There is something very sacred and very special about the gathering of the local church. There's something very precious about it. We should see it as not just a duty that we do, but we should see it as something that there is a sweet experience of God's presence in our midst when we gather together. And there are several passages that talk about this. 1 Peter 2. 5. He says, ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Now this would have been an absolutely stunning statement for a Jewish Christian who knew what it was like to go up into the temple. to offer their sacrifices, to see the whole sacrificial system take place, for you to be told that your body, the church, is the temple of God. It's not that we go up to the temple. We are the temple. And when we are united together, we are the place that his presence dwells. And it's so it's so interesting how he puts it. He says, you are lively stones built up into a spiritual house. It's a pretty incredible statement. I'm not going to say I even fully grasp what he's saying, but I think he's emphasizing the fact that there's something very special about the gathering of the church. And then we see the same kind of language in Ephesians 2. 19. In fact, this Sunday, we're going to kind of talk about this a little bit. There's a lot of interconnection here, but he says this, ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints. and of the household of God, and are built up upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. In whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord, in whom you are built together for an habitation of God through the Spirit. Now here's really something to process about what Paul is saying here. If you remember back two weeks ago on Sunday, we dealt with the passage right before that in Ephesians 2. And he says that Christ has killed or he has removed the enity that is between the Jew and Gentile. And it says he tore down that middle wall of partition that was between us. And I mentioned this that when Paul is writing this letter He's writing to the Ephesians from prison, and the whole reason he's in prison , is because there was an Ephesian Gentile that came with him to Jerusalem to celebrate the feast. And Paul was accused of taking that Gentile into the court that was only permitted, that only Jewish people were permitted into. Like can you imagine how like offensive it would be to walk up to the temple and you're a Gentile and you're standing there in the court of the Gentiles and there's this wall that says You may not cross this barrier or you will die. And you're like, so he's your God but not mine? Like what's that all about? There's nowhere in the Old Testament law that they were told to build such a wall. It was something that the rabbis persistently said has to be there because they wanted this separation between Jew and Gentile. And so just just put this together in your mind. So Paul is saying that when Christ went to the cross, he not only removed that veil that gives us access to God direct. But he removed that wall that separated the Jew from the Gentile and the temple that the Gentile was not even permitted to go into. He's saying, you are the temple. That's crazy. That's absolutely phenomenal to think about. And what's the point? The point is that's what the cross did for us It removes that that barrier, it removes that separation, but it takes these people who are so different And there's so much opposition. And he puts them together and they are his temple. It's pretty amazing to think about. And so the whole point of this is Paul's, is Paul basically saying, you who have the Spirit as individuals are the temple, and the Spirit of God dwells in your midst. But then there's a third example. And this talks about the union of the individual into one body and his temple. It expands it a little bit further. Because he adds another side to it. 1 Corinthians 6. 19 says this, what? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost? Which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye're not your own. Now this is the most extensive of those three passages. The first one we look at is the simplest statement, right? This one gives the most detail. And so let's just walk through it. First of all, when he says, know ye not, again, this is a plural reference to all the believers. So Do you guys not all understand that you are a body as individuals, part of one body, singular? You are also the temple. That is also singular. He says that he is in you. That is also singular. So it's a reference to the church. So at this point, what he's saying is this, every believer has the spirit. You all are a part of a body. Your body is the temple, and the Spirit of God dwells in you as a body. But then he goes on to say something else. Which ye have of God. That's plural. This reminds a believer again that the Spirit of God doesn't just dwell in the corporate context, but also in the private context. He indwells you as an individual. And ye are not your own. That's again in the plural, referencing the fact that the Christian's physical body belongs to God. And so here is what Paul is saying here. Since you have been united to Christ and are members of his body, you have a responsibility to the body of Christ, the church, and to God in the way that you use your physical body as an individual. So I know that was a lot of stuff to simply say this. There are both personal and corporate implications to what Paul is saying here. So the way that I live as an individual matters. The way that I relate to the body matters. That's what he's saying. Second truth we see is this. He is in charge. This is Christ's church. Not my church, not your church. We attend this church. We're a part of this church. We're connected to this church. But it's his church. And there are a lot of implications that flow out of the fact that this is his church, this is his body, not our church. Verses 28 through 30, God hath set in the church first apostles, secondarily prophets. Third teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities of tongues. Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles have all the gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? So the whole point of what I've just read to you is to simply emphasize one simple truth: God's in charge. That's really what it is. Now he's saying it in a lot of different ways, but God's in charge. And he says it a couple couple ways. I want to highlight them. The first way is this. He demonstrates that God's in charge because he governs the distribution of those gifts within the church. It says, God hath set some in the church. As you and I receive gifts from God, that's from Him We don't take them on ourselves. He gives them to us. And by the way, that word set is an interesting word. There are lots and lots of different contexts where that word is used. But I think in this context it has the sense of the making of an appointment to some kind of task or duty or office. For instance, in 1 Corinthians 12, 18, it says, God set the members, every one of them, in the body as it pleased him. Same same term. That's the same kind of context. Or Acts 1. 7. This is an interesting use of the term. He says, it is not for you to know the times and the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. And that word to put is the same word to set. And so the idea is that the disciples, they they recognize Christ has died, they recognize he's risen from the dead. And they're like, so are you going to establish the kingdom right now? And he basically says, it's not for you to know the timing of God's God's time God's timetable. No man knows the day and no man knows the hour. God's timetable is something that is hidden from us. And I know with the circumstances going on uh right now in the Middle East, there are lots of people coming out to do their little prophetic things. The fact is nobody knows how this is going to play out. Nobody does. We don't know if we're like at the end of history before we go into the eschatological things or if we have another thousand years of history. We don't know. So if somebody tells you they do, don't listen to them. No man knows the day or the hour. Okay? It's imminent. And we could definitely see how there are lots of things that You go, when I read the Book of Revelation, I can see how everybody in the world could uh see those two people that are proclaiming the gospel. I can see how that I could see how authoritarian regimes could absolutely control and dominate people and make them get a mark if they if they want to survive. I could see how easy that could be. And yeah, there's a lot of stuff going on in the Middle East right now. There are alliances that don't seem to make a lot of sense and there's alliances that you're like, how long is that gonna last? And there's a lot of stuff going on. I get that, but you know the truth is this throughout history There are times things like look that they're about to happen and then they don't. So we don't know what God's going to do. But the point that we're coming back to is this: the distribution of the gifts is something that is appointed by God. He determines. Second, we see that this government demonstrates, this governance of God demonstrates that the church is his. I think of Matthew 16, 18. He says, I will build my church. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. How does God build his church? God builds his church by sending people to preach the gospel. God builds his church by stirring up the hearts of people to disciple those who are young Christians God builds the church by allowing there to be stability and peace in certain parts of the world, and people send missionaries to those regions while there's a door that's opened. I mean, just think back to the 1960s and 70s. How many American missionaries were starting churches in Eastern Europe? Not too many. Why is that? Well, because it wasn't open to that. And then what happens in the 1980s? The Berlin Wall comes down and all of a sudden now people are going and they're starting churches and missionaries are doing work and then We don't know how long geopolitically have those opportunities. And the truth is that throughout history, what does God do? He works in circumstances, he gives people opportunities. They take those opportunities and then sometimes things get disrupted and what happens? People's plans change. And God works through all of those things. He protects the church. He raises up people. When there are controversies, God works through those things. His work is going on. And he does it through people. He's in charge. Second thing we see is this, he determines the prioritization of the church. Notice the words first. Secondarily, third and after that. Now, why does Paul say those things? First, secondarily, third, and after that. Well, there's a little bit of uncertainty as to what Paul is saying here. I mean, we know the words first, second, early, and third are there, but the question is what's he trying to communicate? I think there are basically two options. as to what Paul could be saying here. And I take the position of the blend of the two. The first option is that he's talking about an order sequence. The idea of these saying you have the apostles and the prophets, and then you have the teachers, and so the reason that he emphasizes first, second, and third is because there's an order of sequence to how the gospel gets to people and how discipleship is made. And that may very well be part of what he's saying. Others would suggest that what he's talking about is an order of importance or priority. I'm suggesting that really both senses are kind of a part of what he's saying here. And here's why I say this. We see the sequence side to this in several other passages. Ephesians 2. 20. Listen to what it says. We are built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. Doesn't that indicate both a sequence side that we have to have a standard that we are preaching and a standard that we are teaching? and a standard that the church is built on. So there has to be something that comes before we have the church, right? We have to have prophets and apostles. We have to have the word of God. We have to have a standard. And so I think we have the sequence side there. Also in Ephesians 4. 11 he says he gave some apostles , prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers. Seems to be a sequence there too. When we talk about apostles and prophets, what are we talking about? Those who God used to give us the word of God that established the foundation, the scripture. And then when we talk about an evangelist, an evangelist is something somebody who proclaims the gospel. You don't grow as a Christian until you hear the gospel and you get saved. So we see the sequence. And then we have pastors. Those are the ones who shepherd the flock. They oversee the flock. They lead the flock. They teach the people. And then we have teachers. Those are also supporting in that role of biblical instruction. So there appears to be a sequence nature to the Ephesians 4 passage. But then if we look in the context, we see the concept of priority being communicated. For instance, look back at 1 Corinthians 12 31. He says covet or earnestly desire the best gifts. Doesn't that seem like a priority kind of statement? Or we can look at 1 Corinthians 13, 8 and 10. He says, charity never faileth, but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. We know in parts. And we prophesy in part, but when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. Does that not seem to be indicating a priority? That love has a greater priority than tongues and prophecy? Why is he saying that? Well, because one fails Ceases and one endures priority. Or we look at First Corinthians 14, 1. This is in the same kind of flow of what he's saying here. He says, follow after or pursue after charity and desire spiritual gifts, but rather that you may prophesy. What's he saying? When we're to compare prophecy in tongues to love, love is of higher preeminence. We talk about prophecy in tongues Prophecy is of higher preeminence to tongues. So what is that? I show you, there's a pecking order here. Okay? One is of lesser importance to the other. Priority, I think, is here. It's not that he's saying that they're not important and they don't have a purpose, but the idea is that some lead to edification more than others do. And that's that's going to be his whole argument. And so what do we see there? That God is the one who establishes this. Thirdly, he determines the boundaries. And he asked the question, are all apostles? By the way, the way that it's written in the text, in the Greek text, It's a conditional statement that indicates that when I say this or ask this question, you know that the answer is of course not. That's actually the way that it's written. It's almost like when somebody asks you a question, you're like, I know what you're saying to me. You're not really asking me a question. You're telling me something by your question Are all apostles? Of course not. Are all prophets? Of course not. Are all teachers? Of course not. Are all workers of miracles? Of course not. That's Puddhisang By the way, that statement miracles is very interesting. If you look at the word in the Greek text, it's kind of ambiguous as to what he's talking about. It's actually the word power. And so we have the same term used in 1 Corinthians 1. 8 when he talks about how when the gospel comes It comes with power and people are saved. 1 Corinthians 1. 18, the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but to us which are saved, it is the power of God. Same word 1 Corinthians 1. 24, unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. 1 Corinthians 2, 4, my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and of power. Same word. So it's kind of interesting that when Paul uses that term, I think, my opinion, I could be totally wrong on this. I think he's actually referencing the preaching of the gospel and the work of the Spirit that draws people to place their faith in Christ. And there's a parallel when we go to the Ephesians passage where he talks about prophets. Apostles, pastors, teachers, evangelists. We see that. Just a side tidbit. But the whole point is this. Not everybody has those gifts. Not everybody has those offices. Or when he asks, do all heal and do all do helps and are all having the gift of governments and diversity of tongues, the answer is of course not. So what's the point? God has the right to work in and through the church as he pleases because it is his church. And so looking at our time there, I'm going to stop there because when we go into the next section, it's going to open up a lot of stuff for us to process. And so let's just pause and let's ask the question, what do we learn from this beginning part of what Paul is saying? Well, I think one of the most obvious things that we learn is that the Spirit of God indwells us as individuals, and he unites us into a body. And because of the indwelling of the Spirit as an individual, and because of the uniting of us as individuals into a body, there are both practical implications on the church level, corporate, and on the personal level. When we gather together as a body, it's something very special. It's something that we should see as very precious. And so I hope that when we come to church, we think in terms of this is a sweet place to worship. It's a sweet place where we feel a connection, a bond with one another. Because we have been united by God into this body. And then we think by implication that not only are we united as a body, but as individuals, we have a responsibility to use our physical bodies for his glory because we belong to him. And so we see that first. But then the second thing we're reminded of is this. This body, the church, is his He gives us as he pleases. He gives us for a purpose. He wants us to serve him to the very best of our abilities in a way that honors him. What is Paul setting up for? How to do that in the very best way possible. And that is to do it in love. So may God help us to think about these things. And then as we work our way into more of these details. to really to the very best of our ability try to apply the scriptures. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, thank you for your word. I thank you for the relationship that we have to you because of Christ's work. I thank you that we have been united to the body of Christ. That we as we gather are your temple. We as individuals are indwelled by the Spirit, and so we have both personal and corporate responsibilities. Help us to fulfill those to the best we can Father, help us to delight in your plan and your purpose. And help us to submit to your governance of the church. We would always submit to your authority. We would do things in a way that pleases you. And ultimately, as we talk about the motive of love and how important it is. I pray that we would be gripped by that and we would grow in our expression of service through a love for you. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.