Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our morning service. And if you're visiting with us today for the first time or for the first time in a long time, we hope that you feel very warmly welcomed. And if you received a welcome packet inside of that, there is a connection card. And that's a way that you can let us know that we'd that you'd like us to reach out to you. So please take a moment to fill that out. And if you do that and put that in the little box in the back, we will make sure that we reach out to you in the next week or two. Also, there are several announcements I want to mention before we have a moment of silence. And also before we have our opening scripture reading. So first of all, after the morning service, there is a children's workers meeting. So If you are an incoming Sunday school teacher this summer quarter or you're going to be working with the kids during during junior church, please make sure that you come to that meeting and The plan is that we will do that in the double door room. That's where they meet for junior church. So please do make a note of that. Also tonight we're going to have, because of the Memorial Day weekend, we're going to do things a little bit different. In the back, we're going to have a hymn sing fellowship and the time will be the same as normal, so it's going to start at 6 o'clock, but rather than us meeting in here, we're going to meet back there. And then at the end of when we would normally have our service time end, we're going to have a cookout fellowship and there'll be a grill going in the back. I want to encourage you if you're planning to come tonight to stop by the little sign-up sheet in the back there by the office area and sign up for something so that we'll know how to prepare. We want to make sure we have enough meat And we also want to make sure that we have enough sides. So please stop by and do that. We're going to review that after sometime this afternoon, make sure that we top everything up. Just want to encourage you to do that. So there's dessert options, chips, drinks, all kinds of different things. Please make a note of that. Also, there's several other events that are coming up in the next couple of weeks, so please Notice those things, sign up for those things if you're planning to come, and we'll really look forward to that time. I know this is a very important weekend in our nation. And this is the Memorial Day weekend. And I I said something about this to our adult study school class and I'll say it here as well. Um I think it's important that we teach our children the difference between Memorial Day weekend, Fourth of July July and Veterans Day. This is not a weekend where we celebrate the birth of our country or where we uh remember those who have served, but we remember those who have fallen in the line of duty. in defense of this nation. And so I want to encourage you in the middle of all the cookouts and the things that are going to happen this week that you take some time, especially if you have children, to to to explain that to them and uh to make sure that they know about the history of our nation, the sacrifices that people have made. As your kids get old enough, let them know about World War Two, World War One, the Civil War. the things that happened during those times and the sacrifices that people made that really allow us to be what we are as a nation today to have the liberties that we have. So before we open our service, we're going to have just a moment So remember those who have paid the ultimate price, and then after that, Pastor Josh is going to come with our opening scripture reading. And we're going to open up our service with two different portions of Scripture. Our first one will be in Revelation chapter 12, and we will start in verse 10. And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ. For the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night. And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony, and they loved not their own lives unto the death. Therefore rejoice ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the inhabitors of the earth and of the sea, for the devil has come down to you, and having great wrath, because he knoweth that ye hath But a short time. Continuing in Revelation chapter 20, verse 1. And I saw an angel come down from heaven. Having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand. And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil and Satan, and bound him a thousand years And cast him into the bottomless pit and shut him up, and set a seal upon him that he should deceive the nations no more till the thousand years should be fulfilled. And I saw thrones, and they that sat on them, and judgment was given unto them, and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus. For the word of God which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had they received his mark upon their foreheads or in their hands. And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished. This is Is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. On such the second death hath no power. But they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years. Our fo focus of worship today is for us to rejoice in God's mysterious triumph over the kingdom of darkness. Please let's all bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service. And let's especially remember those in parts of the world that are suffering for the sake of Christ and uh experiencing persecution. We are able to sit in a very climate-controlled environment. We're able to not have any fear that someone's gonna come in and uh disrupt the service and throw us in prison. Fact is that's not The way it is for many people around the world today. And so we need to pray for those who struggle in these areas and thank God for the liberties we enjoy. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the opportunity to gather as a body of believers. Thank you for every person that is here this morning. Pray for those who have traveled and are not able to be here, those who are sick, those who who maybe are joining on the live stream, I pray that as as we worship together, that our hearts would be just overwhelmed by the richness and the power of these truths. I pray that as the Word of God is expounded as we sing praise to you and as we think about these truths, that you would work and move in our hearts. Help our fellowship around the Word to be very sweet. May those who are weighed down be uplifted. May those who are weary be strengthened. May those who are proud be humbled. And may we all glory in Christ. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. joining us for worship. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number one. Rejoice, the Lord is king. Please stand, we'll sing all four verses. Let the white people We join for us , boy , I shall come and say it's not to be burned. Great singing. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number two. Hymn number two, come Christians, join To sing. We'll sing all three verses. Why can't you pray? No, the ego è battle car. No, no, no. We live in the bike on the back, too. Oh yeah, praise you right now. All they 're on and not pray. All right , you all All the gold score, they come back with the war. Great singing. We'll turn over to hymn number six. I sing the mighty power of God. Great songs. To sing out this morning hymn number six, all three verses. I sing the mighty power that may no You'll let him go. Great singing this morning. Our scripture reading will be found in the Gospel of Luke. We 'll be reading Luke chapter 13, verses 18 through 21. Luke chapter 13, verses 18 through 21. The scriptures say , Then said he , Unto what is the kingdom of God like? And whereunto shall I resemble it? It is like a grain of mustard seed. Which a man took and cast into his garden, and it grew, and waxed a great tree, and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it. And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God? It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three men 's Measures of meal till the whole was leavened. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. We're going to continue our singing. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number 12. We'll sing, I'll hail the power of Jesus' name. We'll sing the first two verses, then we'll pause, greet one another for a couple verses, come back and sing verse number four together. Hymn number twelve, I'll hail the power of Jesus' name. Oh hail the parity that make the danger prostrate for. Ei, koska puoli otaneel , kyllä tässä nyt , Oh , they were big more for neighbor Oh that when yonder we had the law will join me and All right, before the preaching we will turn over to number one fifty one in our blue book. I run to Christ One fifty one will sing all three verses. I want to be right with me , I think I destroyed Why I greet I know I need I do have you ever need my joy He calls her to strike, but he gives way to us. I will try. I want to price when God blessing and find us for rest I wide to him sensation to grace I write you right when I shame and by my one beat I all right with my king. I am Amen. Please be seated. Oh yes, I sleep , Lord God, this was a dead, I find my thoughts are nearly. I mean cross my way, but when I come to the challenge to my people , my promise and I put the ball Oh, I spilled a black one. Thank you. I said, I still do I just wanted to both have Um , like really. Okay, our children who are junior church aged can be dismissed to the back with the help of a parent. And the rest of you would like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Luke. And we are working our way through the book of Luke verse by verse. And We are all the way to chapter 13 now. And if you want to know how long we'll be in Luke, we'll be in Luke until the end of next year. So We've got about 120 uh different passages we're going to deal with and we're about 70% of the way through the book. So we're working our way verse by verse through this book. And the passage that we're looking at this morning, in fact, it is a great passage for us to think about when we think about the incredible sufferings that people face In the fallen world and why we need things like military and law enforcement and ultimately people pay the ultimate price in the defense of nation and community. And the fact is, the reason for that is because there is a great struggle that goes on in the world. You can't see it with your eyes. But the fact is there's a kingdom of darkness that is at work in the world. Trying to disrupt God's purposes. And it's important for us at a time like this to be reminded. And in fact, God wins. Not only does he win The way he does it is in fact stunning. It is remarkable. And the way that God builds his kingdom is something that is happening steadily, but it's almost a mystery. As you observe it. So the text in front of us will really help us to think biblically about these issues. Luke chapter 13, we're reading verses 18 to 21. Here's what God's word says. Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? Whereunto shall I resemble it? It is like a grain of mustard seed Which a man took and cast into his garden, and it grew, and waxed a great tree. The fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it. And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God? It is like leaven. Which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal till the whole was leavened. Now, as we look at these verses, the passage in front of us is contrasting The way that the world system establishes itself through manipulation, deceit, brute force, and the way that God steadily and unassumingly builds His kingdom. In fact, these illustrations that Jesus chooses to use here are fascinating illustrations. And if we were to go to the book of Matthew, which we're not going to forsake a time, they're actually a series of kingdom parables that he gives. And these are a portion of that. But the whole point of this is the way that God builds his kingdom and the way that people establish themselves in this world, it's totally different. When we look at the story of Saul, when the nation of Israel chose this king, and they looked at him, and he was this big strong guy. He looked a part of a king, but he was still spiritually deficient. The whole group of people said, we've got a real king here. And God said, not a man after my own heart. That's the guy that's out with the sheep. That's the guy who the brothers said, don't even bother calling David. He doesn't need to see the prophet. He's just a little boy taking care of his sheep. Sheep. But what does God do? Saul falls. God lifts up David. The way that God builds his kingdom is so different than the way that the kings of God kingdoms of this world operate. And so as we look at this text in front of us, we will see how God wants us to be comforted in the mysterious way he's building his kingdom. First of all, a couple of introductory thoughts before we dig into the content of these verses. We desperately need a healthy perspective about this issue of God's kingdom. When we think in times that are good, there's a certain way we are prone to think that is not healthy. And then when times are lean and they're hard and they're Difficult, we go to another extreme. For instance, in the times that are good, we tend to become very proud. That what has been accomplished is the result of our wisdom, our strength, our abilities. For instance, we're tempted to think, hey, the programs that I devised, they're doing this. It's like a pastor who sees growth in the church or sees a lot of positive things happen. He's like, I'm going to go to a conference and tell you how this is done. Well, there are a lot of people that think that way. The fact that God is blessed should not lure us Into thinking that, well, we've built something through our wisdom and our strength. Or we may think that our talents or our vicious work ethic that just continues to push and labor, that's what builds up. We might be tempted to rely on what we can see and take comfort in those things as results of our labors. We might be tempted to compromise. For the sake of building something that is visible and impressive, being a part of a movement. But that's not how God builds his kingdom. That's the way the world thinks about the building of a kingdom, not how we as God's people should think about these things. Then we go on the other side when things are very difficult and things are poor and we feel miserable, we can become disillusioned. And compromise as well. We try to figure out how we can turn the momentum that's moving in the wrong direction, or we might put a lot of weight on our shoulders because we're trying to manufacture things. Through the programs and strategies that we come up with. We're anxious about a lack of tangible, visible results. We're defensively minded believing that we are the only people still serving God. Think of the story of In the Old Testament, where Elijah goes up to Mount Carmel. And there there's this mighty victory, and God demonstrates his power over the king, over the prophets of Baal. And then what does he do? He hears this This message from Jezebel, you're gonna be dead like you killed the prophets of Baal. And he runs for his life. And then then he's on the back of the wilderness in this wilderness area, and he just says, God, I want to die. I hate my wife. I'm the only person serving you. And that's how he feels. But it wasn't true. God said there's so many We're exhausting ourselves trying to do something that we really don't have the ability to do. to do. Nobody in this room has the power to save a soul. Nobody in this room has the power to make someone be a disciple of Christ. No one in this room has the power to change a callous heart. Now that's not saying God doesn't use us in the giving of the gospel, or use us in the discipling of a young Christian, or use us to confront and help people to To turn back to the Lord. But we are powerless to do these things. We lose sight of the big picture of what God is doing in the world. We try to establish our relevance. Through the world's approval. Question: What is the antidote to all of those potential problems on different sides? The antidote is we need to see what Jesus has to say here. So, first part of this sermon this morning is Christ's two illustrations, and I love these illustrations. Because one of them is a garden illustration and the other is a food illustration. And those are both great illustrations for us, as I'm already getting hungry right now thinking about this. So in verse number 18, here's what it says. Unto what is the kingdom of God like? And whereunto shall I resemble it? Well the two illustrations are that of a mustard And so in verses 18 to 19 he says it like this it is like a grain of mustard seed which a man took. and cast into his garden, and it grew and waxed a great tree, and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it. Now, I don't know how many of you like to plant things from seed and how many of you are like I like to cut out the plant from seed stage and I like to get the plant that's already growing and put that in the ground. I like to cheat Any any anybody like to cheat when you put stuff in your garden? Or maybe or I see I see some answer. Now maybe it's not that you like to cheat, it's that you get caught off garden, you're like, if I do a garden I can't plant seeds now because it'll take too long. It'll be in the middle of July before this thing's big enough to do anything. But yeah, one of the reasons that people sometimes have a hard time playing the sea is because they're so small. They're so small I mean would you rather take a one of these little teeny tiny seeds and put it into the ground and just and like try to figure out which one of those little green things coming up is is what you planted and which is like weeds that have been there all along. You ever have that situation? You think about lavender. Anybody ever planted lavender from a seed? You say, no, I didn't know you could do that. You just go to the store and you buy it from Lowe's or Home Deep or whatever. But those feeds are so tiny. This is what Jesus says. There was this man who had a mustard seed, just tiny little seed. And he put it in his garden. Now if you have a garden, he didn't say his farm out in a field, he said in his garden. So you have this little pot of land, you're cultivating everything, you're making everything perfect, it's all neat and tidy, pulling out your weeds, and there's this this a mustard seed in the ground and it's like you forget about it. And one day you see this little plant growing and you're like, oh that's weird. I want to That's different than what I all the other stuff. Well guess what? You leave that little plant there long enough, you know what happens? Becomes a tree. I mean it's a crazy thing to think about. We have this we have this one ash tree behind our house and and you know during the pollen season like it drops all this stuff and I and I'm like pulling out little ash uh ash Trees all over the place. They're all over my yard. They're like in buckets and different stuff like that. I'm like, I didn't plant these things. Where'd they come from? That's what this is like. And this little seed produces a tree. Not a plant that's putting out a little bit of fruit here, a big tree. The birds can fly into this tree and make their nest in the tree, and you can sit into the shade of the tree. And he says that's what the kingdom of heaven is like. It starts out as a small seed planted in a garden, becomes a great tree that provides shelter for the birds. And the seed's growth into a tree demonstrates the shocking growth of something massive from something small and seemingly insignificant. You say, how in the world do you get this massive tree out of this little speck that was in my garden? It's called organic growth. It's a mysterious thing. It's the way that God made it. The second illustration is leaven. In verse 21, he says, It's like leaven which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal till the whole was leavened. In other words, if someone wants to make bread that's gonna rise, they put yeast in the dough, and then they just let it sit there for a while, and when they come back, what was a little bit of dough? It's like it's such crazy It starts expanding. It's becoming what we want it to be. And then we stick it in the oven and we get to enjoy the bread. The rising bread demonstrates a gradual Steady, unseen, organic spread of yeast in bread dough. By the way, that yeast is alive. Just to remind you, it's growing. Spreading. He says that's what the kingdom of God is like. There are a couple of principles that Jesus is illustrating here. The first principle is this. The growth of God's kingdom is an organic growth. It's not something that you design, it's not something that you manufacture, it's not something that you figure out and you sit down and well, here's a math problem. If I plug in these numbers. This is what I get. That's not the way that the kingdom of God grows. Now, if it was like that, it would be growing like a business. You know, people have like a business model and they have their plan of how they're gonna how they're gonna present their product and how they're going to improve their product and how they're gonna get more customers and how they're gonna keep their customers happy and how they're gonna make the price just right and and how they're gonna know what to pay those people who are working for them and how they can increase their profit margins and and pay their overheads and all those things. The kingdom of heaven doesn't grow like that Folks. It grows like a seed. All you gotta do is put it in the ground and God takes care of the rest. In fact, you can forget about it. You almost get that impression. It's like he puts it there, he forgets about it. and it grows. That's how God's kingdom grows. It's organic. Second principle, the growth of God's kingdom. It's surprising. In fact, maybe the word shocking would have been an even better word to use. The idea is that I would have never, never anticipated from that little speck in the dirt, a tree that her birds are flying into and and making their nests and I sit under the shade of these branches. I would have never considered such a thing. The growth of God's kingdom, it surprises people. Principle three, while there is human involvement in the growth of God's kingdom, it is not accomplished by human power. Now, how did that seed get in the garden? Somebody put it there. In the same way That some of the raspberries growing in your garden are there because a bird put it there, okay? In other words, it just had to get the seed in the ground. That's all it was. Doesn't say he cultivated it, doesn't say he watered it, doesn't say he weeded a raspberry Found it, it went in the ground, and the rest is history. And the fact is that God uses people in the growth of his kingdom. And it's important. We have to take the gospel to people. How can they hear on him whom they how can they believe on him whom they've not heard? How can they hear without a preacher? Faith cometh by hearing the word of God. We've got to preach We've got to make disciples. But here is the very simple principle here. God uses us, but it's not our power. It's not our abilities. It's not even the fact that we work harder than other people. He does the work through us. We are instruments. Principle four. This growth takes time. Now, I remember the other day, the other day I was I went on uh Zillow or Redfin or something like that. And I was just curious like how much the house that I grew up well first of all I want to know if it still exists. The house I grew up when I was a little kid. And I wanted to see what it looked like and I wanted to see how much it cost. That was another thing. Just out of curiosity. And so a little house, upstate South Carolina. I think my parents paid $30,000 for it or something like that. I don't remember. It's like $275 right now. I'm like, what in the world? But that wasn't the most shocking thing. I could barely recognize the house. Now when I was a little kid living in this house, there were no trees in the front front yard. In fact, there was nothing growing that you wanted there. It's like dandelions and weeds and all kinds of stuff. But when you look there on Redfin, guess you could barely see the house. All these big old trees growing up in the front of that. house in the back of the house? I guess I lived in that house 30 years ago. Thirty years. It went from a yard that had weeds and some grass to like a forest. Like what in the world happened? There there's a there's a field over here when you when you go up East West Boulevard and you you take a left before you or when you go up Pasadena Road before you take a left going on to West Pasadena. I remember a couple years back, that was a field. And now it's full of all these fake pear trees, the only ones that turn white and smell like dead fish. You know what I'm talking about? Where'd they come from? Nobody wanted them there. The kingdom of heaven grows like that. Slowly, gradually, very unassumingly, but it's happening. And we get to be a part of this. So that moves us to our second part of this discussion. That is what is the doctrinal foundation for what Jesus is saying? Because the truth is in these verses, Jesus doesn't take these These principles is like, let me lay this out for you so you can understand why this is the case. He just says, you want to understand what the kingdom of heaven is like? It's like a little seed in a garden that becomes a great big tree. Somebody put it there, they didn't take care of it. But he grew. There are at least three doctrinal concepts that I think are important for us to understand that kind of support why the kingdom of God is like this. The first doctrine is this There are two great kingdoms in conflict. And we ex we talked a good bit about this in our Sunday school hour, so I'm not going to dig deeply into this this morning. But you go back to Genesis chapter 3, verse 15. Here's what it says. I will put enmity between thee and the woman, thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise his head , and thou shalt bruise his heel. You say, what is he talking about? He's talking about the coming of the Messiah who's going to come and he's going to crush the serpent's head. But he's also talking about this conflict between two kingdoms that are in this world today. The kingdom Of God's children in Christ, and those who are outside of this kingdom who are of the kingdom of this world. Colossians chapter 1, verse 13. Listen to what the text says. Christ hath delivered us from the power of darkness and translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. You see this contrast? One is the world and one is God's kingdom. He says, In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. He has made peace through the blood of his cross. We have been he has reconciled all things to himself, saying whether there be things in earth or things on in heaven, and you who sometime were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath He reconciled There's a lot of scripture to unpack here, but the point I want you to notice is two kingdoms. Two kingdoms. This is who we were, and this is who we are. Two kingdoms. And who we were and who we are. The difference is Christ, the cross, what he did for us We are complete in him. Ephesians chapter 6, we see a similar statement. He says, Brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to see Stand against the wiles of the devil. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, the rulers of the darkness of this world. spiritual wickedness and high places. Take unto you the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. Now what is Paul saying here? He's telling us that when you see struggles in this world, it's not just those people, but the real problem is actually below the surface, it's what you're not able to see. It's like going out into the ocean and you look and like, oh, there's an iceberg over there, and you think the iceberg is like this size, but it's much below the surface that you can't see. That's where the real problem lies. And the kingdoms of this world that are moving in rebellion against God, they are being motivated and guided and influenced by the kingdom of God. darkness. There is a real Satan who really hates God, who really went into the garden and said to Adam and Eve, has God really said this? He knows that you'll be like him. You'll be wise. And the fact is, all these conflicts that we see in the world, sometimes we need to step back and recognize something. There's more than just what I'm seeing here in the physical world. sense. Movements going on in our nation that are very, very, very disheartening, troubling. Why are those people doing the things they're doing? Why are they They may not even believe they may be totally secular in their viewpoint. They believe that there's a God and they don't believe that there's a devil, but he's most certainly influenced In their lives. And the way that they think and what they're doing. There are two kingdoms. In John 15, verse 18, he says, If the world hate you, you know it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you're not of this world, but I've chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. Do you see what Jesus is saying? In fact, the book of Revelation, such a fascinating book, talking about the end times, but at the beginning of the book of Revelation, you know what Jesus does? He addresses seven churches. And I want you to notice some of the things he says to these churches. For instance, in Revelation chapter 2, verse 9, he says, I know thy works and tribulation and poverty, but thou art rich. I knew the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews and are not, but are of the synagogue of Satan. Now, this Christian church in that particular community was receiving persecution, not from Rome at that period, but actually from the Jewish population within that city. Many of those people had been had been Jewish and then they understood the gospel and they recognized who Jesus was and they turned to Christ and they placed their faith in the finished word of Christ. You can say it became complete Jews, okay? And then they began to receive persecution from within their community. Could have been from their own families. Could have been from those who had authority and power. It could have been from people they worked for. But he says this. He says, fear none of those things which you will suffer. The devil shall cast some of you into prison that ye may be tried and ye shall have tribulation ten days. Be faithful even unto death. I will give you Now he's not calling the people that threw him in prison the devil. He's saying they're doing it because of the influence of Satan. Isn't that a crazy thing to think about? It's true. Revelation chapter 2, verse 13. He says, I know thy works, where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is And thou holdest fast my name, hast denied my faith, even in those days where an Antipas, one of my faithful martyrs, who was slain among you where Satan dwelleth. What's he saying? saying. He's saying you live in a very corrupt city. And the reason that city is so corrupt is because Satan is having a lot of influence. And that influence is touching every single person's life, and it's affecting you because you're being persecuted. Yes, there are humans that are doing this stuff, but the influence of their thinking is coming from the kids. Revelation chapter 2, verse 24, as many as I as have not this doctrine, which have not known the depth of Satan as they speak, I will put upon you none other burden but that which you have already. Hold fast till I come. Revelation 3. I know thy works. Behold, I have set before thee an open door and no man can shut it Thou hast a little strength and hast kept my word and hast not denied my name, behold, I make them of the synagogue of Satan, which Satan Behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee. Behold, I come quickly, hold that fast which thou hast that no man can Now in each of those passages, you know who he mentions? Satan. Why is that? Because Satan hates He hates God. He hates God's work. He hates God's people. He hates the gospel. And he's going to do everything in his power during the time that he has to go out So what's the point? The point is don't be surprised when you encounter diverse temptations and trials Don't be surprised when things are very difficult. If you and I are going to do the Lord's work, and I mean, I mean raise your kids for the glory of Christ Be a part of a faithful church that preaches the gospel and desires to make disciples, try to do right in your workforce, guess what? You're going to face some opposition. Opposition. It's not the people you're looking at. It's who's influencing those people. Second doctrine. God personally restrains evil. And he builds his kingdom during this time. Let me say it again. God personally restrains evil and builds his kingdom during this time. Now in Matthew chapter 13, Jesus told a very interesting parable. And I love this parable because it really gives us a good sense of how God is working in the world. So in Matthew chapter 13, verse 24, here's what it says. The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field. Well, there's another farming example. While men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat. And went his way. The servant said unto him , Wilt thou that we go and gather them up He said, No, lest, while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest, and in the time of harvest, I will say to the reapers, gather ye together first Isn't that an amazing amazing illustration? Basically, what Jesus is saying is, you know how the world is? The world is like this. A man has this field and he plants wheat and he's got an enemy. He goes, I'm gonna mess this guy's life up. I'm gonna go ahead and plant weeds, bears in the field. And when the farmers come and they say, hey, sir, the field is full of cares. What do we do? He says, let them grow together. But the reason that he gave is very interesting. He says, lest when you uproot the tares, the wheat goes with it. Isn't that an interesting statement? You say, what's the point? Anybody in this Room here, a believer who had an ancestor who was not. All of us in this room would be in that category. Guess what? If God uprooted all the people that rejected him, you and I would beer today. Isn't that simple? So in order for you and I to have an opportunity to hear the gospel, God's got to put up with a lot of garbage to get us into this world. And he puts up with a lot of garbage with us as well. The fact is, God lets the wheat and the tares grow together. He allows Satan to wreak havoc in this world, but he is limiting what he can do. And he is building his kingdom. And he's doing it steadily and faithfully. And when you and I look at what God's doing, sometimes we don't even see it. We don't understand it. We can't perceive the weight of what is going on around us, but in fact he's doing it. In Ezekiel chapter 17, I'm not going to read this passage, but Ezekiel writes this very interesting parable about the Messiah. He talks about a tree. And he says this tree is going to be cut down, and there's going to be this little little sprig off it, and it's going to be planted in the ground. And that little planted sprig in the ground is going to become this massive And you know what you know what he's talking about? He's talking about how the nations of this world flourish and the kingdoms of this world flourish, and they seem to be doing what they want to do. And God says I'm going to take one little branch and I'm going to plant them in the ground and he's going to replace all of them. That's what he's going to do. You say, what's that talking about? That's talking about how the story ends. God 's going to take the Lord Jesus Christ, a root out of a dry ground, no former comeliness. When they see him, there's no beauty that they'll desire him, despised, rejected of men, a man of sorrow. is acquainted with grief. And he's going to take the Lord Jesus Christ, and he's going to go to the cross and he's going to triumph over death and he's going to establish eternal righteousness. That's what this is all about. God steadily does his work. Think about what Jesus said in Matthew 16. He says, I will. He didn't say I might and I hope to. He said, I will build my church. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. What God has promised and what God has purposed will happen. No matter how messy things look in the world, and they do look messy, unquestionably they do. God's going to prevail. He's going to triumph. We get to be a part of it. In Revelation chapter 5, verses 9 and 10, it says this, thou art worthy. to take the book and open the seals. Thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by the blood by thy uh by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation and hast made us unto God. Kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. You know who that's talking about? All of us sitting here who trusted Christ We're to be a part of that. Promised, it will be fulfilled. You know, it's interesting. When we read the Bible, most of what we read in the Bible is fulfilled prophecy. Prophecy. But what we read as fulfilled prophecy was not fulfilled prophecy for most of human history. Have you thought about that? I mean, how much of prophecy that was given to Abraham did Abraham see realized? Well, he saw that he his wife had a son in their old age. But that's it. That's what he saw. Knowest all that the world was flooded, but his life was preserved and his children. We take all these little examples, and you know what? Everything God promised was future for them. For us, it's fulfilled, save one thing. And that's what we read about in Revelation. The kingdom of God, heaven, the new Jerusalem The fulfillment of all of these things, we are going to have a privilege to be a part of it because of His grace. The third doctrine Is that he will fulfill what he promised and finish what he started. In 1 Corinthians 15, verse 21, it says, since by man Came death. By man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all died, even so in Christ shall all be made alive Every man after his own order, Christ the first fruits, afterward, they that are Christ at his coming. Then cometh the end when he shall have delivered up the kingdom of God. Even the Father, when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and all power, he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. He hath put all things under his feet. First Corinthians fifteen. That's future for us. folks. We live in the already but not yet. We are really talking about this a lot in Romans chapter 8. Already not yet. Already not yet. We are saved, but we're not yet glorified. But it's a promised reality. In Revelation 12, we read about this in our opening scripture. In Revelation 20, we read about this in our opening scripture. And I want to read to you what it says in Revelation 21. Which is kind of like the culmination of all of it. He says, I John saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. He will dwell with them, and shall be, they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their gods. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. Now, there's a couple different reasons why people cry. Probably all of them would be appropriate in that moment. He's going to wipe away every tear. There'll be no more death, no more sorrow, no more crying, no more pain. The former things are past. Away. He said, He that sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new, and he saith right, for these words are true and faithful. Folks, those are the three doctrinal truths that undergird what Jesus is talking about. So that leads me to this last question. How do you apply a passage like this? First thing is this: we need to understand how he builds this kingdom. It is not by our power. It is not by our wisdom, it is not by our diligence. Now, I am not saying that so that we all get a pass and say, let's be lazy and let's not make decisions based on wisdom. That's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is, some of us think it all rests on our shoulders. You say, I don't believe that, but you live like you do. I don't believe that, but sometimes I live like I do. It's not by power or might, it's by his spirit. That these things are accomplished. While he uses us, we're privileged to play a small and brief part in this work. If anybody in this room lives to be a hundred years old, That's a speck in light of human history. It really is. It's a speck. And most of us, probably almost all of us, will not live to that age But that time is important. The fact is, the raising of your kids matters. The people that you lead to Christ It matters. The people you invest time and energy in to try to help them grow into Christ's likeness, to teach them the word of God, the people that you came along and you shouldered burdens with them, those people Those things matter, but they have to be looked at in perspective. That time is short, that time is a privilege, but it's also Significant, and we want to keep the balance. So we need to understand how he builds his kingdom. Secondly, we need to see this work through his eyes. His work may appear very unassuming and slow. But it is steady and moving to a very definite end. What's amazing about this is that The way that God is working in the world, there are people in this room, there are people in the world right now who God is blessing in absolutely incredible ways. There are churches that are seeing people saved all the time. There are churches that see young Christians that are being discipled, people being baptized. There are places where churches are growing and thriving and you don't know anything about them. You don't speak their language. You'll never see their face. You'll never hear a story about what's going on in their lives. Yet those stories are real. And God is working in their midst. And there are people around the world that don't know anything about this church. They don't know what God is doing in our midst. And there are places where for a period of time, for a generation, there is tremendous struggle, and churches are dying out and then God in his grace brings the gospel back into that region through a missionary, through a church planter, through a a reawakening in that particular church or that community. And all of a sudden a place that was cold and barren and parsed becomes a thriving place of God's blessing again. And then a generation or two later, you don't see it again. And that's how church history works. But the fact is this, God is slowly and in an unassuming way steadily moving all things to their ends. Where he's going to establish his eternal kingdom, and we will have the privilege of being with him forever. Thirdly, we need to understand the nature of his work. It's organic. It's not a formula. It's not some philosophical approach that I got it all right. Now that I've plugged in the numbers, it's going to play out the way that I want it to. There's a lot of people that would love it for for it to be that way. I'm one of them. I'd love for just give me the formula, God, and I'll just plug it in. I'll do that. I'll do exactly how you tell me to do it. It doesn't work that way. It's organic. Sometimes you're not handling things the way that you should. You're not as faithful as you think you should, as you know you should be. And God surprisingly blesses you in spite of that. Sometimes you are laboring so faithfully and you're enduring and you're doing the right thing and you're doing it the right way and it's it's hard and it's dry and nothing's happening. Then it gets worse, and then God blesses. You don't know. What God's gonna do. You don't know his mind. You don't know his ways. But you do have his promise. We need to keep ourselves from distraction and compromise. That hinders the effectiveness of our involvement in his work. Our concern should not be what he does, our concern should be how we do it. We should be concerned about doing the right thing. And how God blesses it is entirely his business. And how God blesses it may actually not be A perfect one-to-one ratio of how effectively you did it. There are people that do things poorly and God blesses them in spite of it. Grace is what it's called. And there are people that they are very faithful. And it's hard. What's the point? God says, do right and let me take care of the rest. He builds the church. So I leave you with this final statement. We've got to live with a confident expectation of its steady progress and certain end. And I want to read you what we looked at in Sunday school this morning. I won't say any more about these verses. I will just read them. Because we're going to spend a month talking about them. I reckon that the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed to them. Us. The earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. The creation was made subject to vanity not willingly, but by reason of him who subjected the same in hope. We know that all things uh I skipped something, because the creature itself was all also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption and the glorious liberty of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now, and not only they, but ourselves also, which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption to wit the redemption of our body. For we have we are saved by hope, but hope that is seen is not hope. For what a man seeth, why doth he yet? hope for it. But if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it. Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. We know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings Which cannot be uttered. He that searcheth the heart knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose, for whom he did foreknow he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he May be the firstborn of many brethren. May God help us to think about this the rest of the day. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. The truths that we have examined are so rich. We have not done a justice to the depth of these truths And so I pray the Spirit of God would take the word and impress it on our hearts, and may these truths resonate with us throughout the day and as we go into the rest of this week. Father, help us to remember that the kingdom grows like a mustard seed in a garden. So unassuming. But it happens steadily. It happens by the power of God who created the seed to do what it does And you build your kingdom in the same way. Help us to be faithful as we endure seeing him who is invisible. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen. I'd like to ask you to take out your hymn books, please, and let's turn to hymn number 14. Worthy of praise. And I do want to say, this message was really not, here's how you get saved. But there might be somebody in our in our midst who the fact is you cannot apply this passage of scripture because you're outside the kingdom. Jesus told Nicodemus, unless you're born again, you won't see the kingdom of God. There could be somebody in our room just like that. If you don't know for sure that you're saved, please. Speak to me about it. I want to take the Bible, show you how to be saved. So please do not hesitate to do it. Let's stand together as we sing number 14, worthy of praise. Sing it like you believe that too. Alright, here we go. My heart overflows with praise to the Lord Nagyon érzed, anul jön , így van még az ügy ne jár ismert, eljut. All my stream , turning upon my great It was one day of all my God, and I wouldn't go. Worthy of all my name. You are worthy of all I will. Hey man. Well I hope that you'll be able to come back tonight and join us again. We're having him sing fellowship so uh six o'clock we'll be meeting down in the fellowship hall. Um if you're planning to come I'd ask that you uh go by that sign up sheet to see if there's something that you can sign up to bring. That way we we know we've got enough meat and sides. Um we we do pretty well in the desserts. Let's keep I like the desserts, but uh w we want some meat too, because we're gonna be grilling, all right. So uh but anyway, please do uh make a note of that so we'll make sure we have a a good balance. You know, we'll have something Green up there on the dessert section, I'm sure. And uh and uh anyway, uh hope that you can come back tonight for that. We'll the hymn sing, there'll be a challenge from Pastor Josh, and then we'll just have a great time of fellowship. Uh if you're visiting with us today, we we are so glad to have you and hope that service was a blessing to you. I hope you'll come by and uh just greet us. And uh Brother Ralph Pridgeon, can you please come and close us in prayer? Let's pray. Our Lord and Heavenly Father, we do thank you that we can gather freely without threat or Or worry, Lord. We thank you for the truth in your word. We thank you that any persecution that we have now is just a Just something we go through for a short while and we have eternity to look forward to with you in glory and in uh in a state that I don't think our minds can comprehend now. Lord, we ask that you would dismiss us with your blessing. Watch over each and every one here. Give us an opportunity this week to tell someone about Jesus. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.