We'll like to welcome you again to our live stream, and I want to ask you to take a moment and turn with me in your Bibles to John chapter twelve. John chapter 12. And uh if you're following our uh our services through Facebook, one of the things that we're going to be doing is that this morning we're going to be looking at the triumphal entry of Christ. And after we do that in the evening, we're going to look at the Last Supper, and we're going to look into the upper room and see the conversations and the events that took place there in the upper room. Then when we move to Friday, uh when is traditionally held as Good Friday, we're going to be focusing on the crucifixion and the cross And then the following Sunday morning we're going to look at the resurrection of Christ, and then we're going to complete this entire conversation that we're having with that conversation that the Lord Jesus had with some individuals on the road to Emmaus. So I hope that if you've joined us this morning, you won't just join us this morning, but you'll join us tonight. You'll join us again on Friday night and then the following Sunday morning and Sunday evening because really what we're going to be doing is we're going to be walking through the entire story of the gospel. We're going to talk about all of those events that took place that final week of Christ's ministry before he went to the cross. And the truth is, if you're reading through the book of John, what you'll find is that from John chapter 11 all the way through nearly the end of the book, half of the book of John is dedicated to that final week of Christ's ministry. And so this is really what we're going to be doing over the next couple of days. And I'm really excited about that. I think the opportunity to study this together will be very encouraging and very helpful to our souls. John chapter 12, we're going to begin in verse 12. I'm going to read to you again the passage that we had for our text of Scripture that we read in the middle of our singing. On the next day, much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him And cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon, as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Sion, behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him. And that they had done these things unto him, the people thereof that was with him when he had called Lazarus out of his grave, and raised him from the dead bare record. For this cause the people also met him For that they had heard that he had done this miracle. The Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Perceive ye how he prevaileth nothing, how we prevaileth nothing. Behold, the world is gone after him As we read this passage of Scripture, I wanted to ask this very important question. What was the main point of what we're reading here in John 12? And then really what's going to be a continuation of a story focused on the last week of Christ's public ministry. Well, the purpose of this portion of John's record of the gospel story was to tell the flow of events that led up to Christ's crucifixion and resurrection to show how they fulfilled prophecy and established our redemption. In other words, the things that we're going to be reading about today and tonight and over the next few days, all of these details are pointing to a moment in time that is so significant in human history. There is no week and there is no day, there is no season of events in all of history that is more important and is more significant than the things that we will talk about in these next several days. They were the fulfillment of prophecy for thousands of years. And they were all about pointing to the cross and redemption. What does God want you to learn from this passage? What does he want me to take away from this passage? Well, here's what I think the primary point is that God wants us to see. He wants us to see Christ as he is. And then to respond correctly to him. In other words, we're to respond correctly to who he is and what he's done for us. We're to bow our knees, trust in him as our Savior. I want us to take this passage and I want us to kind of walk through the details and walk through the storyline so that we can understand the flow of events and then understand the significance of those events. So in order for us to do that this morning, I want to start in this first section, the events that led up to what we commonly call Palm Sunday. Today is a special day, it's Palm Sunday. When I was a missionary and I was a pastor and gone to West Africa, I loved Palm Sunday because on Palm Sunday we would take time to sing very festive songs about Christ coming into Jerusalem. It was a very, very fun time in our church In fact, it's sad we can't meet today as a church. But you know what? We can still focus on these events and we can be blessed by them. So what exactly was going on in John chapter 12 as Jesus walks into Jerusalem? Well, in order to understand these events, we need to start in verse 9 with this statement, on the next day. In other words, Jesus has done some things. He's had some conversations. There are some conversations going on about him. And those things point to the significance of what we talk about on Palm Sunday. In other words, to in order to appreciate the events that we read about in John 12. We need to understand the flow of events that led up to Christ's entrance into Jerusalem. For a little over three years, Christ had been traveling around Judea and into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom. and calling people to repentance in preparation for that kingdom. Through private conversations, public teaching, and strategically perform miracles, Christ laid an unquestionable case For those to trust in him as the Messiah. But as Jesus preached and as he taught and as he had these conversations, an intense division began to brew in the surrounding communities over Christ's identity. This division ultimately would come to a head when Christ did something that was unprecedented. He raised his friend Lazarus back to life. In fact, we read about that in the chapters preceding these events, and really that event when Christ raised Lazarus from the dead That is the significance piece of the story that really thrusts us into this week where Christ is ultimately going to walk into Jerusalem and people are going to say Save us! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. To add to this division, there were many pressures. that were levied on the people, because the Jewish people at this time were under a heavy, crushing weight of Roman oppression. And the truth is that that was part of the dynamic that played into this event that we're going to see in John chapter 12. Let me talk to you about that division for a moment. Some believed on Christ. In John 11, 45 it says, Then many of the Jews which came to Mary and had seen the things which Jesus did. believed on him. When they saw that this man had the power to raise his friend to life, They knew Lazarus died. They knew he rose from the dead. They ate a meal with Lazarus and Christ, and they said, We believe this is the Messiah. They were convinced of those truths. But that's not where everybody stood. In fact, some people were very troubled by Jesus' popularity And the threat that he created to their position and the stability that they b believed was there in Jerusalem, these people were the religious elites. They were a powerful group of people who ruled the city both in an economic sense and religious sense and in a governmental sense. They had a good relationship with Rome. They'd worked things out. They didn't want to see that position disrupted in any way. In fact, in John 11, 46, it says this. But Some of them went their way to the Pharisees and told them that thing which Jesus had done, and then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a counsel and said, What do we do? This man doeth many miracles. If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him. And don't miss this next statement. And the Romans shall come and take away both our place. And our nation. These religious leaders were very disturbed by Christ's presence. You see, how in the world could they be so disturbed? It's because they weren't living for an eternal state. They're living for their temporary wealth and prosperity and safety. They didn't embrace him as their Messiah. We then see a third statement that's very important. These religious elites began to secretly plot to take Jesus by force And to have him executed. In verse 49, one of them named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, It is expedient for us. That one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. Caiaphas stands up and he says, Men, for the sake of us as a group and our nation. He's gotta die. We have to kill him. We have to take him secretly, and we have to put him down. We cannot have Jesus traveling around these communities stirring up huge crowds of people. We've got to deal with this problem. But this is the most interesting thing of this conversation. What the people failed to realize was that God's hand was using all these circumstances to bring about his plan of redemption. Look down in verse 51 of chapter 11 and see what it says. This is really interesting. John just pauses for a moment and he says, let me just interject something about what Caiaphas just said. This spake he not of himself. But being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for the nation, and not for that nation only. But that also he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. In other words, as Caiaphas makes this statement, he has no clue about the significance of the statement, but his statements was going to ultimately bring about the completion of what God promised all throughout the Old Testament. We then come to a second section. We look at the internal thoughts of the people that were closest to Christ, that ultimately were exposed by the movements of these events. I want to begin in chapter 12, verses 1 to 3, with a lady named Mary. Mary sensed the direction that these events were pointing, and she makes a beautiful public display of her love for Christ. An unbelievable display of worship and love for Christ, understanding who he was and what he was about to do. In John chapter 12, 1-3, it says this. six days before the Passover came to Bethany where Lazarus was uh where Lazarus was which had been dead whom he raised from the dead. There made him a supper, and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spite and herd, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. I want to ask you this question Why did Mary do this? What possessed Mary to take something that was very precious, very expensive, and to break it? And to anoint Jesus' feet with this ointment and begin to wash it with her hair. What prompted her to do such a thing? And then the question is, what is it that she understood? That it seemed like nobody else understood. Folks, the fact is this: when you look at the conversation that Jesus had between Mary and Martha at Lazarus's grave. When Jesus says, I'm the resurrection and the life, and he that believeth in me, though we are dead, yet shall he live, and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Do you believe this? Mary took that to heart. She realized something. Jesus is the Messiah. Jesus is going to die for our sins. And he's going to rise from the dead. And Mary began to process that. And Mary began to express this in a form of worship. In other words, as she anoints the feet of Christ and wipes it with her hair, she's saying, I know who Jesus is. I know what he's going to do. And I just want to show him that I love him before this takes place. We then see, secondly, that this display of worship troubled somebody in their midst. Troubled Judas and it foreshadowed his ultimate intention to betray Jesus to the religious elites who wanted to kill him. Judas knew what was going on behind the scenes just as much as Mary knew what was going on behind the scenes. He understood the direction that things were moving. And Judas, as a skeptic, though quietly to himself, says, I can't believe she's showing him this kind of love and this kind of worship. And he scoffs at her. And really what it did was it foreshadowed the way that he would relate to Christ in the coming days. In verses four and five it says this Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him, Why was not this ointment sold? For three hundred pence and given to the poor? In fact, the passage tells us he didn't care about the poor at all. He wanted to take the money. But you know what it reveals? At this time, Mary understood who Christ was. And she was humbled and she loved and she worshiped. Judas despised. Judas saw all the same stuff. He heard all the same things. But Judas. had made up his mind that he was not going to stand with Christ in these days. We then see that Christ came to her defense and explained that what everyone else seemed to miss. In verse 7 it says, Then said Jesus, let her alone. Against the day of my burying hath she kept this. It was Jesus' way of saying, she knows. She knows. We then come to a third section. Christ entered Jerusalem. for the Passover with a cheering mob expecting him to overthrow Rome and to establish a mighty Jewish empire. In verse number twelve it says this, when they heard That Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. They took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him. In other words, after all these events and all these conversations, the people would begin to talk and they say, Do you know who's coming to Jerusalem right now? Do you know who's making his way up to this place? It's Jesus. It's his disciples. Hey, do you remember what Jesus did? Did you hear? He raised a man to life. Yes, it's true that he fed 5,000 people. Yes, it's true he's done all these things. But there's nothing like what he just said. He raised a man to life. And people said, you know what? This is the one that can overthrow Rome. This is the one that can establish Jewish preeminence. This is the one that can free off our oppressors. He's the one. When he comes, let's plead with him and let's cry out to him: save us now. That's what's going on. The people heard he was coming and they prepared for his rev arrival. In verse 12 it says, On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming, they took branches and they went forth to meet him. And their cry was passionate and an anticipated and immediate response. Verse 13, they cried, Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. You say, what does Hosanna mean? Believe it or not, what they're doing is they're quoting from a psalm. And you know what psalm it was? It was a psalm that we opened our service with. Psalm 118. This is what the Psalm says. Save us now. I beseech thee, O Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee, send now prosperity. Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord. That's exactly what the people cried. Their cry was out of the scriptures. You might say, well, they must have understood who Jesus was. They must have understood that he was the fulfillment of prophecy. They must have all been embracing him as the Messiah. And recognizing he's going to go to the cross, he's going to rise from the dead, but he's going to establish a kingdom. And they need to turn to him and repent and trust in his work and embrace the gospel of the kingdom. Certainly that's what they were saying in that statement. But let me tell you, that's not what they were saying. You know how we know that? We know that because a few days later, Jerusalem was filled with people saying, crucify him. It was as if they said, we said save you, you didn't do it, and so we say away with you. What's amazing about this is that the people wanted deliverance and a kingdom and prosperity, and they believed that Christ could do it, but they didn't understand the way that God saves. You know what's interesting, if you go to Psalm 118, you will see that the verses before the statement, Save us Now We beseech you, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, comes in an order in the text. Let me read to you what it says in verse 25. Because twenty-five has to come before twenty b before the end. Twenty-two has to come before twenty-five. It says in Psalm 118, 22 , the stone which the builders refused. Is become the headstone of the corner. This is marvelous in the Lord's This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. You know what that statement was telling us? There had to be a cross. And there had to be an empty tomb. There had to be a basis for which God could make people qualified to enter his kingdom. In fact, it's interesting. Peter quotes this passage, Psalm 118, and when he talks about the stone which the builders refused becoming the head cornerstone, he basically says this. The religious leaders, the nation of Israel, the Jewish people of that day, they crucified the Savior. They rejected him. What's amazing is as they cried save us , they ignored what ultimately would be them fulfilling sending Christ to the cross. You want to talk about an unbelievable irony. As those people lined up in the streets and they put out those palm branches. They were going to ultimately fulfill prophecy. Not those who would enter the kingdom, but those who would send the king to the cross, so that the kingdom could come. What an unbelievable thought The psalm recognized the cry of deliverance, but it had to come with a cross first. And these events were a final public sign. before the crucifixion, to authenticate his person and work. In verse number 14 it says this, and Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon, as it is written. Zechariah 9. 9, I'll read it to you. Rejoice greatly, O daughters of Zion. Shout, O daughters of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh. He is just having salvation lowly and riding upon an ass and upon a colt, the foal of an ass. What's amazing is as Jesus comes into the city, and as the people are crying out, save us. They're missing the fulfillment of prophecy. He is coming to bring them salvation, but not in the way that they anticipated it You know, probably the most sobering thing of all that I find in this text is that the people, not even his disciples, really understood the significance. Of the events of this time. In verse sixteen it says this, these things understood not his disciples at the first But when Jesus was glorified, catch the phrase, then remembered they that these things were written of him. And that they had done these things unto him. What it tells us is that as the disciples were moving through these events As they were in the midst of the fulfillment of prophecy, the most significant event in human history, the most significant week in human history, they didn't understand it at all. But then they looked back and they saw all those details in place and they said, God did all this. This is the day that the Lord has made. And we will rejoice and we will be glad in it. In other words, when they looked back, that's when they understood the significance of what had taken place. We then move to the fourth section, reflecting on the most significant series of events in human history. Look down in verse 23, Jesus makes this statement. He says, the hour has come and the Son of Man should be glorified. And I ask you the question, what did Jesus mean when he said, the hour has come? That God's going to be glorified. I want to ask a series of questions and answer that as we reflect on the details of what we've just talked about. The first question is this: what was the point of all of this? The answer is actually found in verse 23. It says this, Jesus foretold the events that would unfold later in the week so that they could understand the significance of those events. Verse 23 says, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Verily I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. That statement, the hour of the hour has come, means that Jesus saw that what was taking place at that moment Throughout that week, and ultimately leading to the cross and the empty tomb, it was all the fulfillment of prophecy. Prophecy that went all the way back to Genesis chapter 3 in the garden. When Adam sins, and God tells Adam and Eve, he says, the seed of the woman will crush the serpent's head. That's what he was talking about. The hour has come. Jesus has come to crush Satan, to crush sin, to conquer sin and death, to establish redemption. We can be saved because of what he came to do. He says the Son of Man should be glorified. The most shameful, painful moment in all of Christ's ministry would result in redemption and God's glory. And then that little illustration, except a corn of wheat fall and die, Christ's death was an absolute essential to the completion of the Father's will. You know it's interesting we are experiencing I feel warmer weather than usual for this time of the year. And so you know be being the gardener Has decided I'm going to go out and I'm going to start planting things early. I hope that we don't get a frost this week or next week and kill everything that I've been growing. It's all in God's hands. I know that. But you know, there's something really interesting that I've come across as I've been planting stuff. I go into those beds that I planted last year where we had tomatoes. We had green beans, we had snap peas, all kinds of different things. And you know what's funny? As the weather's been warming up and as I'm starting to prepare the soil and water that soil, I'm starting to find little things that are growing. I'm finding dill growing. I'm finding snap peas starting to grow. I'm finding green beans that are starting to grow. I'm finding tons of tomatoes growing all over the place in the beds that I planted. You see, how in the world did that happen? Here's what happened. Last season, at the end of the season, when it got really cold and everything died, I didn't bring in all of what was left. Some grain beans just hung there throughout the whole winter. Some tomatoes just fell into the ground and they went splat and they rotted and the seeds were left in the soil. And now we're coming to this time of the year where it's starting to warm up and it's raining a lot, and guess what? All of these tomato plants are growing. All of these green beans are growing, and why is that? Because when that fruit died and landed in the ground, it had the ability to produce an unbelievable number of offspring of little plants. This is really the illustration that Jesus is using. He's saying, unless I die, you won't have life. In other words, the gospel is that Christ died for our sins, and he rose triumphant from the grave so that we could be given eternal life. There is no gospel without a cross. And an empty tomb. Question two, what was the problem with those who cried out for deliverance? Well, they wanted the kingdom, but they didn't want the cross. They wanted the kingdom without redemption. They wanted a kingdom, but they were only concerned with their physical comforts, not the state of their souls. They wanted a kingdom on their own timetable. They were fully convinced that Jesus could save them until it didn't work out the way they wanted it to. And what it revealed is that they weren't fully convinced of who Christ was, what he came to do, why he came to do it. In other words, they're crying out. Was not truly in faith, based on facts on God's work. And folks, there are many people that look at God in times of crisis and they say, Help me! But they don't want deliverance of a soul. They don't want to be saved from their sins. They don't want to be cleansed and made righteous. They want their circumstances to get smooth. And folks, that's exactly what the problem was with these people. I want to ask you a question. Why do you want Christ in this time of crisis? Do you want his gospel Do you want to be saved from your sins? Do you want to be reconciled to God? Do you want eternity with Him? Or do you want a smooth life? Question number three: why or how should I respond to these events? I begin with this statement: we need to come face to face with the reality. And I ask you, have you come face to face with the reality? All of the events we'll talk about in John chapter 12, they are moving, they are pointing to the cross. I'm going to tell you the story of the gospel over the next several sessions, beginning with the Palm Sunday event, all the way through the cross. And then to the empty tomb. And then the explanation of these things. That's the gospel story. Have you understood the gospel story? Have you understood why Christ came? Why he died? Why he rose again? Or is this simply in your mind just a festive occasion that in our Western cultures we enjoy? Folks, this is the most significant story, series of events in human history. Have you been fully convinced of who Christ is? And that what he did for us was the only thing that could be done to save our souls. Have you turned to him in repentance? Have you trusted in God's timetable and you're resting in how He works according to His own will and way? I want to encourage you to do this. I want to encourage you to let these events sink into your soul. I want to encourage you to respond humbly to them. It could be that today as you listen to this, you say, you know, I never understood why Jesus came. I never understood that he came to die for my sins. I never understood that the empty tomb was not just some fictitious story, but it's a real event in human history. It's the culmination of the gospel story. And today, I've recognized I've never come face to face with that. If you're listening to our live stream today and you do not have the confidence that you've received eternal life, that you've placed your trust in the finished work of Christ. I want to encourage you, do not, please do not leave this broadcast without reaching out to somebody who could take a Bible and explain to you how you can be saved. At the end of this series, the last slide you're going to see is going to have two email addresses. One is the email address to the office And one is my pastor Porsche email address. If you aren't sure that you're saved and you're burdened about your soul, I want to encourage you to reach out to me by email. Send me an email, even right in the middle of this conversation. Right at the end of this message, send me an email and say, Pastor, I don't know for sure that I'm saved. Can you explain to me the gospel? I will do it. It might be that you're a person who has trusted Christ as your Savior. Your sins are forgiven. You have that confidence that you're saved. But the truth is, you haven't looked at God the way that you should. You haven't looked at God as the one who you bow before and you say, it's on your timetable, God. It's according to your ways. I'm going to trust you. I'm going to trust your providence and how you're moving events. Even as we're in very troubling times. We're in the midst of a pandemic. This is a plague. There's no other way to put around it. Our country is in a very unique set of circumstances. It's been over a hundred years. Since our nation has gone through this. And this is a worldwide phenomenon. Nearly every country on the globe has been impacted by this pandemic. And I want to tell you, this is a time to think about your soul This is the time to make sure that you're right with God. This is the time for you as a Christian to be salt and light. This is a time to rest in God's providence. To trust in his goodness, to trust in his care. And this passage encourages us to do that. I want to encourage you, as God wants us to today, to respond correctly to what he's showing us in his word. You may be overwhelmed with circumstances. Please don't hesitate to reach out if you need to do that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer as we close our reflection this morning together. Father in heaven, it's been good to be able to be a witness again of the events that took place 2,000 years ago. The most significant week in human history. A week where people misunderstood you. Those closest to you didn't understand the significance. Of what the Lord Jesus Christ would do for them. And we can look back with clarity, and we can see that the cross and the empty tomb are ultimately what provide a means for us to be saved from our sins. And Father, as your people, we rejoice and we worship you as the one who has saved our souls. Father, we pray for those who may not know you as Savior. Who maybe have joined today with uncertainties and fears. Father, I pray that they would think deeply about their soul before you in eternity. And that they would recognize what Christ has done for them on that cross, and that they will turn to you in repentance and faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. That you will save them from their sins and give them eternal life. Father, I pray that you would take this season of difficulty in the lives of your people and the lives of our nation around this planet. And use it for your honor and glory. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.