Okay, well, good evening. I'd like to welcome everybody to our study tonight and then our prayer time afterwards. Let's all bow together and ask the Lord to bless our time as we dig into the Word of God. Father, we're so very thankful that tonight we can gather together and as a body of believers we can uh we can assemble and focus our attention on the Word of God. And I pray that as we open up this text of Scripture that you You would impress upon our hearts these truths. Help the truth to settle in our souls. Help us to be strengthened by what we see here. Help us to be instructed. Help me to communicate these truths in a way that is very helpful and ultimately that you're able to use to strengthen us as your people. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Matthew 5 is where we are again tonight, and we're looking at verses 17 through 20, and we are looking at this passage for the third time, and uh I decided as I was looking at it that we're gonna just limit it to three. Uh instead of four, I was gonna go four and I was like, you know, I'm gonna sandwich number three and four together because I think that they really do uh go very well together. But we're gonna read the text again, uh remind you of the summary, and then we will dig into the details again tonight. Here's what it says, Matthew 5, verse 17. Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For really I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say unto you, that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees Now, I want to remind you that this passage of Scripture is a connecting point between what he has stated earlier in the Beatitudes. and where he's going in the rest of the sermon. And Jesus is also addressing a lot of the issues that are going on in the kinds of teaching that the people are hearing at their time through the religious leaders, the Pharisees. The Sanhedrin. So this portion of the sermon establishes that transition, emphasizing the character of the true disciple, moving to a correct understanding of how to interpret and apply the law By doing this, he's going to provide a divine commentary that contrasts and confronts the most common forms of false teaching in his day. And so the question in front of us tonight is, what is the purpose of the law and what is the danger that Jesus talks about in reading the law selectively? Well, the first time that we gathered looking at this passage, we saw that Christ came to fulfill the law. And the second time we gathered, we saw that there's no part of the law that will fail to be fulfilled. Tonight we're going to see how the Pharisees were not righteous enough to meet God's standard of righteousness. That's what we're looking at. So the first truth is this: every detail of the law matters to God. And we see that in verses 17 to 19. He says, Think not that I'm come to destroy the law or the prophets. I'm not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, when jaw or when tittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled Whosoever therefore will break one of the least commandments and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. Now, there are several statements that are made there. I'm going to show you, focus in on four of the statements. The first statement is found in verse 17. He says, think not that I'm come to destroy the law or the prophets. Jesus is saying that the law is good He didn't come to say it's worthless. It doesn't have any value. He said, I came to fulfill what we find in the law. The second statement is the statement, till heaven and earth pass. One jaw or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law. This emphasizes that every word matters to God. Not just the structure of the statements of the law or the ideas, the thoughts, it's the very words that ultimately lead us to a correct understanding of those laws. In fact, this is very consistent with what we think about. We talk about verbal plenary inspiration of Scripture. What we're saying is every word of the Scripture is breathed out by God, not just the concepts. Not just the ideas, the very words. They matter. And this is also emphasizing the fact that if God took the care to give us that kind of precision, he did it for a reason. The third statement is, till all be fulfilled. He is promising to fulfill every single detail. So he took care when he gave it, he took care to preserve it, and he's going to take care to fulfill it. And then the fourth statement in verse 19, Whosoever therefore shall break one of the least of these commandments And shall teach men so. The idea is he's addressing this issue of being selective in how we teach or how we observe the law. And what Jesus is saying is that is unacceptable. Now, it is common for us to look at certain sins and to say, those sins are very serious. We need to make sure we don't do those things. And then here are the lesser things that are not as important. Amazingly, when we talk about sins like that, we tend to think of how serious sins are that are visible to other people, that are scandalous in their nature, that are destructive in what they ultimately uh will will will um communicate what'll take place. And then those that are secret, they're in the heart, we tend to kind of diminish those things. Or the things that don't seem like they're as uh dangerous to other people, we we tend to think that, well, those things are okay. Or Those that are very common, we almost talk them down. Well, when we talk about this statement of every single command matters, Whether it's someone who's a false teacher who is deliberately teaching something they know to be wrong and they don't believe it, they don't affirm it, and so they're teaching people a lie because they personally don't believe it. Or whether it is a person who's teaching and they're just being sloppy, which is probably where most of us would find ourselves. We we present something and we didn't think it through carefully, we didn't do our research. We didn't do our due diligence. The way that we apply it is sloppy. Whether it's a false teacher, whether it's sloppiness in the way we present things. Whether it's hypocrisy. I present the truth correctly, but I don't live it. And so you see this difference between the two, and it it's troubling. It bothers you. We're someone who's compromising. They know it's true, but they know what people want to hear, and so what they do is They find this middle ground. It's almost like if we were trying to work through a difficulty with other another person and we give a little bit They give a little bit. We kind of meet in the middle. We call it a compromise. Well, that's okay if we're not compromising principle and we're trying to resolve interpersonal issues. But when it comes to the Bible, what we know to be true, what someone wants to hear, and we get caught in this middle ground between the two, that's serious. And so the point is that whether it's a false teacher who's deliberate, a sloppy teacher who is careless, a hypocritical teacher who is sound but not living by what they teach. Or a compromising teacher who's trying to find this middle ground. All four of those scenarios are serious. And so we have to make sure that when we come to the text in front of us, that we recognize the seriousness of handling God's word. The second truth that we find here is that God's standard of righteousness is unattainable through man-made religion. And we see that in verse 20. Here's what it says: I say unto you. That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter the kingdom of God. Now, Jesus knows that the religious leaders of the day teach with a certain kind of mindset. Okay? He has listened to their teaching. Uh he went to the synagogue when he was growing up and he sat in the synagogue. He heard the reading of the law. He heard how it was being expounded. He watched how the Pharisees lived their lives. He knew the conversations that were going on and continued communities. And so Jesus makes this statement, your righteousness has to be above their righteousness. Because if your righteousness is not above their righteousness, it's not going to bring you to the standard that makes you acceptable to God and ultimately allows you to enter into his kingdom. But he's saying more than just you've got to go above their standard. He's also saying that their standard, which they are resting in, is not good enough as well. And you know what Jesus is ultimately saying? All your teachers are unconverted. That is exactly what he's saying, okay? And we know that because when Nicodemus comes to Jesus. He comes to him and he says, hey, we know that you're a teacher come from God, because no one can do these miracles except God's with him. And he looks at Nicodemus and he says, Nicodemus, unless you're born again. You can't see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus goes, what? He starts talking again. He says, Nicodemus, what is born of the flesh is flesh? What is born of the spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I say unto you, you must be born again. You know what that tells me? Nicodemus was unconverted when he came and he talked to Jesus. And because he was unconverted, it tells you that the system of thinking that he had was wrong. And so when Jesus makes this statement, he's saying, you've got to go above their standard, and their standard is unacceptable. So all your teachers, they need to hear this as well. That's what he's saying. And so what Jesus is really doing is he's contrasting three standards. The one standard is the one that I think is universal. We compare ourselves to one another. For instance, in 2 Corinthians 10, listen to what it says. And I know this is a very, it's a very wordy statement. And so it might be a little bit for us to kind of wrap our minds around it, but I'm going to read it slowly and maybe talk through it. Paul says, we dare not make ourselves of the number or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves. Now, this is what he's saying. I'm not going to be a part of people who justify themselves in the way that I'm about to state. That's what he's saying. They believe they're righteous because of what I'm about to say. I'm not one of them. That's what he's saying. He says they measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. I know that was a really, that's a lot to process, but this is what he's saying. You look at your neighbor and say, I'm not as bad as him, and I'm not as bad as her. I guess I'm good. Guess what? He's talking about you That's what he's saying. It's like the person who says, I don't have to outrun the bear, I just have to outrun my hunting partner. Okay. That's the mindset that we're talking about there. I've just got to be better than my neighbor. And you know what Jesus says? That thinking is wrong. God does not accept you on the basis of how you measure up to the person next to you. That's not the standard. There's a second passage of scripture that kind of addresses this as well. This is Romans chapter 2, verse 1. He says, Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest. For wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself, for thou that judgest doest the same things. Now, in Romans 1 and 2, what Paul is doing is he's building this case. And the case that he's building is this: every person is unrighteous, no exceptions. And so he builds the case by saying, the Gentiles who do not have the law of God have a conscience. That conscience is one of the things that reveals these are image bearers. They know that there's a right and there's a wrong. You know how I know that? Because if somebody lies to them, they don't like it. If somebody steals from them, they don't like it. If someone cheats them in such a way, they don't like it. And in fact, not only do they not like it, they point it out and they say, that's wrong. You don't have the right to do that. And so when a person does that, that's basically their way , that's their way of saying, I'm not as bad as you And you know what God says? No, actually you are. Because as you're pointing out, oh, why did you do this to me? He could at some point in your life point back and say, why did you do this to me? In other words, we're both pointing at each other. And then he addresses the Jews who say, Well, we're not as bad as the Gentiles. And he basically says, with all the stuff that you guys have, all the access you have to the law of God, And the covenant promises , sacrificial system, all of those festivals, all of the prophecies of the Old Testament. How dare you compare yourself to the Gentiles That's what he's saying. So we do not have the right to compare ourselves to one another. Because if we do that, we are holding a standard that God doesn't hold. The second example would be that of the Pharisee. And in Luke chapter 18, verse 11 and 12, we have this statement. The Pharisee, this is the uh the publican and the Pharisee, they're in the temple praying. It says that the Pharisee stood and he prayed thus with himself saying, God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are. Whew, no pride there at all. I'm faithful, I'm not like other people. Extortioners, people who use their power to steal from others and abuse them, unjust. They do things that are not right. Adulterers who are unfaithful to their spouse. Or even as this publican. Now, in his mind, he's like, all those things I just mentioned, he does those things. I mean, he's got all this money. He cheats people. Because he's got all this money, he's an immoral man. And I'm not like that. Well, here's the simple fact. If you were to compare the publican and the Pharisee, it's true. The publican lived a much more sinful, visible life. But by the end of the story, Jesus says, which one of those two men went out justified? It wasn't the Pharisee, it was the publican. It's because the Pharisee was blinded by his self-righteousness and his pride. But the whole point is That when the publican walked into the temple and he saw the Pharisee, he didn't believe that he measured up to that guy. And so in some sense, there were many, many people that look at the Pharisees and how righteous they were and they said, we can never reach that standard. And so when Jesus presents the pure gospel, all of a sudden that's a tremendous relief to them because it says, he did it all for me. But we see the Pharisee, the religious person. And Jesus makes this comparison. He says, you have to be better than them. But here's the true standard that matters. It's God Himself. I gave this illustration to someone recently. Let's say that you're going to build a cabinet. Oh, let's make it even better. You're going to build a house. And when you're building that house, you decide that you're going to send the dimensions in the English system, which that's But not the British system, the American system. We'll use that. So inches and feet and all that kind of stuff. That's what we're used to using. But the person that you're working with, they're not from the United States. They're from the UK or Canada or somewhere else. And they decide that they're going to measure everything in the metric system. My question. Is there going to be a problem with what they do? Absolutely this is gonna be a problem, especially when they go in to put in the electrical and the plumbing, right? It's gonna be a really small house, right? Well the idea that we're seeing here is that the standard matters So we might be talking about the same numbers, but if we're talking metric system versus American system, we have a totally different standard. And what we're building looks completely different than what was expected. And that's the way that people live their lives. I think we use the American system. God uses the metric. No, we'd be the other way around, right? No, we we use the American system. We use the metric system, right? No, the idea is that God says that he's the standard. And you know how we know that? Listen to some of these scriptures. I know that we know them. Romans 3. 10. There is none righteous. No, not one. Romans 3. 19. We know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped. And all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh to be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. So simple, right? Nobody goes to heaven because they keep the law. Because nobody keeps the law. Nobody keeps it. Isaiah 64, 6, we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousness are as filthy rags. And so when we compare ourselves to God's standard, it's incomparable. We don't just fall short by a little bit. We don't even come close. It's like a person who's going to jump from one rim of the Grand Canyon to the other. Well hey, you know what? Some of you might only get five feet. Some of you might get ten feet. Maybe an Olympian gets over twenty feet, but guess what? We're all gonna fall the same amount at the end. We're not getting to the other side, folks. It's not even close. And so this chasm is between us and God. There is no system that is good enough to reach God's standard. And so in Galatians 2. 21, he says, I do not frustrate the grace of God. If righteousness comes by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. And so we see that there's no system that has the ability to bridge the gap that is created by man. Only God has provided a way that we can be reconciled to Him. And that way is in Himself. And so that moves us to the third truth. The unbeliever needs to consider the implication of this statement. In verse 20, he says, except Your righteousness exceed. And then at the end he says, ye shall in no case enter. Those three pieces are very important. The word accept means that there is a standard that you have to meet. And if you don't meet the standard, you fall short, and you do not meet the qualification. And then we have the word exceed. In other words, the standard that everybody's looking at at the time that Jesus is living on the earth. That standard's not good enough. It's got to go higher. It's got to go beyond that standard. And so we see the word exceed. He says, you shall in no case enter. No exceptions. He doesn't say, well, you know, you didn't have as much information, so I'm going to give you a pass. You know, I know you broke the law in a lot of places, but you did the best you could. You did a good job. In fact, I think it's very interesting how Romans 3. 23 is worded. It says all have sinned and come short. Notice it didn't say all sin. It says they have have sinned. There's a difference. He's not emphasizing how many times we sin. He's emphasizing our connection to Adam who sinned and in him we are dead spiritually. That's actually what that's all about. 1 Corinthians 15, he says, In Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive. And so it doesn't matter how many times you've sinned and how big or small they are, you're guilty by birth. And by choice. And so we see that this concept is very important for us to understand if we do not know the Lord. The implication is that every mouth is stopped. Romans 3. 19. It reveals the beauty of Christ. Romans 5:6, when we were without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. God commendeth his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. It compels us to flee to him. Galatians 3:13. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. So the idea is that people have to recognize I fall short, but God's made a provision. And one of the greatest places that we see this illustrated is in Paul's personal testimony. I want to read to you what it says, Philippians chapter 3, verse number 7. He says, what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. For whom I suffered the loss of all things, and I do count them, but dung that A may win Christ. Be found in him not having my own righteousness Which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ. The righteousness which is of God by faith. Now, you can see all of the pieces we just talked about. You see the peace of fleeing to Christ. You see the peace of the law not making us acceptable to God. He says, the things that used to be gained to me, I counted them lost. I count them but dumb, refuse. It's worthless. It has no value. And he says, so that I can be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which comes through the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ. The righteousness of God by faith. That is what justification is. God's righteousness being imputed to me when I believe. And so this is the way that the unbeliever should respond. But there is a second little piece here that I want to draw your attention to as well. And that is that the Christian needs to consider the implication as well. Now you may be saying, hold on a second. I understand where it's talking to the unbeliever, but where is the believer in there? I want you to go back and I want you to notice carefully the way that this is worded. Okay? He says it this way. He says, Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments and teach man so, he shall be called least commandment. In the kingdom. Did you catch that? He didn't say outside the kingdom. He said in the kingdom And then he goes on to say this, but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. Did you catch that? Then at the end, verse 20, he says, Except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom. Did you catch that? So he talks about some people who are going to be great in the kingdom, some people that are going to be least in the kingdom, and some people who are going to be outside the kingdom. Do you see what we're talking about here? In other words, the passage has really an implication to both the believer and the unbeliever. To the unbeliever, he says, you have to be more righteous than the Pharisees and the scribes, because your righteousness has to be perfect, acceptable to me. And nobody meets that standard. But then he addresses in the same context the fact that if you're a part of the kingdom, you're a citizen of the kingdom, in other words, you're somebody who has received the righteousness that makes you fit to enter the kingdom. There is still a responsibility that you have as a citizen of that kingdom. Do you see the difference there? So he's basically saying, just because you're saved , And just because you understand you need Christ's righteousness, doesn't mean that God's commands become pointless to you after that point. Now it is true that there's therefore now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. Obviously that's clearly stated. But There is something on the line. And you should ask the question, well, what exactly is on the line when Jesus is talking about this? What is he suggesting could be lost or gained by the way that a person who has received the righteousness of Christ Who is a citizen of the kingdom, they're going to heaven. What could be gained or lost for that person? Because there is an element to our Christian experience in our eternal state. that has bearing by the decisions we make in this world. You say, are you sure about that? Of course I'm sure of that. That's what Jesus is saying here. But we see it in other passages as well. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 10. Listen carefully to what it says. It says, we, and by the way, when he used the word we, Paul is including himself there. Okay? He's a Christian. He's writing to Christians. He says, we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Now, if you go to Revelation where it talks about the great white throne judgment, that is different than what Paul is referring to here in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And by the way, in the book of Romans, when he's talking about the issue of conscience and how we relate to people, when we have conscience disagreements. He talks about the judgment seat of Christ. He says that we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And he uses very, very similar terminology. He's talking about the same thing. In 1 Corinthians, he also talks about the fact that we should consider how we build on the foundation of Christ. He says we can build wood and hay and stubble or gold and silver and precious stones. And he says, every man's work will be tried by fire. In other words, the quality of the way you have built your life on the foundation that is established, which is Christ alone. Well, the judgment seat of Christ is going to determine the true value of that. Not the value that is perceived by other people in the time that you live, not the value that is written about by people as time goes on. This is a stunning thing to consider, but there may be some people that we read about in church history that we've elevated very high. Missionary biographies, theologians, who when they stand at the judgment seat of Christ, they may not stack up as well as we think. It's true. Because the way that Jesus determines the quality of the work that they did is not based on what you and I see. or what people remember. There may be people that we'll be very surprised at the quality of the work that they've done, both on the positive side and on the negative side. And so he says, we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to what he hath done, whether it be good or bad. So this passage of Scripture is warning us about something. It's warning us about how we relate to the law after we're saved. Okay? Not before. After. Because he's clearly talking about people who are either going to be Lesser in the kingdom or greater in the kingdom. Not outside the kingdom, in the kingdom, but their experience will be different. And so let me give you a couple of thoughts here. The first is this He's talking about the fact that this teaching warns us to pay attention to the details. When it comes to the reading of the scriptures. When it comes to the interpretation of the scriptures, when it comes to our obedience and our faithfulness to the scriptures, the details actually matter. Yes, we're under grace. Yes, we're going to heaven. And yes, we should live soberly. And consistent with our position in Christ. I think about what Paul writes in 1 Thessalonians. He says, let us walk soberly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering. and wantonness, but put you on the Lord Jesus Christ and make not provision for the flesh. Why does he say that? To the Christian. Well because the way that we live actually does matter. It doesn't determine our eternal destination. But it does determine some degree of the quality of the experience we have in our eternal state. So in 2 Timothy 2. 15, he says, study To show thyself approved unto God. There needs to be a diligence in the study of Scripture. As a workman that needeth not to be ashamed. Well, who's he going to be ashamed before? God, rightly dividing the word of truth. In other words, he may be ashamed when he stands before Christ, or he may have great confidence. And what it's what determines the shame or the confidence will be what he did with that stewardship. Another example. This teaching warns us about how sobering it is to handle God's word as a teacher. In James chapter 3, verse 1, this is what it says. It says, My brethren, be not many masters. Now, that word master there is not talking about a slave master, but the Greek term is the doskalos. This is someone who is a master as a teacher. They're in a position of authority in a teaching context. Okay? So when he says let not many of you be masters, he's saying don't be quick to put yourself in a teaching role. And then he explains why. He says, knowing that we, James includes himself here, shall receive the greater condemnation. So if you're teaching, that means you have greater access to the truth than most people do. You spend more time, especially if you're being paid to do it. Okay. You spend a tremendous amount of time in the scriptures, so you have tremendous knowledge and understanding of what is there. Number two, you are speaking a lot. And the more we talk, the more likely it is that there will be times that we are not on track. Now, is that because we're sloppy people? No. No, the fact is that the air is human, all right? There are times in the teaching of God's Word that we do not get it to the extent that we should. There may be times that we don't state things as strongly as we should. There may be times that we state a point that's actually not really the point. There may be times that we are we are too strong. We should be a little bit softer than we are. There are times that we don't get it right. There are times that what we're saying is absolutely correct, but we're not doing it ourselves. And because of this this difference between what is said and what is seen, it it creates a stumbling block for people And so the teaching warns us to be sober when you handle the Word of God as a teacher. This teaching warns us not to alleviate our conscience by focusing on one area while ignoring another. I think the word that I use is compartmentalizing. Sometimes what we do in the Christian life is that we have an area that's kind of like our little pet area. And you're like, you know what? I don't want anybody touching that right there. That's that's that's that's me time. That's my place. I'm gonna do what I want to do in that area. And the truth is if your pastor said, hey, I think what you're doing there is wrong, you'd look at me like you have no right to talk to me about that You you you laugh, you say no, I would never do that. I I know for a fact. I know for a fact that that that is the case in certain situations. You say, how do you know that? Well I'll just leave that alone I know that for a fact. There's certain areas that the truth is that we'll actually overcompensate here to kind of bomb the conscience here. You understand what I'm saying? So a person will give so much attention to this area so that they don't think too much about this area. This is a very common thing to do. It's a great temptation to all of us, especially those who have a good uh a good name and a good reputation in these areas. We can almost start assuming that the reputation that we have, what people see, is actually who we are as a person. It's very dangerous if it's not consistent. And so in Romans 2. 21 he says this, thou therefore which teachest another, teach not thou thyself? Thou that preachest that a man should not steal, dost thou steal? Thou that sayest that a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? Thou that abhorest idols, dost thou commit sacrilege? Thou that makest thy boast in the law, throw through breaking the law, dishonorest thou God. Sometimes the person that points the finger the hardest and the loudest will be guilty of those very things. And the reason they point hard and the reason they shout loud is because they're trying to drown out their own conscience being bothered in that area. Now I'm not saying that that's an absolute across the board. I'm saying it happens. And so this passage of Scripture is a great warning That we should not be a person who looks at the law and says, you know, these lesser things, eh , I don't have to do them. And I can teach you you don't have to do them. And we're okay. He says it's not acceptable. Lastly, this teaching warns us not to compromise for the sake of convenience. 2 Timothy 4. 3. He says, the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. Now I've been doing a lot of uh light research, you might say, about stats in the United States. Do you realize that 30% of Americans regularly attend a religious service? 30%. That's only not even a third of the country. Okay? Not even a third. And if you were to look at the age demographic from 18 to 29, these are people that are they're they're coming out of high school. Basically, they're establishing themselves in life. In that group, it's below 20%. It's about 17%. In fact, it might even be lower than when the stats were given just a couple years ago. And one of the reasons that that's happening is because we have a culture that does not want to hear the truth. Now that's not the only reason. Sadly, there are people that do want to hear the truth, but there's not places proclaiming it too. That's also a problem. But there are a lot of people that do not want to hear the truth. They don't want to hear the truth about gender issues. They don't want to hear the truth about marriage issues. They don't want to hear Truth about abortion They don't want to hear the truth about some very basic fundamental matters. And so you know what some pastors do? They speak very quietly about those issues, or they just don't speak about them at all. And the reason they do that is because they're hoping somehow they can they can almost lure people into the church. And then as they lure people into the church, then they can kind of trick them into the kingdom, you might say. In fact, that's the whole point of the whole seeker-sensitive movement, which has lost actually a lot of steam in the last probably five to ten years. But when I was in college and coming out of college, going to seminary, that was a huge thing. Churches were becoming seeker sensitive. Let's change the way that we preach. Let's make the church just almost almost like a cluby kind of feel. Okay, you know, the lights and all of the excitement. It's an event that we want to want to have everybody have a great time at. And all of a sudden, the sense of coming to church to worship a holy and righteous God, it's like you would never dream that that was what that was. And the preaching of God's word wasn't central in a lot of places. You say, well, why is that? Well, because people have been tempted to compromise because they believe that is necessary to get people to come to church. And so Paul addresses that in 2 Timothy 4, 2,000 years ago. He says the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. The idea is that people will tell them what they want to hear. And if they tell them what they want to hear, they'll be able to keep them for a time. But the simple fact is that that is a direct implication, potentially, of this text of scripture. And not every single pastor who has kind of trimmed it there is an unbeliever. I don't believe that, okay? There are many people that are truly saved. And they do care about people and they do care about God, but they don't think principally about this issue. And they're very pragmatic about this issue. And so when we think about what he says, the point is this is not just something for the unbeliever. There is also an implication for the believer. So you say, well, Joel, what is kind of the conclusion of the matter? Well, let me give you a couple of final thoughts. There's only one standard that matters. It's not yours. It's not mine. It's God's. That's the only standard that matters. Not yours, not mine, not this church's. It's God's. No one meets this standard except Christ Himself. And our only hope of acceptance with the Father is in the forgiveness, righteousness, and life available in Christ. That is the only hope that we have. Even after we are saved, we should give careful attention to the details of God's Word. We are saved from wrath to walk in newness of life, and we should take that newness of life seriously. And so my encouragement is: may God help us to understand a proper use of the law. And then, in a principled way, apply it. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about the text in front of us, I pray that you would help these truths to settle in us. Help me to be faithful in what I've just stated. Help every single man and woman, every young person in this room, help each one of us to take to heart what we have heard. Father, if there's someone this evening, whether in our midst or or on the live stream who has been trying to come to you through their own righteousness, I pray that you would convict them and convince them that their righteousness does not meet your standard. standard. They can only come to you through Christ, his death, his resurrection, his imputed righteousness. And I pray that they would see that and embrace that. And then for those who are saved, I pray that we would recognize that though we are in a position of grace and we enjoy so many rich blessings in that position. We still are to walk with a soberness. We still are to walk with a carefulness. We still are to be cautious that we cut straight the word and that we are living it and that we are giving it faithfully. We ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen.