Good to see each of you tonight. And we had to take care of a couple little things before we get started, but let's go ahead and uh bow for a word of prayer, and then we will sing a song. And then get into our study tonight. We're in a Sermon on the Mount, Matthew chapter 5. So let's bow for prayer. Lord, we're so grateful for this day. We're thankful for the chance to open up your word tonight. And I pray that as we look into the Bible, that you would give us clear minds. Help me to communicate this scripture and the other text of scripture that we will deal with tonight with clarity in a way that is simple and easy to follow. And it and it will uh just speak to our hearts and minister to us. We ask that you be with the children in the back and be with those who are uh who are not able to be with us today for health reasons or travel, whatever the situation is, I pray that you would just bless them, as many of them may be joining us on live stream tonight. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, number 65 in our blue books. 65, God has spoken is what we will sing. And then we will get into our study tonight. Sixty five. We'll sing all three verses, please. Are they tentative? Uh God created May we always be a voice to let us through the words we hear and see Oh but how murderable was his love Oh what I get started God is his further we saw he's And they know we exist and they know our exploring through the scriptures. Virgin észnék jön, spirit áll , ennyi megnézed a jól , mint más. God said he wants Nice for the strangers when we must do God has done enter the Savior faith for For me, but I guess I 'm Good song. Love the message of that song. So So if you have your Bibles tonight, I'd like to ask you to turn with me to Matthew chapter 5. And uh we've been working through the Sermon on the Mount, working through the Beatitudes. And I'm going to read the section all the way up to the verse that we're going to deal with tonight. And we're going to be looking at Matthew 5. 6, but we'll read this whole section. Here's what it says. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. They shall be filled. Now, if you remember back over the last several weeks, we've been noticing that as we work our way through the Beatitudes , There is a progression of thought that we find in the Beatitudes. For instance, when he talks about blessed are the poor in spirit, he's talking about a quality that is true of every single Christian. You are not a Christian if you don't understand this quality of being poor in spirit. In order for a person to become a Christian, they have to first of all recognize that they are a sinner, that they are separated from God, that they are spiritually unable to build a case to make themselves right with God. And so what they understand is that they have nothing to give God. They have to simply accept what he did for them. And so that is the sense of being poor in spirit. And then we talked about blessed are they that mourn. And the idea is that as a person understands that spiritually they are bankrupt, they have nothing to give God, there is a grief of soul that accompanies that understanding. But then we see that this is the person who is ultimately going to be comforted because they recognize that there is a way for God to deal with this issue of sin. Then we talked about meekness. This is a quality that is a spiritual grace, and we talked about that at length last Wednesday And so this evening we're going to look at this next Beatitude. Here's what it says again: Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. They shall be filled. Again, blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness for they shall be filled. You say, well, well, Pastor, what is that talking about? Hungering and thirsting after righteousness. Well, we're probably going to spend more than one week dealing with this concept because I think there's a lot for us to dig into here as we kind of unpackage This simple statement that Jesus makes. But I want to begin with a summary statement. Christ's statement about the blessedness of those who hunger and thirst after righteousness illustrates the heart of gospel transformation. As we get into this topic, you're going to see that for a person to hunger and thirst after righteousness There is something that God has done in them that puts them in the position where that's what they want. People do not by nature hunger and thirst after righteousness. They hunger and they thirst after righteousness because of God's gracious work in them. We're going to look at how God works that. Ultimately, God wants us to understand that our longing for His righteousness is an indication that in fact we are a blessed people. We are one of those people who belongs to God. And this is one of the qualities that is at the heart of the transforming power of the gospel. So let's begin with a couple of introductory thoughts. First is this, hungry and thirsting after righteousness starts with an objective standard of righteousness. Before we can talk about hungering for righteousness, we need to know what righteousness is. Doesn't that make sense? In other words, the way that people define righteousness may or may not be correct. And so what they are hungering for May or may not be what the Bible is talking about in this particular context. So let's break it down this way. You cannot understand righteousness without an objective standard. What makes something right or wrong? It's an important question we have to ask. In fact, I think a lot of times The the world will sometimes come and they'll they'll be critical of the Bible and they'll say, Well, we don't like the ethics of the Bible. And they will judge the scriptures or they will judge God's right to do things the way that He does them. And I asked the question What is the basis for your decision that this is wrong or that this is right? Where does this start? Where do we find truth? Those two questions are very, very important. And so I answer it this way: Truth and righteousness do not start with us. They start with God. Truth and righteousness don't start with you and me. They start with God. If we want to know what is righteous, we have to know God. If we want to know what is true, we have to know God. So you cannot be righteous, and you will not understand righteousness if you reject God's authority. And you reject God's right to determine what is right and what is wrong. And so let's let's kind of break this down a little bit. First of all, it's this there is nobody that compares to God in nature when it comes to this issue of righteousness. Listen to the way the Bible puts it. In Psalm 71, verse 19. Thy righteousness also, O Lord God, is very high. Who has done great things, O God? Who is like unto thee? Now, this is what the psalmist is saying. When I ponder God's nature, And I think about the purity and the holiness and the righteousness of God. This is the conclusion I come to. Nobody comes close to it. That's what he's saying. Nobody. All of creation reveals the righteousness and the goodness of God, even in a fallen world. Listen to what it says in Psalm 33, verse 5. He, the Lord, loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. So what that's telling me is that if I observe this world, I'm going to see the evidence of a very good creator. I'm going to see the evidence of his righteousness. I'm going to see the evidence of his justice. I'm going to see the evidence of his goodness. And you say, well, this is a fallen world. That's true. Even in a fallen world, we still see the evidence of the goodness and the holiness and the righteousness and the justice of God. God loves what is good. And this good is actually conformed to his very nature. Psalm 11, verse 7. The righteous Lord loveth righteousness. His countenance doth behold the upright. Now you say, well, why do you take the time to say that righteousness starts with God's? I take the time, first of all, because it's true, okay? And secondly, because if we don't start with God's definitions And we don't start with what God says about this topic, then what we believe to be righteous and good may very well be the exact opposite. That's a very important detail for us to recognize. So when we talk about this issue of righteousness, God 's righteousness is in his very nature. So let's talk about the law for a minute. Sometimes we get in our minds, okay, if I want to know what righteousness is God made these laws, and so he made the law said in this situation, do this and don't do this. This is righteous because God said it's righteous. That's actually not the way that the law works. The way that the law works is the law reveals the nature of God in very practical situations. And the law encompasses all of life. It encompasses our thinking, it encompasses our actions, it encompasses our affections, what we love, what we hate. It encompasses all of our relationships. And it starts with our relationship to God. Think about the Ten Commandments. He doesn't start with your relationship with your spouse. He doesn't start with your relationship with your children. He doesn't start with your relationship with your neighbor. He starts with your relationship with God. And once we understand how we're supposed to be related to God, then he moves to these other issues of our relationship to other people. That's not to say that our relationship to other people doesn't matter, but what it does show you is that when it comes to this issue of order, it starts with God. He addresses marriage and family and community and business and work, how we handle property disputes, issues of ethics And morality. All of those things are a part of what God has communicated in His this is right and this is wrong. And all of this, this is right and this is wrong comes down to this is the nature of God. It conforms to his purposes. So you know, take an issue like marriage. The reason that God defines marriage the way that he does. is because when God created marriage, one man, one woman, four lives, and that's what he did, the reason that he did it that way, and the reason that he says adultery is wrong. And fornication's wrong, and any form of sexual sin is wrong. The reason that he says that is because marriage as it was created has a purpose. And that purpose conforms to God's nature. And so what makes it wrong to violate God's commands is that it goes against his nature. And it goes against his design and it goes against his purpose. And so this issue of righteousness is very, very important for us to understand. Next, I'll say this. The world's view of righteousness is entirely flawed and inconsistent. It is entirely flawed and inconsistent. Now, let's just be real honest. Think about it this way: you have people that will get up and tell you they take the moral high ground And then you observe other areas of life and you see it's complete contradiction of where they are supposedly taking the moral high ground. Okay. It's all over the place. We see the inconsistent. Even as Christians We're inconsistent people. There's no question about it. But God's not like that. God is consistent. And when we talk about the world's view of righteousness, the world is full of inconsistencies. Listen to some of these scriptures. Romans chapter 10, verses 3 to 4. This is a fascinating scripture. It says that they, being ignorant of God's righteousness, Did you catch that phrase? Ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness have not submitted to the righteousness of God. Did you hear that? People who are ignorant of God's righteousness are going about to establish their own righteousness and they've not submitted to the righteousness Of God. How do you say that we say it's called being blinded to true righteousness? It's called having this natural bias against the truth. This is how people are by nature. And by the way, I'm not just saying oughts everybody outside of these walls are we're like that too, okay? If it wasn't for the grace of God, if it wasn't for his work in our heart, we'd have the exact same mindset. We once had the exact same mindset. It's the gospel alone that changes everything. But this is important. Mankind does not submit to the righteousness of God because in blindness he's trying to create his own. Another example, Isaiah 64, 6. Listen to what it says. We are all as an unclean thing. All our righteousness are as f Now, this evening before we came to Bible study, I walked into my room to go get changed and I smelled something. It was not nice. You know what it was? The dog got a dirty diaper and dragged it out of the trash and shredded it under my bed. No lie. It's the truth. And let's just say when I went to clean that up , I lost my lunch twice It was real bad. Now why did I do that? Because I didn't like my lunch. No, I didn't like my lunch. I mean I liked it the first time, not the second time. And certainly not the third time. The reason is because the smell and the thought of it all was very gross. Now, notice what the text says. We are all as an unclean thing, all our righteousness is as filthy rags. When we decide that we are going to build up our credentials and say, here God, take this, God's like, are you kidding me? That's what he's saying. Unacceptable. Does not meet the standards. Our righteousness falls Short. But it's not just that it falls short. It's actually an offense to God. Because he's saying, here's the real thing. And what you're presenting to me is so flawed that it's actually offensive. That's what he's saying. But then we see Romans chapter 2 verse 1. Listen to what it says. Thou art an excusable o man whosoever thou art that judgest. For wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself. For thou that judgest doest the same things. We are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth. And thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things, and do the same that thou should escape the judgment of God? Despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? Now what is the text saying? It's basically saying this. We're all moral creatures. We know there's right and wrong. It's within our conscience. You know, when somebody lies to us or someone does something disrespectful to us. Or someone takes something that belongs to us. We worked hard and they stole something that belongs to us. In our hearts, we become very upset. Because we have this sense of justice, the sense of right and wrong. We say, how dare you lie to me? How dare you disrespect me? How dare you take something from me that does not belong to you? I worked for it. I've done everything that and you took it by force or you took it through deceit. You took it Now, when we have that response, you know what that tells us? We know lying's wrong. We know theft is wrong. We know pride is wrong. We know disrespect is wrong. We know those things are wrong. But here's the question: Are there ever times that we do the exact same thing? The answer is yes. And here's what it tells you. What it tells you is that when people sin against the holy God They do not do it in ignorance. They do it with a knowledge that this is wrong. Now, are there areas in our lives that we sin ignorantly? Absolutely, there are areas. There's no question about that. There's no question about that. But there are plenty of areas that we do not sin in ignorance. We sin with a high hand, we sin and we know what we're doing is wrong, and we are great at pointing it out. You did this, you did this. you did this. But that person at another point in my life can point the finger at me and say, you did this. And so what is God ultimately saying in all these scriptures? He's saying that man's righteousness falls short. Man's righteousness doesn't cut it. Man's righteousness is entirely different. The world's view of morality is flawed because it does not start with God. It starts with man. It starts with comparing ourselves to other sinful people. Listen, you will find somebody that has broken God's laws more viciously than you have, okay? There's still a question about it. There are people out there that have gone farther than you and I have areas. And it's very easy for us to go, well, I don't do what they do, and I don't do what they do. Okay, I do those things, but I don't go as far as they do. And we get this in our heads. And God says, it's not about your comparison to other people. It's how y'all stack up before me. I'm the standard, not you. And so mankind's righteousness is all about what do I want? How do I stack up with other people? God's perfection is the standard. We fall short. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth and unrighteousness. There is none righteous, no not one. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. So that's not even point one. That's the introduction, folks. So, truth number one is this. No worries, we won't get through them all tonight. Truth number one is this: hungering and thirsting after righteousness is an evidence of God's grace. Nobody hungers for righteousness without God having done a work in them Them. Nobody does. Because we're all going against God. We're all comparing ourselves to one another. We're all really good at at pointing out other people's flaws and ignoring our own. We're really good at that. And so when when Jesus says, Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness, they shall be filled. He's saying the reason they're blessed is because that is an evidence of God's grace in their life. And by the way, we're going to talk about a couple different aspects of that. There are different categories of this that we will look at as we get into this passage of scripture. But I want you to see the comparison between a person who knows the Lord, who is saved, who is converted. And a person who does not know the Lord is not converted, is not saved. So first we'll start with man in his unconverted state. The answer is that they're desperate on every level. Romans 3:10 There is none righteous. No, not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are together to become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. Their throat is an open sepulchre, with their tongue have they used deceit. That's the word of the Lord. And you know what the truth is when we interact with other people, we learn that this is true. We learned that people are deceitful. We learned that people can be vicious. I mean, man, look at what goes on social media. I mean, the way that people will pick and they'll just destroy They treat them as if they have no value. You say, why is that? Oh, because social media is a social media is a tool. It's a tool That allows you to look into the heart of a person. Because they pour out of their heart, out of the abundance of the heart, they're speaking through that machine. We live lives that are bound by our sinfulness. Romans 8, 7 to 8. It says that the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to God. God's laws. Neither indeed can be, so that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. First Corinthians 2:14 says that the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. They are foolishness unto Now you might be sitting here tonight going, well, hold on a second. That being true, well, then how does anybody get saved? And the answer is it's because God does a work in their heart. God convicts them of sin, of righteousness. And of judgment. God takes through the working of the gospel, he begins to work in their heart And I want you to see this because this is such a powerful thing for us to understand. And it is at the heart of this beatitude right here. God 's grace meets us in our desperation. I want you to turn with me to Titus chapter 3, verses 3 to 5. Because this verse, these verses. They just lay it out so beautifully. Here's what it says. And by the way, I could have gone to many other texts of scripture. But this is the one that I think maybe just, I don't know if it does it the best, but it is one of the great texts of explaining this. Here's what it says. We ourselves also were sometimes foolish. disobedient, deceived, serving diverse lusts and pleasures. Is that not a description of everything we've just talked about? He says, we, Paul including himself, we were those things. But after that, the kindness and love of God, our Savior toward man, appeared. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. So what is Paul saying Paul is saying that everybody out there is in this category of foolish and disobedient and deceived and serving diverse lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful. But God in his mercy and kindness, he pursues people. He comes to them where they are. They're not going to him. He comes to them. He does it through somebody knocking on a door. He does it through somebody giving a track. He does it through somebody sitting in a church service. He does it through somebody listening on the radio or they're they're they're on YouTube and they come across a preacher and he's preaching the gospel. He does it through a fit a friend, a co-worker. He can do it through all kinds of different ways. But God brings the gospel to people and when he brings the gospel to people it begins a work in their heart unlike anything else. Listen to what it says in Galatians 2. 19. Paul says, I through the law am dead to the law that I might live into God. That's a great text. God 's law takes me to this point where I see I got nothing. I got nothing. No righteousness. I'm guilty before God. I have no plea except for the work of Christ. I through the law became dead to the law that I might live unto God. Or in Romans chapter seven it says this, I'd not known sin, but by the law, for I had not known lust, except the law said, Thou shalt not covet, but sin taking occasion by the commandment wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. This is This is a fascinating text of scripture. Basically what it's saying is this. I'm going along my merry way. I'm living in ignorance. I'm following my own lustful passion. I don't even understand that I'm doing this. And all of a sudden I meet the law of God, and the law of God says, thou shalt not covet. And all of a sudden I go, oh, I do that all the time. Thou shalt not bear false witness. Man, I do it all the time. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Man, in my mind, I've been on all kinds of places. And he goes through all these different commandments. And as the commandment comes, all of a sudden it just like, boom, it knocks you down. You're like Like, I feel so guilty. But you know what's so funny? It's not funny, but it's true. While the law tells you that you are guilty, when it tells you don't do it, you know what goes on in your heart? You start go, I want to do that What right does God have to tell me I can't do this? I remember I had a I had a seminary professor. He he he gave this as an illustration He said, okay, you're in a junior high school building, and you're the maintenance guy, and you're painting, okay? So you paint that door, and then you're like, oh man, I want I don't want anybody to touch that. So you get this nice little sign, you stick it on the side of the wall. It says, do not touch wet paint. He said, you know what you just did? You told every junior high boy, don't touch this, and you also enticed them to do it at the same time. You put a little sign that says keep off the grass and everybody's like, Well, I can't walk across the grass. What is going on in people's hearts? Well, when the Bible says don't do it, we start going, why not? What do you mean I can't do this? That's human nature. And Paul is describing this. He says that sin took occasion by the commandment and wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. Sometimes we could even put it this way. God says don't do it. And you're like, I wasn't even thinking about it, but now I'm thinking about it all the time. It's amazing. Then verses 18 and following he says this. I know that in me That is in my flesh, dwellth no good thing. For the will is present in me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. The good that I would I do not The evil which I would not, I do. I find a law. When I would do good, evil is present in me. I see another law in my members warring against the law of my mind. Bring me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. I asked this question. Have you ever felt like that? If you're a Christian, there was a point where you felt like that. It's true. And this is what he says. He says, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? That's how people get saved. They see I'm lost. And then the next words are, I thank God through Jesus Christ. That's what he says. That's how we get saved. So God takes the law and he convicts us, and he shows us our guilt, and he shows us our unrighteousness. And all of a sudden in our hearts we say, I want to be made clean. I want to be God's child. I want to be forgiven. And I realize I can't do it. I need him to do it for me. And so I I think about what John Newton says in his song Amazing Grace. We know we know Amazing Grace. Here's what it says. 'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. And grace my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? That is a beautiful description in song of what happens in the heart of a person who trusts Christ. The law says you're guilty. The law shows you you can't do it. You feel the weight of your sin, and all of a sudden somebody says, but that that's why Jesus came. He came to die. That's why he was nailed to the cross to cancel your sin debt. You're not righteous, but he is. And his righteousness can be imputed to you. And so God takes this person who's walking his own way, rejecting God's authority, and he humbles them through the law. And the Holy Spirit convicts them of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. And then that person places their faith in Christ alone. And so when we talk about blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness, well, you know what, you have to know what righteousness is. And not only do you have to know what righteousness is, but you've got to recognize you don't have it. Okay? I'm hungry because I don't have it. I'm thirsty because I don't have it. And so this beatitude starts with being saved. It starts with turning to Christ and placing your faith in the finished work of Christ. It comes down to the fact that we recognize that we've got nothing to give God. And so it's the grace of God that brings us to this point. Now I'm looking at my time and I go, I'm going to have to stop Stop here. I guess it's an okay place to stop because Lord willing next week we're to look at how hungry and thirsty after righteousness acknowledges our deficiency. And it's going to meet with the perfect sacrifice of Christ, the perfect righteousness of Christ And we're going to talk about how this person hungers to be saved, given a position in Christ. And when God saves them, they desire to be conformed to the position that they have. And they live this life with this conflict that one day I'm going to be righteous and forgiven and I'm going to enjoy eternity with God. And I looked forward to that day with great joy and anticipation. And so that's where we're going, Lord willing, in the next week or two. But I hope this gives you a greater appreciation for what this statement is all about. It is a deep statement. Nobody wants to be righteous until God works in them. That's true. And the fact is, God can convict us and we can walk away from it. It's sad, but it's true. God can convict us and we can harden our hearts to it Or we can humble ourselves and accept the free gift of salvation through Christ. So there's anybody here, maybe on the live stream here physically Tonight, you say, man, I that's not my experience. I don't understand that. I've never trusted Christ. I mean the way that you explain that I it's totally foreign to me. I never even thought about this. Well, it's been laid out. Turn to Christ. Trust in Him. You might say, man, I don't remember the day that I understood this, but I certainly remember going to that conflict the soul. Yeah, that's really what matters. The day in the hour, that that could be fuzzy in our minds, especially if we were very young and we trusted Christ. But the fact is that we came to this point where we recognize I have nothing to I am guilty before God, and here is the gift of salvation, Christ's sacrifice on my behalf, and I accept it by trusting in what He's done. I hope that that is your testimony tonight. Let's bow for prayer.