Let's all turn again in our Bibles tonight to the book of First Corinthians, and we are in chapter six together, First Corinthians chapter six, and the passage we're going to be looking at tonight is the passage that we started last week. And we're going to kind of go through a little bit of review from last week just to kind of catch ourselves up with what we've been discussing. And then we will dig into the last portion, which I think is Really kind of like the capstone of what Paul is going to say in this section. And the topic in front of us is how the gospel provides sensible conflict resolution. The truth is, if we are truly Christians and we have placed our faith in Christ, if we have repented and believed in the gospel and we are new creatures in Christ and we have the Holy Spirit indwelling us, um then we should handle conflict re resolution very different than the world around us. And I did I did make a caveat last time that just because we approach conflict resolution differently does not mean we can resolve every single conflict that we may encounter as much as it depends on us We are to live peaceably with others. We are to be deferential. We are to extend grace. We're to be forbearing. We're to forgive when that opportunity arises. But we should approach this issue completely different than the world around us. And really what you could say is that the true belief system of a person comes out when they're wounded. It comes out when things don't go the way that they want them to. And that's when you really see what somebody doesn't just believe in what they say, but they actually believe when it comes to the shaping of their worldview. So let's really look at this passage together tonight. And hopefully it'll be a great help to you. Here's what it says. Dare any of you having a matter against another go to law before the unjust and not before the saints? Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Know ye not that we shall judge angels? How much more things that pertain to this life? If then ye have judgments of things pertaining to this life, set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church I speak to your shame. Is it so that there is not a wise man among you? Know not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren? But brother goeth to law with his brother, and that before the unbelievers. Now, therefore, there's utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another. Why do you not rather take wrong? Why do you not rather suffer yourself to be defrauded? Nay, you do wrong. You defraud, and that your brethren. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves of mankind. Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. But ye are washed Ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. Pretty long passage of scripture, but it's really one coherent thought. And that thought is, as a Christian, you need to address the conflicts you have with other people completely different. than the world around you. And last week we talked about the fact that humanity is broken. We need human government. God created government. It's not a bad thing. We need the government to To handle justly matters that are that are going on in our society. God's not against government. What he is against is using the corruption and the brokenness of human government and exploit it to hurt and to wound and to treat others unjustly. That's exactly what he's talking about in this passage. And so as we worked our way through the passage, We saw that we have been called to live and think in the light of our position in Christ. So let's look at in review the truths that we looked at last week. The first truth we saw is this. Living like a Christian begins with humility. In fact, you cannot be a Christian if you don't first humble yourself. If we talk about repentance, what is repentance? It is the humbling of the heart and the presence of God. It is turning to Him as one who is broken, one who is a sinner, one who is unrighteous. One who has no hope outside of Christ, that's what repentance is. You do not enter into the kingdom as an arrogant person rejecting the gospel. You have to humble yourself. to embrace the gospel. And so humility is supposed to distinguish Christians. And we see this in the statement Dare any of you having a matter against another go to law before the unjust and not before saints? The idea is he's saying, how in the world can you justify this? This is unthinkable. This is an arrogant thing for you to do. And we also saw that he addresses this issue of their pride several times. In chapter 4, verse 6, he says, These things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos for yourself, that no one of you be puffed up. one against another. Again, in chapter 4, verse 18, some of you are puffed up. 419. I will come to you shortly if the Lord will. And will know not the speech of them which are puffed up. 1 Corinthians 5. 2. Ye are puffed up, and have not rather mourned. So pride is a problem here. Christians can be proud, but they never should be. That's the sense of it. So then we move to the second truth. Living like a Christian has a foundation. He says, Do ye not know? And interestingly, he asks four questions. And I addressed them very quickly last time and I want to mention them again just so that you can see what Paul is doing here. And Paul Paul does this a lot. He asks questions to engage conscience and to make people think about foundations because the foundation for why we do what we do is as important as what we do ourselves. It's not just about doing right, it's about doing right for the right reason. And so in verse 1, he says, how is it possible that you could handle your issues so irresponsibly? Dare any of you having a matter against another go to law before the unjust and not before the saints? How dare you do this? The second question, verse 2. How could you not understand the implications of your actions? Do ye not know the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Verse 4. How could you submit your grievances to a system that you know is corrupt? The problem is that they knew it was corrupt and that's why they were using it. That's the whole problem. He's like, you know this is a corrupt system. Why are you using it? And they're like, because it's what we're going to get. We're going to get what we want. And so he says in verse 4 If you have judgment in these things pertaining to this life, do you set to judge who are the least esteemed in the church? I speak as you're saying. He's like, if you have the ability to resolve these issues, why would you take them to people that you know have have absolutely no credibility? That makes no sense. That's the sense of what he is saying there. And then the fourth question is, how could you overlook the invaluable wisdom within the church itself? And I mentioned that you could really take this two ways. Either one he's saying you do have wise people in the church who have the ability to do this and you're ignoring them. Or two You don't and you should, and that is an indication that there is tremendous immaturity and tremendous carnality in the church. So it could be either of those two things. And so he says, Is it so that there is not a wise man among you? No, not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren. And so Paul asks these questions because he's getting to the root of their behavior. He wants them to consider why they are doing what they are doing, not just what they're doing. He's not treating them like little kids. Hey, I told you no, don't do it. He's saying, let me explain to you why I told you not to do this. Let me help you to understand how serious your actions really are. That's the idea of what he's doing. And so we drew these four principles. Christians should never handle their interpersonal grievances like the unconverted. God has destined and is preparing us for eternal glory. Therefore, we should put greater confidence in the in mature Christians and those with a different worldview? It is shameful for Christians to exploit the brokenness of the world system to exploit others. And lastly, the church should be filled with mature, capable people who can resolve disputes. Third thing we saw last time. Was that living like a Christian sees sin clearly? And in verses 6 through 8, he is very blunt in how he assessed their situation. He says, it is utterly a fault among you, because brother goes to brother, goes to law with brother before unbelievers. He says, you do this in a hardened heart. There's no restraint. You wrong, you defraud, and you even do this to your brethren. And he says, instead, you should rather take the wrong. Instead, you should rather suffer yourself to be defrauded. He's saying instead of being vindictive and abusing the people that you have a grievance against, you should be patient with them. You should put up with their frustrating behavior. That's the idea. And so the church has a huge fault. Well, that moves us to our fourth and final principle or truth, and that is living like a Christian is theologically consistent. Now, one of the things that I've really become alert to as I've been a pastor for some time is that when it comes to this issue of how we define Christianity, we need to do this carefully. A lot of times Christians would give you the impression that the Christian faith is really a list of rules. Don't do this. Do this. Christians look like this. Christians don't look like that. That becomes the mentality. And really what you're talking about is your particular culture within the umbrella of Christianity. What you do or what you don't do is not irrelevant, but it is on some level irrelevant when it comes to defining Christianity itself. Because Christianity is a core body of beliefs about human nature, about Christ. about what he did for us, about why he did it for us. It's about the gospel. And so when we talk about the Christian faith, we have to get back to the fact that this is about a core value, a body of beliefs, and the practices of the church flow out of that doctrine. They do not define Christianity themselves. And so if we want to evaluate Christianity, we start with doctrine. And once we understand doctrine, then we move to practice. But one of the things that can happen, and I have seen this happen many times. Is that sometimes people get this disconnect between doctrine and practice. In fact, I would even go so far as to say sometimes what people will do is they will study theology almost as if it's a hobby. There are lots and lots of Christians that the truth is they don't live like Christians very much. They don't raise their kids well. Uh they're not faithful in very, very basic things. Um when it comes to resolving the interpersonal disputes, they do not handle them well. But they love to study theology. And it's a hobby. They love to read about issues. They love to debate about issues. This is a great trap or a great danger. And I'll say especially for those who are ministering. Especially for those in ministry. I've seen many pastors, many missionaries, when they get frustrated with things that are going on in ministry, as an escape for ministry, you know what they do? They study theology Because it puffs up their ego. And I can debate with people and I can argue and I can write on this issue or that issue. But when it comes to living the Christian life, being a good husband, good father Working with people within the church context, they almost ignore those things and they kind of segment it out in their life. And this is very, very dangerous. I would even say I found myself doing this before, if I'm to be totally honest. I found times in ministry where I looked at studying theology or debate or blogs or YouTube and podcasts as almost an escape from real-life Christianity. And this passage of Scripture is really going to emphasize to us that that should never happen in the Christian life Theology matters, but theology should trans trans should work its way out into real-life practical living. A true theologian is someone who loves God, obeys God, loves God's people, and is living in the light of the truth that they hold fast to. Not the person that could argue their way through something like that. That's that's really not what healthy Christianity looks like. And so these verses are really going to emphasize this because this is the capstone for how these people are supposed to look at this issue. They have both a theological problem and And they have a practical problem. And so he's going to draw both of those things out. So notice what he says, beginning in verse number nine. He says, Know ye not Question, right? Why does he ask the question? To engage conscience. Do you not know? Do you not know that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Now who is going to inherit the kingdom of God? The righteous. The believer. So he's kind of drawing this distinction between the Christian and the non-Christian, the unbeliever and the believer. Those who inherit the kingdom of God, those who don't inherit the kingdom of God. Why is he doing that? Well, because he's saying, here's what you're doing. You have all these believers who have the ability or should have the ability to help you work through your issues and instead of drawing from that wisdom and working through your issues in a godly way Instead what you're doing is you're going to the world that does not have the same worldview, does not have the same values, does not have the same character And you're even using them, you're even exploiting their carnality as unconverted people to get what you want. He said, how could you do that? That's what he's doing. He's like, do you not know the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived. Now, Paul is going to define Different kinds of character qualities that are manifestations of the one who is unrighteous who will not inherit the kingdom of God. Listen to what he says. He says, be not deceived, neither fornicators. A fornicator is someone who's involved in any kind of sexual sin. So we could talk about adultery. We could talk about people that are not married living together. We could talk about pornography. We could talk about all kinds of different sexual sins. You know, it could just be lustful thoughts, okay? This is different forms of fornication. He says, fornication, idolaters. Interestingly, later on he's going to mention covetousness. And in another passage of scripture, he actually compares covetousness and idolatry. You know why he does that? Because what covetousness ultimately is, it's worshiping yourself. It's me saying, I'm not happy because I don't have something that I'm entitled to. And God says, you're not entitled to it. And you're disrupted internally. And you want and you pursue and you disrupt your life and the lives of others because you want something that does not belong to you. So he uses the word idolater here, and when he talks about idolatry, he he could be talking about it in that sense, or he could be talking about it in the sense of just going up to the pagan shrines, which obviously is something that they were doing. Adulterers. Now, fornication and adultery, if you want to talk about the sexual sin side of it, they're equivalent, okay? But if you want to talk about it from the from the standpoint of faithfulness to a covenantal bow arrangement, then adultery steps into another category. Because we're not just talking about a sexual sin, but we're also talking about the breaking of a covenant between you and your spouse. Then he uses the term effeminate and abusers of themselves of mankind. Interestingly, in a lot of modern translations, there's only one way that that's translated. But there are two different words that are used here. And those two different words are used very carefully. Because what they are doing is Paul is describing sexual, homosexual behavior in two different ways. And he's doing that to make very clear that it doesn't matter how you approach this issue. When people are involved in sexual sin between two men or two women, that is clearly abominable sinful behavior. So he's talked about fornication, he's talked about adultery, he's talked about homosexuality, he's talked about idolatry. He goes on to say, theft thieves, people who act on that covetousness, take something that doesn't belong to them He talks about those who are covetous, drunkards, and I would say somebody who is intoxicated. They have lost sense of their inhibitions because of substances. And I know it's looking at alcohol here, but I mean we could we could also put in somebody who you know is is involved in in uh drugs which is also an intoxicant. He talks about revilers. You know what a reviler is? It's someone who destroys other people with their words. And we tend to really notice those who destroy other people with their words when they say it really loud. You know, like when somebody blows up and they just say a bunch of horrible things to other people. But that's not the only way to revile someone. In fact, some people are really good behind the scenes. And they can kind of destroy a person with their words very quietly and very subtly. And so that would also fall into this category. A reviler is someone who uses their words to carve up and to destroy people. Very, very serious. He then mentions an extortioner. Extortioner is someone who has power, and they use that power to take advantage of other people and to steal from them. Lots and lots of examples of that, obviously, in their society and all throughout history. I mean when people have power, they use it for themselves, extortioners. So Paul is very specific here. He says, these people will not inherit the kingdom of God. So I want to hammer out a couple of facts that we find in this passage. The first one is the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. Know ye not, the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. And he is super specific about it. Second fact, God 's people are going to have some real life duty in his kingdom Now, this is kind of where he's going with this, but if you want to kind of see this earlier, if you go to verses 2 and 3, notice some of the things that he says. He says, Do ye not know the saints will judge the world? That's a really interesting statement, isn't it? Verse 3, know ye not, we shall judge angels. And the question is, when's that gonna be? Well, during the kingdom. During the kingdom. You say, when that's when's that going to be? Well, the Old Testament talks about the kingdom. The book of Revelation talks about the kingdom. There's going to be a time when God is going to give responsibilities And people who have trusted Christ as their Savior are going to be a part of an administration and they're going to have real-life duties. Now, I don't understand all that. I'm not going to sit here and try to like give you all these details that are me kind of going out on a limb and telling you this is what I think is going to happen. I'm simply stating the fact that God is clearly stating here that his children are going to be a part of his administration. And they're going to have responsibilities. And so he's like, listen, if that is your future, then why are you living like you are today? That's really the idea of what he's saying. Third truth. His people, and this is really important here, his people once lived the same unrestrained lives as the world around them. Now I have heard people, and by the way, you know, we go through these sinful uh statements here, and and sometimes what Christians will do is they'll park on one or two of them and kind of excuse the rest of them. You know what I mean? Like let's really hammer the adultery one, but let's ignore like the reviler one, or let's really hammer the homosexuality one, but let's ignore the covetous one. The fact is, they're all in the exact same list. He doesn't weigh them differently. He doesn't say, well, you know, this one's the worst. And this one's like, it's bad, but it's he just puts them all on the same list. So from Paul's perspective, they're all equally a problem, okay? And what's interesting here is he says in verse 11, this is how you used to live. Such were some of you. Some people say, well, man, once a person follows a certain path, then it's impossible for them to ever become a Christian. A good example, this would be the homosexuality issue. There are lots and lots of different reasons that people involve themselves in that behavior. There's not one and only one way that people end up in that lifestyle. And the fact is, not every person that is involved in that kind of a lifestyle, a sinful lifestyle, clearly from the Bible. It's clearly it is. But they are not all equally hardened. and callous toward God in their rebellion in that way. And the fact is that some people will say, well, you know, if somebody gets involved in that then there's no way they could ever become a Christian. And I wouldn't even bother to give the gospel to them because I know they couldn't. Romans 1, reprobate mind. But look at this passage. It's pretty obvious that there were people in the church. That was their life. That's who they were. That was what defined them. before they became Christians. But notice it did, but now it doesn't. That's not them anymore. They do not identify as they once did. And the fact is, we're living in a time in our culture where there are many people, I think, who will be converted in the next 5, 10, 15 years who have at some point in their past been involved in those kinds of behaviors. There will be. Just like there were at the church at Corinth. And so we see fact number three. These people used to be there. They used to live this unrestrained life like other worldly people, but They don't anymore. Fact four, the gospel has radically changed everything about these people. Verse 11. But ye are washed. Ye are sanctified. Ye are justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. Now, this is a great statement here. And he hammers out washed, sanctified, and justified. And I want you to notice the tense here. The tense is not future tense. God 's not going to justify you. God's not going to wash you. God's not going to sanctify you. It says You are washed, you are sanctified, you are justified. In other words, this is their current situation as Paul writes to them. Justification isn't something that happens progressively. It happens instantaneously. When a person repents and believes in the gospel, they are declared righteous at that moment. We talk about a person's sins being washed away when they place their faith in the finished work of Christ. Their sin debt has been washed away. As far as the East is from the West, so far as he removed our transgressions from us. It's not going to happen. It has happened. And this is also an interesting point. Because when we talk about sanctification, we tend to talk in terms of progressive. But what we really mean by that is progressive growth into Christ-likeness. In other words, we are maturing to become more and more like Christ. In how we live, our practice is becoming more consistently conformed to our position. But if you want to talk about the believer's position, they are sanctified. They are saints. Many times in the New Testament, when Paul writes to the churches, he calls them the saints at Ephesus, the saints at Corinth, the saints at and he uses that term. Why? Because they are sanctified. This is a positional reality. You don't become more holy the longer you live. You can't contribute to your holiness. You can't add to your holiness. Either you are or you're not. It's that simple. Now when it comes to how you live, you may be living conform to the position, consistent with the position. But here he's emphasizing something. You were these things. Now you are something entirely different. What's the difference? The gospel radically changes people. And I love this little statement. You are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. Don't miss those two prepositions in and by. All of these benefits are the result of our union with Christ. The reason I'm justified is because I'm in Christ. The reason I'm sanctified is because I'm in Christ. The reason I'm watched is because I'm in Christ. I'm not going to be in Christ. I am in Christ. He has kept me and he will keep me by his power forever. I'm in Christ. That position, that union, is what gives you all of those benefits. And the question is, how'd you get there? By the Spirit. He drew you. He convicted you of sin and righteousness and judgment. He drew you through the preaching of the gospel. When you believed on Christ, you can look back and say, I have believed by the grace of God. Because he has done this work in me. It is the Spirit who brings us to that point. We respond in repentance and faith, and then we are placed into Christ. We are united with Him. And all of these benefits come with that position. Fact five. We should be able to work out our differences because we're now believers. That's the whole point. He's like, you used to be this, you're not anymore. Why are you going to people who are still like that and having them be the ones that advise you? It's because you want to use their unjust practices. That's why. You want to exploit their carnal behavior for your own benefit. And so I go back to what he says in 2, 3, and 5. He says, if the world shall be judged by you. Are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Verse 3, how much more things that pertain to this life? Verse 5, is it so that there is not a wise man among you, no not one that should be able to judge between his brethren? And so what is Paul's point? All these theological things are true. And since they are true, why are you not living like they're true? That's what he's saying. You know, when Paul says, reckon yourself to be dead to sin and alive unto God, you know what he's saying? It's true that you're dead to sin, but you're not living like it's true. So wake up and do it. That's what he's saying. Live like it's true. Reckon it. Count it. Act as if it is actually the case. And so this whole passage of Scripture really flows to this last little point where he says, you are not who you once were. Why are you still living like it? And by the way, maybe I should just ask the question this way. In what ways are you just like them? And not that you're taking your brother in Christ to court. Hopefully that's not the case. I don't know of any situation in the church like this right now, okay? But the truth is, we do it in other ways. We do it when it comes to the way we handle our grievances. Instead of going to a person resolving an issue, we'll go talk about them to somebody else and and we'll we'll kind of use that person to kind of get what we want in that situation. It's not as harsh and aggressive as taking someone to a courtroom where their life is going to be ruined by a system. But their their relationship to other people could be undermined by those actions. They may never really recover in the eyes of the person that you have spoken to or undermined them too. There may be wounds that they don't recover from from a very long time. And the truth is as Christians, we can very easily do these things. And so the encouragement is, may we never do it. Or when we have done it, may we repent and humble ourselves. Confess it to God and to the best of our ability try to resolve the issues that we have done these kinds of things in. And you can't take back words, you can't Totally eliminate the problems that sometimes we create, but you can at least speak the truth and say, I was wrong here. What I said wasn't true. Though I went about that, was it was it correct? We can do those things. We need to do those things. So how do we put it all together? Some final thoughts. What we believe is extremely important. Theology is not just intellectual. If theology is just an intellectual pursuit that you enjoy, it's entertainment, that is very, very dangerous. I would rather somebody get absorbed in finding fishing to be a hobby that gives them an escape than using theology in that way because there's a lot of self-righteousness that comes with theology study that doesn't come with fishing. It's true. I mean, pride does come in. Of course, sometimes our pride gets crushed when we go out and don't catch anything day after day after day. But the truth is that when it comes to theology and those kinds of things, pride is a far greater temptation. Because we debate, we argue, we belittle. We have to be so careful We need to learn to ask the right questions to ourselves and to others. It's really easy to be blunt and aggressive with people. But the fact is, we need to be slow to anger. We need to be willing to ask questions. We need to let people work through things. This is especially true in our homes, especially true with our children. I know when children are really little you just say the answer is no and don't ask again. Okay? But there does come a point where you need to start having conversations with your kids. And you need to start helping them to understand that there's a foundational reason behind why they are not to do this And by the way, when you try to do that, you might find out there's not really good justification. And you might need to make some adjustments, right? Yeah, sometimes you have to do that. But ask questions. But we've got to ask ourselves questions too. We need to ask ourselves, why am I doing what I'm doing? Why am I moving down this path? Why am I responding in this kind of a way? Because there's a cause. There's a reason. There's a foundational root cause of behavior. It is always true. Fourthly, the church needs to be spiritually mature. We talk about discipleship. It's not healthy. When the church has only one or two people that carry all the spiritual burdens of the church. You remember the story of Moses, his father-in-law is watching him, and he says, Moses, what you're doing isn't good. You're going to waste away. You will be no good to them, and they will crush you with this burden. And there are some matters that Moses had to handle them. But he delegated that to a certain kind of person. Well, if you don't have those kinds of people, you can't delegate. You'll create more problems. You know, you really will, right? So so then how do we get there? Well we get there by the church growing together. As people get older, they're actually maturing. They're not just getting older. They're maturing. They're becoming more spiritually vibrant and wise. The church desperately needs spiritual maturity. Fifthly, we need to lean on the body that God has given us. And I mentioned this last time. I don't believe that we have all the answers ourselves, and there's never a time to reach out outside of the body. I don't believe that at all. In fact, even when I counsel people, there are many, many times that I work with specialists outside of this church, and I've done it many times. I have no problem with it at all. However, there is something very unique about this body that you do not get with an outsider. It's called face-to-face interaction. It's called real-life accountability. And there are some people who are very comfortable going to someone outside of the sphere where they never have to sit down with them and they don't have to live with them, they have to work through things with them because they can tell them anything. They can. They can present all the facts in a certain way, and because of that lack of accountability and an inability to kind of like close the loop, a person can give the impression they're getting real-life counsel. They're really not. They're just playing a counselor. And the truth is in the body, you can see when somebody's not doing well. Why? Because you see it on their face, you see it in their body language, you see it in their interactions, you see it in their responses. You can see when people are growing. You can see when they're thriving. You can see when there's like real life working through issues. There are some people in the church that can really help us shoulder these burdens. And so we need to learn to lean on the body that God has given us. And the last thing is this. We have to live like Christians. What amazes me about Paul is as hard as he was in the church at Corinth, he was very clear that he believed they were saved. You read this passage of scripture, he he talks about so many things in here that are big, big deals. But he never gives you the impression that he doubts that these people are truly saved. He really doesn't. He says you're not living like you are, but he doesn't doubt that they genuinely are saved. You go back and read through the passage. He calls them brothers. He says, you're going to judge angels and you're going to judge the world. He doesn't say, if you're really a Christian, you will, and I'm not really sure. He doesn't cast any shade on it He says you are. Why? Because he believes they're Christians. They're just not living like it. So may God help us to live like the people that we are. Let's pray. Our Father, thank you so much for the word. I pray that the things that have been said tonight would be used by the Spirit in our hearts. Father, if someone's struggling, I pray that they would turn to you with a humble heart. And that they would get the answers that they need from your word. If they need to reach out to a brother or sister that can help them and encourage them, may they do that. Father, I pray that if there's something that's been said that touched on a very personal and specific issue, that people would not leave here with unresolved issues in their hearts. Father, help us to leave this place with a purposed resolve to do what is right. And Father, when we cannot get things resolved with people because they're just not handling things the right way, help us to bear that patiently And help us to trust you with those burdens. We feel like being vindictive, I pray that we would put to death those fleshly passions. When we really have created problems by our actions and words, help us to have the courage and the character to go and to resolve those matters in a godly way. And Father, help us to think biblically and help us to live biblically. Help us to live in a way that honors you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.