We have a couple of announcements. First of all, this morning we are having the Lord's table, and so if you did not get your elements and you're planning to partake of the Lord's Supper, please make sure that that you uh pick up those in the back, uh maybe during the first song. Uh but just a reminder that we have the Lord's table today and our service will entirely be focused on the work of Christ and what unites us as believers as we remember his death for us. Also, we had a prayer request that was mentioned this morning to Teresa Rice's sister, Jodie Panzer , had a kidney attack, and uh she has been paid for, but Don mentioned, he said, he would like us to remember that the prayers of the righteous avail much. And so when we go to our prayer time, we're going to uh lift up uh Jody uh to the Lord in prayer. Also want to uh remind those that are um working in the back uh with our our ushers that there's a new schedule in the lobby, please make sure you pick that up. That's at the welcome desk. So that's for people that are um that are greeters as well as those who are doing Ushering. Also, we moved the men's donut Bible study from this Saturday to the following, so that's June the nineteenth. Also we'll have our church visitation after that on Saturday afternoon or Saturday morning at 9. 30. So please mark your calendars. That is a change. We moved it back one week And uh so hopefully many of you will be able to come to that. Also, I want to encourage you, remember to first of all be in prayer for Vacation Bible School. This is going to be on the twenty-eighth through the second, and we've had a good number of folks already um sign up their children, register for vacation bible school. Uh take some of those flyers and invite folks that you know, people in your neighborhood, and um Just want to encourage you to try to let people know about that. We're really looking forward to a great time. We're doing a different program than we did last year. We're going to be using the Answers in Genesis program and and it's it's really a great program. We're also going to be using that for our kids program in the summer and it's really focusing on through the Bible starting in Genesis. Genesis and just building a foundation and helping our children understand the book of Genesis. So I'm really looking forward to that. It's uh in the summer we take a break from Truth Trackers and we have an alternate program and so that's what we'll be doing this year. So we're really looking forward to that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we will uh begin our song service. Father, we thank you so much for the work of Christ and redemption. We're thankful for the cross that Jesus paid the penalty. For our sins, and because his blood was shed on Calvary's cross, the wrath of God was satisfied, and we can be forgiven and cleansed. Because of Christ's righteousness, we can be declared righteous. In your presence, and because of the resurrection, we anticipate and look forward to that day when we will stand glorified in your presence and we will We will enjoy you forever. I pray that you'd help us to have a deeper sense of these wonderful realities as we spend time in your word this morning. Praise to you, reflecting on the scriptures, and then partaking of the Lord's table as a church. Father, we pray for uh for Jodi as she has had issues With her kidneys, an attack, I pray that you would strengthen her body. Uh, be with those who are who are caring for her, those who are treating her illness, that you'd give them wisdom and strengthen Strengthen them. Father, I pray that you would be with others in our congregation who are dealing with health issues. Some of these are regularly on the prayer list, and these are things that we regularly Bring into your presence. I pray that you would strengthen those that we love and we are so thankful for the connection that we have in this church with them. strengthen their bodies, encourage their spirits, and I pray that you would provide healing and strength and help them to grow through these hard times and to uh have a really Sense of your presence and your strengthening hand. Father, we pray that you would be with our nation. We recognize the brokenness of this land and the incredible need for revival. I pray that as a local church we would be healthy and vibrant, that we would uh we would proclaim the gospel with clarity and that we would be growing into Christ's likeness. I pray that we would see our young people raised up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, and that you would help our families to be strong. I pray that you bless our service and may all that is done Bring glory to you in Christ's name. Amen. Want to remind you of our opening scripture, and that'll be Psalm 14. I'll read it and then uh Doug will come for our our singing. It says in Psalm 14, verse 1, the fool hath said in his heart, there is no God. They are corrupt, they have done abominable works. There is none that doeth good. The Lord looked down from heaven upon the children of men to see if there were any that did un Understand and seek God. They are all gone aside. They are all together become filthy. There is none that doeth good, no none Not one. Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge, who eat up my people as they eat bread, and call not upon the Lord? There were they in great fear For God is in the generation of the righteous. You have shamed the counsel of the poor because the Lord is his refuge. Oh, that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion When the Lord bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word this morning. Take that ver chapter of Psalms and go back to Romans three. And see where Paul uses that and quotes extensively from it. But as we start our song service, good Morning to Anchor Baptist Church. Those here in person and those joining us via live stream, welcome to our guests, both in person and live stream. We'll start off our song service this morning by taking our hymnals and turning to page 247. Page 247, stand with me. And we'll sing three verses of the Old Rugged Cross. Sing out. Yeah oh yeah it brought it The emblem of suffering and changing love and all promise. Where the dearest man passed or a world of demand was slain. So I'll terrestry all rugged cross till my trough is at last I leg I will claim to the Algonic Cross and exchange it someday for a price For that gold guardian cross, so despised by the world, has a wondrous attraction for me. For the dear Lam of God left his glory above to bear it. Dark Hemory So I'll care with me, O Rith till my call be done. I will put it into the own budget. And explain it someday more to the old I will never be true Where is glory for us? So terroristly obragged price To my trophy, as I lay down, I will cling to the old rugged cross And exchange it someday for a crime. Go ahead and have a seat, but while you're doing so, turn to page 295. Page 295. Wonderful words of life. We're going to sing all three verses. Sing them over again to me, wonderful words of life. With their more of their messy wonderful words of life. Words of life and duty. Teach me faith and truly Beautiful words, wonderful words, wonderful words of life. Beautiful words, wonderful words, wonderful words of life. Christ the Blessed One gives to all wonderful words of life. Sinners listen to the loud and call, wonderful words of life Also freely given, wooing us to heaven. Beautiful words, wonderful words Wonderful words of life. Beautiful words. Wonderful words. Wonderful words of life. Sweetly echo the gospel call, wonderful words of light. Offer pardon and peace to all. Wonderful words of light Jesus only figure, sanctify forever. Beautiful words, wonderful words Wonderful words of life. Beautiful words. Wonderful words. Wonderful words of life. Amen. Now Turn back to the front of your book to page fourteen. Page fourteen, worthy of praise. Oh verses. Oh good. With praise to the Lord, I will lift up my voice to the king. He brought me out of the pit of despair and brought my heart to see Worthy of all my praise. You are worthy of all my prayers I bow at your throne, and I worship you alone. Lord, you are worthy, worthy of praise. My lips sing his praise, my heart is his love , his word is a lap to my way. His mercy and grace are endure. His arms are me closer each day Worthy of all my prayers. You are worthy of all my prayers I thou at your throne, and I worship you alone. Lord, you are worthy. Amen. With fewer masks on, I can certainly hear you better. So sounding wonderful. Now as we continue our scripture reading, we're going to Psalm 15. Right after Psalm 14. Psalm 15. I'm going to read all five verses. And Scripture says, Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? He that walketh uprightly, worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart. He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor. He that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth He that puteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his work. All right. We will continue with a couple of more songs then page 251 page 251 in her hymnal I can find it near the cross. First, second, and last Singham, Jesus keep me never across We're a precious fan, free to all of things dream From Calvary 's mouth in the cross, in the cross Be my glory ever till my raptured soul shall die Near the cross alone Things deep on me Bed a bright and morning star sh It's me in the cross, in the cross, in my glory. Let's have the instruments off on the court on the ver on what am I trying to say The chorus on the last. Instruments pull out on the la on the chorus. Near the cross of watch and wait. Calling crossing ever till I reach the golden strand Just beyond the never in the cross, in the cross Be my glory till my raptured soul shall find We haven't been able to do that for a while. while with all the masks. Ooh. Okay, y'all gave me goosebumps on that one. Hmm. Alright. Next song is out of the blue book, page 24. Page 24. As if it needs to be said, but God is always good. Please stand with me as we sing, You are always good. Looking back, I can see your fingerprints up on my line, always seeking my best There were times when your way would make no sense, but as years you have never left You are always good, you are only good, you are always good to me, though my eyes can't see how my heart maybe. You are always only good. Looking in, you can see my frailty, my sin is great. And my strength is so small, still you stay, and your mercy shelters me, you hold my home. And you hear my call. You were always good, you were only good, you were always good to me Oh my eyes can't see, how my heart 's baby, you are always only good on the last Working up, I can see your sympathy, I doubt myself, but I'm sure of your love Lavish grace was poured out at Calvary Secretary for our home of God. You are always good, you are only good, you are always good to me. Oh my eyes can't see , though my heart may be, you are always only good. Please be seated Do you trust me as your guide? Though my path for you is deep Will you leave my Norman way or resolve to follow me? I am still your shepherd king, Who has led you with my life Since I see thee on your view Surely trust me falling one Do you trust me as you arrive? What a storm still rages on Every day new mercies wrong. Every night I give a song Since I reign as prince of these Set your mind on face of off everlasting strife is mine. Fully trust me with one Will you trust me with your life when you face your final life? Soon to leave this broken world , nothing for my chasper time I am he who once was that Now alive my suffering, you will live for I Come be with me , saved one Surely trust we we love our Aren't you thankful that the Lord is our shepherd and that he daily loads us with benefits? Children uh ages three to seven can be dismissed to the back for junior church, so parents who can take them back there at this time. And the rest of you I want to ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to the fifteenth Psalm. Psalm 15. And the passage that we're looking at this morning for our reflection on preparing for the Lord's table is, I think, a very, very practical psalm that we're going to be looking at. Psalm 15, I'm going to go ahead and begin in verse 1. I'm going to read through the Psalm. And then we're going to dig into the contents of a very practical, and I think I'll also add a very convicting psalm Psalm fifteen one says the Lord, Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? He that walketh uprightly and worketh righteousness And speaketh the truth in his heart. But he honoreth them that fear the Lord. He that sweareth to his own herd and changeth not, he that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh Reward against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved. Now we come to the fifteenth Psalm. We see that this Psalm really describes the character of a person. Who abides in God's holy hill? Someone who dwells on that mountain, that tabernacle And really those two words, dwell and abide, have the idea of somebody who walks with God. So when we look at this psalm, it's really a description of a person. And the question is, is it that a person who has this character quality begins to walk with God, or is it that a person who walks with God develops this quality? And this is one of the ways that you can can identify such a person. Well, when we think about the psalm, I believe that it's really the latter of those two that is the description. In other words, when a person walks with God, there's a certain quality about their character that is shaped by that walk that they have. And so as we reflect on this psalm and as we prepare our hearts for the Lord's table, I believe what the Lord would have us to see from this passage is that He wants us to be a people who walk with Him. And as we are a people who walk with Him. This is the kind of people we will become. These are the kinds of character qualities. These are the kinds of ways that we will relate to the people that God allows us to come in contact with. So the question that I want to present to you this morning is how can we be that kind of a people? How can we be a people whose lives are conformed And how can we be a kind of people that walk with God, that abide in His tabernacle, that dwell in His holy hill, using the analogy of the Old Testament saint who would go up to Jerusalem where God's presence dwelt. Well, the first thing I'd like us to see from this text of Scripture is that there's really a very important connection between the 15th Psalm, the 16th Psalm, and the 17th Psalm. Now a lot of times when we read the Psalms, there are folks that have the idea that what we are looking at is individual chapters in one book. But I want you to realize these are not chapters. If you hear somebody say, let's turn to Psalm chapter 15, the fact is that there is no Psalm chapter 15. There is a 15th Psalm because each of these psalms are individual poems, songs that were meant to be. sung as praise to God. But with that in mind, some of these individual psalms are actually connected together. In other words, there are some examples where You'll have a psalm that gives you half of a thought, and then the second psalm, the psalm that follows it, will be the complementary thought to the first one. There are divisions within the Psalms. And so within those divisions there are certain, we could say, book categories of individual psalms. Well, when we read the 14th, the 15th, and the 16th Psalm, we will see that these three psalms really come together to present an idea. As Doug mentioned earlier, the 14th Psalm is quoted extensively by Paul in Romans chapter 3. That's because the 14th Psalm is emphasizing an aspect of our salvation that is But we could say our justification or our conversion and how God brings a person who is broken and unrighteous into becoming a child of God. When we come to the 16th Psalm, the emphasis is on the resurrection. And what's very interesting is when we did our study on the resurrection from Old Testament passages, the 16th Psalm was one of those psalms that we looked at. This is an emphasis on what we could say is the believer's glorification, the hope of the believer, as I live my Christian life as one who is declared righteous before God, forgiven, cleansed, a child of God. I anticipate my future glorification when I'll be complete and whole and standing in his presence sinless Well, the 15th Psalm is packaged between those two Psalms, giving us the story from justification, conversion, until our future hope, glorification. Let me show it to you this way. Remind you of some of the contents of the 14th and the 16th Psalm. The 14th Psalm is all about people who are broken and unable to to earn a right standing before God. For instance, in verse 1, he says that the fool rejects what is obvious. The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt. They've done abominable works. A person who can go through life and say, I reject categorically that there is a creator and there is a sustainer of this creation. is a person that the Bible calls a fool. It's because this person has rejected what is obvious. Where the heavens declare the glory of God, the person turns away and says, No, they don't. When a person looks at how God orchestrates and works in human affairs, This individual says there's no God, it's just random chance. The fool rejects the obvious. But he goes beyond this talk about the fool and he says it's not just the people that say there's no God, but I want you to realize all people, all people are universally broken and sinful. And so he goes on to say that there is none righteous. No not one. God looks down from heaven and he looks upon the children of man and he says, I don't see any that are serving me, that are following me. that are seeking me, as he puts it, they're all gone aside. They are together become filthy. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. And so as as the Apostle Paul takes this passage of Scripture, this Psalm, and as he applies it in Romans chapter 3 He says, all people universally are broken and unrighteous, and apart from the work of God and redemption, they have no hope. He then goes on in verses four through six to say that all people are blinded to this desperate condition. He asks the question: Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge? Yet he says they don't understand. But at the end of the psalm in verse 7, he tells us that there is hope. And this hope is in the fact that there is a God who redeems people. He calls them out and he makes them his possession. He saves them through the work of Christ. And so he puts it this way, oh, that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion when God bringeth back the captivity of his people. Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad. And so this psalm is emphasizing the fact that all people are unrighteous, but there's a God who redeems the unrighteous. And those people anticipate salvation. That psalm is all about how a person becomes a believer. But then we go to Psalm 16. David was confident that he would enjoy everlasting delight in God's presence, and the reason was because of the Messiah being raised from the dead. He expresses this overwhelming joy in God's presence in verses five and six where he says that the Lord is his portion, his cup. He maintains his lot. He says, The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places. I have a goodly Heritage. The psalmist talks about how he has a portion and it's God Himself. He expresses this strength and endurance that he gets from God's presence in his life, even When it is very dark. He says in verse 7: I will bless the Lord who hath given me counsel. My reign also instructed me in the night season. I have set the Lord always before me, he is at my right hand. Therefore, I shall not be moved. But the point that the psalmist really draws our attention to is in verse 9. Where he says that his strength is ultimately rooted in the resurrection. And he points to an everlasting delight in God's presence. And this is what he says. Listen carefully in verse 9. He says, My heart is glad. My glory rejoiceth. My flesh also shall rest in hope, for thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption Thou wilt show me the path of life, in thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. When we looked at this psalm, we saw that the psalmist is saying, when I die, I'm going to be with God. And the reason I'm going to be with be with God, and at his right hand are fullness of joy and pleasures forevermore, is because God's Holy One, the Messiah, will not see corruption. It is because of the resurrection that the psalmist had confidence he would enjoy God forever. You say, what's the point? The point is, Psalm 14 emphasizes how you get saved. Psalm 16 emphasizes what you're anticipating forever. And Psalm 15 talks about how you're supposed to walk today. Psalm 15 is emphasizing the believer's sanctification. So we go from the rebel to the redeemed to the one who's being transformed into the image of Christ. There is a connection between These three Psalms. And I hope that you'll take time to think about that throughout this week. But the second truth I'd like us to see is that people who walk with God are people who have two things. Godly character and a godly confidence. Now, when I use the word confidence, I don't mean arrogance. I don't mean that a person is self-confident. What I mean by confidence is this is a person who has no confidence in his own flesh, in his own strength, his own wisdom, his own righteousness, but he has confidence in the position of the one who has saved him. So this confidence and this character is something that flows out of a walk with God. Notice what it says in these verses. I'm going to read them and then I'm going to kind of walk through it point by point. So we understand exactly what the psalmist is saying. He says, Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? Who are the people that enjoy God's presence as a way of life? He says, this is how you can identify these people. But he honoreth them that fear the Lord. He that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not. Nor taketh reward against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved. Now I want us to process The character of the person who walks with God. I want us to see what these verses are explaining to us. Because this is what our life will begin to look like. If indeed we are walking with God. It's kind of like in 1 John, where John basically says this: if a man knows God, he loves his neighbor. If a man does not love his neighbor, then he doesn't love God. Because it's impossible to love someone that you cannot see while you hate somebody that you can see He then goes on to explain that a love that a believer has for other people is something that is rooted in God and flows through that individual as they abide in Christ. Or as they walk with God. In other words, the way that a person is transformed is through a healthy walk with God. That is really essentially what the psalmist is saying in these verses. So notice first of all how he describes his walk. These are people who abide, who dwell, and who are never moved. Now when he talks about the temple and he talks about the holy hill, we have to take ourselves back to the context in which these Psalms were being written. For the Jewish people, on a regular basis, they would move from their villages and their hometowns and their farms and the plots of land that God had given to their families. And at certain times of the year, they would travel up to Jerusalem. Because Jerusalem was on a hill. Jerusalem was in a mountain. area. They would go up into this area and in that place they would meet with God. The tabernacle was placed on that mountain. The temple, after the temple was built, was placed on that mountain. And God's presence dwelt in that location. Now when I say that God's presence dwelt in that location, I'm not suggesting that God is not omnipresent. He is omnipresent. I'm not suggesting that these People could not have a daily communion with God back in their villages and the places where they lived. But God's Shekinah glory, his presence as it dwelt in that location. was unique and different. There was no other place in the land of Israel where God's presence was like it was in the temple and in the town. Tabernacle. This is a very sacred and holy place. And so t at times like the Day of Atonement, when they would sacrifice and the blood would be spilled out, and it would be a reminder for the nation's sin. To be covered. Or times like other feasts like the Passover, where the people would come up to Jerusalem, they would be reminded of God's presence. So when he says, who abides in thy tabernacle, who dwells in thy holy hill, he's talking about people that live a life of communion with God. They spend time in his presence. And these are people that will never catch this be moved. He's basically saying healthy believers are people who walk with God. It's in their way of life. It encompasses everything about their lives God is literally at the center of everything. Now that's not suggesting that we read the Bible 24-7 and we're praying 24-7. The idea is that we do our work and we live our lives with God being central to everything. that we do. The reason that we respond in circumstances. The reason that we do our labors, the way that we do them, the reason we respond to people and circumstances As we do, it is all firmly rooted in the fact that we walk with God and He governs response. That's the idea. He is at the center of everything. And let me give you some passages that remind us of this concept, both in the Old and in the New Testament For instance, in the New Testament, James chapter 2, it says that the scripture was fulfilled, which saith Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness. He's talking about how Abraham became standing before God as righteous. The righteousness of Christ imputed to this man Abraham by faith But then he makes this statement. He was called the friend of God. That means that Abraham was a man who walked with God. Communed with God. It wasn't just that he was righteous positionally, but practically he knew God. He fellowshipped with God. In Genesis chapter 5, verse 24, it talks about Enoch as a man who walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. In John 15, when Jesus talks about the famous parable of the vine, and he talks about the husbandman who takes the vine and he he cuts it so that it produces fruit, he makes the following statement. He says, Abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, it accepted abide in the vine, no more can ye accept ye abide in me. And Jesus uses the word abide to picture what happens when a person is connected to Christ and is in a vibrant relationship with Christ. Christ. Fruitfulness is produced within that connection. And I think of Colossians chapter 3, where Paul writes, whatsoever ye do in word and deed. Do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. The idea is everything that we do should be rooted and flowing out of our relationship. to God. Let me pause and ask a question this morning. How healthy is your walk with God? I mean the fact that you're here in church is very important and good, but it does not necessarily reflect the health of your walk with God. We spend time here for an hour ish , ish. Okay, we'll put it that way. We spend time for about an hour here, and then we go home. The fact is we spend countless hours in this day that are not connected to this location. There are seven days in a week. My question is: in that time, how much of our life is really flowing out of a healthy walk with God? The point is that our life should flow out of that connection to Christ. The second thing we see is not just how the believer's walk is described, but how the believer is also described as a person. who is stabilized. Now initially when I was thinking about this, I used the word stable, and then I thought to myself for thought for a second, I said, you know, the emphasis of Scripture is not that a believer Becomes like this infallible rock who doesn't struggle and doesn't sin and doesn't stumble at times, but it's the picture of someone who, when they stumble, they are strengthened by God. When they fall, they get back up. When they are drifting, God drags them back and he presses them forward. The believer is one who is stabilized by the work of God. For instance, in 1 John 4, it says that there is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear. Because feareth torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. And so the idea is that as a person walks with God, God begins to to shape them and press them and mold them. And the love that they have that is immature is strengthened and it is matured and it becomes a perfect Perfect love, a matured love, a complete love. That is the sense. It doesn't mean that the believer is never knocked down and he never struggles and he never gets discouraged It means that the believer has a compass that continually guides them back to God. I remember when I was in college, my brother and I were going to do some deer hunting. On Eglin Air Force Base, and we were scouting out our area. And that night we got turned around and we got lost in a very, very wild area. And it was dark, and it was well as cold as Florida gets in the winter, I guess. And we had no lights and no direction. And one of us got the idea to just follow the moon. That's what we did. And you know, eventually we found a state road and when we got to the state road, we were able to figure out where we were, kind of And get back to our truck and get home. The point is that we were very lost. But as we were lost, we found something that was consistent. And though we probably weaved and wandered and we didn't know what was all around us, we did know that that was something we should walk toward. And eventually we We found where we were looking for. And the fact is that God works this way in our lives. When we stumble, you know what we do? We turn back to Him. And sometimes when we're not turning back to Him, He persists. And he presses us back to him. And so the believer is one who is stabilized. As it says in Proverbs 24: a just man falleth seven times, but what? He riseth up again. And the question we should ask is, why does he rise up? It's because God picks him up. And he comes alongside of him and he strengthens him. In Psalm 61 it says, from the ends of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is overwhelmed, lead me to the rock that is higher than I. Thou hast been a shelter for me. Me in a strong tower from the enemy. I will abide in thy tabernacle forever. I will trust in the covert of thy wings. Some beautiful illustrations. The rock, the high ground. The strong tower, the shelter in the wilderness, the wings of an eagle covering over those little eaglets. The idea is that God works that way in our lives. The stability we enjoy as Christians is all firmly rooted in how God works in us. But then I want you to notice the character. Notice how he describes this person. In verse 2, he says: this is a person who diligently invests their energy. This is a person that the Bible says walketh uprightly and worketh righteousness When you see that word uprightly, think of Job. God said, Consider my servant Job. There's none like him in all the earth, one that feareth God and escheweth God evil. He walketh uprightly. That's the idea. It's a person who invests energy in just causes. He worketh righteousness. That means that there's a consistent pattern of life, a diligence, a blamelessness, a person who walks in righteousness. And by the way, he's going to explain what that means later on in these verses. This is a person who's genuinely honest. It says in verse 2 that he speaketh the truth in his heart. You know, some people are smart enough to restrain what they're saying when they're in the right context. You know what we call them? Politicians Okay? A politician knows what is right to say in the context. But you get that person behind closed doors, and guess what you might find out? They don't speak the truth in their hearts. They just know what to say when the context is a certain way. But these are people who are not just skillful and they know what to say at the right time. These are people who are real. They're genuine. That means what they say is how they think. And how they think and what they say is consistent with truth. Folks, there are not a lot of people like that in the world, are there? The only people that really walk in such a way are people that are guided by that principle where God is the center of it all. The third thing is a person who does not lose their temper and lash out at others. And verse 3 says, he that backbiteth not with his tongue. When I think about somebody backbiting, the idea is that when a person is pressed and a person becomes angry, they immediately respond by lashing out with their tongue. They can say slanderous, insulting , harsh, cruel, vindictive things. And then once they come back to their senses and they're calm down, they act as if it never happened and they forget like it never happened. Happened. But this kind of a person is different. They don't do that. They are guarded. They are measured. They are kind. They are People who are meek. That means when the temptation comes to lash out, they restrain themselves. He then goes on to describe them as a person who does no harm to those who are Closest to him. Listen to what he says in verse 3. He says, nor doeth evil to his neighbor. Now, when we think of neighbor, we tend to think of the person that lives beside us in our communities. And then some people who live in the country go, well, I'm so glad because I've only got two neighbors and they live a mile in either direction. I don't really have to deal with them very much. But when he says neighbor, I want you to think of your closest companion. Your spouse, your parents , your kids, your siblings Your coworkers. This is a person who does not do evil to his neighbor. You know who we hurt the most in life many times? Those very people. It's the truth. A person who walks with God does not harm those who are claiming Closest to them. And verse three says, It's the person that does not hold offenses against those closest to them, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor. So it's not just that the person doesn't harm spouse, parent, child, sibling, coworker, and your neighbor who lives a mile in either direction, okay. But they don't take up offense against those people. Now think about this. You know more about your spouse or your brother or your sister than you know about anybody in this world. Not true? Do they not give you opportunity to take up offense? Do you not give them opportunity to take up offense? The answer is of course And so he says, this is a person who does not take up reproach against that person. There's not bitterness, there's not a grudging. You know how many families you have people who because somebody dies in the family and because of the way that the money gets you know, put out to different people or because of some issue that happened at a funeral or a wedding or at a birthday party that for 10, 15, 20 years people don't talk to each other. Or if they do talk to each other, you don't want to be around when it happens. Folks, godly people don't do that. People that walk with God don't do that. If you do that, just think about it, you're not walking with God. Very simple. I know that's blunt, but it's true. It's a person who detests evil and evildoers, but honors and loves those who fear God. The way he puts it in verse 4, he says , in whose eye the vile person is contemned, but he honoreth them that feareth the Lord. Now he's not suggesting that people walk with God are hateful, nasty people. What he's saying is these are people who are zealous for the glory of God. They hate what God hates. They love what God loves. I think of Romans chapter 1 and verse 32, where it says that people who know the judgment of God, those who commit such things are worthy of death, nor only do you And if you look at Romans chapter 1, what Paul's basically saying is there are people who it's not just that they say, Hey, I'm not going to do those things, but I'll let you do those things. They say, I'm going to celebrate, celebrate your evil. I'm going to lift you up as someone to be honored, respected. Folks, godly people don't do that. I'll read the verse again in verse Verse 4 he says, in whose eyes a vile person is contemned, he honoreth them that fear the Lord. We do not honor evil. Next it says, and his word is his bond, even when it's going to hurt him. And verse 4 it says, He sweareth to his own hurt. And he changeth not. The idea is this is a person that does not renege on their commitments. Now he's not suggesting these are people that enter into agreement knowing on the front side that they're going to get crushed by the agreement. That's not what he's suggesting. He's saying when you enter into an agreement agreement with somebody, you shake hands and say, I'm going to do that, you do not know how it's going to play out from that point on. And there are times that sometimes things don't go the way that we anticipated. It. And sometimes we sit back and we go, you know, I didn't know that was going to happen. Man, this is gonna, I don't think I'm gonna follow through with this. And he says, No. You said it It, you do it. You set it, you follow through. Even if it's hard, even if it's going to cost you, your word Is your bonds. The last thing he mentions is it's not these are people who do not take advantage of the defense In verse 15, or verse 5 he says, he that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent. These are people who are compassionate. They're merciful. They ascribe dignity to the weak and to the vulnerable. And what's very interesting is under the Mosaic law, you are not allowed to lend to someone. And take interest from that individual. You weren't allowed to do it. In fact, not only that, every seven years your debts that you owed, you were released from. And he even warns the people, he says, in that final year, if your brother comes to you or somebody comes to you and they say, Can you lend me? And you go, man, I'm not going to get this packet in hand. 10 months. I'm not gonna do that. He says, do not harden your heart against that person. What's the point? The point is, he says, value people who are defense. Value people who are vulnerable. The bottom line is not money, it's not stuff, it's image bearers. And so he says, people that walk with me, they care about the defenseless and the vulnerable, they do not take advantage of them. those individuals. You know, when I read through those things and explained what that's saying, I asked the simple question, where do you stand? Where do I stand stand. Some of these issues you might go, I'm I do great there. I do great there. But then there's another one you go, that one, I'd like to ignore that one. I want you to realize his point is people who walk with God are shaped by his righteous character. In fact, it moves us to our final point, and that is this it's impossible to walk with God without That is really the sense of the psalm in front of us. I want to give you an illustration from the New Testament. And that is in 2 Corinthians chapter 3. In 2 Corinthians chapter 3, Paul makes the following statement. Verse 17, he says, Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty, but we all with open faith Beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. In 2 Corinthians chapter 3, Paul is explaining that people who walk with God are shaped by the Holy Spirit to be shaped into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the point that he's making. But in order to teach the point, he uses an illustration that's very interesting. He refers to Exodus 34, and in Exodus 34 Moses went up into the mount, Mount Sinai, and he was receiving the law of God. Now Moses wasn't there for 10 minutes or for 20 20 minutes, he was there a real long time. minutes. I'll just put it that way. And during the time that Moses was in the Mount of God, he was in the presence of God's glory. The Bible tells us that when Moses came down with the law to the people, he didn't know this, but it was true, his face glowed. And when I say it glowed, I mean it was reflecting the glory of God whose presence he had been in for many, many weeks. And as his face was glowing with this glory, the people could not look at Moses. And so what they did is they made him wear a veil so that when he was talking to them, They wouldn't be blinded by the light. We see on the Mount of Transfiguration a very similar situation where the glory of Christ was exposed and his disciples were able to see him transformed on that mount of And not that he had something that he didn't have before, but the veil was removed and they could see the glories of Christ the And so what Paul basically says is, like Moses was veiled because the glory of God was reflecting from him As he'd been in God's presence, he says, in similar manner, when the believer walks in God's presence, God transforms them by the work of the Spirit. Now, I'm not suggesting you start glowing. That's not what he's saying. He's referring back to this as saying, as Moses reflected the glory of God because he was in his presence. You and I will reflect his glory as our lives are shaped into the image of Christ. Every single one of us is an image bearer. When God created us, he created us in his own image. But because of the fall, we are image-bearers who have a marred reflection. We see wisdom. We see intelligence. We see the emotions that God created us with. We see the sense of right and wrong. We see that in people. But because we are sinful people, while we bear God's image, we bear an image that is distorted by our fallenness, our brokenness, and our sin. And you know what happens as we spend time? in God's presence. He begins to change us and shape us and mold us He begins to take circumstance and individuals, and he uses circumstance and individuals, and he begins to shape us and mold us so that the character we possess When we become a Christian, when we are a young child of God, it begins to mature in depth. It begins to take root in our heart, and we become more and more like Christ. That is the sense of this text in front of us. The person who spends time in God's presence is a person who begins to reflect these character qualities and these ways because these are reflections. Of God's righteous character in practical situations of life. We are a people who are to be transformed day by day through the work of God. The Spirit. I want to ask you this question. Are you growing into Christ-likeness? You say, Well, how do I know? You know when you're The circumstances that we deal with, some of them are meant to train us, and some of them are meant to reveal our progress That person that is really troublesome to you. That person who doesn't seem to be listening. That person who is giving you grief. A person that you don't seem to mess with very well. That somehow in God's wise providence, he decided to plant you together in the same family. In the same work environment, in the same church. You know why God did that? Because He's training you into Christ's. Likeness. You know where that situation came to a head? Because you thought you'd grown more than you really had. And all of a sudden he's just kind of laying it back. I want to ask you as we come to the Lord's table and remember the body of Christ broken, the blood of Christ shed. Are we going to remember this as those who commune with God? Or are we going to casually and flippantly not take the full weight and the sense of the significance of the gospel and what Christ Has done for us. God wants us to be a people who walk with Him, so our lives will be conformed into His righteous character. So I ask in closing: Does your life bear these marks? Folks, this is not teaching us that we become Christians by working these things in our lives. What I'm saying is people who are Christians who walk with God. Are changed by that walk. Am I walking in a way where there is genuine transformation of the Spirit's work in me? Am I willing to pursue this kind of a walk with God as the single most important and most central aspect of my life? I want to encourage you to spend time daily in God's Word. I want to encourage you to spend time daily on your knees. And I don't mean like get it done and forget about it, but reflect on Reflect on what God is showing you in His Word. Be in a constant communion with Him as you go about your business. Be in a prayerful spirit. Read the Bible with an eye that sees God magnified and God's ways as beautiful. As we come together to partake of the Lord's table, let's remember with incredible gratitude what Jesus Christ has done for us. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, I thank you for this psalm. Very practical and very straightforward. And also very convicting. Help each one of us to walk with you. I pray that our walk with you would be central to our lives. The most important thing about our life is that it is centered on Christ and the gospel. As we partake of the Lord's table, I pray that our hearts will Would be drawn to reflect deeply on the body of Christ broken, the blood of Christ shed, that provides full reconciliation to you. That provides a satisfaction for your wrath against our sins. And Christ provides an example. I pray that you'd help us to have a sweet time of remembrance in these next few moments. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Because I What the hymn was that they saying 're not going to be able to do that. who knows maybe it was the the psalm that we looked at this morning. I don't know. But I'd like us to close with a psalm that's very reflective and that or a hymn that's very reflective. That's him one 156, how can it be? Let's stand together, please, and let's sing the first, the second, and the third verses of this wonderful hymn, How Can It Be as we reflect on what Christ has done for us. Oh Savior, as my eyes behold the wonders of Thy mind untold using Gloria slider, as creation thou hast made And yet to think thou lovest me, my heart cries out, How can it be? How can it be? How can it be that passion loves a soul like me? Oh how can it be on the second? As at the cross I only bow and gaze upon thy glory. By cruel hands, so bruised and torn To know thy suffering was for me in grief I cry, how can it be? How can it be? How can it be that I should love a soul like me? Oh I'd like to ask the piano and organ to uh to not play as we sing the last verse a cappella. Here we go. How can it be? How can it be? Was ever graceful And free from heights of bliss to deaths of woe, loving kindness Thou disc from sin and shame to rescue Oh love divine, how can it be? How can it be How can it be that God shall love us all hide me Amen. What an appropriate way to close out the Lord's table. Chad Peterson, can you close us in prayer? And as he's coming, I want to remind you that on the first Sunday of the month when we have the Lord's table, the Lord Little uh offering plate in the back on the left hand side is for our deacons fund, and that's one of the ways that we are able to uh be a blessing to members who are going through difficult times and need uh financial help and situations. So don't forget that. And after he closes in prayer, we'll be dismissed. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this day and thank you for your many blessings and how richly you do bless us in spite of ourselves. Thank you for this time we've had to Fellowship together in your house and taking of the Lord's table. Lord, I pray now that as we go our separate ways, you'd watch over, protect us, keep us well and healthy. Pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.