Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week of Anchored in the Word Studies. And if you were with us this past Sunday, you'll know that we were in Luke chapter 9. So I'd like to invite you to take your Bible. And let's all turn together to this passage of Scripture. We're going to look at verses 20 through 26 this week. And I'd like to kind of begin with some introductory thoughts before we dig into the text throughout the week. Luke chapter 9, verse number 20 says this. And he said unto them, Whom say ye that I am? Peter answering said, The Christ of God. And he strictly charged them and commanded them that they tell no man these things, saying, The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day. And he said unto them, If any man will come after me, Let him deny himself, take up his cross daily and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever will lose his life for my sake the same shall save it. For what is a man advantaged if he gain the whole world and lose himself or be cast away? For whosoever will be ashamed of me and my words Of him shall the Son of Man be ashamed when he shall come in his own glory, and in his fathers, and of the holy angels. But I tell you the truth, there are some standing here who will not taste of death Now what I'd like to do this week is begin in our introduction by giving you a summary statement And then a few thoughts that I think are an important part of appreciating what Jesus is saying and also not misrepresenting what he's saying. So here's our summary statement. The following passage, Luke 9, 20-26 teach us that following Christ comes with an inherent personal cost. And so God wants us to recognize how important it is that we wholeheartedly embrace the distinctiveness of our new identity in Christ. when we become a Christian. And so let's kind of work our way through some important concepts before we dig into the passage. The first concept is this. The passage in front of us is not an evangelistic appeal. When Jesus is giving this text of scripture, he's not saying, I know there's people here that are following me. You're not yet a Christian, you've not yet embraced the gospel, and so here's how you become a Christian, here's how you become a child of God. That is not what Jesus is doing And one of the reasons we know that is because we see that he is speaking to people who already believe he is the Christ. They already believe he's the Messiah. They're already anticipating their need of redemption through him. And we see that in verses 20, 21, and 22. He says, Whom say ye that I am? Peter answering said, the Christ of God. And then he says, The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected, the elders, and the chief priests, and the scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day. Now, I believe that Jesus is speaking to people who are already Christians. They're already believers. Now, they're believers in the Old Testament sense, as those who are anticipating the need of redemption And they believe that Jesus is the Redeemer. Now, on the other side of that, we come to Christ understanding that He died for our sins. We place our faith in Him. Peter at this moment in his life is in test of what Christ will do for him. But what this ultimately is is not an appeal to Peter becoming a Christian. As much as it is a warning for those who have placed their faith in Christ that He is coming to redeem them from their sins, to understand the cost of being identified with Christ. Those who are in Christ, those who have placed their faith in Christ are a people who have a distinctive way of life, a distinctive way of belief. They have a distinctive disposition. And so because of the distinctiveness of their position and their identity with Christ, there are certain things that are going to come as a result of their identification with Christ. For instance, if a person is not yet baptized and then they have decided they're going to get baptized, all of a sudden their public profession of faith, their public identification with the Christ whom they've believed in Is going to cause people to say, okay, now that I see that you have professed faith in Christ, and now that I see that you're not ashamed to identify with him Here's what I expect of you. That's the idea. And so in verses twenty-two and twenty-three it says that the Son of Man will suffer many things, he will be rejected of the elders, and the chief Is that if you really believe I'm the Messiah and you really want to follow me, then there is something that's going to follow you when you follow me. And that is that you will potentially and very likely suffer. And you will have to deny yourself daily because of your identity with me. That's what he's saying. In other words, these are responsibilities or these are things that you should anticipate to take place. because you're a Christian. You can see the distinction between becoming a Christian and what results because you're a Christian. That is what the text is all about So he's ultimately warning them about the inherent implications of being a Christian. And so let me remind you of the details. There are no exceptions. If Any, anyone who is a Christian should anticipate that this is the way he has to view his life now that he's a Christian. Being identified with Christ and following him will make you distinctly different from the world around you. He says, whoever will save his life shall lose it. Whoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. And so he's saying the way that you look at life is different than the world around you. They're trying to, we could say protect themselves and insulate themselves from pain and suffering and misery and they're trying to express themselves and say I'm going to be me and who I want to be. And on the other side, you go, No, I am now identified with Christ. And I'm not ashamed of that identity with Christ. And I'm submitting myself to his authority, and I recognize that my life has been lost in him. That is what he's saying. And so that is completely different than the world around us. And then we also see that Christian The Christian life is a life of daily self-denial. So once I have placed my faith in Christ, there are implications that flow out of my new position. And there are implications that I should anticipate as a result of being in this new position. And so he says, let him deny himself and take up his cross. daily and follow me. That's really what this passage is all about. So the passage isn't talking about how we become a Christian It's telling us what we can anticipate because we're Christians. That's really what it's all about. And so if we want to apply the text properly, we have to think carefully, not just about what Jesus is saying. but why he is saying it. What are the theological concepts that these statements are built upon? And I'd like to spend a good bit of time this week Lord willing, digging into those undergirding principles so that when we go to apply the text, we will apply it accurately and correctly. And so you might say, well Joel, what are the implications? Let me just give you two simple ones One is we have to pay careful attention to the details of the text. What did Jesus say? Why did he say it? Before we seek to apply it. And then secondly, we need to understand not just the what, but the why, because that is really what Jesus is driving at. And so that's what we're going to do this week. Lord willing, we'll not just look at the what, but the why, and then here's how we're supposed to live in the light of those things. I hope that this week you'll join us as we dig into this text, and I hope that you'll take time to share it with others. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.