Uh let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer and then The way that you've carried us through this time of the year. We know that it's a busy time. It's a it's a sweet time getting together with family and friends. It's also Sometimes a very heavy time. And so I pray that you would uh just provide strength for each person during this season. Uh be with those who've traveled. I know many Many, many people have traveled and even still are traveling. So I pray that you give travel mercies and uh blessing in in the various places where people are gathered with family and friends. Pray that you bless during this service this evening. Help us to have sweet fellowship together. I pray that as we sing these hymns of praise to you, that we would think about these words. And as we take a few moments to share testimonies, I pray that you would encourage us through those things as well. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, let's uh go ahead and pull out our hymn books, and the first hymn we're going to sing is hymn 207. Hymn 207, and we're singing the first, the third, and the fourth. I've him 207 Christmas bells. I'll let you sit. Don't worry about it. Okay Come there will be confession of faith where Christ was born. Well, ladies and mother down town , you 're a little bit of this. Think of that in a fan. He that cast you those women and yes have those true That is be a pretty shall down. Thou knows the present thoughts and God, thou soyer land , let them all make one Hill I 'll come to God , tell them Jesus Christ and Very good. If you could let's go to hymn 208. That's the next one. And we'll sing the first and the second of Ring the Bells. And that's all of the verses. And now I 'm going to run my full day five. And to give another being wonderful , and the way that is done, it is not being otherwise. I just hope a game Lord is sadness in the wheel God Himself and God 's Definitely Well, I know that there's uh DC Al Coda and all that kind of stuff and uh I forget how that works, so I should have thought that through. Okay, our last uh hymn before we take some time to share testimonies. It's Him two hundred twenty-five, away in a manger. Him two hundred twenty-five, away in a manger. And I believe that this is the traditional two not the uh the second one. I like the traditional tune better, but let's go ahead with that. All three verses. We be in our nature , little choice has laid down to The stars in north five sky put down every way. All the words Jesus Christ is on his Only more Jesus comes down the stride and stay by my green. It is time on the last Be near me more Jesus, I ask me to stay , those might be more heaven and for me, I pray twice your And Okay, well we'd like to take a couple of minutes tonight uh to share testimonies of how the Lord has been at work in your life. And I want to We left those bring credit to us more for you with you remains there. So I know the song, but I don't know how to lead the times signatures so I didn't even bother. Alright, Nathaniel. Which one? 193 in the red book. 193. 193 in the red book. Angels from the realms of glory. Angels from the realms of glory. Angels from the realms of glory. We think your same story now for Mahasayas currently. And Christopher This one Madeline One ninety-four in the Red Book. Joy to the world. Joy to the world. Joy will the world over. Is home let everything for king, let every body Very good. Another one? Yes. Sixty three in the red. Sixty three in the red, okay. Sixty three, that's uh Immortal and Visible God only wise, I like this one. This the this is a good one to start services out on Sunday morning. I love this one Alright, here we go. In promotion , accent all glorious need on his Almighty. You might not notice, but that's a Welsh melody and was written during the time of the Welsh Revival, so So go ahead, John. Three ninety two. Three ninety-two. Who is on the Lord's side? John, I should have known that you would pick the song that is the tune Armagh That's great. Okay, no, Kayla, yeah, good. Sixty eight in the red book. Okay. Sixty eight. Holy, holy, holy. So Very good. Any others? Other favorites? Let's do a Mighty fortresses are God, but I don't know which number that is. Oh, there we go. 81. It's like my all-time favorite. I love this hymn. A mighty fortress is our God. And I'll tell you what, we will go ahead and we will sing the first, the third, and the fourth for this. This will be our last one. I I love verse three. And though this world with devils filled should threaten to undue us. We will not fear for God hath willed his truth to triumph through us. I just I love uh those words. So let's go ahead. Let's stand on this one. We'll sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses of a mighty fortress Is our God. For help for me of God, but for those as we pay for sailing. It 's a move seems to work as well It's craft and found for place and dark Honor is not his word, and though this problem should have. We will not care for God and his friends I am best friends. Down the And we 're not allowed to be our thing. The spirit and I give more person will give me a life and give me Is more through my father, the body may make hill God to come by team. Well I've enjoyed all the Christmas music. It'll be sad to turn into the next the next season. the winter. Uh so maybe we get a winter here. We'll see what happens. Uh well I'm really thankful to have uh Pastor Chris back in the pulpit and uh we missed him uh for the time where He was away. And uh so we're glad to have you back and um looking forward to getting to have you preach on some Sunday nights and Hansol, and uh really looking forward to the series that we're doing on Sunday nights. So brother, come on up and preach the word. Join me please in Genesis chapter six. Genesis six I'm glad to be back in this pulpit and sharing God's word with you and enjoying that privilege. And lo and behold, the first sermon when I come back is going to be on the flood. Um it's uh it's actually one of my favorite passages to talk on, so I hope that uh hope that I don't get too much in the way. Of what God hopes to communicate tonight. Now, last week, Pastor spoke on Cain and Abel and spoke on the tragic murder where Cain killed his brother. But the story actually continues there at the end of Genesis 4 with the birth of Seth. And from Seth forward, you see the lineage where the hope of the Messiah, the hope of a redeemer. withheld. And in chapter five of Genesis, you have that lineage being explained, being uh put out there leading up to Noah. In chapter 6 it begins the account of Noah and the global flood. Now in those four chapters to follow, chapter six through nine, we have this familiar account. And although it's typically told as maybe a children's Bible story or as a Sunday school story, we need to look at it as a historical event. That is so violent and so catastrophic that it should make us pause and ask, what do these chapters In the first book of Moses, tell us about God. What we will find is that the purpose of this passage is really to reveal how God's hatred of sin led to the destruction of the antediluvian world while providing hope for the redemption of the sinful descendants of the Noah. So then by reading and meditating on these chapters, God wants us to understand how the flood demonstrates his demand for holiness. In the salvation of mankind. We can do that by meditating upon three powerful ways. God's demand for holiness is expressed in Genesis 6 through 9. Will you begin looking at the first couple verses here in chapter six with me? It says that it came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them, that the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair, and they took them wives of all which they chose. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he is also flesh, yet his days shall be a hundred and twenty years There were giants in the earth in those days, and also after that when the sons of God came unto the daughter unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of renown And God saw the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man, whom I have created from the face of the earth. Both man and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I have made them. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord And these are the generations of Noah. So we're going to be covering these four chapters, hopefully, to see that God wants us to understand how the flood demonstrates God's demand for holiness. in the salvation for of mankind. The first way this is demonstrated or uh expressed in this passage is when we see how his demand for holiness is required in his pursuit for Sustaining a pure messianic lineage. Now, where where do we see the Messiah brought into this passage? It's not really expressly given. But we do see kind of an allusion to a lineage. When we look back at chapter 5, we see the lineage of Seth all the way to Noah. And then in chapter 6, we have who are called the sons of God Now, this isn't the time or place. We don't really have the time to dig into whether or not we're talking about fallen angels or or this and that. But the conclusion that I've come to with this phrase is that these are what were considered redeemed mankind. These were people who believed that there would be a coming redeemer. That the seed of the woman would come to crush the serpent's head, as God promised in chap in Genesis chapter 3. Now these are people Who should have had that knowledge. And for all intents and purposes, I'll describe them as believers. And yet, they looked at the daughters of men , which what I believe is describing unbelieving people. And they intermarried with these non-believers and destroyed subsequent generations of descendants. What I believe we find here is really a demonstration of what happens when believers become unequally yoked together with unbelievers, as Paul describes in 2 Corinthians 6. We see a group of believers really destroying the future generations with marrying unbelievers. That's why it's such an important warning in 2 Corinthians. That's why we need to see this as a precedent for how destructive this kind of marriage can be. is. Now if you're a Christian who's married to a non-believer, I'm not saying that to down you, I'm not saying that to dis dis discourage you. You do have an obligation To pursue your partner, your family's redemption. And that's there in 1 Corinthians 7. But the point here is that these lineages, these descendants, were corrupted as a result of these intermarried believers with non - And so that's why Noah's family have become so utterly integral to the God's pursuit of a Now when I say pure, I'm not talking about sinless. Okay? I'm not talking about the fact that S Noah and his sons were sinless or that any of their descendants would be sinless. We can go to Matthew chapter 1, we can go through those names, and we can point out people who are very, very messed up in the lineage of Christ, of the lineage of the Messiah. But these really were the only people that held on to the promise that God would give a redeemer. The only people that would trust God and his word. And we know this because when it came time, after 120 years of Noah preaching, that God's judgment was coming. Only he and his family got on that ark. 120 years. Now the the population of the earth before the flood could have been anywhere from maybe 700 million to four billion people. That's a big range, I know. But nevertheless, you think about that. Only eight people out of that many got on the ark Noah's family had become utterly integral to the preservation of the Messianic lineage. And God's holiness demanded that this lineage remain pure. So we see that in looking at this account of the flood. We see God's demonstration of holiness and how he sought to preserve that pure messianic But we also see his demand for holiness being demonstrated, being expressed through his unflinching justice. Now we know the story of the global flood. Noah builds his ark. He puts all the animals in there, different kinds of animals on the ark. God shuts the door of the ark and then the rain comes down for forty days and forty nights. The waters of the deep come up and flood the earth high above the the the tops of the highest mountains and the entire earth is destroyed. But although this is a story that we're quite familiar with, there are some some details here That are worth looking at when we're looking at the fact that God's holiness demands unflinching justice. In fact, you can see this in just the first nine verses of chapter seven. It says the Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house unto the ark, for thee have I seen righteous before me. In this generation. Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male and his female, and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and his female. Of fowls also by the air by sevens, the male and the female, to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth. For yet seven days and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days Days and forty nights, and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth. Now I don't know if this this catches your attention as soon as you read it. Sometimes I miss it here too, but the fact is you notice. God is telling Noah, make sure you collect these clean and unclean animals. Now, where where in the Bible do we see this concept of clean and unclean animals being Explained. Is it before or after this passage? It's it's definitely not before. We see it later explained more in the book of Leviticus. And being explained to the nation of Israel. We don't really see it explained to Adam, to Eve, any of their descendants, to Noah. It's just that here's clean animals and here's unclean animals. So hold on. How would Noah understand this concept? I don't know. But remember who this is being written to, who it's written by. This is a book of Moses being written to Israel. as part of the law. And the law points to us, points us to God and His holiness, His character. How his law is the standard for holiness for Israel. And so, in a way, you can see here God is foreshadowing the Levitical system. of Israel by saying, hey, here's clean animals, here's unclean animals. Later we'll we'll see in chapter 8 and verse 20, Noah sacrificing clean animals. To God. In the similar way that we find Israel sacrificing certain clean animals to God as a sacrifice. All of this to point to the fact that you know what God's holiness demands unfledged Justice. That's what the law is about. It's about providing justice for wrongdoing. The fact that Israel had to live up to God's standard for them to be a holy righteous nation Had they failed to live up to that, there would have been justice meted out. Now, while the redeemed church of Jesus Christ is not bound to the law of Moses, it's still A crucial portion portion of Scripture. God's holy character. And this was written to Israel to help understand God's holy character. We as God's people need to see that as well. In this account of the global flood. Holiness demands justice, not in just the fact that we see the Mosaic Law being foreshadowed here, but just in the simple fact that God poured out his absolute wrath upon the world. Now we know the the the the flood story. We know that as soon as the ark was closed up, the animals were on board, the Noah's family was on board, the rains from heaven came down. The fountains of the deep broke up. And the waters went, it rained 40 days and 40 nights, but the waters prevailed for 150 days. 150 days of nonstop water tearing up, breaking up this planet Now sometimes we look at I'll I'll bring this up as an example, sometimes we look at the the Grand Canyon and there seems to be kind of a consensus that the Grand Canyon was a more recent thing than even the flood. And you think about something like one little glacier creating the Grand Canyon, can you imagine what a global flood would do to this planet? How destructive, how violent, how turbulent that would have been for 150 days You think, is there really that much water even on the planet? There there is, in fact. And it's not my intention to get into any kind of science here. That would be far beyond m my ability. But the fact is, there's enough water on this planet to flood this earth three times over. And God destroyed it utterly in less than a year. When it comes to the account of Noah and the flood, we tend to focus a bit more on Noah than the flood by by looking on the flood at the flood, we're confronted with a God whose wrath should drive us to our faces in fear and trembling. His power and justice is awesome and righteous. And as the author of Hebrews says, it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Do you know what? This display of God's wrath, this flood, I'll go ahead and say it, it pales in comparison. To what was displayed in Christ's death and his death on the cross Think about Isaiah 53 where the lamb, the servant, is being described as a man of sorrow, acquainted with grief. Afflicted, smitten of God, stricken, wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities, chastised, stripped, led like a sheep to the slaughter. The wrath that Jesus Christ faced was the wrath that all of mankind deserved. You think the flood only was God's wrath upon the antediluvian world, however amount of people that was. But the wrath that Jesus bore on himself. Makes that almost minuscule. That's because God's justice Or God's holiness demands justice. But although His Holiness demands justice , And although this account is very violent and grievous as we think about the lives that could have been saved had they repented. The fact is, God's demand for holiness includes overwhelming grace Look with me in chapter eight. It says, and God remembered Noah. And every living thing, and all the cattle that was with him in the ark. And God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters assuaged. The fountains also of the deep, and the windows of heaven were s Stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained, and the waters returned from off the earth continually, and after the end of a hundred and fifty days the waters were abated. It goes on from there in talking about the raven who went out and didn't return. Talks about the dove who went out and brought back the olive branch. And all of these really point to God 's grace Now you say, okay, hold on. It's just talking about how God's stopping these waters. How does that display God's grace? Well, think about it. 150 days of nonstop water that covers the earth. And it's gone in just about the same amount of time. That's a miracle, really, in and of itself. The fact that that water was put somewhere, it wouldn't flood these continents that we live on today. It's a miracle in of itself. We know God performed these miracles. It says in verses in verse 1, it says that God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters are suaged. God purposefully Created a natural event to swage to get rid of these waters. He says in verse 2 that he stopped up the fountains of the deep. Literally those those deep underwater. tectonic openings where these waters came out of. It says he restrained the rains from heaven. You think about the dove that brought back the olive branch. Do you know how slowly an olive tree grows? I had to look it up because I was curious. They they just got off the ark and here comes an olive branch. How long does it An olive tree tak takes a year just to grow maybe two to four inches. Did you know that? I didn't know that before even today, actually. Only two to four inches for an olive tree, or a year for an olive tree to grow two to four inches. And yet a dove was able to bring back an olive branch Now hold on, how can it bring back an olive branch? Even though it was a twig. I'll tell you what, that's a miracle from God. God provided. He was showing Noah, listen, I'm going to provide for you in this destroyed world that you're about to live in. God provides for you Grace after he actively ceased from pouring out his own wrath. We see it also in how he specifically prevented himself from repeating this kind of destruction. You know, we don't we don't like to think of God restraining himself or God stopping himself from Doing something, but that's what he was doing here in verses twenty to twenty two. Look at the look there with me in chapter eight. It says and Noah built in an altar unto the Lord and took of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl and offered burnt offerings on the altar. And the Lord smelled a sweet savour, and the Lord said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake. For the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth. not cease. Keep looking with at this passage from chapter 9, verse 8. It says, And God spoke spake unto Noah and to his sons with him, saying, And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you and with your seed after you, and with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl and of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you, from all that go out of the ark to every beast of the earth. And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood, neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said this is the token of the covenant which I made Between me and you and every living creature that is with you for perpetual generations. I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth Listen, this covenant that God made, this rainbow that's supposed to be a symbol of God promising not to destroy the earth with the flood. It's supposed to be a reminder, not just of the fact that God was not going to destroy the world with the flood, but the fact that he made a covenant with no one Noah and his sons and his descendants. That's everybody in this room, by the way. Descendants of Noah. We have a special covenant with God by his grace that he would restrain himself from ever destroying the world as he did with the flood. I hope that's an encouragement to you because I think very often we we hear about events, you know, it's it's the end of the world. Like, is this the end of the world? These are signs of the end of the world. Listen, we we we've read Revelation, I hope. We we understand what the end of the world looks like. We're not we're not there. In fact, Genesis 6 through 9 really is there to remind us of the fact that, you know what? God made a promise not to destroy the world as he did. So if we're going to worry about the end of the world, we should be reminded we have a God who is full of grace. Even though you know what I look around and I think, man, I hope God comes soon because this world is ready to get destroyed. God is full of grace toward the descendants of Noah. That's everybody on this planet today. And you know what? God knew exactly who those Descendants were. There were people like you, people like me, people that we think are absolutely appalling in history, all of them descendants of Noah And you know what? God knowingly saved a family that he knew were sinful. Look in verses one through seven of chapter nine with me. It says, And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth, and the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth. And upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea, and to your hand are they delivered. Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you, even as the green herb have I given you all things But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye not eat, and surely your blood of your lives will I require. At the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man, at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man. Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. For in the image of God God made he man, and you be fruitful and multiply, bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein. So we see God blessing Noah and his sons in verse 1. We see him saying, be fruitful, multiply, replenish the earth, fill the earth. And then he tells them, listen. If if you kill someone, I'm gonna require your blood. Wait, what? It's a little bit of a, you know, that escalated quickly. We go from blessing to I'm going to set up a way for you to pass on judgment. That's because God understood who Noah's descendants were. He understood what they were going to do. They were going to be murderers. They were going to be killers. And he needed them to understand, listen. Listen, I'm blessing you, but I understand you're going to be an unholy people. You're going to reject me. I'm going to establish this system of government. By man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. For in the image of God made he man Now of course that's talking speaking a little bit more toward their descendants, but you know Noah and his sons were were not perfect people. We know what happens at at the end of chapter nine when when Noah plants a vineyard and he becomes drunk and lies naked in his in his tent and his son Ham comes and sees him. him in his nakedness and goes to tell his brothers. curses Ham's son Canaan and blesses his two sons Japheth and Shem. Now, this is also a very misused passage. I hope that you're not someone who misuses this passage for any kind of racial purpose. Because that's not what this passage is talking about. It's talking about the fact that God saved some very wicked people, and by his grace, he was going to use them. He's going to use Noah 's descendants and Shem. Specifically to bless the peoples of the earth. And so what we see here, in spite of the fact that this entire passage Chapter 6 through 9 demonstrate God's demand for holiness. It points to us the need for His holiness in the salvation of men. mankind. Because God's holiness demands a pure lineage for the future Messiah, for the Lord Jesus Christ to come. And in that sinless life, that sacrificial death, that victorious resurrection of Jesus Christ, we see God's justice. Being met. And through that, we have overwhelming grace Have you received God's grace by trusting in Christ? Have you, Christian, have you taken time to meditate on the holiness of God. Even when reading through these four chapters, is it just a Sunday school story? Is it just a Bible story? Or is it a halting historical account? Makes us think our God's holiness is awesome. And yet his grace is over Do you understand how powerful this historical account is in the overarching unfolding of the gospel and scripture? We can meditate on that tonight as we go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come before you recognizing Even though fallibly how perfect and how holy you are, and yet we can fall before you and worship you, knowing that you You are full of grace. And we know this because you have preserved all these generations so that we might come to know your Son. Jesus Christ, whom you sent, whom you slew to meet justice. And I pray, Father, that we would look to Him As our source of hope, as our Messiah, as our Redeemer, knowing that He paid the price for us to be able to Meet your standard of holiness through Him. Let us be in awe of you, Father, in all that you are. It's in Christ's name we We pray. Amen. As we enter into the new year this week, um assuming that we do, um we uh we need to keep in our minds Um that very simple truth that we looked at this morning, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth, before the evil day draweth. And as we were reminded tonight, God is a God of rich grace. He loves people, but he's also a God who is just and he's holy. And he's righteous. And that's why the gospel is really the center story of the entire Bible. Because if there wasn't a gospel , Then all we would face is the wrath of God. There would be no no position of grace. There would be no salvation. And so each of these Old Testament passages that we're going to be looking at is really going to be the unfolding of that story of redemption and the the flood and God uh showing grace to Noah and his descendants um is a critical part of that story. And so thank you, Chris, for uh showing us those truths and I hope that uh it's given us some things to think about Let's go ahead and take out our hymn books, please, and we will sing our final song, uh Hymn 196, Angels We Have Heard On High. It's a great song for us to uh close out our Christmas season with. Let's stand together, please. And we'll sing verses one, two, and four together. Angels be happened on my sheep for the blame. And the mountains and reply can go back their joyous range. Oh On a second, scabbers by miserable deep, by your joy and straight prolong. In exhausting, in excess day. All the last seen him in until we just worn of heaven and earth Gary just up when you need With a single sea No Wex is day. Todel tuosta alää kohasta minäksän se viemään. Okay, just a reminder that this week we will not have our midweek service. And so Lord will not We'll see you guys back on Sunday. I know that a lot of folks are traveling right now, so pray that uh people have safety as they're on the roads or in the air. And uh we'll look forward to gathering back again. Lord will willing in the new year. So Mr. Jenny, can you please come up and close us in a word of prayer? And then it's just been good to see each of you tonight. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we're so grateful of the opportunity we've had to be in your church today, Lord, and through this Christmas season. We have been well fed from your word, Lord, today, both this morning and this evening. We thank you for the men of God that are willing to open open your word and and teach us and preach to us, Lord. Thank you, Lord, for the uh blessings that you've bestowed upon our church the past year. We're thankful, Lord. for the the many uh uh Christmas songs that we've been able to sing over the past couple weeks. Lord, what a blessing it's been to be able to fellowship together with With other Christians during this Christmas season. Pray now that you would just continue your blessing upon each one that's here tonight. And that you would be with us as we go our separate weeks. To our homes, Lord, give us safety. Bring us back again next Sunday, which will be in the new year, and we will give you the praise for all that in Jesus' name. Amen.