Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And this will be the last session that we're looking at dealing with uh the passage in Luke chapter 7 that we've been looking at all week. Instead of reading the entire section today, I'm going to pick up in verse number 13. I'm going to read down to verse 19 as we look at the final section of uh Jesus raising um a widow woman's son back to life. Here's what it says in verse 13. It says when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and he said unto her, Weep not And he came and touched the bear, and they that bare him stood still. He said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise. He that was dead sat up, and began to speak. He delivered him to his mother. And there came a fear on all, and they glorified God, saying that a great prophet is risen up among us, that God hath visited his people. And this rumor went out forth throughout all of Judea and throughout all the regions abroad. And the disciples of John showed him all these things, and John calling unto him two of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying Art thou he that should come, or look we for another? And the men that were come with him said, John the Baptist hath sent us unto thee. This is a fascinating passage of Scripture. It's actually going to be kind of the link to the section that we're going to look at this Sunday. So Uh if you uh attend Anchor Baptist Church, um this is giving giving you a little bit of uh uh uh an understanding of what we're gonna talk about in the morning service. But We're going to talk about John the Baptist and how he was shaken, not in unbelief. Unbelief is a rejection of the facts, but he had doubts. John the Baptist, a great man Someone that God had used in so many ways, he doubted, and there were reasons for that. It's because he was in prison, he was experiencing a lot of heartache, and it was causing him to be shaken. He wanted a clarification So that really tells us something fascinating about this story. What it shows us is that we need God's word to inform our response when it comes to Looking at what God is doing in the world, His providence. The the disciples had seen a miracle, an amazing miracle, and even though they had seen that miracle, And this miracle is was reported all throughout Judea, even down to John the Baptist, where he isn't in prison. Even though that took place, there were people that still had questions, even people that believed that the Messiah was coming. That's John the Baptist. He believes the Old Testament prophecies regarding the Messiah. He believes that Jesus is the Messiah. But even with all of that evidence, John the Baptist had a question pop into his mind What that tells me is that we need in those kinds of moments to go to something that is objective to clarify and to inform our understanding of what we are observing. In other words, they needed God to clarify why this miracle had taken place. They needed Jesus Christ to tell them Yes, I'm the Messiah. Yes, what I'm doing is authenticating or demonstrating that I am truly the Messiah. They needed to hear from him What that tells us is that our experience has to be shaped, or we could say our understanding of our experience has to be shaped by the Word of God. Our experience without Scripture to shape it is not going to be processed appropriately. We're not going to understand the significance of what God's doing. In fact, a lot of times when people deal with a situation that's extremely painful or very troubling, it's something that's hard for them to make sense of A lot of times rather than people going to the Word of God and saying, God, please minister to my heart. Help me to understand what I can understand about this situation. Help me to process this biblically, or going to godly people and saying, Can we talk a little bit about this issue? I don't really understand how to make sense of this. What are some of the things that I can learn about God in this situation? Instead of going to what is objectively true, God's Word A lot of times people withdraw from other folks. Um they they don't seek answers in the right place. They uh they sometimes uh deal with that misery in a way that's not going to ultimately be helpful to them. And I'm not saying that On the emotional side, we don't need to process pain and suffering in that kind of a way. But there comes a point where we've got to go from our feelings and go to something that is concrete. Something that we can stand on, we can plant our feet on and say, I have stability. With all the ups and the downs of what I'm experiencing, here is the stability. So Our experience and how we uh understand it has to be shaped by the Word of God. These people did not understand the significance of what they had seen. It wasn't just living through it They needed to be informed about it. They needed to know what Jesus had to say about it. Even John had to understand these things It's important for us to understand that sometimes we're going to go through things in life that is going to lead that these issues are going to leave more questions than answers. And where we go to get the answers is really, really important. So you might say, well, how do we apply this? Let me put it this way. We need to understand that the scriptures have to inform how we approach these issues. We know for a fact that God wants us to know him personally. He doesn't want us to just read the word and have an academic knowledge of him. He wants us to go beyond that. He wants this to become very personal to us. He wants our our belief to actually be something that we experience. He wants us to experience a real, genuine, vibrant walk with him. In order for that to happen, we're going to have to go through challenges. We're going to have to go through difficulties. We're going to have to go through situations where his promises are put to the test. where his comfort is given, and that is really our only hope in that situation. And when we're in those kinds of places, we've got to go to the Word to help us work through that. He wants to move us from a very shallow understanding of who he is to something that is rich indeed. He wants to shape us into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. If God's going to develop Patience in us. That means we're going to have to go through circumstances that stretch us. If God wants us to develop uh maturity and strength and depth. Well that means that we're got to go through situations that that cause us to become strong. If if we're going to become compassionate people who really genuinely love people and when they're hurting we're able to walk th through that with them. Then God's going to have to allow us to suffer as well. I was talking to a very dear friend just uh recently And we were talking about this issue of processing the death of a close family member. In this person's situation, it was someone that they were very, very close to. And he said something to me like this, there's actually a group of us, he said, you know, there were people that they tried to help me, and what they were saying was true, but there was something about the fact that they had never experienced what I had experienced, that there was just this great limit to the comfort they were able to bring. They were sharing with me things that I already knew. But he said, when someone who has actually walked through this same kind of trial like I'm experiencing, when they come and they talk to me and they grieve with me , And they allow me to talk through this with them. And then I ask them to share some of their experience. When I understand that they know what it's like to walk through that , It changes things. It allows me to truly be comforted on a different level. How does a person get into that place? It's that they have to go through situations That are very hard. That is what enables them to do that. They would never want to go through those things if there wasn't an end result of God using it. to really shape them into very effective and usable servants of the Lord. The point is that when they're in the midst of those kinds of situations, they would never, never believe that that's where they would end up if it wasn't for The Word of God saying things like the trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect, spiritually matured, and entire, wanting nothing. The idea is that we need the Word of God to inform us. When it comes to seeing this world as an empty place We have to actually sometimes see and experience the emptiness of this world. To appreciate how empty it is and how great the glories of eternity actually are. When there are things that we've set our heart on, and we we love those things more than the Lord, and they've become idols to us. Sometimes God has to pull them away from us. He has to disrupt disrupt our plans and what we're planning to do so that He can reveal to us, you know what, you have set your heart on something that has taken the place of me The point of all this study is to simply say when we go through circumstances, we've got to go back to the Word of God. so that the word of God can inform how we interpret and understand what's going on and what God is ultimately doing. I want to share with you a final quote that I read uh just the other week that I thought really encapsulates well this concept of God's providence and how God works. It was written by Stephen Sharnick, and this is what he said. He said, nothing is acted on in the world without the will of God. His will either commands or it permits. Nothing can subsist without God's care and power. Like a skilful pilot, he sits at the helm and steers the world in what course it should sail. In the least moment, if God should withhold the influence of his providence, he would it would melt into nothing. Is it not high presumption for ignorance to judge God's proceedings when the whole connection of their end is unraveled? They will appear higher, uh highly beautiful, and discover a glorious wisdom and righteousness. It is certain God righteously orders his providence. When I read uh that section from Sharnak 's writings I thought that that really states very well what this whole series is about. God guides in the circumstances of our life. ultimately for our good. And when we can see the end of what God is doing, the complete picture, we will recognize that what He's doing is good. If God permits something, he allows it, he's ultimately allowing it because he's going to accomplish something good through it. It's not that the thing itself is good in and of itself. It's that it's a tool that God can use to accomplish good. And God righteously orders his providence. I hope that this study over the last several days has been an encouragement to you. This issue of how God works in our lives, there is a mysterious side to it. But it's something that's also very comforting. We can always rest in the fact that what God is doing is for our good, to reveal himself to us and to shape us into his image. I hope you have a great weekend, and uh Lord willing, uh, we'll pick this up again next week as we look at a new section of scripture. That'll be the passage that I preach on Sunday morning. Have a great rest of your day. Bye now