We're anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and today we are in Luke chapter 5, looking at verses 17 through 26 together. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it and let's look together at these verses. It says, And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were come out of every town of Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem, and the power of the Lord was present to heal them. And behold, men brought a bed on a bed a man which was taken of the palsy. They sought means to bring him in and to lay him before him. When they could find when they could not find by what way they might bring him in because of the multitude, they went upon the housetop and let him down through the tile with his couch into the midst before Jesus. When he saw their faith, he said unto them, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee. The scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this which speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answering said unto them, What reason ye and why reason ye in your hearts? Whether is easier to say, thy sins are forgiven thee, or to say, rise up and walk But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power upon earth to forgive sins. He saith unto the sick of the palsy, I say unto thee, Arise, take up thy couch, go into thy house. Immediately he rose before them, took that whereon he lay, and departed to his own house, glorifying God. They were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things today. Now I'm sure if you grew up in church you probably remember learning about this story where Jesus is going to heal a man whose friends take him to Jesus and because they can't get into the house They actually go up on the roof of the building where Jesus is. They remove the tiles and they let this man down through the roof Lots of us remember this story when we were in Sunday school. The question we should ask this morning is, what was the point of the story? Not just to show that Jesus has compassion on people and that he has the power to actually heal people, but what was the main reason? Why did Jesus heal this man? the way that he did. Well what we're going to see from this text of scripture is that it was to demonstrate in a way that people could visibly see that Jesus had the power or the authority or the right to forgive sins. And so let me give you a simple summary statement and then we'll look at the details that I think will help you to see that point. A simple summary is that Christ heals a lame man in order to demonstrate he has the authority to forgive sin. The first fact that we find is that Christ's ministry was well known in Judea. Notice what it says in verses 17 through 19. And don't forget, yesterday when we talked about Jesus healing, a man who had leprosy, he told the man, don't tell everybody what's going on. Well, in spite of the way the man responded, and I I don't know exactly it doesn't say how he responded, but you would have to have to guess that he probably did tell a few people. And when we go to other other gospel accounts, we'll see that there were people that were healed in the same way, perhaps the same person who did go and tell other people. And so the point of that miracle was to be a private miracle. It wasn't meant to be demonstrated everywhere. It was supposed to just be done with that man. But what we're going to see is that Christ's ministry began to be well known. People knew who he was. They heard about him. In fact, it wasn't just the average person that lived in the region where Jesus was ministering. The word of Christ's ministry got all the way to Jerusalem, all the way up to the most powerful and influential religious leaders of their day. And so know what it says in verse 17. It came to pass on a certain day as he was teaching that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were come out of every town of Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was present to heal them. Behold, men brought a bed on in a bed, a man which was taken with palsy And they sought means to bring him in and to lay him before Jesus. And when they could not find that way, they might bring him in because of the multitude. So what we see is that there were two groups that came to see Jesus on this day. One group was skeptical of who he was. They were inquisitive, but they weren't coming to figure out who Jesus was for the sake of faith. For the sake of embracing his message. They were skeptics. They were angry. They were frustrated. They were fearful. They were concerned that they might lose their position. And so we see that Pharisees and doctors came, and it's really interesting the way that Luke records their presence It says the power of the Lord was present to heal them. Now it doesn't say that Jesus healed any of them. It doesn't say that any of those men were forgiven. It just says that Christ had the power to do it. And what we're going to see by the end of the story is that while these men were doubters, there was one man who had faith and was healed. There were people who brought this man who had faith as well, and they were all able to see on that day the power or the authority of Christ. So we have those who were skeptics, and then on the other side, we had those who were believers. Now when I say that they're believers, I'm not necessarily saying that at this point they were Old Testament saints We simply know that they believed that Jesus could heal this man. Maybe they believed he was the Messiah. Maybe they understood that he came to forgive sins. We don't really know what these people understood. But we know that they had at least enough faith, conviction that Christ was able to heal, that they brought this man. And they didn't just bring this man, but they brought this man and they went through extraordinary means to make sure that this man could get to Jesus and be healed. And so it says they sought then they sought means to bring him in and to lay him before him. When they could not find a way that they might bring him in because of the multitude. They went to the tiles of the roof, they removed it, and they laid him down through the roof And so what we see is there were a lot of people that were there who wanted to hear Jesus preach. There were people who were at least curious about who Jesus was. And so what we see is two groups. We have the skeptics, we have the believers. And the fact is, whenever Christ is presented to people, whatever the gospel is proclaimed, Whenever whenever God's word is expounded, you have people in these two categories. You have people who are skeptics, you have people who are believers You may have people that are not yet believers, but they're at least inquisitive. They're in a position where the Holy Spirit is beginning to convict them and convince them of the truth. And so we see those two groups. The second fact that we're going to see is that Christ healed the believing man, and he did it in a deliberately provocative manner for a purpose. Let me say that again. Christ healed a believing man and he deliberately did it in a provocative manner for a reason, for a purpose. I want you to realize this isn't just about Christ showing compassion on this man. It was in part that. But it was really meant to be a sign. It was meant to demonstrate something, to teach something about Christ. In fact, there really is a difference between Jesus healing the man who had leprosy in the verses before this, and Jesus healing the slame man. Jesus healed the man with leprosy out of pure compassion. It was a private miracle. It was out of kindness and it was out of mercy. And it was because he saw the man's faith. This one, on the other hand, yes, there is mercy and compassion, but Jesus does it in a public manner with a provocative purpose. He wants people to think He wants people to respond. He's trying to get their attention. He's trying to demonstrate something about his authority. And so notice what it says in verse 20. When he saw their faith , There meaning the man who was who had the palsy, the people who brought him, perhaps maybe even the people that were in that group that were surrounding Jesus. who were not skeptics but were believers. When he saw their faith, we don't know who it is. Likely the man and his friends, but really it could be a lot of different people. He said unto him, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee. Now the man didn't come to get his sins forgiven. He came to get healed. And rather than Jesus saying, take up your bed and walk, which he'll eventually do, he starts with the man's greatest need, his most profound need. And that was the need for his sins to be forgiven And the fact is it wasn't just this man whose sins needed to be forgiven. The fact is every single person in that room, every single person that was present there, needed their sins to be forgiven. And so the question is, why did Jesus do it this way? Why did he take a man who obviously wanted physical healing? And why did he tell him, your sins are forgiven? Deal with a spiritual problem. Well, it was to confront the unbelief of the skeptics. Notice how these men responded in verses 21 to 24, the skeptics. The scribes and Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this? This is a really interesting response. Who is this person? What right do they have to say what they're saying? How dare he say that he can forgive sins? He says, This man speaks blasphemies. Who can forgive sins but God alone? When Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answering said unto them, Why reason ye in your hearts? Whether it is easier to say thy sins are forgiven thee, or to say, rise up and walk, but that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power upon earth to forgive sins? He saith unto the sick of the palsy, I say to thee, Arise, take up thy couch, and go into thine house. What's Jesus doing here? He's confronting the unbelief, and he's confronting the skepticism of these religious leaders who came to see what he was doing. Jesus was basically saying, you know that a man does not have the power to heal. Only God can heal. Only God has that kind of authority. Only God has that kind of power. And so you know that that's true. If I can heal this man, then that also means that I as God have the authority and the power and the right to forgive his sins. In other words, Jesus did this to confront unbelief and skepticism. And so there's really a distinction between this miracle and the miracle that was recorded before. On the other side, it wasn't just to confront the unbelief of the skeptic, but it was to reveal the true nature of his authority, to firmly convince The person who is coming to faith, coming to believe, coming to be convinced that Jesus is indeed the Messiah, that he has the right, the authority to forgive sins. So it wasn't just to confront the skeptic. It was to confirm the conviction of the believer. It was so all the people that were there who believed he was the Messiah were thought it was very possible or very likely that he was the Messiah. People who were coming to understand these things and were beginning to be convinced of these things, it was to strengthen their faith so that they would recognize, yes, indeed, this is the Messiah. He says in verses 25 and 26, immediately he rose up before them, took up that were on he lay, and departed to his own house. Notice the way he puts it, glorifying God. This man recognized that his healing was from God. The question is who just healed this man? Well, it was Jesus So he's acknowledging that Jesus has the authority as God to heal him. And he's also recognizing that Jesus, by virtue of his authority to heal him, also has The authority to save him, to forgive him, to remove his sin debt. That's really what's behind the statement that this man glorified God It says they were all amazed and they glorified God and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things today. Now that response is telling us that there were some people that believed. There were some people that doubted, and there were some people that were beginning to see the point, but weren't quite convinced of it. But the whole point of this miracle was not just to show mercy on this man, but it was to demonstrate authority. It was to demonstrate Christ's nature. So I want to move to a final fact. And that final fact is that Christ has the authority to forgive sin. And I want to ask this question, why does that matter? Why is it so important that we understand that Christ has the authority, practically, to forgive sin? Well, I want to give you a couple of thoughts I jotted down today as I thought about this. The first is this, all sin is ultimately a sin against God. One of the reasons that these men concluded that only God has the right to forgive sin in a general sense is because all sin is ultimately against God. And the truth is that what someone does on another continent, what somebody does in another city, what someone does in another country It really has zero bearing in most circumstances on me. So how in the world can I, a mere mortal, who has nothing to do with that situation, how can I forgive that person But what we do realize is that all sin everywhere in all circumstances is ultimately against God In fact, David expresses this in Psalm 51. He says, Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this great iniquity. We say, well, David sinned against Bathsheba. David sinned against Uriah. David sinned against their families David sinned against those who were compromised in the military, who ultimately withdrew from Uriah so that he would be killed. David sinned against all of those people that were in the palace that were secretly conflicted in heart As they saw that David had clearly committed adultery and murder, and that they were hiding it with David. David's sin affected a lot of people. But what David is ultimately expressing is that his sin, more than against anybody, was against God. And so only God is the one who has the right to forgive sin because all sin is ultimately against him. And the thing I want us to realize is not just that sin is ultimately against God, and so he is the only one who really has the right to forgive sin. But it's also important for us to recognize that only God has provided a means acceptable for sin to actually be forgiven. In other words, God can't forgive sin unless there's a basis for that forgiveness of sins. God can't declare me legally just, righteous, innocent in his presence. Unless he has a just basis to do that, it would be a violation of God's nature, of his justice, his righteousness, his holiness. So only God has the right to forgive sin, really, because all sins ultimately against him, and because he's provided a means. That is just to actually bring forgiveness. It's like it says in 1 John chapter 1, that he is faithful and he is just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us of all unrighteousness. And it's ultimately because it's the blood of Jesus Christ his son that cleanses us from all righteousness. It's because he is the propitiation for our sins, and not for our sins only, but the sins of the whole world. The reason that God can forgive sins is because he has provided a means so that sins can be forgiven. And so I want to ask this question: are you a forgiven person in a legal sense? Realize that our sin makes us legally guilty before God and his justice. God has to punish our sin because he is righteous and he is just. Are you a forgiven person in a legal sense? Are you a forgiven person in a relational sense? A person who's been forgiven legally, but is still a sinner and needs that fellowship with God to be restored when it's broken. It's really the difference between Romans 5, when it talks about justification, and 1 John 1, where it talks about restoration of fellowship. I ask you, are you a forgiven person? There is only one way that a person can be forgiven, and it is because of the work of Christ. He is the only one who has the right because of his position and has the right because of the sacrifice of Christ. to forgive your sins. I also want to ask this question. Are you a grateful person? Not just forgiven, but really grateful and humbled that you are. The whole purpose of the text in front of us was to remind us and to convince us that Jesus is qualified and because of the work of Christ, Jesus is able to forgive sins And I ask you, has he forgiven your sins? It's only through the blood of Christ shed on Calvary's cross that we can be forgiven of our sins. And I hope that you are a child of God, forgiven, cleansed, justified. Saved from your sins. Hope this has been an encouragement to you. This is a wonderful text of scripture. And if it if it has been a blessing to you, please share that. And uh feel free to share it with another person. All right. Hope they have a great rest of your day. Let's bow together for prayer, and then, Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow for our final study of this week. Father, thank you for the opportunity To reflect on this issue of forgiveness, to be reminded that as God, only you have the right, the authority to forgive sin. Because of Christ's sacrifice on the cross, there is a just basis For us to be forgiven through what Jesus has done for us. We ask that you use these things to encourage and help someone today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.