Help us to understand the really the central aspect of the gospel being We are righteous in Christ and how when we become new creatures in Christ, we desire to live consistent with that position that we've been. given by your grace. And so as we look at these scriptures, I pray that you'll speak to our hearts. And we ask that you also bless the children's program in the back. And I just pray that it would be a great time of fellowship and that the Word of God would be presented clearly and that you would do your work in people's hearts. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, number 24 out of the blue book is what we're going to be uh singing. Number 24, You Are Always Good, and we'll sing each of the verses together, please. Yes. Looking back, I can see your fingerprints upon my life always seeking your best. There were times that your way would make no sense, but as you said, you have never left You are always good, you are only good, you are always good to me Though my eyes can't see, though my heart believes you are always holy good Looking in, I can see my frailty, I sin is great, and my strength is so small. Still you stay, and your mercy shelters me. You hold my hand and you hear my call You are always good. You are only good. You are always good to me Though my eyes can't see , though my heart believes, you are always only good Looking up, I can see my sympathy, I doubt myself, but I'm sure of your love Labis grace was poured out at Calvary, securing me for my home of You are always good, you are only good. You are always good to me Though my eyes can't see, tell my heart believe, you are always holy good It's a good song. All right. Well, if you could, I want to ask you to turn with me to We're in Matthew chapter 5, and we're working our way through the Sermon on the Mount. In fact, this evening what we're going to do That says the following: blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness. for they shall be filled. That is the beatitude that we're looking at this evening. And we're looking at the blessedness of those who hunger and thirst. And so, in order for us to understand what Jesus is talking about in this verse, I want to first of all remind you where we started last week in our introduction. And that is that hungering and thirsting after righteousness starts with an objective standard. If we do not understand where the standard of righteousness lies, then there's absolutely no way for us to be able to determine What it means to hunger and thirst after righteousness. And so what we really did in the beginning is we focused on the fact that righteousness and truth starts with God. It doesn't matter what you and I think. Doesn't matter what you and I hold up as our standard. The standard is God Himself. When we talk about the law, what is the law? It is God saying, here is how my character applies. in this very practical situation. And so we started with that. We also emphasized the fact that the world's view of righteousness is completely flawed and inconsistent. And the text that we mentioned last week was Romans chapter ten, verse three. It says that they being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God. And so we worked our way through that concept and then after dealing with that, we began with truth number one. Hungry and thirsting after righteousness is an evidence of God's grace. To put it very simply, nobody longs for the righteousness that the Bible is describing. if God's grace does not begin working in them first. And so in Romans chapter 3 it tells us that there is none righteous, no, not one. There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. Those are amazing statements. Nobody's righteous. Nobody understands how unrighteous they are. And nobody wants to be righteous. That is our natural inclination. Now, obviously there are people that do hunger and thirst after righteousness because the text says that those people who do that are blessed. The question is what is it that causes them to be in such a position? Well the answer is it is God's grace. It's the grace of God that works in the hearts of people that brings them to the place Where they will hunger and thirst after righteousness. And I remind us again of the passage that we read in Romans 8. 7. Last week, where it says that the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be, so that those who are in the flesh cannot please God. That's where we are by nature. But the gospel meets us. And God's grace It says we ourselves were one time disobedient Foolish, deceived, serving diverse lust and pleasures, living in malice and in envy hateful and putting one another and hating one another. But after that the kindness and the love of God, our Savior toward man appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. I think that passage right there really shows us what I think we're trying to express here. It's the grace of God that meets us where we are, and as John Newton put it in Amazing Grace, It was grace that taught my heart to fear. And grace my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? So last week we talked about those temp two simple points. If you want to understand righteousness, It begins with God, an objective standard. And then number two, nobody desires to hung, nobody hungers and thirsts after righteousness if it's not for the grace of God meeting them first. So now we're going to look at truth number two. Truth number two is this hungering and thirsting after righteousness acknowledges one's deficiency. Hungering and thirsting after righteousness acknowledges one's deficiency. The idea is this. If I'm hungry, that means that I need food. If I'm thirsty, that means I need something to drink. So let's say I'm working outside in the yard on Mondays, a lot of times if Maybe that's my day off. So that means that's the day I like I'm in the yard the whole day, okay? And so I'm out there working, and all of a sudden it hits me like around 130, 2 o'clock, I'm like, wow, I'm kind of I probably should eat something I probably should go get something to drink. So I'll you know go into the house and all of a sudden I'm just I'm just like devouring food and drinking all this water. Now why do I do that? Because I've been working out in the yard for hours and I need food and I need water and I'm hungry and it's my body's way of saying you need food and it's my body's way of saying You need something to drink. Well, if I'm hungry and thirsting after righteousness, it's me saying I don't have it. I don't have it in myself. I have a deficiency I fall short. I fall short of God's standard. In fact, this is how a person becomes a Christian. It starts with them understanding I need God's righteousness. Okay? If a person doesn't come to the place where they recognize I'm a sinner, I'm unrighteous, there's nothing that I can give God to earn his favor. If they don't come to that place, it's impossible to have faith in Christ because they don't need to have faith in Christ. In their minds, they're good, they're okay. And so it begins with this recognition that we fall short. Romans chapter 3, verse 19. Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, that all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin I think one of the greatest scriptures that you and I can go to when we're trying to give the gospel to somebody is Romans chapter 3, verses 19. through 22. Because what it basically says is this: the way that people think is, if if I want to go to heaven, if I want to be accepted by God, He's given me this law. And so the law is my way of climbing to God. And I do and I do and I do and I do and I earn my way to God. But the scripture says the exact opposite. It says that the law doesn't say, wow, you're doing good. Keep going, you'll get there. It says, you fall short, you fall short, you fall short. It says it over and over and over again. It literally stops us and says, you have no claim to righteousness And so the question is, well, what do we do? Well, the answer is found in the next verse. But now Those two words are so amazing. But now the righteousness of God. Did you see that? But now the righteousness of God without the law. That's the heart of the gospel right there. The righteousness of God without the law is manifest, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. In other words, this is not just the New Testament concept. This is not just a Paul concept. If you read the Old Testament carefully, you will see that this element of the gospel is clearly articulated in the Old Testament. In fact, And the prophet Isaiah, there's some great statements that demonstrate this. He says, But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifest, being witnessed by the law of the prophets. Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ. What is the next statement? It's unto all and upon all them that believe. Did you catch that? It's available to anybody. But the only people that this righteousness is imputed to are those who have faith in Christ. That's the heart of the gospel right there. And so for a person to hunger and thirst after righteousness, it begins with this understanding When I stack up myself next to the law, I fall short, I fall short, I have no hope, but there is this righteousness available to me It's outside of me. It's not something that I do to get. It's not something that I earn. It's literally given to me as a gift. It's the righteousness Of God. It's literally Christ's righteousness. And it is imputed to me by faith alone. That's what the text is saying. So when we talk about hungering and thirsting after righteousness, this is the most fundamentally significant element in which we hunger and thirst after righteousness. A person is sitting there going, I fall short, I want to be forgiven, I want to be declared righteous. Where do I get it? How do I have this righteousness? And the answer is, it's in Christ alone. It's in Christ alone. We long to have this righteousness, and God says it's available, it's a gift. I'm going to give you some examples. of this in the New Testament. There's lots of examples. I'll just give you some of the most prominent ones. The first one I want you to turn to is Philippians chapter 3 verses 4 to 6. And by the way, this is probably my favorite one, just to be honest. I probably should have put this last because I think it kind of builds up to it. But you know, sometimes when you're working on something The one that pops in your head first is the one that you go to, which might be the one that you know should be like the crowning jewel of all of them. But here's what it says. And this is Paul talking about his conversion. You can put it this way, Romans chapter 3, verses 19 to 22 is Paul talking about the theology of salvation. What is going on theologically when a person is saved? The righteousness of Christ is imputed to them by faith alone. It's a gift. Philippians 3 is the testimony of it happening in Paul's life. Here's what Paul writes. He says, though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any other man think that he hath whereof that he might trust in the flesh, I more I'll put it in real simple terms. Paul says, nobody can boast in the flesh as much as I can. That's what he's saying. You take the best person out there and you put them next to me, and guess what? I've done better than them. Very humble position, of course. What a humble guy. Actually, he's very humble by the end of this. But that's not the way that he was before he was saved. Paul is a very self-righteous Man. He was an arrogant man. He was full of himself. He believed he could earn his way to God. And he's going to talk about it in these verses. He says, I was circumcised the eighth day. By the way, that's not a decision he made. Mom and Dad made that for him. And by the way, the reason they made it is because they were Jewish people. If they were Gentiles, they wouldn't have done this. He says, I was circumcised on the eighth day of the stock of Israel. Well, God's chosen people. Of the tribe of Benjamin and Hebrew of Hebrews. He says, as touching the law of Pharisee. Now, when we read that, we think Pharisees would go, ooh, they were the bad guys. But that's not the way the Jews in the time of Christ thought of the Pharisees. The Pharisees were the most religious, the most most serious-minded. They were the conservatives of the Jewish faith. All right? They were the most sincere people out there. He says, I was a Pharisee. Concerning zeal, I persecuted the church. You go, oh, that's terrible. Well, not if you believe that the Christian faith is is a farce. Not if you believe Jesus didn't really die for our sins and rise from the dead and that salvation is a free gift and is through faith alone in Christ. If you believe that's a lie, Then your zeal is that you want to destroy what you think is hurting people. And so Paul says, I was zealous. I was passionate. He was a young man. I mean he was he was he was in his early thirties and he was you know he was ready to take on the word And by the way, he kind of did that actually as he becomes a Christian. He then goes on to say this. He says, Yea, doubtless, uh touching the law, uh touching the righteousness of the law, blame Paul's saying nobody could look at my life and be like, you know, Paul, you're a very dishonest person. That's not true. Nobody could say, well, you know, you don't really you don't pray and fast and and And you're kind of cutting corners here and you don't tithe all of what you're supposed to. Nobody could say that. He says, I was blameless. I was like the best example of a righteous man you could find. But here is the key, verse number seven. But what things were, that word were is so important He doesn't say what things are. He says what things were. Because this is not the way Paul thinks anymore. Paul thinks completely different from the way that he did before his conversion. He says, What things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. It what this is saying is that Paul understood I cannot cling to my righteousness and Christ at the same time. It's all or nothing. Either I'm I'm doing it my way or I'm embracing his way. What things were counted gainst me, these I counted loss for the for Christ. Yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Jesus my Lord. By the way, I think it's interesting that he talks about a knowledge of Christ. It's by knowing who God is that you recognize you're not righteous. And that's at the heart of this. He says, I have suffered the loss of all things and do count them, but dung that I may win Christ. Now I say a little statement, I count them but dung. I I envision in my mind some places that I went in Ghana when I was working over there. At the back of villages there would be a heap of trash, and it wouldn't just be like like garbage from the house. It would be human Feces, all kinds of gross stuff out there. I remember seeing kids, they go like dig around in there. Oh man, not good. Paul's saying that is what I see my righteousness at. Man. So he used to like think that was how he got right, how he was made acceptable with God. And now he says, they're worthless. They're filthy rats. They have no value. Remember my dog? Okay, from last week. So people say, is your dog still alive? Yes, he is, regrettably so. He still is alive. Okay. So so Paul is saying I had to come to the conclusion, my righteousness This is nothing. But here's where it really gets good. That I may be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through faith of Christ. The righteousness which is of God by faith. Do you see how Romans 3 and Philippians 3 are saying the same thing? Funny how God does that, right? Paul's saying, here is the theological expression of the gospel, and here is practically how it worked out in my own heart and life. So when we see that a person hungers and thirsts after righteousness, it begins with that recognition that I have no righteousness to give God. My only hope is the righteousness of God, which comes by faith in Christ alone. And that little phrase, the righteousness of God, and being found in him, those statements. Are so important for us to understand. So we've seen that righteousness begins with God. He is the objective standard. We've seen, secondly, that if I'm hungering for righteousness, And I'm thirsting for righteousness. It's saying I don't have it, okay? The third thing I want us to notice is that hungering and thirsting after righteousness has three distinct focuses or focal points. Or you might say there's three distinct streams whereby we as Christians long for righteousness. Now the first of those three streams is the one that we just talked about. It's a longing to stand righteous in Christ when people are gripped by the seriousness of their sin, they turn to God to be rescued from their sin, and to be declared righteous by faith alone. For instance, at Pentecost. Peter is preaching in Acts chapter 2, verse 37. And as he's preaching, he's saying, You, you killed the Lord of glory. You crucified the Messiah. And as he's preaching, this is what it says in verse 37. Now, when they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts. I'd say I would have been if I'd have been one of them. Like, oh man, I killed the Messiah. He's the Savior. And he's saying, Hold on a second. It's true you did that, but his death is how you reconcile to God. Wow, think of that. When they were pricked in their hearts, they said, What must we do? Peter and the rest of the apostles said, repent In other words, turn to God. And that word repent means quit looking at your righteousness like it actually has any merit before God. Quit thinking that you can earn your way to God. Turn to Christ, trust Christ, be baptized. In other words, identify with the Lord Jesus Christ, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ. So you can see that there is this You see the exact same thing with the Ethiopian eunuch in Acts chapter eight, verse thirty-five. Here's what it says. Then Philip opened his mouth and began at the same scripture And preached unto him Jesus. As they went on their way, they came unto a certain water, and the eunuch said, See, here is water. What does hinder me to be baptized? By the way, when he said there was water, he he obviously immersed him. Okay. Very important to notice that. That's not the point of the text, but it's Just an observation. And Philip said, if thou believest with all thine heart thou mayest So he's telling him that a prerequisite for getting baptized is faith in Christ. And then what does he say? He answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is The Son of God. He's saying everything that you just taught me from the prophet Isaiah, it's true. I believe it. And he goes and he's he's baptized. What do you see? You see that a person is processing this information. They recognize they need salvation. They say, what am I supposed to do about this? We see Acts 16, 30 to 32, the Philippian jailer. Sirs, what must I do to be saved? They said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved in thy house. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord and to all that were in his house. The church at Ephesus, he says in Ephesians 1. 13, in whom you also trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of truth. And the Church of Rome. He says, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. All of these passages of scripture, they show us that there is a a pattern here, okay? I'm not gonna use the word formula, it's probably not a good Word to use here. But he patterned. Preaching the word, conviction over sin, a sense of desperation, dependence on the gospel. That's how people are saved. And so when he says hunger and thirst after righteousness, That's the first stream of hungering and thirsting after righteousness we're talking about. If a person is a believer, they have experienced this. And not only have the experiences , not like, oh, that happened 20 years ago and I could care less about it today. It happened 20 years ago, and like for the rest of my life, this is like at the heart of who I am as a person. I think about this all the time. Whenever I deal with sin, whenever I'm listening to preaching, whenever I get on my knees and pray, I'm reminded of the simple fact: I'm not righteous apart from Christ I'm not forgiven outside of the work of Christ. The second stream that we see is this longing to be conformed in practice to our position. Now here is the simple fact of life for all of us. While we are saints, we don't always live like it. I remember one of my professors in seminary, he would say, he would say, sometimes saints aren't so saint wicked. Okay? His point is this. You and I are truly righteous in Christ. Declared saints. Positionally righteous. But there's a lot of New Testament instruction to how to deal with sin as a Christian. Why is that? Because Christians, though we are positionally righteous, practically, we do not live consistent with our position. position to the extent that we should. But one of the distinct marks of being a Christian is that though I know my righteousness in is in Christ. It bothers me that I don't live consistent with that. And not only does it bother me, but I long for my practice and my position to be consistent. That's what I long for. If a person doesn't care about that and they say they're a Christian, I tell you, I have serious questions. I really do. Now, the fact that I have serious questions doesn't mean that I believe that salvation Is somehow through our works, or it's some combination. It is not in any way. But what I'm saying is this: there's something that fundamentally changes within us. when we trust Christ as our Savior. And the text I want you to look at in 1 John chapter 3 states it explicitly. 1 John chapter 3 verse 2. If you could turn there for just a second. Well a few seconds. First John chapter three verse two. Listen carefully to the way this is worded. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. That's position. And it does not yet appear what we shall be. That's future glory. Okay? So we can say that as Christians, we are caught in We are already righteous in Christ, but we're not yet conformed in practice. That's really what it is. We talk about sanctification, growth into Christ's likeness. That's what it is. We are already righteous in Christ. Christ, forgiven, cleansed, declared righteous, justified. But practically speaking, we do not live consistent with that position so many times. We are now the Sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see Him as he is. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? So, over the course of our lives, we make a lot of bad decisions. All of us do. We make decisions that we agree. We make decisions that grieve us. There are burdens that we carry. I wish that wasn't the case, but it is the case. But even though we run across lots of ups and downs and bumps in the roads and challenges and struggles and failures, we know that one day glorification is it's secured. Guaranteed. And that's what he's saying. He's saying it's not yet appeared, but we shall be, but we know when he shall appear we'll be like him, for we shall see him as he is. But here's the piece that I don't want Not that those other ones aren't important. Every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. Did you catch That. So I am positionally righteous. That's all of God's grace. I'm guaranteed that one day I'm going to enjoy future glory. That's guaranteed. I long for that day. And because I know who I am and what I'm gonna be, it bothers me when I live inconsistent with that It it causes grief. I desire to walk consistent with the position that I have. And that is exactly what he means by hunger and thirst after righteousness. This is one of the str position that I have. And as we mature and as we grow as Christians, guess what happens? We do grow in these areas. You know, sometimes we meet a person at a certain stage And we go, wow, this guy, you know, he's a Christian, she's a Christian, like what's going on with him? But if we knew where they were 20 years ago, we'd go, well, they've come a long way. We really would, okay Or sometimes we'll see a person and we we interact with them and we see the character of this person. And there 's a humility and there's a grace and there's a wisdom And we look at these qualities and we go, man , I bet that that person grew up in a Christian home. I bet they had a wonderful relationship with mom and dad. Probably went to Christian college. You guys all figured out in our li and and and and and then we find out they got saved when they were thirty-five. And they their their their marriage blew apart when they were twenty two. And they didn't grow up with mom and dad. They they came from a broken home and oh by the way, and and you got all these stories and you're like how do they go from here to here? The grace of God. And so The idea is that this person who is a child of God has longed and thirsted after righteousness and they find righteousness in Christ's salvation. And now they're in the position and they say You know what? I know that positionally before Christ, I am righteous, but I don't live consistent with it, and I desire to live consistent with it. And so there is a longing that they will live consistent with the position that they have. Then there's a third. And that is stated in another scripture. Actually, let me mention one more that I think is that is important here. Romans chapter 8, verses 3 to 4. He says, What the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh, God Sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, condemns sin in the flesh. And the next statement's important, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us Who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. So why does the Christian long to be living consistent with his position? It's because of the Spirit's working. Them. The presence of the Holy Spirit, the fact that a person is a new creature in Christ, those things work together to press them and motivate them to want to live consistent with their position. The third stream is a longing for future glory. Here's what it says in 2 Corinthians 4:16. Though our outward man perish , Yet our inward man is renewed day by day. For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. You know what that's basically saying? Longing for future glory. Romans 818, I reckon that the suffering of this present time is Verse twenty three three. We ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. Verse 28, whom he did foreknow, he did predestinate to be Conformed to the image of his son. These scriptures tell us that the believer doesn't just long for their position and their practice to be aligned. But they also long for that time when it's perfect. Don't you long for that? I do. And when I struggle with temptation, there's some times like man I I wonder like I can't wait for that day that temptation is a thing from the past. Or I'm not gonna have to go to somebody and apologize to them and say, Man, I what I said to Or the way that I responded to that situation was wrong, I'm sorry. Or I look back at a situation, I'm like, okay, I know this is really messy. Like, what part did I contribute to that problem. Okay, I'm gonna have to face this. Or somebody comes to me and they're confront me about something. Like I long for that day that I have to deal with that anymore. And so part of that stream. There's a stream that points us to the finished work of Christ. That says, I know there's value to this world and I want to be faithful with the time God gives me, but I'm really looking forward to that time over there. That's what he's saying. So when Jesus says, Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness. Well, that's the kind of stuff that he's talking about. So the question I want to close With is this. Well, how do we live in the light of these scriptures? Like, how do we take this and apply this in just a simple way? Let me give you a couple of things to consider. As Christians, we are living As already righteous in one sense, yet not in another. We are declared righteous and set apart as holy to God. We are not yet practiced. Living consistent with that position that we've been given by His grace, and we long for our practice and our position to be consistent. We long for the day when we experience the fullness of of our inheritance with the saints. This is what he means when he says, blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness, they shall be filled. So the question is, what about us? First of all, have we experienced the first sense? Okay? And really this experience of the first sense even goes back to the first beatitude. You know, blessed are those who recognize that they are spiritually destitute. Okay? They recognize that they are poor in spirit. They have nothing to give God. Have we experienced that first sense in which we're longing to stand righteous before God? And we turn to Christ from our filthy rags and we receive the free righteousness of Christ. That gift of his righteousness. I don't know if you ever read Pilgrim's Progress. But Pilgrim's Progress, the way that he describes Christians' conversion It's great. He talks about him carrying this burden. He talks about him going up to the cross and the burden being released and and him getting new garments and all those kinds of things. It's a wonderful picture. Have you experienced salvation? Placing your faith in Christ. Next, do you understand the tension between already and not yet? As Christians, we experience this. Some of us we we kind of are like, everything's good, I'm righteous in Christ, I don't have to worry about walking with the Lord. It's all taken care of. And in one sense it's true, but in another. The positional side is taken care of, but practically speaking, we're supposed to grow into Christ's likeness. And then others can go on the other side. where we we focus so much on the fact that as Christians we stumble and we fail and we're not growing enough. We become so introspective that we probably need to look back at our position and be reminded again that I'm righteous in Christ. Nothing changes that position. We actually need to hold these two pieces in perfect tension so that we do recognize the need to grow but we are so satisfied the position we have in Christ. We feel the weight of both of those things. We don't ignore one and exclude it to the other. They are both Both a part of the Christian experience. Next, do we long to see our practice conform to this position? And do we enjoy the position we have in Christ? Do we hate our sin and those things that hinder our growth and spiritual maturity? One of the great benefits of reading people who wrote hundreds of years ago ago is that it gives you a sense of how shallow we are today. I I I mean it's just the honest truth. When you read Puritan books. You are reading sermons that they preach to their congregations. It's it's pretty stunning. As a pastor who loves to read and loves to study, it's pretty heavy sometimes, just being totally frank. Those were normal sermons every single Sunday when people came into their churches. It's an amazing thing to consider. Yet today a lot of us as Christians like we we have absolutely no problem engaging in things that are unquestionably sinful. Unquestionably sinful. And we don't even bat an eye at it And the fact is that we as Christians should hate sin. We shouldn't play with it. We shouldn't be entertained by it. We should hate it. Anything that's going to stunt our growth into Christ Like us to say, I want nothing to do with this. Yeah, we should just get rid of things in our lives that are that are keeping us from growing as we ought. Do we submit to Christ in the process? Because of the value of the ultimate result. The idea is this. If we're gonna grow into Christ's likeness, we have to go through a training. It's that simple. Anyone that has learned a Discipline like playing the piano, which I have not learned. Okay. My wife plays piano, my kids play piano, I play the trumpet. Okay. The fact is that to be able to play that instrument well. You've got to practice and practice and practice and practice. And my wife was in college, I want to say she practiced hours daily I mean hours daily, so much so that it would even like hurt her hand physically because of how much they required of them to practice so they could get better at this. What's the point? The point is there's a discipline If you're gonna learn a skill like uh athletic competition, uh you may be a great athlete, but if you don't put in the time and you don't develop the strength and the skills, you don't Don't take seriously that training process, you can be a joke out there. It's just that simple. Anything of value in life goes to a process. And if we're going to grow into Christ's likeness There's a process for that too. And God knows what we've got to walk through, and He's going to bring us through those things, but we have to submit to Him in that process. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptation, knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect work. Are we longing for our eternal glorification when we will stand before Him, free from all the infirmities of a fallen world? Are we so consumed with this world that we don't think about what's coming later? It's so important that we live consistent with this Beatitude. And if we do, what does it say? Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness, they will be filled. May the Lord help us to be that kind of a people. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for the word. This beatitude is really at the heart of understanding the gospel. And how we grow and where our focus should be in the Christian experience. And so I pray that you'd help us to be a people who apply this correctly. Help us to love you with all of our being. Help us to hate self Not to be entertained by it, not to play with it, but to recognize what is hindering us from being effective in your service. And that we would put away those things, would walk with you. Father, help us to long for that day when we will stand complete before you. We thank you so much for the finished work of Christ. That we stand righteous in. Help us to think about these things and to meditate upon them and to live in the light of them. We ask all of it in Christ's name. Amen.