Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we are back in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. So if you have your Bible, let's all turn together and we'll read the entire section again as we've done each morning. But then we're going to focus in our attention on what is really the lengthiest portion of this passage, and uh that is the um historical records, the eyewitness accounts that that the Apostle Paul points to. So here's what it says. He says, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel. which I preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye had believed in vain For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. After that he was seen of about five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James, then of all the apostles. And last of all, he was seen of me also as one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but I laboured more abundantly than they all. Yet not I but the grace of God which was with me Therefore, whether it were I or they, so we preach, and so ye believed. Now, if you'll remember this week we have talked about several different reasons, compelling reasons to believe in this message. We talked about the fact that that this is something that had transformed the church. And we talked about the nature of Paul's ministry, how they had received the message. Yesterday we talked about the the connection between the Old Testament scriptures, the life and ministry of Christ, and then the Apostle Paul's assertion of the resurrection and its implications for the believer and how Christ resurrection is connected to the future resurrection of the saints. Well this morning what I would like us to do is I would like us to look at the historic nature of this, not just the scriptural nature where we have prophecy and fulfillment, and I am in no way trying to diminish that. In fact, frankly, that is the most compelling case of all, I would say, but you're also going to see a very compelling reason to believe in this particular passage. And so he's going to talk about those who saw the resurrection of Christ, and they testified of it, and they continue to at the moment that Paul's writing these things. So with that in mind, let's look down to verses 5 through 11. Notice what it says. He was seen of Cephas. That is a reference to the Apostle Peter. then of the twelve, that's the other disciples slash apostles. After that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once. So these are people who would not have been considered apostles Perhaps there are some people within that group that would have been close associates with the apostles, someone like a Barnabas or a John Mark or one of those individuals But these are people that would not have been considered a part of the twelve. And then the greater part, he says, remain unto this present. Now, when the Apostle Paul is writing these things, he's writing them probably in the 10 to 15. So for for over a decade, the people that he's talking about have had the opportunity to share what they saw all over the world, really. The gospel was spreading not just throughout Judea and Samaria, but it was going to the furthest extents of the Roman world. And so when the Apostle Paul talks about these people, and we're talking about hundreds of people, who saw the resurrected Christ, he's basically saying, There's a reason to believe that this is true, okay? What these people are bearing witness of, that they literally saw him and they ate with him and they talked with them. This is a reason to believe. I I want you to just take a moment and and think about the the burden of proof when we go into a legal context Before we go into the Old Testament, he says that the burden of proof was that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word could be established. And so if a person had an accusation brought against them, And it's just one person's word against another person's word in in a in a legal judicial system uh situation that would not have that would not have been held against them. The burden of proof was on the person who was bringing the charge, not the one who was being charged. Or maybe it's just there's one eyewitness, they say, Oh, I've seen this. And so these two people could potentially get together. He says every word has to be confirmed in the mouth of two or three witnesses. And so he's saying there's got to be multiple people. Well in a legal situation we recognize That two or three witnesses is sufficient to be able to say that a thing can be properly brought, an accusation can be properly leveled. The Apostle Paul saying, there are way more eyewitness accounts than just two or three people. You have all the apostles, you have Peter, the most prominent of the apostles in the early church. And then you have five hundred other people, and they're alive today, and you can actually talk to them. That's what he's saying. So he's saying there's a reason to believe But then he's going to focus in on this final eyewitness. And you know who that is? That's Paul And a lot of times we say, oh, well, Paul wasn't an eyewitness. He didn't see the resurrected Christ. Well, Paul is going to clearly state in these verses that he saw the resurrected Christ. It's also important to recognize that the Apostle Paul spent those formative years and when he was a part of the Sanhedrin, all those things. He spent those years in Jerusalem at the time when Jesus would have been coming to Jerusalem. And so he would have been aware of what was going on Paul would have been amongst those discussing what do we do with this person? He's claiming to be the Messiah. He's claiming he's going to die and rise from the dead, and all these people are following him. And it appears that he is truly performing miracles and his preaching is is authoritative. Authoritative. It's not just he's saying, here's what the scripture says. He's saying the scriptures say, and I'm telling you, okay? So he's speaking with authority. The Apostle Paul was an eyewitness in that kind of a way, but notice what he says in the rest of the section. He says, And last of all, he was seen of me also, as one born out of due time. He says, For I'm the least of the apostles. I'm not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain. I labored more abundantly than they all. Yet not I, but the grace of God which was in me. Therefore, whether it were I or they, so we preach, and so ye believed So what's the Apostle Paul basically saying here? He's really emphasizing two things that are compelling reasons to believe that Jesus literally, physically rose from the dead, and in connection Because he's done that, we who have placed our faith in Christ will literally, physically, bodily rise from the dead. We will have a glorified body for all of eternity. What is the compelling reason? Well, number one, there's a volume of witnesses That's what verses five through eight are all about. All these people today, for for over a decade, have been testifying to the resurrection, and many of these people you could actually personally sit down with and you could ask them questions and they can tell you what they saw, what they experienced. They can verify that Jesus in fact died and rose from the dead. But he's not just focusing on the volume of witnesses, but he's also focusing on the nature of those witnesses. And I think this is actually very compelling as well. The first person he mentions is Cephas or Peter Well what do we know about Peter? Peter is the one who said, Lord, no matter what happens, I will not deny you. And Jesus says, before the cock crows, you'll deny me three times. What did Peter do? He denied the Lord three times. And when he denied the Lord three times, he wept bitterly, and he was a broken man. And at the end of John's gospel, we see that Peter goes with the other disciples and he says, let's go back to fishing. And they go back to fishing. And what does Jesus do? He goes to where they are. And as they were coming in, that one morning very early on the Sea of Galilee, he says, Have you caught any fish? And he's there preparing a meal for them, breakfast. And Peter realizes it's the Lord. And he goes back and he sees Jesus. And by the way, they they they they have this massive number of fish that they catch. It's one of those miracles that was Very similar to the miracle that Jesus performed when he called Peter to actually follow him. And and it there's a lot we can go into there, but but the point is this. Here is Peter. A man who had had had turned away, not because he didn't believe, but because he was broken. And he's willing to go and he's willing to proclaim that these things are true. Or think about Thomas. Thomas is a very prominent witness at the end of John's Gospel. And Thomas says, unless I can see the prince of the nails in his hands and thrust my my hand into his side, I will not believe that he is risen from the dead. And what do we see at the end of that book? We see that Jesus appears to the disciples. There's Thomas in front of them. He says, Thomas, go ahead, reach forward and touch, touch my hands. Do you see those prints? I'm alive. Touch my side. Do you see that that hole? That's where they thrust that spear up to to demonstrate that I was dead. He said, Do you believe now? And Thomas falls on his face and he says, My Lord And my God. He believed. Think about the apostles, the disciples, the twelve. They were hiding in an upper room because they were terrified that the Jews were coming for them next. And by the way, That was a perfectly logical, reasonable way to respond from a human perspective. Yet these people who were so timid and so fearful, people who said, I won't believe unless I can put my hands in his hands and my hands on his side, I will not believe. I'm going back to fishing. Those people are standing at Pentecost and they are preaching with power and with authority. You've crucified. the Messiah, the King of Glory, and we are here to testify that he rose from the dead, and this is all a part of God's plan. And we can go back to the Old Testament scriptures and we can demonstrate that God predicted this, it's been fulfilled in Christ, and you need to repent and believe, turn to Christ, trust in what He's done for you. Identify with him in baptism. Don't be ashamed of the gospel. That's what Peter is doing. How do these people go from being so timid, so fearful, so doubtful, to having such boldness? And the answer is It's true. That is the answer. Because it's true, they are testifying to its validity. I think of people like Simon and Levi. You know, here is Simon, he's a zealot, and here is Levi who is living lavishly off of the existence of the Romans. There's no way that those two people are going to get together and that they're going to be unified. They're be proclaiming the gospel together. But you know what they did. All of those things are are valid reasons to be convinced that in fact this story is historically attested. It is true But then who's the last person Paul mentions? Himself. Paul's life is perhaps the most overwhelming testimony for the reality of the resurrection out of all of those. Because here's a man who hated the gospel, he hated Christ, he he he is the one who he is consenting to the death of the first recorded martyr in the New Testament, Stephen. And what's he doing? He's preaching the gospel that he once despised. He is associating with the people that he was once persecuting. He's willing to die for the message that he was willing to kill to exterminate. That's a shocking thing to consider. Verses 8 through 10, here's what it says. Last of all, he was seen of me also, as one born out of due time. I am the least of the apostles. I'm not meet to be called an apostle. Because I persecuted the church of God, but by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain. The Apostle Paul says, listen. You can believe this because it has changed you. You can believe this because the Old Testament scriptures attest to it You can believe this because there are eyewitnesses today that can testify to this, and you can believe it because I hated this message and now I embrace this message. That leads me to something that I want to think about in closing. We all know what it's like to deal with someone who is who is proud. and who is unbending and holds a viewpoint that is wrong but is unwilling to admit it. We've all dealt with people like that. Perhaps people have dealt with us when we're like that. And I asked this question, what is it that keeps people from admitting I was wrong and getting behind what is right? What what what ultimately holds them back? Well, one of them is pride. I can't admit that I'm wrong. Another one is hatred. I cannot bear to see another person who I was an opponent to Say, I'm right and you're wrong. I can't bear to do that. So pride and animosity, they keep people from admitting what they know to be true. When people have personally invested a lot in something, they have given so much to it. They say, you know what, I've given too much to turn away from this. Fear. I I'm afraid of what this would cost me. You know what's amazing? Every single one of those things that keeps people from admitting they're wrong was a a a a possible stumbling block to these people pro professing this message. If Jesus had not died and if he had not risen from the dead, the pride of these people would have never allowed them to preach a false message. Paul's hatred for the gospel before his conversion would have never allowed him to preach this message with such passion and clarity. The the personal investment of somebody like the Apostle Paul in his antagonism to the gospel would not have allowed him to proclaim this message. And fear would have kept each of those disciples from being able to proclaim this message. If it wasn't true, there is absolutely no way that these people would have flipped like that and been able to proclaim this gospel with clarity. Passion and be willing to lay down their own lives for it. You know what that tells me? We could believe in the resurrection. There's a compelling case to be made that Jesus Christ died for our sins. He was buried, he rose again, botally, literally, and we one day, his children, who have placed our faith in the finished work of Christ, we will one day enjoy all of eternity with a glorified body. In the same likeness of the body that we see the scriptures talk about with Jesus. That is where Paul is going with this. I asked this question. Do you have that confidence? Are you willing to trust in this message? Have you kind of gotten backed into a corner through circumstance or through conversations with people? Don't allow it to happen. This is true. There's a compelling case that has been made. We need to respond to it humbly and say, God, I believe. I rest in this message. If this has been an encouragement to you this morning, I hope that you'll share that. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. I'd love to answer them And uh if there's somebody that you know that could be blessed by this, share it with them so that they can be blessed by it. Hope you have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will close out our episodes for the week with some final thoughts. Have a blessed day. Bye now.