And the rest of you would like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to Proverbs chapter 2. Proverbs chapter 2, and we are looking at verses 1 to 5 for our text this morning. Very important topic. Proverbs chapter two, verse one says this. My son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee, so that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom. and apply thine heart to understanding. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures, Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God Like us to bow our hearts together in prayer and look at Proverbs chapter 2 as we look at encouragement to our families this morning. Father, we thank you so much for your word. It's quick and it's powerful and it's sharper than any two-edged sword. It can pierce to the very depths of our soul. It can divide between our thoughts and our emotions. It can separate out what is good from what is bad. And this morning I pray that as we open our Bibles and we look at these various scriptures, that you'd minister to our hearts, I pray that you would encourage us in your word Father, help us to see that this is not simply a list of rules and regulations, but Father, this is a pattern of life that you desire for each of our men to have. It's a pattern of life that you desire to see instilled in our young people, our young men who one day be fathers, grandfathers. Young people who are sitting under the tutelage of their parents, people who don't have a dad, but need someone to come alongside them and be a father figure to them. People whose children are grown, yet they have the opportunity to minister to their grandchildren and to those who have no dad. I pray that this morning you might speak to our hearts in a very precious way, encouraging your people, convicting where necessary, and most definitely helping us to see that there is hope. And that you can work in and through us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Why does Solomon sit down and write this little section of the Proverbs? The reason he writes it is that he wants to see his children experience God's blessings as they walk in the fear of the Lord. It's for this reason that he teaches them to fear the Lord, to reject the company of those who do not fear the Lord, so that their lives will be preserved and they will enjoy God's blessings in the promised land. You know, there are all kinds of different situations today as we sit here. There are some families that the truth is that you grew up without a dad in your life. There are some folks who grew up with a dad who was not a very good dad. There are some folks that have a very godly father. There are people that were raised by someone who wasn't their dad, but was a dad to them There are people that weren't raised by someone like that, but maybe it was a coach or maybe it was a Sunday school teacher, maybe it was someone later on in life who really took you under wing and was a dad for you. The reality is that when I come to a passage like this, I'm not simply thinking about biological fathers. Most certainly everyone that is a biological dad that has a child, a son, a daughter, children, should take to heart the things that we find in this text. But the reality is this, there are a lot of difficult situations in the world. And whether you have your own children or whether you don't, whatever the situation, I want to encourage you, if you're a man in this room, to take to heart the things we'll talk about this morning. If you're a young man in this room, a young boy, I hope that you listen very carefully to the things that will be presented in this text. Because the reality is there will be a day and it will come much sooner than you realize That you will be in the position either to be the dad or to be a father to someone. And the reality is that young people need direction in life They don't just need a roof to sleep under, clothes to wear, school to attend. They need someone to guide them in the ways of the Lord They need someone to teach them the practical ways of God. They need someone to walk through circumstances with them. And the reality is in this room there are many, many people, no matter what station in your life that you're in Who can play that role today or down the line in the lives of young people? The fact is that God wants to bless young people as they walk in the fear of the Lord. You know, this as I was thinking about this passage of scripture, I did a lot of research looking at some of the statistics that are going on in our nation today. Statistics related to high school dropouts. Statistics related to substance abuse. Statistics related to teenage pregnancies. Statistics related to all kinds of various issues. that when we look at them in society, we say those things are dragging down our society and those are areas that we need to address. And you know what's amazing? In every single one of those stats, there was something that was looked at. It was the role of dad and the lives of kids. The fact is that when a young person has a father who's involved in his life , It makes him much more likely. It makes his children much more likely to be successful in life. Even if you don't have the Bible, even if you don't have a biblical worldview. The stats don't lie. The fact is that dads have an incredible role in mentoring and guiding their children. If dad's not involved, kids suffer. And when dad is involved, kids have the opportunity to thrive. That doesn't mean that all do But the statistics bear out. My question today is, how can we help our young people thrive? How can we help our young people be blessed individuals? And we talked about Psalm 1 just a few weeks ago. We talked about the blessed man. Who does not walk in the council of the ungodly, does not stand in the way of sinners, does not sit in the seat of the scornful, whose delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night. Who's like that tree that's planted by the rivers of water that's bringing forth its fruit and its season? How can our young people be like that? Well, I want us to look at a series of truths that we find in this text that will help us to be the kind of dads, the kind of mentors, the kind of father figures. That our young people need so that they can thrive. The first truth is this fathers must teach their young people the Word of God. I want you to look at the passage and notice the first three words. He says My son if. My son if. Just three simple words, but they tell us a lot about the context of the passage that we're reading. First of all, we know that Solomon is a dad. Secondly, we know that Solomon has taken the time to sit down and to speak to his son. And he's also not only speaking to his son, but he's instructing him in a way that his son is left with a great responsibility. Fathers have to teach their children just like Solomon is teaching his kids in this particular passage. Solomon, as the wise father, is presenting a pattern for fathers to follow. This passage isn't just about if you're a teenager and your dad says, here's what you need to do, son. Here's what God says, son. Listen, it's not just for the kids here, it's for dads. The fact is, if we don't have these kind of conversations, what pattern do our children have to follow? The following statement shows us he's actively involved in instructing his children. This needs to be a regular part. And what Solomon is saying is echoed in Deuteronomy chapter 6. So really we what we could say is Deuteronomy 6 states it, and then f then Solomon is basically saying the same thing. This is what it says. These words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart. He starts with this simple statement. Before you teach, you've got to believe it's true. Before you tell somebody do this, you've got to be convinced that you need to do it. In other words, dads, your walk with God is the starting point. If your walk with God is sufficient, so will be the instruction that you give. If your walk with God isn't happening, you will not give it to your kids. And if someone is walking with the Lord, a natural byproduct is a desire to instruct their kids. He says, these words which I command thee shall be in thine hearts. And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. Now he's not just saying, okay, one day sit down with your kids Give them all this instruction and say, okay, my duty's done. You're on your own. I'm going to go my way. He says, teach them diligently. There's a repetition there. There's a pattern of life, and unless we miss out what he's saying, notice what he continues to say. Thou shalt talk of them the things that are in your heart, the things that you're teaching to your children, thou shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house. Now, every dad's got his chair, right? I got my chair. Okay? Deanna's got her chair on the one side of the living room. I got my chair on the other side of the living room. And if I happen to be sitting in Deanna's chair in the morning drinking my coffee, as soon as Caleb comes down the stairwell, he's like Daddy's in mommy's chair. Get out of mommy's chair. So I go sit in my chair. Sometimes I do that just to Just to hear him say it. Is that terrible? Well, a little bit. Sometimes. I'm about I'm I'm gonna come to fathers don't provoke your children to wrath So I better be quiet right here, right? So anyway, you're sitting in your chair, and what do you what is the purpose of your chair? It's a safe space, okay? It's where you go to get quiet. It's where you go to just sit down. And is this true, man? You come home from work and you want to sit in your chair and you just put the walls up and just Catch my breath. That's what I need to do. That's how we feel. But the reality is, he says, you shall teach them diligently when thou sittest in thine house. As you're sitting in your chair, that's the time. Well, take the safe place away and start talking to your kids about the things of the Lord. He says, when thou walkest by the way, you know, it's very easy for us to become very isolated in our lives. There are certain things that I do because I love solitude. I like to fish. I like to hunt. And so people, why do you like to hunt? Because it's quiet in the woods and you just you sit there Just you know, watch what's out there. Why do you like to fish? I I love to fish because it's kind of like it's what I do. What I like to garden, it's what I like to do. But you know the reality is this it's okay to do that from time to time. But it's also true that your kids need to go with you sometimes. When you go to fish, your son, your daughter needs to come along with you When you go out to work in the yard, don't say you go do it and I'll sit in my chair. You come alongside. I don't think it's natural for men. To take their kids along with them to do the things that they do. There might be a couple guys in here that are different, but the truth is this: I think most men enjoy the solitude. They enjoy the time away. But the reality is your kids desperately need to spend time with their daddy When you sit down, when you walk by the way, when thou liest down, when thou risest up, when I read that passage, what it tells me Is that God's telling his people, you need to spend time with your kids. You have to talk to them. You have to allow them to be close to you. You have to reach out to them. And that's not natural for most men. In fact, I would say that a lot of a lot of guys grew up in homes where dad didn't say a whole lot. And they become dads that don't say a lot too. And it's not that dads don't love their kids. It's not that they don't want to spend time with them. But the reality is they have to break that very difficult predisposition To be alone. Solomon takes the time to do that. He tells them in Proverbs chapter 2, he says, You need to receive my words. You need to hide my commandments in your heart. You need to accline your ear. You need to apply your hearts. The fact is this, Solomon as a wise father Is presenting a worldview to his kids. And in the book of Deuteronomy, God is telling his people You need to teach your kids a biblical worldview in life. This is not a classroom. This is day after day. When you're out working and your son is alongside of you and you smash your finger. He's looking to see what he's supposed to say in that time. Right? That's how it goes. The fact is your kids learn how to work. They learn what kind of work is valuable. They learn how to handle circumstances. They learn how to how to relate to other people. They're watching, but they have to be close to you. You know, Paul commands fathers to do the same thing. This is not just an Old Testament command. In Ephesians chapter 6, verse 4, this is what Paul says. He says, fathers Provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord Now, if I was writing the verse in Paul's behalf, perhaps what I would say is, children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Children, provoke not your fathers to anger. Okay? Because the reality is this. Yeah, sometimes they do. Oh, my Children aren't upset at me when they get home. But the reality is that we face pressures, men, all kinds of pressures. Work pressures, relational pressures, just how things are going in life. The fact is that when we struggle in areas, we're very aware of that. That doesn't make us feel good. I don't think men in general want to be bad fathers or want to have trouble in the workplace or they want to have issues in relationships. They don't. And so when they struggle, they feel the pressures. And when that child comes alongside, explosion. I've faced that. So have you. But that's not the way he addresses the chapter. He doesn't say, children, don't provoke your dads. He says, fathers, don't provoke your children to wrath. There are many dads who get frustrated with their kids who fail to realize that they are frustrating their kids. The fact is, dads, we need to live in a way that makes our children feel safe. We need to live in a way that our children feel they can talk to us. Our children need to know that we love them. We shouldn't provoke our children to wrath. On the other side, we need to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. The fact is that we talk about psychologically, I say we, we hear this a lot in our culture, that our young people are struggling a lot internally with all kinds of things. I think one of the reasons, perhaps is social media. I think it's a huge factor. But I think another factor is that we are not a society with dads. We're a society that is taking masculinity and manhood and we are removing it from our culture. We're teaching dads that working hard and being the head of your household and being a man who is leading is an evil thing. And a lot of men are pulling back. And the truth is our young people need dads to fulfill the roles that God has called them to. Nurture is a word that we tend to think of with women who have small children. We tend to think of it that way. We don't tend to think of men being nurturing at all But that's what the Bible says we're supposed to be. See, it's not natural. I'm not a nurturing kind of a person. I'm not either. But that's what God says I'm supposed to do. In other words, when I provoke my children to wrath, when I don't teach them, when I don't spend time with them, when I'm not nurturing them, I'm disobeying God. It's that simple A quick note: we need to understand where our children are spiritually. How many folks take their kids to church because their desire is that the Sunday school teacher will lead my children to Christ? Make sure that you take notes, Johnny. What the pastor's saying is important. I hope it is important, okay? But what you're saying is important too And the reality is that one day a week that we set aside to worship God, when we come together and we sing praise to God and we hear the preaching of God's word, that's one time in the week. There are seven other days. Just a few hours we spend in this building, in a Sunday school classroom, amongst a number of people But you live at home with your children day in and day out. And the reality is if there's anybody that should be in a position to assess where your children are spiritually, it should be you. Is your child a believer? Do you know that that young boy or that young girl or that teenage boy or that teenage girl has placed their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? That they're a child of God. Do you know? You say, well, why does it matter? It matters a lot. Because how you relate to your children, if they're a believer, versus an unbeliever has a lot to do with what you say to them. How do you teach a child when they've done wrong and you discipline them and you talk about how to correct things? Well they're a believer You talk about how you relate to God and how you make that issue right with God and you talk to them about 1 John 1, 8, 9, and 10. If they're an unbeliever, what are you doing? You're talking to them about how sin breaks their ability to commune with God. How they're separated from God and under his judgment. And they need to place their faith in Christ. The fact is that when you have a child who's a believer, you're trying to disciple them in the Lord. If he's an unbeliever, you're trying to stir up that fallow ground so that there'll be repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He says you need to bring them up in the admonition of the Lord, and admonition has the idea of warning them by means of instruction. Sometimes you have to say, Son, don't do that, it's going to harm you. And he says, I don't care, I'm going to do it. He said, okay, that's what's going to happen. And you let him do it. We talked about Saul and the nation of Israel. In fact, that's a really tough passage of scripture we dealt with in Sunday school. If you miss Sunday school, uh I think we're gonna get it on the website eventually. And um if if that sound uh is good, the audio. But the truth is that I think there's a lot of instruction in that particular lesson, even to how we deal with our children, as they get older. But we have to admonish our children. We need to live before our children. We need to invest time in their lives. We need to be actively discussing a God-centered life with our kids. We need to ask them questions. Why is it that young women, young girls so many times are vulnerable to the attention of a person that's going to take advantage of them? It's because they never felt the love of a father. Why is it that they're looking in all the wrong places to be valued and cherished just because they didn't get it at home? Why is it that a lot of our young men lack initi initiative They make bad decisions. They lack industry. They're not respectful. Could be that that's not what they were taught in their homes. Man, my desire is not to beat us over the head. It's to say we have a grave responsibility. And when I say these things to you , I'm guilty too. I'm not a perfect dad. You could watch my kids and you know that. The fact is, being a dad isn't easy We need to systematically set aside time to teach our kids. We need to watch them. We need to affirm them lovingly. We need to demonstrate credibility in what we're saying by living out the faith that we say we have. And I want to mention this one as well. We need to be very sensitive to those who don't have dads One of the things that really struck me when I was in Ghana is how many of the young people in our church were not living with their biological father. In fact, there was a season at our church in Ghana that every single young person in our church was living with their uncle. I'm serious. Their uncle was their dad. He was paying their school fees. He was making sure that they had food on the table. He was the one advising them When that little girl gets old enough to get married, you know who's gonna walk her down the aisle? Not her daddy, her uncle. Because in her mind, that's her dad. When he when that young man wants to get married and he's gonna go and talk to the family about marrying this girl, that's the way they do it over there. Guess they used to do it here too that way. When he's going to do that, you know who he'd go to? He'd go to his uncle. And his uncle would go and stand as his father. The reality is that there are times that that's what a young person needs. There are probably people sitting in this room today. It wasn't your dad who raised you. It wasn't your dad who ultimately was the one who was a father to you, was a mentor to you, where you felt that sense of affirmation and love and focus. But it was a family member, it could be your grandpa, it could be an uncle, it could be someone in the church who loved you enough to take that role on. You know, we have a great example of this in the Bible. You know who that is? That's Paul and Timothy. Paul, we have no indication, ever had his own biological child. In fact, we know when he met Timothy he was unmarried. Some believe that he was actually a widower. I don't know if that's the case. But in 1 Timothy 2 Timothy chapter 1, this is what it says. I thank God whom I serve from my forefathers, with pure conscience that without ceasing. I have remembrance of thee in my prayers, night and day, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, Which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that is in thee also. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou shouldest stir up the gift of God Now, you know what's really interesting about this passage? It's not what it says, it's what it doesn't say. He doesn't say, I remember the faith of your grandfather. And your father and is also in you. He says, I remember the faith of your grandmother and your mother and what also is in you. All throughout 1 and 2 Timothy, we see that Paul refers to Timothy as if Timothy was his own son. When Paul thinks of Timothy, he says, There is nobody that I trust more than Timothy. There is no one that I know will take care of your issues better than this man. I know him, I trust him, I pray for him, I love him. What was their relationship? It was a father figure to a boy whose dad is never mentioned in the scriptures. In fact, it's very interesting. We know that Timothy was circumcised when Paul went to do the Jew ministry with the Jewish folks. And why is that? Because his dad was not Jewish. He was a Gentile. And Timothy was not circumcised as a Jewish boy in the custom of his grandmother and his mother because of who his dad was. What that tells us is that Timothy's dad wasn't interested in the faith of his wife and his mother-in-law. Yet Paul takes Timothy under wing. And Paul taught Timothy. And Paul mentored Timothy And Paul felt the weight of Timothy's development into being a man and a minister of the gospel. Paul trusted Timothy. There was a very special relationship. The reality is that we need to be aware of the fact that there are people like Timothy that we come in contact with. And we need to be patient and kind and merciful with them. You know, you see a young man who's very troubled, and a lot of times you just get frustrated with their behavior. I mean I've been there many times. Well the question is why is that behavior there? And as you begin to inquire, you might find out that young man has a very tumultuous home life. He doesn't have a dad in his life. So what does he need? He needs a father figure. When we talk about this passage, let's not simply think, I got my kids, that's my responsibility, and I'm not worried about everybody else's kids You know, if you're going to father a child, you take care of them. It's not my responsibility. I'm not going to deal with that. You know what? That child needs someone to invest in their lives It could be a coach, it could be a teacher, Sunday school teacher, godly person in the church. Truth number two, fathers need to be specific in their instruction. I'm not going to dig deeply into this passage, but here's what he says. He doesn't say, hey, son, you need to love God and do what's right. Now he does say that, but he breaks it down quite a bit. He says, here's some specifics about how you need to be as a young man. He emphasized the need of the child to have a heart for God's wisdom and truth. Listen to what he says. Verse 3, yea, if thou criest after knowledge, thou liftest up thy voice understanding, if thou seekest her as silver, searchest for her as a hid treasure. Cry after wisdom. You need to be emotionally moved. You need to seek after wisdom like its silver. Be motivated by the value of the object. Search for wisdom as if it's a a hidden treasure. There's a persistence there. The reality is when we're young, as soon as we face opposition, some of us by our very disposition, we back off and we don't push any further. And the truth is, there are a lot of things in life that when you hit the wall, that's when you start pushing. And the guy that backs off never breaks through that barrier. But the one whose dad comes alongside of him, a mature, godly individual, says that's the sticking point. That's when you start pushing. That's what you need. Solomon warns his children about specific kinds of people in verses 12 to 17. He says, these things are to deliver thee from the way of the evil man. This speaketh forward things, who leave the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness, who rejoice to do evil and delight in the forwardness of the wicked. Whose ways are crooked and they froward in their past to deliver thee from the strange woman, even from the one To deliver thee from the strange woman, even from the stranger with flattereth with her words, and forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the covenant of her God He lays out an evil man. He calls him that. He says, it's the guy with perverse speech. His pattern is godless. He enjoys doing evil and he enjoys hanging out with people who do. He lays it out. He doesn't just say, love God and obey him. He says, that person's evil. This is the quality of a person like that. Don't follow in that way. Specifics. The strange woman. She's a seductress. She's a flatterer. She rejects the authority of godly people like her mom and dad who are teaching her what's right and what's wrong. She ignores the things of the Lord. He's very specific about the instruction that he's giving. He presents the contrast between the end of the righteous and the end of the wicked. He says, then he layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. He's a buckler to them that walk uprightly. He says, God defends those who obey him. God will be his satisfaction. His ways will be consistent. They'll enjoy God's blessings. Verse 21. He's very specific. That's the thing about a worldview. When you make a decision, you can't see the end. Unless you've lived long enough to see the end of decisions. That's why you need to learn from older people. The way of the unrighteous, 21 and 22. The upright will dwell in the land, and the perfect shall remain in it, but the wicked shall be cut off, and transgressors shall be rooted out. He's very specific. I'm trying to make a point here. My point is this. It's not just that he says, I'm going to spend time with my kids. I'm going to tell them obey God. I'm going to tell them you need to pray. You need to read the Bible. Those things are good But you need to teach them how to identify character qualities in people. You need to talk to them about how when you walk in this path, that's where you end up. And you lay it out. You say, well, how do I know those things? Well, if you've lived for a while and you read your Bible, Then you take the experiences that you've seen, you take what you read in the Bible, and you begin to understand very well the way of the righteous versus the way of the righteousness. That's what experience does. That's what being in the Word does. It shapes how we interpret those who we're interacting with and the situations we go through and where things start and where they end up. Truth number three. Young people must humbly submit to godly instruction from their fathers. In Ezekiel 18, this is what the passage says. Verse 1. The word of the Lord came unto me again, saying, What mean ye that ye use this proverb concerning the land of Israel? saying , The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge. As I live, saith the Lord God, ye shall not have occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel. Behold, all souls are mine, as the soul of the Father, so also the soul of the Son is mine. The soul that sinneth, it shall die. Now I'm just giving you a little snip from that passage, but here's basically what's going on in Israel. The nation of Israel is about to face serious judgment. Nebuchadnezzar is laying siege on Jerusalem, and the people are cut off from all outside help. And as they're going about their business in the city, they look at this huge encampment of an army all around them. And they look at this encampment and they realize that the end is coming. And it's not going to be pretty. Literally, the Babylonians are going to choke them out. They're going to let them starve. They're going to let famine come to the city. And when the city is broken physically And broken emotionally and broken, they cannot fight. They will come and scale the walls of that city, and they're going to wipe out the city. And the people in that city are basically saying this. It's not our fault. Our fathers. Eight sour grapes and this is where we're at. Very fatalistic. There are a lot of people that say, well, the reason that I am the way I am is because I had a dad who was the way he was. And there is some element of truth to that. You know, if your dad doesn't do right and he patterns an ungodly lifestyle, it's going to hurt you in life. There's no doubt about it. However,. You have the opportunity to make right choices. And that's what he's saying in this passage. He's saying if you have an ungodly father, you have the ability to make good choices. It's not all on him. It's also on you. You may have a very godly dad who teaches you the right way. He patterns godliness in front of you. He's very attentive to your needs. He pours into you what he's supposed to do as a dad. And you make terrible decisions. And you throw it off, and you don't care. The fact is, young people are responsible for themselves. We as dads have a responsibility to invest in our kids. They have a responsibility to take what they're taught and to live in the light of it. If you don't have a heart for God as a young person, it's your own fault. If you don't obey God as a young person, it's your own fault. Well my dad was. That might be true. But you're responsible for your own decisions. It says, as the soul of the Father, so also as the soul of the Son is mine, and the soul that sinneth it shall die. The fact is, God blesses people when they make good decisions, and when people don't make good decisions, there's consequences. And ultimately, they bear the brunt of the consequences. If you don't listen to instruction, that's given, it's your own fault. If you don't choose friends wisely and they hurt you, it's your own fault. The same text that says, Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord says, Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Every person in the home bears a weight of responsibility. Dad to instruct, children to listen. If there's a breakdown on any side, there will be some consequence. But the bottom line is this: God's grace can be poured into the most desperate of situations. And those who have so much opportunity can let it go to waste. Young people must humbly submit to God's instruction. From godly fathers. Solomon wanted to see his children experience God's blessings as they walked in the fear of the Lord, and that's why he taught them the way that he did. I want to encourage you to seize your responsibilities today. You say this is an incredible weight. It is an incredible weight. When I sit in my office sometimes and I think about what I need to preach to the congregation, I shake. I think about how heavy it is. And sometimes the reason I pray is because I just say, do I have the strength to say what I need to say? A message like this is one that I feel that way about. May God help us to be the kind of people He wants us to be. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer, please Father, I pray to you that you might do the work that unmistakably only you can do in our lives. Every man in this room who understands the incredible weight of the responsibility of being a father to his kids Feels an incredible lack of equipping. And Father, we're reminded that apart from your spirits Sustaining grace and wisdom, the strength that we need, we cannot fall through with these duties as we ought. We need you to strengthen us and encourage us and help us Father, we're reminded of the incredible weight of responsibility that our young people have to listen, to observe, to make good choices. Father, I pray that you would strengthen our families through this text of Scripture and help us to have families that are guided by the Word of God. Strengthened by the Spirit's enabling and thriving because you bless those who seek to honor you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.