Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And I don't know about you, but each of these weeks I really enjoy digging into these texts of Scripture. And I consider it a great blessing, great privilege to be able to go back to the Sunday morning message and dig into it and kind of break it down bit by bit. And so I hope that you find that encouraging and helpful. I hope it really helps you think about the text of Scripture because really it's not just the preaching of God's word, but it's the meditating on those truths that really helps us to understand the text of Scripture. and it helps us to apply it. So this week we're going to go back to the text that we dealt with on Sunday and we're going to dig into it. If you're with us, it's in Luke chapter 10, verses 21 through 24. So I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles. Let's turn there Let's read the text. I'm going to kind of give you a little summary statement for the passage of Scripture and then a few introductory thoughts that will set the tone for the week. Here's what it says, Luke chapter 10, verse 21. And in that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in my sight. All things are delivered to me of my Father. No man knoweth who the Son is but the Father And who the Father is but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal him. And he turned him unto his disciples and said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see. For I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye have seen, and have not seen them, and to hear those things which ye hear And have not, heard them. Now the topic that we're going to deal with throughout this week is the topic of how blessed a person is when they have spiritual understanding. The idea is that they have the ability to be able to see and process and understand the implications of truth. And obviously when we're dealing with Luke chapter 10, The primary focus of that is who is Christ. And the reason that understanding who Christ is is so important is because understanding who Christ is is the ultimate foundation and the basis for our faith. And so if we were to summarize the text in front of us, the way that I've summarized it this week is that the words of Christ that we're looking at in this text teach us that knowing God starts with his grace, which comes exclusively through Christ's self-revelation. That's what this passage is all about. And so as we dig into the passage, what the Lord's going to show us through his word is that we need to understand that we have so much by grace And that because of that we should live with gratitude of the knowledge that we have. We didn't earn the right to know what we know. We aren't smarter than somebody else, and that's why we believe. We believe because God in his grace has worked in our hearts. And through the working of the word and through the Spirit's conviction, God has brought us to the point where we see the truth clearly. And then we've responded in repentance toward God and faithful in Christ. But the reason that we've responded is because God ultimately has done this gracious work inside of our hearts. And so, yes, we are responsible to believe. Yes, we are the ones who choose to believe, but we choose to believe because God has opened our eyes to the significance of these truths. He has convicted us of the significance of these truths. He's humbled our hearts through his word. And the Holy Spirit has brought us to see, and we have come to believe. And so that is something that is at the heart of the texts in front of us this morning we'll look at throughout the week. And so the text that I want us to examine in introduction That's what Paul says in Ephesians chapter 2. I'm going to read it to you. It says this. You hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past ye walked according to the course of this world. the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we had our conversation that has the idea of the way that we lived our lives, our conversation in times past, fulfilling the lusts of the flesh and the desires of the mind, and we were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. Now, that first part of those verses talks about the desperation of our human condition, that the fact is that we did not understand how lost we were We were simply following our impulses, we are living according to our flesh, and the reason for that is because we are separated from God When he says we were quickened, that means we were made alive. That means that we were spiritually dead and separated from God. And you could see the evidence of being spiritually dead by the way that we thought and reasoned and the way that we lived our lives. And if God had just left us in that state, the fact is we would have continued down this path of destruction. And we may have even done it, yes, in rebellions, but also in ignorance. But then the next statement is critical and is really at the heart of what we're going to break down this week from Luke chapter 10. It says, but God who is rich in mercy For his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins. He hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace ye are saved. Now there are several key pieces to that statement. It says that God is rich in mercy. So when God looks at the sinner who is living a life of rebellion and brokenness and is spiritually blinded to his condition , God doesn't look at that sinner with this d disdain. He actually looks at them with compassion because it tells us, he says, but God who is rich in mercy. And it says that he loved us, his great love wherewith he loved us. What makes God's love so amazing is that God doesn't love people that are lovely. God loves people who have value, but God loves people who are broken, and God loves people who are sinful, and God loves people who ultimately are in rebellion against him. And so when we look at ourselves in this condition, we see the desperation and the fact that we have absolutely no power to reverse this through something that we give to God or something that we do for God But God erupts that scene in his rich mercy, in his great lover with he loved us. When we were dead in trespasses, as it says, he saved us. And I love the statement. He says, He saved us by grace. you have been saved. That grace means undeserved favor. And so God erupts this scene and he steps in and he begins to show his grace toward us. And that grace comes on several different levels. I'll mention that kind of in our closing observations, but then we move through the verses, he says. He did this, he raised us up together, made us sit together in heavenly places, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. He says, For by grace are ye saved through faith, that not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And we know these verses. We know that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. We recognize that if it wasn't for God's act toward us, we would be on our own, condemned and without hope. And so the question is, well, where does this all start? And how do we summarize this? How does this lay the foundation for the rest of the week? And here's the simple answer. This statement right here in Ephesians chapter 2, it enforces to us the truth that salvation starts with grace. It starts with grace, it's on the basis of grace, it is grace on every single level. It's God's grace that established a basis for us in our sin. You know, two thousand years before you and I were born God established a basis for redemption. But the fact is that thousands of years before he established the basis of of salvation, Christ's death and resurrection and his righteousness, He promised a plan of redemption. And the reality is that even before the foundation of the world, God knew exactly what was going to happen in the Garden of Eden. And God had a plan of redemption. He had established a basis. This is grace. And then the fact that God pursued us in our rebellion is a testimony to his grace. When we look in the Garden of Eden, we see Adam is hiding from God, and Eve is hiding from God, and they've clothed themselves and these fig leaves, and they don't want to speak to the Lord. What does God do? He goes to them. And that's exactly what Ephesians 2 says. That's exactly what we're going to find in our text in Luke chapter 10 this week. And that's exactly how God dealt with you. And that's exactly how God dealt with me. The basis of our salvation is grace. His coming to us in her rebellious fate is grace. The fact that he humbled us and he opened our eyes to our spiritual blindness is a testimony to his grace. I think what it says in John chapter 16 It says, when the Spirit of God has come, he will convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. Well, what would happen if he didn't convict the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment? Well, the fact is that nobody in the world would would turn to Christ with a repentance of heart and depend alone in the finished work of Christ. There'd be no repentance toward God and faith in Christ. And so the fact that God opens our understanding to our sinfulness and the righteousness of Christ and the fact that we fall short of it. And the fact that there's a judgment coming, and our only hope is what Jesus has done for us. The fact that our eyes are open to that reality is a testimony to God's grace. And then when we believe on the gospel, we place our faith in Christ. We receive all these benefits. We are forgiven. We are cleansed. We're declared righteous. We are regenerated. We are set apart as sanctified unto God. The Holy Spirit comes and indwells us. We have the promise. That one day we will be glorified, we will receive an eternal inheritance. All of those benefits of the gospel are matters of God's grace. And so what I can say as we prepare ourselves for this study this week is that this is all of the grace of God. We are saved by his grace And we are a blessed people because we have been saved by grace. And so this week we are going to examine how blessed a person is. that they have understanding of these realities. They have placed their faith in the finished work of Christ. What is the blessedness of that position? We'll talk about it this week. So I hope that you'll join us for that. as we dig into some very rich topics. And I hope that as you think about this, as you kind of mull over this and process it throughout the day, that these things will be an encouragement to you. Have a blessed morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Find out.