It is true that God designed marriage to be a place where there is sexual satisfaction, but the fact is that if a person has a struggle before they're married, they're going to continue to struggle once they are married. And so they have to learn how to keep their body in self-control, not only before they get married, but once they're married. And so basically what Solomon is going to do is he's going to transition from this little section, chapter 6, and the verses that I read, into a story about a young man who is very, very unwise. And what we're going to do tonight is we're going to look at that particular passage, but I want to pick up with the character and conduct of a Christ Christian disciple. And I want to do that because I wanted to show that. This young man and this woman, both of them were not having the qualities that we're told as young men and women and as mature men and women, the kind of character qualities we're supposed to have. If this young man had developed those qualities that we find in Titus chapter 2, he would not have found himself in the position that he finds himself in. He would not have been out on the street walking the way of this woman's corner and her house. He would have not he would not have gotten enticed by this situation. He wouldn't have even been in the position at all If this woman was living out her life like the Bible teaches a lady should in Titus chapter 2 or in 1 Peter chapter 3, obviously this encounter would have never taken place. She would not have been on the street corner. She would not be talking the way that she talks to this young man. She would not be enticing him and luring him and being dishonest and flattering. She wouldn't do those things because of the qualities. that we find in this passage. And so last week we looked at 1 Peter chapter 3. And I would summarize 1 Peter chapter 3 to say this. A Christian lady should have a proper view of authority, the fact that there is a structure in the home where she understands the chain of command between her and her husband. She's a person who has reverence She has piety. She is someone who her beauty is not just how she looks, but it's really what's going on inside. And as you get to know this person, you recognize That there's a very gentle, a very gracious, a very godly spirit within this person. And that's something that every single lady should develop. And we should instill this in our young ladies. Then let's move to Titus chapter 2, because in Titus 2 it's going to talk about both the men and the women. In Titus chapter 2, verse 4, it says this. The aged women, we could say those who are spiritually mature, we'll just put it that way, have that. They must teach the young women to be sober. To love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands That the word of God may not be blasphemed. Let me just highlight a couple of these things. And I'm really sad to say that I don't think these qualities are really being taught to our young women like they should, honestly. Notice what he says. First of all, they need to be sober. The idea of soberness means that there is a self-control, there is a seriousness about life. In fact, it's interesting. He's getting us the exact same word when he talks about young men. Young people do not have a tendency to be sober-minded. Young people have a tendency to do careless things. You know, get on YouTube and uh and watch some Skateboarding fails or some VMX fails or some dares that go on. Well you'll you'll you'll notice that a lot of times these are guys probably fifteen, sixteen, eighteen years old And they're trying stunts that are really, really foolish. Why is that? Because a lot of times young people don't think about consequence. I'm not saying all young people don't think about consequence, but the truth is every single one of us, when we were at that stage in life, we constantly needed our parents to say, did you think before you did that? Before you do this, consider the consequences. You had to constantly have these conversations with someone who's 14, 16, 18 years old, even 20 years old. And so he says that these women need to teach the younger women to be sober, to have self-control, seriousness about life. He uses this statement to love their husbands and to love their children. Now this is kind of interesting. We tend to think that it's natural for a woman to love her kids and to love her husband And I think to some extent that's true, but when he's talking about teaching them to love their husbands and their children, I think what he's basically saying is this there are certain skills that an older, matured lady who has been married for a while, who has raised children, can teach a younger woman about how to love her husband and how to love her kids. There are certain traits and qualities, there are certain things that you actually don't naturally have. They have to be kind of instilled in somebody. They have to be taught in that person. And so I think that's really what he's saying. It's the idea of someone mentoring or discipling a younger person so that they understand the skills that they need in their home life. He then mentions the word Discreet. And the the word discreet has the idea that this is a person who's a bit guarded. They're not just free with information. They're not just casual with everybody. The fact is that they're a very serious-minded person. They're very thoughtful before they say something, before they make a decision. He talks about being chaste. The idea is moral purity. He talks about being a keeper at home. The idea is that a woman needs to take care of her household She shouldn't farm it out and have somebody else take care of her household. The fact is that that's her responsibility to take care of the the needs of the home. He talks about being good and obedient to their own husbands. Again, he talks about that issue of understanding that in the home the husband is the authority. He carries the weight before God. of the decision making of the home. And so a wife needs to be supportive of her husband. We then move on to the young man. Look what it says here. It says, young men also exhort to be Sober-minded. Sounds like the exact same thing you just said about ladies. Well the ideas, and if the truth were told, probably young men probably need that instruction even more than young ladies. about being sober-minded, but being serious. Next he says, showing thyself a pattern of good works. Probably the way that I would put this is it like this. Teach young men how to develop godly disciplines. We have a book that I think it's in our library. It was probably in our bookstore. It may still be in the bookstore. But it's written by Kent Hughes. It's called The Disciplines of a Godly Man. It's a really good book. And basically what that book does is it takes certain disciplines that we as men need, and it talks about those things. It talks about ways that we don't have them. Ways that we're careless in those areas. Talks about how to develop those disciplines. And I think that's what Titus uh Paul is teaching Titus here. He's saying you need to teach the young men to develop godly patterns. Then he mentions this in doctrine showing uncorruptness. Now this is interesting So many times we get in our I I wouldn't say that we think this necessarily where we would say it, but I do think that this is demonstrated in how we practice. We tend to think that doctrinal instruction And being sound in theology is something for the pastor or for a young man who wants to go into the ministry. But the average guy in the church, you know, as long as he comes to church He puts money in the offering. As long as he's faithful, as long as he brings his family, then he's good. Let the theology discussions be in the boardroom with the pastor and the deacons. Let the young guys who want to go into the ministry, let them study theology, but the rest of us, we're just practical people, we worry about other things in life. But notice what he says. In doctrine showing uncruptness, every young man needs to be a theologian. Every single one. Whether he's going to be a pastor or a deacon or not. It doesn't matter. He needs to be sound in doctrine. He needs to study the word. He's got to lead his family. He needs to be able to teach his kids. He should be able to lead his children to the Lord. I'm not saying that he'll be the one who actually leads his child to the Lord, but he's going to be the one giving the primary instruction. It shouldn't be the wife who's always teaching the kids the word of God. It should be the husband. That's his responsibility and that's his role. And so that's why Titus talks about this. Our Paul talks about this. And then he mentions gravity. I like the word gravitas. You know what's interesting? When Paul talks about deacons and what someone has to be in character to be a deacon, one of the qualifications is a deacon needs to be grave. The idea is that he is he's he's not a flippant person. He's serious-minded. He takes his responsibility seriously. He's not a not a joke. It doesn't mean he can't have fun But his he carries himself with dignity. And that's what a young man's supposed to have. Isn't that amazing? We tend to think of that being a quality of older men. They've lived life, they've raised their kids, now their grandkids are running around. This is for young men, too. And then he mentions sincerity. The idea is that this person is genuine. And they're real. They're not a hypocrite. Lastly, he says, sound speech which cannot be condemned. Why do I take the time to go through those passages? It's very simple. If a young man will be that kind of a young man, he's not going to end up in Proverbs 7. If a young lady is What Paul's telling Titus that the older women need to teach younger women to be, she's not going to end up in Proverbs 7. The best way to keep a young person from walking down that path is having them become this kind of a person Because a person with these qualities is not the naive simple one. It's the discerning one. It's the mature one. It's not the tempter or the temptress. It's the person who's very serious-minded and cares about other people and sees them as valuable and doesn't get themselves involved in these situations. So with that in mind, let's move now to section 3, looking at Proverbs. In chapter 7, verse 1 to 4, it says this: My son, keep my words, lay up my commandments with thee, and keep my commandments and live. My law is the apple of thine eye. That little phrase, the apple of thine eye, kind of has the idea of the pupil. And it's sort of interesting if If somebody were to poke their finger at you, the most natural response would be to blink or to cover your eye. Why is that? Like you don't even think about it. You blink, you cover your eye, you turn away, you duck, whatever, because we are instinctively trying to protect our eye. It's kind of interesting. And out of all of your eye, the part where the light comes in is the pupil And so when you blink, that is a reaction to protect your pupil. When he talks about keep making the law the apple of your eye, he's basically saying This is something that is in your heart and you guard it. And it's a big deal to you. He says, bind them upon thy fingers and write them upon The table of thine heart. Why does he talk about the law being bound on his fingers? He's not talking about this in a physical sense, like take a little piece of paper and tie it to your hands and carry it around. That's not what he's saying. He's saying that the law of God needs to determine what you do with your hands. Where you go, what you do. The law of God is the one that governs all of that. And when he says, let it be on the table of your heart, what's in your heart determines what you love, what you think about, what you want to do, what you decide to do. And so he's really emphasizing that the law is important. It needs to be as important to you as your eye. It needs to be bound to your hand, so what you do flows out of God's law. It needs to be written on the tables of your heart because what's on your heart is what you think about, what you love, and what you decide to do. Very, very important. So he begins with a command. Secondly, we see the reason for the command in verse 5. The reason is that they may keep thee from the strange woman. What is they? It's the law. If the law is in your heart, and the law's in your hands, and you're protecting it like it's your pupil. It's going to keep you away from the strange woman. That's why I went down to the Titus passage in the first Peter passage. Because if that's the way you live your life on a day-by-day basis, you don't end up in Proverbs 7 Proverbs 7 is to shake the person that's not living out Titus chapter 2. And as they're walking down this road and they get shook by a story like this when they go Whoa, I need to get a correction here. I need to kind of turn and move a different direction. It's like somebody at camp. Camp doesn't grow people in the Lord at all. I really believe that. It doesn't. People grow in the Lord in this room right here and on their knees in their bedroom when they're reading their Bibles. That's how they grow. But you know what camp does do? Camp takes the person who's walking this way and all of a sudden it grabs a hold of their attention and shakes them and says, look where you're going. And it turns them, and so they start moving this way. And that's really what camp does. That's what Christian college sometimes does for people. That's what an accident can do for somebody when they're in high school or college. Something shakes them, redirects them, and then they begin to grow as they get into the word. But the point that I that he's making and the point that I'm emphasizing Is that if the law of God is in your heart, it keeps you from that person who's going to be so destructive And then he mentions this, the strangers, from the stranger with flattereth, which flattereth with her words. Aya. If I was to summarize the kind of woman that we find in Proverbs 7, I would say this. This woman is extremely manipulative. She is like a master of manipulation. And you know how she manipulates? With what she says. Almost all of the manipulation she used , not all of it, but the majority of her manipulation is through her words. She does manipulate to some extent by how she's dressing. She does grab a hold of the guy and kiss him, but the majority of her manipulation is with her words. And so he says, if the law is in your heart, it's going to protect you from the strange woman who flatters, the manipulator who can take you with what she says, and she can reduce you. To someone with not any thinking at all. So let's talk about this for a minute. Let's look at some of the details. And what I want to do is I want to actually read through the details. And I want to, I've highlighted and I've underlined and I've commented in my own mind and on my own, here in my own margins in my Bible. I want to kind of walk through this so that you kind of get a sense of the flow and and some of the little things that maybe when we're reading our Bibles, if we read it too quickly, we don't pick up on those little details. And then I want to kind of take what we've seen and I want to summarize it with a couple of simple statements. So let's begin in verse 5. Verse 6. He says, at the window of my house I looked through my casement, and beheld among the what? Simple ones. I discerned among the what? The youths, a what kind of man? A young man who was what of understanding? Void of understanding. Let's just stop in verse 7 and notice something. He says he's simple. He says he's a young man. He's void of understanding. He's a youth. Do you get the idea he's trying to emphasize something? He says four times the same thing. Simple means he's inexperienced. Youth means he's, well, inexperienced. A young man means he's what? Well, he's inexperienced. He's void of understanding. What does that tell you? He's inexperienced. Solomon has taken four different ways to say the same thing in that verse. Why? Because he's emphasizing something. The way that you get into Proverbs 7 is you just stay simple. You just stay simple. You don't get wisdom. You don't listen to instruction. You just go down the path that's the easiest and the most natural. You don't learn from the mistakes of other people. You don't listen to correction. You just you just pass on He's emphasizing four times he says that. We continue. Verse 8, he says, passing through the street. Near the corner. He went the way of her house. Again, we see some repetition. He is passing. He goes near away. He goes to the corner. He's emphasizing that the place that this guy has decided to go on this particular day is a really bad place. Okay? Now listen There are a lot of people that I think are kind of anti-standards, and I'm not a standards legalist kind of a person at all, okay? But I will tell you this. There's a good reason when you know that you have a weakness in an area to draw a line and to say, you know what? I'm not going to walk down that line. I'm going to walk away from that line. And I'm going to stay away from that line. Because I understand something about myself. I have a weakness. I have a limitation. I have a strong temptation to do things I shouldn't when I go to that place, when I hang out with those people, when I get involved in those activities So if you know that, if you see that there's this pattern, and it could be in any area of life, I mean in this particular case we're talking about a guy when it's sexual temptation, but it could it could be any kind of temptation, lots of different kinds of temptation out there. Draw the line in the sand and say, I'm not going to walk close to that line. Well, stay away from it. The truth is that the first mistake the guy makes Was that he went out of his house at the wrong time of day. And then he decides he's going to pass on by and he's going a certain way. He put himself in a place And he had no business going. If he didn't take that initial step, he wouldn't have ended up there. We continue on. He says in verse 9: He goes in the twilight. In the what? In the evening, in the what? And what kind of night? Dark night. It was a dark And stormy night, alright? To say it. Do you think that Solomon is trying to paint a picture here? Here's this guy. He goes out and he he mentions it was dark four times in one verse. Because he's emphasizing something when it's dark. People sometimes think they can get away with stuff. They go out in places they shouldn't. They do things that they shouldn't. And I think he's emphasizing that this is The wrong time of day to be doing what he's doing. We continue. Behold There met him a woman with the attire of a harlot and subtle of heart. Now, didn't just pause for a minute and think about something. It's almost like a little paradox there. She is dressed like a harlot, which obviously is meant to speak, isn't it, right? Like getting attention, like I'm available for I'm doing what I do, you know what I He she's talking by how she dresses , but it says she has a subtle heart. In other words, while she is obviously advertising herself to be out dressed a certain way, Inside of her heart, she is a very shrewd person. She's extremely secretive. She knows how to plot and she knows how to plan and she knows how to make something happen. This is the kind of person we have the naive guy and the the woman who's experienced an evil, okay? She's not lazy, she's focused. Remember we talked about this the other night. There's a big difference between someone who's lazy and someone who's extremely focused and diligent in what is wrong. And that's where this woman is He is just drifting and she is focused. Then it continues. It says in verse 11, she 's loud and stubborn, and her feet abide not in her house. Three things come up. When it says she's loud, don't think that she's out there, she's like yelling at him, like, like, hey, what's going on? That's not the point. The point is that when she begins to talk She's going to use her voice to manipulate, to dominate. So let's say that she says, hey, what do you think about this? And he's like, well, I don't know. She's going to start raising her voice. She's going to become a little bit more bold. She's going to become a little bit more aggressive. She's working to get a customer. That's the way she's working on that particular night. She's loud. It says she's stubborn. The idea is she is not going to just take no for an answer. She's not going to back down. She is focused and she is diligent and she is not, once he's there, she's going to be persistent. It's kind of like Potiphar. Potiphar's wife set her eye on Joseph, and she wasn't going to take no for an answer. Day after day she came to Joseph and tempted Joseph. And the reality is this is how temptation is. It isn't like you get victory over temptation one day and you get a prize and you got it for the rest of your life. Boy, I wish it was like that, but it isn't like that. Okay, you won that battle. There's another one coming tomorrow. There's another one coming tomorrow. And it continues, and it's going to continue the rest of your life. And it says her feet are biting on her house. She's always moving up and down. She's not just sitting there on the corner waiting. If nobody's coming, she's going to find another place. Sort of like the difference between fishing on a lake, where you get your bucket, sit down, throw out your line, just sit there. And fishing on the river, you move up and down the river. You're looking for a new spot. And that's the way that she was. She was very diligent and she was persistent. She was active. Next it says this. And now is she without, now in the street and lith in wait at every corner. So she caught him. Literally, she physically grabs the guy. Okay? Grabs the guy. She caught him. She kissed him, and with the nippute face said unto him, I have peace offerings with me this day, have I paid my vows? The idea is that she's very focused and she's very bold and she's trying to get his attention. Now there's there's a lot of discussion about this thing about peace offerings, and I have a couple of different theories. But th their theories, okay? So I'm not a hundred percent sure what her point is there. Some people say she's trying to say she's kind of religious. Some people might say it's talking about the fact that she has gone through her rights of someone who has just had her period. Okay? It could be that it had something to do with the fact that her husband was away. And there were certain vows that she had promised and she was fulfilling those vows. We have no idea. Some people say, well, maybe it's because she was letting him know that she had a banquet prepared at the house and he could come and join her. So there's a lot of different options out there, but the idea is that she is going to give him the impression that she's ready for him and she's waiting for him. We continue. Therefore came I out to meet thee diligently, to seek thy face, and I have found thee. Again we see this repetition. I came To meet diligently to seek, and I found you. Now, does she even know this guy? Probably not. Yet she is really getting into his head, isn't she? She is really getting into this guy's head. Like, I have been watching you, and I am ready for you. That's the way that she's Thinking and acting. This is flattery. I mean, you gotta be real careful about folks who will say things to you that you just you know they're not true The moment that you start accepting flattery, you have just checked your brain out the door. Okay? And that's essentially what's happened here. Here's this inexperienced guy, and he is just he is walking head first. into a trap. She continues, I've decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, carved works. With fine linen of Egypt. I've perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloe, and cinnamon. Come, let us fill of our love until the morning. Let us solace ourselves together with loves. Well, there's absolutely no doubt about what she's got in her head, huh? No doubt at all. And she is trying to make her home and her bedroom as inviting as possible. She's trying to get a hold of his at his of his ego. And the fact is that this guy isn't even thinking straight at all. But just in case he starts getting this little twinge of fear, and just in case he starts getting this little twinge of guilt, she's got the antidote for that. She says, the good man, being her husband, is not at home. He's on a long journey. He's taken a bag of money with him. And he'll come home at the day if appointed. So just in case the guy, for just a split second, starts getting a little bit fearful. This little twinge of guilt, she says, hey, you won't get found out. My husband's gone. He's on business. He took money. He said when he's coming back. I know when he's coming back. And you got nothing to be afraid of. Here's what it says. With her much fair speech, she caused him to yield. With the flattering of her lips, she forced him. What that tells us is that as as persuasive and as aggressive as this lady is There's still something in this simple guy that makes him uneasy about what he's about to do. While he's walking, his heart is compromised But he keeps listening. It's kind of like Eve in the garden. Satan says, take a look at this fruit. What do you think of it? Smell it. Taste It's not going to be a big deal. God knows that the day you eat it, you'll be wise like him and you'll know good and evil. And she says, he says, God's God's told you a lie. He's holding you back from something. And Eve looks at it and eventually she goes, okay, I'm going to try this. And that's exactly what happened with this guy. And the truth is, folks, that's exactly how temptation works. When we are in the face of temptation, and temptation can come in two ways. Temptation can come immediately, where it's almost a reaction. Something happens, boom, we're in a situation, and we react. The reason we react like that is because our heart is set in the wrong way. It's because we've set ourselves in a pattern of doing things over and over and over again. But temptation can also be slow. Methodical. And we can walk down a road and we can be involved in something for a while. And while we're in the midst of that, we don't feel right about it. It bothers us. We feel guilty. We feel compromised. But it just keeps on luring us and tempting us, and we keep on taking those steps. And eventually we go deeper and deeper and deeper down these things until we get caught That's what we have here. Fair speech, flattering of her lips, she forces him. How does Solomon look at this situation? He says, he goeth after her straightway like an ox to the slaughter. I don't know. Anybody ever worked on a cattle farm? You know, they feed these animals. And these animals really bulk up. Well then they're feeding them for what reason? They're going to slaughter them. And on the day that they come to slaughter them, those animals think they're going to get more food and they're going to become burgers. That's really what's going on. They have no idea what's about to happen. The fact is, that's how this man was. Like a fool to the correction of the stocks. The fool doesn't take thought about what he's about to experience. He says, till the dart strikes through his liver. And a bird hasteth to the snare. I know we got a deer hunter here, at least one or two, alright. So when you shoot a deer and you get a gut shot, what happens to that animal? It's gonna die, but it ain't gonna be pretty. It ain't gonna be quick, is it? No. It's gonna be very painful. It's gonna be an inevitable The end is inevitable. But it's gonna be slow. It's gonna be messy. I think that's what he's saying here. It's like you shoot a deer and you get it in the gut. It's gonna die. But it's gonna be slow And it's going to be painful. Like the bird hasteth to the snare. Solomon uses all these different analogies to help us to understand something. When we play with sin, the end result is pain and misery and destruction. In this story, it's talking about a young man who goes the way of an immoral woman, but it can go into so many different areas of life. At the end he says this, hearken unto me, O you children, attend to the words of my mouth. Let not thine heart decline To her ways, go not astray in her paths. She hath cast down many wounded. Yea, many strong men have been slain by her. The fact is, there's never a point in our life that we become so strong that we're immune to temptation. I mean man, it would be nice if that was the case. You know, when you're a kid, you look at your parents, if you grew up in a good home, you look at your mom and dad and you're like, man, it's so nice, they don't sin anymore Then you get a little older and you realize, oh mom and dad do sin. Oh yeah. And then you become the parent and you go, wow, mom and dad sin a lot I wish we could become immune to temptation, but we don't. David wasn't a 25-year-old when he got involved with Bathsheba. Now she might have been 25. He was in his fifties. You realize that? The fact is, it doesn't matter how strong you become. How mature you become. If you allow your heart to descend down that road, the end can be very painful. Let me pull it all together. Here's some qualities of this woman. She the way she dressed spoke. Her heart was crafty. She was loud, rebellious. Her feet were not at home. She moved around looking for mischief. She caught him. She kissed him. She was very persuasive and bold in her disposition. This is the kind of person that he dealt with. She was a flatterer. I came to meet you. I prepared my room for you. My husband's gone. I know how long he'll be gone. She enticed him. She flattered him. We see the simple man. He goes out at night. He goes near her house. He goes down the path. Eventually he's just reacting. He's not using his sense. From the moment he stepped out of his house, he set himself up Now he didn't fall the moment he stepped out of the house, but he took his first step down the road that ended up there. And the results, pain and misery. I want to conclude with this thought. We need to learn to examine, folks. We need to learn to examine our own hearts. We need to be honest about what's going on inside of us. We need to be honest about where we're weak, where we're vulnerable. We need to bring alongside godly people who love us and care about us and help us establish the barriers we need in our lives, and we need to let them actually be legitimate accountability in our lives. We need to be objective about what we're seeing in us and the people around us. We need to be people who are very careful not to make small compromises. The fact is, when you know what's right and you just take a step here, it's not very far, is it? It's not. Another little step in your hair. It's still not very far. But you do that long enough, and where you end up is a long way from where you're supposed to be. The fact is we have to be folks who don't accept small compromises. You know, you walk out to the beach. There are two ways that beach can erode. You could have a massive storm that just wipes the beach away Or you could choose not to build a jetty and fifty years later on the beach there. It's unbelievable. I remember when I was a teenager, there was this place on on the Scambia Bay where my parents lived, and I looked at a picture Of what used to be a beautiful hotel in this particular area where I was. And the man who was showing the picture said, Do you know where that hotel used to be? I said, where? He said, look out there about two hundred yards. You see there's a there's like a little stump out there? He's like it probably was somewhere around there. So really? He said, Yeah, but over years it just It was gone. And that's how compromise works. We need to make up our minds to do what's right and not be simple. And we really need to pray for our young people. We need to really invest in their lives. You know, young people make foolish decisions. And sometimes as we get older, we look at them and we just go, why in the world? Why the world did you say that? Why in the world did you do that? And and it and it's kind of irritating, to be honest with you. But what they need is mature people to come alongside of them and and and give them truth and walk alongside them, encourage them, and help them. them. And by God's grace, He can protect our young people from Proverbs 7, and He can protect us too. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father in heaven, thank you for the many w warnings we find in the scriptures. This is not a pleasant text. Very, very sobering. It's kinda scary really. But I pray that you'd help us to understand the intent for which it was given. Help us to take it to heart. Help us to really invest in our young people so they don't end up like Like this young man or this young woman. Father, help us to realize that we'll never be immune to temptation. We've constantly got to guard our hearts, no matter how long we've been Christians. Pray you'd bless our time of prayer together, and we ask it in Christ's name, amen.