Good morning. Happy Fourth of July. And welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and uh hope that today is a wonderful day for you, a day of a day of rest, a day of uh gratitude to God for the nation that uh he allows us to live in And the freedoms that we've enjoyed, the sacrifices that were made so that we could enjoy those liberties. And so this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at the Lord Jesus Christ and what he did so that he could accomplish our redemption. And when I say what he did, yesterday we looked at the cross. This morning what I'd like us to do As I look like us to look at the incarnation, the fact that God took on flesh, and that is how he had to go to the cross. So Luke chapter 9 And we'll begin reading again in verse twenty eight. Here's what it says. It came to pass about an eight days after these sayings. He took Peter and John and James and went up into a mountain to pray As he prayed the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistening. And behold there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias, who appeared in glory, and spake of his decease, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep. When they were wake they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him. It came to pass as they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here, to let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, one for Elias. Not knowing what he said. While he thus spake, there came a cloud and overshadowed them, and they feared as they entered into the cloud. And there came a voice out of the cloud saying, This is my beloved son, hear him. And when the voice was passed, Jesus was found alone, and they kept it close, and told no man of those days any of those things which they had seen Now, as I mentioned earlier, yesterday we talked about the the cross and the connection between the cross and his glory. This morning, what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at the significance and the importance of what we call the incarnation. The word incarnation means in flesh. So when we talk about the incarnation, we're saying that God took on flesh. And he dwelt among us. And we see in verses twenty-eight and twenty-nine that the Lord Jesus Christ had to take on flesh in order to accomplish our redemption. Notice what it says. It came to pass, about eight days after these sayings, he took Peter and John and James and went up into the mountain to pray. And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistening. You say, well, why is that a significant statement? Well, the reason that it's a significant statement is that it shows us when Jesus walked with people on this earth, they saw him as simply a man. They didn't see his glory. His glory was veiled. But at the incarnate or at the transfiguration, what they were able to see is that this man was more than just an ordinary man. In his humanity, he was an ordinary man. But Jesus has a dual nature. There's an aspect of his person. that was veiled, and it was revealed at that moment for a period of time so that the disciples could see who they were actually dealing with. They're dealing with God in flesh. So the key statement is the fashion of his countenance was altered Christ did not take something on that was not already his inherently. We know that because of the statement that was made in verse 32. It says they saw his glory. This is a glory that was veiled, but he already possessed it. This glory wasn't something that was given to him. It was something that was being revealed. Or to put another way, God removed the veil from the eyes of the disciples so that they could see who they were actually dealing with. He is God in flesh, fully God, possessing all the glories and all the power of deity. Yet he's also man who is possessing the limitations of humanity. And you say, well, how do you possess the limitations of humanity and the full glory and the power of deity at the same time? The only way that we can explain this is by just simply stating what the scriptures state about it. And so in order to do that, I want to read to you a couple of key texts of Scripture that will help us to understand what the Bible teaches about. the deity and humanity put in the same person. So Christ is both possessing the glories and the power of deity while also the limitations and the humiliation of humanity. Here's what the Bible says. John 1. 10. He was in the world, and the world was made by him. The world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. John 1. 1. In the beginning was the word The word was with God, and the word was God. All things were made by Him. Without Him was not anything made that was made John 1. 14. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Now all of these texts affirm two very important doctrinal concepts. One is that Jesus is the eternal Son of God. He didn't begin to be at the creation. He is outside of time. He is the creator. So when the world was created, it was created by him and for him. And so the scripture clearly affirms that when we're looking at Jesus, we're looking at God. the eternal God, distinct in person from the Father, but of the same essence. So we have the deity of Christ on the one side. At the exact same time, it says that the word was made flesh. He took on humanity at a point in time. When the Lord Jesus Christ was born into the world, he was born as still God, yet now having a human nature. And that human nature possessed the full limitations and the full weaknesses of humanity. You say, well, how does God take on the limitations of humanity? Well, to answer that question, we again have to go to the scriptures. And this is an essential doctrine when it comes to this issue of the gospel. Philippians chapter 2, verses 6 to 8 answers the question. Well, how does this work? It says being in the form of God. He's talking about his essence, his nature Jesus is God. Thought it not robbery to be equal with God. That statement means he did not need to steal the power of deity or the glory of deity because he is deity. Okay? So these two statements are very, very important. Jesus is God. And then he says this But he made himself of no reputation, and took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Now, what this is telling us is that God took on flesh voluntarily. And for Jesus to take on flesh, he didn't stop being God, but what he did do is he took some of the the prerogatives of his deity, and he laid them aside for a time so that he could take on the weaknesses of humanity. So he didn't stop possessing those qualities because that's a part of who he is. But what he did is he limited himself. It says he made himself of no reputation. He took upon himself the form of a servant. He was made in the likeness of men. He was found in fashion as a man. He humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. You say, well, well, Joel, I don't really understand how this all works out. Well, neither do I But what we see is that the scriptures could not be more clear on the fact that when we're looking at Christ, we're looking at God in flesh God incarnate, fully God, fully man, possessing the full weight of his glory, yet veiling this glory and taking on the humanity, uh the humility of humanity and and experiencing the full weight of the human sufferings that we experience in a fallen world. This is an essential aspect of the cross. How does God go to the cross without taking on flesh? And then the other question that we should ask is, well really was this concept of the incarnation actually an essential to our redemption? The answer is absolutely it was. Okay, so first of all We have to establish the fact that Christ can't die on the cross unless he is God in flesh. He has to take on humanity to be able to experience physical death. But there's another element to this as well. And that is the substitutionary aspect of the gospel. One man, Adam, represented us in the fall Because of Adam's sin, all of us are affected by sin. We were born with a sin nature. We were born guilty in Adam. And so because one man represented us in the fall, One man can represent us in redemption and in the conquering of sin and death. And that one man is the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen to what the scripture says about this issue. 1 Corinthians 15, 22. In Adam all die. Even so, in Christ shall all be made alive. This is a statement of identification. This is a statement of position. We were born into this world physically in Adam and spiritually dead. We are born again in Christ, spiritually alive. This is called regeneration Okay? So unless Christ took on flesh, this is not possible. Romans 5. 19 says something very similar. It says, by one man's disobedience, many were made sinners. Even in even in Romans chapter 3, verse 23, it says, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Paul could have easily said, All of us sin, or all of us continue to sin. He says, all have sinned. So when Paul even talks about our guilt and the issue of sin, he actually does not look primarily at the continuation of sin and the things that we do on a daily basis. Certainly they're there. But he actually in that particular text goes back to Adam and he emphasizes our guilt in him. All have sinned. Perfect tense. That sin affects us to this day. And so Romans 5. 19, by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. That's what the text tells us. So we see the essential aspect of Christ taking on flesh so that he can represent us on the cross. 1 Corinthians 15, 45. He says, the first man Adam was made a living soul. The last Adam is made a quickening spirit. And so he's emphasizing the fact that the last Adam, the Lord Jesus Christ, is going to establish a basis for us to be reconciled to God, and he's going to give us life that we do not have. It's a reference to regeneration. So the incarnation is an absolutely essential component to the gospel itself. One man caused the world to fall under the curse of sin, one man came to remove the curse of sin by becoming a curse for us. That's what it says in Galatians 3. 13. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law. being made a curse for us. And so when we look at this passage, Luke chapter 9 in the Transfiguration, and he talks about the fashion of his countenance being altered, his raiment. being white and glistening, when it talks about the fact that they saw his glory, what it tells us is that we're looking at not just a man And not just God, we're looking at God in flesh. And this is an essential component to the gospel message itself So you might say, well, Joel, what's the summary takeaway for our morning today? Let me give you a couple of thoughts that I think will be very impactful. And we really need to think deeply about them because theology should always drive our our thinking, our practice, and our passions. So the first thing is this. Jesus understands by experience our limitations and our weaknesses. Now when I say limitations and weaknesses, I'm not even talking about sin. I'm talking about the fact that we get hungry. We get tired, we get wearied emotionally, we can feel heavy and weighty. The fact that we live in a fallen world that we experience struggle in is something that Jesus experienced. The struggles that we face in life are not always a result of our sin. Sometimes they're just the result of living in a fallen world. And sometimes they're the result of just our humanity. The fact is we are creatures, not the creator. A second is this. He understands by experience both temptation and triumph. In other words, Jesus actually faced temptation. just like you and I face temptation. In Hebrews it says that he was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. When we read the Gospels, we see that Satan came to Jesus and he specifically tempted him about some very particular details about his humanity and the purpose for which the Father sent him into the world to purchase our redemption. And so Jesus felt the full weight of temptation. You know, when you and I are tempted, many times we don't go very far into the temptation. We give into it before we experience the full weight of it. But Jesus wasn't like that. He experienced the full weight of temptation and he conquered it. He triumphed over it in the flesh. And this can provide for us a tremendous comfort. that he understands by experience human limitations, human weaknesses, human temptation, and the triumph over temptation. The second detail I'm going to focus in is on the fact that he conquered sin and death in his flesh. Jesus didn't just come to give us an example or to come to give us comfort. He came to establish a basis of redemption. He came to bear the wrath of God's justice and holiness against our sin. And so we can be forgiven and we can be cleansed. We can come into the presence Of a holy God because of what Jesus did for us. And I want to leave you with this final thought. Because he understands by experience, because he has conquered sin and death in the flesh. He can sympathize with us, and he can comfort us in the greatest difficulties of life. And that is exactly what he desires to do. I go back to that Hebrews passage. It says he was tempted in all points like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly before the throne of grace. that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. It says he can succor, encourage, strengthen, come alongside them that are in difficulties in life. Every single one of us experiences heavy situations. In fact, you may be right now in the midst of a situation that is unbearable and the weight of it is so heavy you say, I don't think I can carry on Or you might even become bitter or angry with God and say, God, why have you allowed this to happen to me? And do you care about me? And the fact is this Jesus came into this world so that he could both sympathize with you, he could conquer the effects of a fallen world. And he could give you the full inheritance that is available to you for all of eternity. And so when you're experiencing hardship in life, recognize Jesus knows what it feels like to experience the same kinds of internal turmoils that you're experiencing. Every situation that we encounter, while it is different on the surface at the heart level, there's some just very basic things that we experience in life. And Jesus knows what it's like to experience the fullest weights that this world can possibly give us. He came because he loves you. And so in the midst of the complications of life, I want to remind you that you have a God who both has provided redemption for you, he has secured an eternal inheritance for you. And he wants to strengthen you from this day until the day that you go to meet him. I hope that encourages you this morning. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue in our series. Bye now.