Well good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope you've been enjoying the study this week. I hope it's been a challenge to you. What I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to kind of take what we talked about yesterday. and how God determines the nature of the work. It's his prerogative. And I'd like us to take that and I'd like us to expand it into thinking a little bit more about the uniqueness of the moment that we are living in here in history. So before we do that, I'm going to remind you again of the text we're reading, Luke chapter 10. Read through some of the details, and then we'll pick back up in this part. Here's what it says, After these things the Lord appointed other seventy also, sent them out two by two before his face into every city and place wherewith he himself would come. Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. Go your ways. Behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves. Carry neither purse nor script nor shoes, and salute no man by the way. And whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house. Now, yesterday when we talking about God's prerogative and the nature of the work that we're doing, we we reminded ourselves, first of all, that these seventy men received an objective calling from Christ. In the same way that the twelve disciples called apostles before they were sent out, they received an objective call. So did these men. Their job was primarily one of preaching the gospel in preparation for the Messiah coming. We're not talking about preaching the gospel the way that we would today, where we look back and say, this is what Christ has done, and this is why it matters, and this is why he must respond to it. But we're talking in terms of here is what the Messiah will do. And he's about to come and to see you and to talk about the establishment of his kingdom. And so that was the nature of the heralding or the preaching of their ministry. These individuals were empowered with sign gifts, whereas we take the scriptures that have been verified through the apostles' ministry and the prophets' ministry. And we take the scriptures and we expound them, we present them, we preach them, we teach them. So we are not empowered with signed gifts. We take the word that was verified by those who are empowered with signed gifts and we proclaim that that ministry. Their ministry was short and it was focused and it was dangerous, whereas a lot of times the ministries that we have are are planting ourselves in a community, raising our families, reaching the people. that God brings along our paths, engaging with people in the this the the area where we live at the moment. And these people were looking forward to the cross, whereas we look back at the cross. So We see all of the uniquenesses of their ministry. What I like to do is I like to expand the unique aspects of our moment in history. And I'm not doing that because I'm trying to elevate us as individuals. We're just tools that God uses. We're here for a very short time in the light of eternity and in the light of even human history. But there are unique challenges that we face, there are unique opportunities that we face. And so I'd like to talk about that for just a few moments so that we can think about this together. First of all, I'd like to talk about some of the positives of the time in which we live. We live in a time where there has never been more accessibility to information and knowledge. Think about something as simple as having a Bible. Okay, so I have I have lots and lots of physical Bibles. I have a I have a Bible that I bring when I go into or evangelism. I have a Bible that I bring when I step into the pulpit and I preach. I have a Bible that I use when I go to the rescue mission. I have a Bible that I use when I'm reading my devotions. These are all individual physical Bible. Each of my kids has a Bible. My wife has a Bible. We have so much access to scripture. I have I have a library that's full of resources. Right behind me are some of those resources, but that's only a snapshot of what I have in digital form. And then when we think about the ability to research, there is so much that you and I have access to today. Even 50 years ago in the lifetime of my own parents If you were to take all the information in all the world, , all the university libraries around the world, and you were to combine all that information, you do not have what you have accessible to you on your phone via the internet. We can do unbelievable amounts of research. Think about the prosperity of the time that we're living in. You know, some of you may have uh lived through the Great Depression, some of our older older uh saints, some of you who your grandparents or your own parents most certainly lived through the Great Depression. That was a very difficult time in America. People were starving. People were just trying to find a place to work and have a place where they could live. Times are very difficult. We think about World War II. We think about um the generations that came out of the World War II time period, these people lived through challenges We live in a very prosperous time in American history and in world history. There has never been more development in the world as a whole than there are today. There have never been more people living above the truly destitute poverty level than there are today. And and travel has never been more accessible. You know, if somebody wants to go to Europe, they can buy a plane ticket on their credit card, and literally they can fly all the way over to Europe or over to Central America or they can fly to Asia, or they can fly to Africa. They can do this in in in uh simply a few hours or a day or two of commuting traveling. Whereas many, many years ago, if someone was a missionary and they were traveling to Africa or to the Far East and Asia, it would take them months to get to the places that they're going. Many people died on those trips. Once they went over, there was no way they were coming back. Or if they did come back, it was a long and dangerous task to come back. And here we are today. We have the ability to communicate, we have the ability to study, we have the ability to travel, we have the resources at our disposal. There are so many positives of the time in which we live. But then there's also a lot of challenges. There's a lot of negatives. When I think about the United States and the Western world, there has never been a more secular generation than the generation that is living today. Think about something as simple as going door-to-door evangelists. When I was a teenager, we used to go door-to-door in the South, and we would knock on someone's door, we'd have a Bible, we'd invite them to church. And many, many times we would we would get very positive responses. Some would say, oh, I go to this church over here. And it would be a gospel preaching church. It would be a church that I was familiar with. Maybe even new people that went there. And I say, man, it's so encouraging to See you guys out, telling people about Christ, passing out tracts. And those would be the kinds of responses that we would get. Sometimes some would be like, hey, can I get you a bottle of water? And there was so much uh uh interest in those things where you get into a conversation and your starting point would be, well, let's look at what the Bible says. And someone would say, well, I know that that's God's word. Today It's quite different. Within our society, people look at religious people, they look at the church with sometimes disdain, distrust. Sometimes people look at the Bible and they say, I don't believe that's the Word of God. Why should I even use it as my starting point? I don't even believe that there is a God, that there's a Creator. And all of a sudden you start realizing this isn't the same country that my parents grew up in, or my grandparents grew up, or even I grew up in when I was a child. We're living in a very confused time. Very basic things. What is a marriage? Well, it's between one man and one woman. You know, the average person in America that you ask that question to, they wouldn't give you that answer. They would say, well, it depends. Or if you ask them, why do you believe that marriage is between one man and one woman, many people wouldn't be able to give you an answer to that. Or why do you believe that it's not? They wouldn't be able to give you an answer to that. Or a very basic question like, what is a man? What is a woman? Even one of our Supreme Court justices was famously asked to define what a woman was, and and the answer that she gave was, well, I'm not a biologist What an amazing statement. What does that tell you? We are living in a time with a lot of darkness, with a lot of people not believing there is objective reality and there is objective truth And there is a creator, and the Bible is God's word. And so we think about the fact that there are tremendous benefits to the time in which we live and tremendous challenges that are facing us in the time in which we live. But I want to close with this thought. The positives and the negatives give us one thing: opportunity. We're living in a time of great opportunity. I think about what Jesus says. Where he says, A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Therefore, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. What is Jesus saying? If you were to walk out into the desert on a dark night and there was a faraway city that was up on a hill, you would see the city because the light in the darkness is contrasted. And so, yes, we live in a tough time, but we live in a time of great opportunity. I'm convinced that the way that we shape the next generation in our families in the church, when it comes to issues of education, when it comes to the grounding of young believers in the faith there has never been a time that it was more critical in this nation that we raise our kids carefully, that we disciple the next generation within the church. that we learn how to stand strong on principle. We know what we believe. We know why we believe it. And what we believe and why we believe it is built solidly on the scriptures, the word of God. the influence of Christians in American society has never become more important. We have always been salt And we've always been light, but the fact is that those who have not lost their savor and those who are unashamed to allow their light to shine before men are those who will impact the generation that is living today. Think about it this way. The things that are written by Christians in this generation and the sermons that are preached and they're on YouTube and they're on Facebook and they're on Instagram and they're on people's blogs and they're on websites. These sermons and these writings and the interactions that we are having with people right now these generation this generation is being shaped by that, or they're not being shaped because of the lack of that And so it's so important that how we conduct ourselves in our families, in our personal lives, and in the church, it's important that it is solidly biblical and it is consistent with the principles that flow out of Scripture. Think of it this way. Even if Christ were to return tonight , We still have a seven-year tribulation of human history that's going to take place. And the people that live through that, those who have not known the Lord as their Savior, who have not embraced the gospel Those people who are going to get saved during that generation, they're going to get saved reading the things left by those from the people who are raptured out of here. And so you have that seven-year period. And those who are going to enter into the millennial kingdom are those who were saved during the tribulation time period. And so the point that I'm trying to make is that what we do with this generation matters. God is working in the world today. And so let's be faithful in what he calls us to, even in those mundane, simple tasks in this generation. I hope that this has been an encouragement. And I challenge you today. If it has, please take a moment to share that. Perhaps share it with somebody who could be benefited by it. And Lord willing, tomorrow, we'll close out our series with a few final thoughts. Have a blessed morning. Bye now