Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And yesterday we introduced a topic dealing with the concept of the danger of pride in ministry. And if you have your Bible, I want to ask you to turn with me to Luke chapter 9. We're looking at verses 46 through 50. And uh this passage of Scripture, in fact, is a very hard-hitting passage of Scripture. It's one that We often need to go to, especially when we're in seasons of life or ministry that are very encouraging, and we have the temptation to start thinking that we're entitled to God's favor, entitled to his blessings. We start getting the the mindset that the reason that God has blessed is because somehow we've earned those things. And we need to be very cautious that we do not get entangled with an arrogance or a pride, a selfish ambition. And so that's what we're looking at in these verses. I'm going to read it. uh and with you and then we're going to dig into um this this great temptation. I want us to think about it together. Here's what it says. It says and there arose a reasoning amongst them and that's referring to the disciples Which of them should be the greatest? And Jesus, perceiving the thoughts of their hearts, took a child and set him by him. And said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me, and whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me. For he that is least among you all, the same shall be great John answering, said, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us. Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not, for he that is not against us is for us Now, we started with an introduction. We talked yesterday about how much being involved in the Lord's work is a tremendous blessing. And it is a tremendous blessing. The fact that you get to work with your children, the fact that you get to be involved in ministry, maybe in in Anchor Baptist Church, if you're a member at our church, where Maybe another church that uh you're you're involved in the church, you get to see the Lord's work. Maybe you're a pastor, maybe you're a missionary, um, maybe you're someone who's been involved in a mentoring position, you're teaching Sunday school Whenever we have the opportunity to serve the Lord, to see someone trust Christ, to disciple a person, whenever we see Him working, There is this great temptation that is constantly there. And this concept of selfish ambition is something that can easily entangle those who are involved in the Lord's work. And there's a lot of scripture that warns us about this issue. There are a lot of examples of scripture of people who started well but finished poorly. People who began to to to serve the Lord well and at some point the ministry became more about them. than about the Lord. It really wasn't about ministry. It was about building their own kingdom rather than being involved in the Lord building his kingdom and building his church. And so we see a a classic example of this. In verse 46 of chapter 9, here's what it says. Then there arose a reasoning amongst them, which of them should be the greatest. Now, before we dig into this a little bit more, I want you to just think about how stunning this conversation is. In the previous verses in the context, Jesus has twice talked about the fact that he is going to die. And he's going to die for the sins of man. And in both situations, it says that the disciples did not understand these sayings. Jesus is talking about his humiliation. He's talking about his death on the cross. This is an unjust matter. He is going to go to the cross, not for his own sins, but for the sins of all of mankind. And so, in the midst of that kind of a conversation, it's stunning that the disciples would decide that they were going to have an argument about this matter. I think it's also important for us to recognize that some of the disciples have just experienced a great ministry failure. And so we'll come back to that in just a moment. But let's consider these things. There is a great danger that we would waste our life on empty pursuits. In fact, this is where probably the vast majority of people in the world find themselves. They're not living for something of eternal value, something that is bigger than themselves. They're living for the moment. the stuff, this short period of time that we are dealing with right now. They don't think in terms of eternity and God's glory and what has lasting value. And so many people fall into this danger of wasting their life on empty pursuits. And I ask this question Do you find yourself in this temptation? A second temptation, which to me is of greater danger than the first, is that rather than us simply wasting our life We take the good gifts that God has given us, our minds, the strength of our bodies, the experiences that we have. We have all of these tools, these gifts available to us. And rather than investing them in what has value, and rather than investing them in things that have no value, we go a step further and we actually invest our lives in evil pursuits. Many people, some of the most powerful people that have ever lived in human history, have not just wasted their lives. No, they've invested their lives in evil But then there's this third danger, one that we often don't consider, but that's exactly what the disciples found themselves doing And that is the danger to invest wisely in noble pursuits, but in the midst of that investment, to be motivated by less than noble motivations. In other words, doing the work of the ministry for ourselves, doing the work of the ministry because of the joy that we get out of it. Doing the work of the ministry because of the reputation that we may be able to establish. Doing the work of the ministry because it's it it's a it's it's kind of softening our conscience in areas where we feel kind of guilty or we feel like we've wasted our time. And I asked the question, is that really the way the Lord wants us to do ministry? And the answer is of course not. Think about the unique dynamics that these disciples found themselves in. They had been personally hand-selected by Christ. We can read the stories about Jesus calling each of the disciples. They'd experience these amazing, fascinating ministry triumphs. He calls the twelve, he sends them out, he gives them authority to cast out demons, to heal the sick. and the the the responsibility to preach the gospel of the kingdom. And when they come back they say, the demons are obeying us, we are healing the sick, and we are seeing the gospel spread all throughout Israel. And that's a ministry triumph. They saw these massive crowds that were coming to follow Jesus. They had experienced, we could say, the humbling rebuke. of not being able to help this boy who was demon-possessed. And so we see the high points of their ministry and the low points of their ministry. Three of these men had actually witnessed the glory of Christ. During the Transfiguration, the veil was removed and they were able to see the Lord Jesus in his glory. So these people experienced some amazing high points and some very difficult low points. The problem is that pride was beginning to manifest itself in their hearts. All of a sudden they were starting to think about how they had seen some amazing things and God had done some amazing things through them. And before long, what are they doing? They're comparing themselves to one another. They're trying to establish, because of selfish ambition, their own clout, their own pre omin preeminence within the group. They're trying to exclude others who they're afraid might be able to get an advantage over them. This is the mindset. that these people are having. And the the truth is that this is something that you can see sometimes within a family context, amongst siblings You can see it in a churching context, amongst people who uh kind of are interested in the same kind of ministries. You could see it amongst pastors, you could see it amongst missionaries. Unquestionably, we see this in the world around us. And so the question of well how does this pride tempt us? Well, when we experience ministry of triumphs, sometimes we become greedy for influence And recognition. We want people to notice us. We want people to say, did you see what brother so-and-so did? Wow, that was a great job. We want that recognition. Or sometimes we become intoxicated by the desire to experience ministry highs. We we we almost have this expectation that Every person we talk to has got to profess faith in Christ and every person that we're discipling has got to mature at a certain rate and and in every message that we preach people have to flood the altars and have to tell us how great the sermon was And all of a sudden we start getting these expectations that they're really unreasonable, but they're more than just unreasonable. They're actually all about us, and it's all about what we get. And we can begin to feel threatened when we see other people receive praise or someone who is experiencing visible success and we say, well that's my peer in ministry. We start at the same time, we work in the same community, and all of a sudden we feel threatened. We become frustrated with some of those people, maybe advance beyond us. And we say, well, I'm more qualified than that person is. We compare ourselves to others. And the fact is this All those things show us that what's important to us when we are thinking in such a way and acting in such a way is not the glory of God. It's not the advancement of his kingdom. It's not to serve him. It's not that we're the recipients of grace. It's that we've earned the right to be seen and to experience things that follow our expectations. And that's pride. That's selfish ambition And so I want to leave you with this very simple thought this morning. We desperately need to guard our hearts so that we do not become like these disciples. Jesus hand-selected them. He gave them all these wonderful opportunities. And the fact is he used them, but they were not thinking and acting in a way that was consistent with the privilege that had been given them. May the Lord help us to serve him humbly and to just simply be thankful that he uses us in any capacity at all. Hope that you have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing, we'll continue this short series tomorrow by now.