Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And uh we have been in Luke chapter 7 this week, and so I'm going to ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn there. And I'm going to read the whole section that we're looking at, but then we're going to focus in on three verses, verses forty, forty -one, and forty-two. So Luke chapter seven, verse thirty-six says this. And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. He went into the Pharisee's house and sat down to meet. Behold a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment. and stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with her tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with ointment And when the Pharisee which had bid in him saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she is a sinner Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee, you say of Master, say on. There was a certain creditor which had two debtors, the one owed five hundred pence, the other fifty. When they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore which of them will love him most. Now, in our first session that we were looking at in this passage, looking at this passage, we talked about some introductory materials and how important it is that we have a biblical view of sin. And so we dealt with that in pretty good detail. Yesterday we talked about the fact that Simon's perspective was flawed because it was inconsistent with truth. And so if we want to have a healthy, godly, vibrant, rich perspective, it's got to be consistent with the facts. Today what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to go back and I'd like us to see where Jesus directs the focus of this conversation. Jesus is going to focus on the heart, because the heart is where a healthy perspective begins And so in order for us to do that, I want us to first of all observe what Jesus did, how he handled Simon, and then I'd like us to look at how he directed the conversation and ultimately what he was trying to accomplish, because this is very, very important. So first of all, let's look at how Jesus responded to Simon. In verses 40 to 42, he tells him, he says, there was a certain creditor which had two debtors. The one owed 500 pence and the other 50. Now, in Jesus' parable as illustration, one person owes ten times the amount that the other person owes. And so Jesus is trying to get Simon to realize that not everybody owes the same debt to the person that they are indebted to. There's a reason why he's doing that. But then he goes on further. He says, and they had nothing to pay. So even though one person owed fifty and the other five hundred, and there was a huge discrepancy, a difference between the amount owed They both really had the same problem. They both owed a debt that they did not have the ability to pay. And so it says that when the creditor saw it, he chose to frankly forgive both of them. Now there's a reason that Jesus is telling this parable. Jesus is trying to get Simon to think. He's trying to get Simon to think about the fact that you know what? He in his own mind owes a small debt. In fact, it's even arguable that Simon might not even believe that he really owes a debt. He may actually believe that he is good with God and that God should accept him because he's a good guy. But he obviously sees that this other person, this woman, this great sinner, is a person who has a massive debt. So Jesus is trying to draw his attention in the parable. But then Jesus does something stunning. He says he forgives both of them. He actually shows grace to both people, even though they they both owed a different amount, one person ten times the amount the other. The fact is they both were on equal standing. They were equally in debt because they couldn't pay it. They were equally in trouble, and they were equally forgiven. That's what Jesus is trying to say. But that's not where Jesus stops because the second part to what Jesus does is he asks a question He's trying to get Simon to think. And the question that he asks is indicating that there's a deeper focus that Jesus is wanting Simon to have. Think about for a minute what Jesus didn't ask him He didn't ask him, well, was the creditor just in doing that? In fact, Simon might have believed that he wasn't. The fact that he would treat two people that had an unequal debt the same way, that doesn't seem just to a person who is a letter of the law kind of a person. He could have asked, was it sensible? Well, you know, that justice is that if you owe something, you need to pay it back. And so he could have asked them the question, was that a sensible thing to do? Was it a just thing to do? Would you have done that? He could have asked that question, but that's not the question that Jesus asked Simon. He asked the question: which of those two people will love the master the most. Jesus is trying to direct the conversation. He's trying to direct the conversation away from justice and rights and who owes what and a comparison of debt amounts and he's drawing it to which of the two people has a love for the master because they've been forgiven. In other words, he's focusing on the heart, and that's extremely important. And the reason that he's focusing on the heart is because a healthy perspective isn't just about how we think And it's not just about what we're doing, but it's about the source of motivation. It's about what's going on inside. I may have my thinking process correct as far as it's organized in the boxes, but if I don't have the heart behind it that I'm supposed to have, my perspective really is flawed. I might be doing the right thing, but if the source of motivation is wrong, it's not a genuine love for God, well then I ultimately have a problem. Even we go to Deuteronomy chapter 6 and it talks about the Shema and how we're to love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. What is he focusing on? Is he focusing on the obedience in the law or the love that motivates the obedience to the law? The answer is it's love God and love your neighbor. And if you love God and if you love your neighbor, then obedience to God's law and treating your neighbor justly and rightly that will naturally fall because uh follow because obedience is something that is like the caboose that follows love Love is supposed to be the motive. Obedience is supposed to be the action that follows or flows out of that love. But I want us to go beyond just what Jesus is doing, and I want us to ask the question, why is Jesus doing this? In fact, what Jesus is doing gives us an excellent pattern for how we should try to help people who are We could say spiritually blind or they have blind spots and they don't have the ability to see clearly. By the way, this is something that God does with us. He does it through circumstances, he does it through it the preaching of his word. Sometimes he does it through to friends or people that love us and care about us and are concerned about our spiritual well-being. The reason that Jesus handled this the way that he did is because he wanted to challenge Simon's perspective. I mean Jesus could have easily said, Simon, you're wrong. Simon, you're a self-righteous bigot. You you look at this woman, you have such arrogance and pride in your heart, and you look at her like she has no value. He could have easily done that if he wanted to, but that's not the way that he did it. The approach that Jesus took was to draw him to think clearly, and as he started to think clearly, all of a sudden it would begin to prick his conscience. And as the conscience is awakened, Simon has the opportunity to have a repentant spirit toward this woman, or uh ultimately towards Jesus himself, in other words, allowing his thinking to be changed and shaped into a right thinking, he he could actually submit to what God is showing him, or he can reject it coldly. And so the question is, well how does How does he get to the point where his perspective changes? What is the process that brings us to that kind of thinking change? Well, the process begins with Sometimes having to see a situation that does not directly apply to us. And so that's exactly what Jesus was doing. He took this situation, a parable, to try to illustrate a point that he was eventually going to draw to Simon's attention and say, Simon, that's you. This is exactly what happened when David was was uh emboldened in his adultery and in his murder of Bathsheba's husband Uriah. You think about that story. Here's this man David who knows so much about God. He's been so passionate about the things of God And for a solid year, David is living a delusional life. He is cold and he is calloused and he is hard-hearted. And the question is, how does God get David's attention? The way that he gets his attention is he sends Nathan the prophet. But when he sends Nathan the Prophet, Nathan doesn't come directly to David about the issue. He starts with a story. He says, David, I want to tell you about somebody who had a little lamb, and he has this little lamb that he loves, that he's taking care of. He begins to tell them about this lamb. And the neighbor comes and kills the person's little lamb. And when David hears the story, He obviously sees the injustice and he sees how evil what he did and how self-centered and how cruel and how calloused it is. And David said, That person deserves to die. And Nathan said, That's you, David. All of a sudden David goes, Oh. That is me. What's the point That's how God gets our attention. He takes a situation that we can see clearly because we don't think it personally applies to us. And then when we can see it clearly in somebody else, he says, that's you. God does this in our lives all the time. God does this through our children, sometimes as parents. Think about how many times we have blind spots in our lives. And we're dealing with some issue with our children. We get so frustrated with them and all of a sudden God kind of gets our attention and says, That's what you do to me. That's what you did in this situation. You know, we deal with a difficult coworker or a situation that just it frustrates us so much. And as it frustrates us so much, all of a sudden God kind of turns the table and he says, you know what, you're doing the same thing to somebody else. And he convicts our heart and he convicts us of our need to humble ourselves and make the issue right. I mean, that is essentially what God or what what the Lord Jesus Christ caught in flesh, what he's doing here He is graciously trying to draw Simon's attention to see this. He's taking a principle and then he's he's drawing it to him to see it. But but but the bottom line is that this man Simon needed his focus to be directed away from justice and rights to grace and gratitude and love. And you know, a lot of times we live in this place. We live where Simon lives. We have this strong justice system. We demand our rights and we want everybody to treat us right. And we forget that, you know what? We've been forgiven of a huge amount. We've experienced an immense amount of grace from God. We need to give some grace and we need to show some forbearance and we need to be willing to forgive and not demand our rights in every situation. That's what Jesus is doing here. But as he's pricking the conscience, he drives home to the heart issue. And that's not just a play on words. The heart issue is who loves him the most. Jesus is basically saying, Simon, you don't love me because you've not been forgiven. You don't care about her. Because you don't recognize your need is equal to her need. Yes, you might see this imbalance of debt, but you both equally cannot Pay the debt and it's available to you to be paid for you through my redemptive work. That's really what Jesus is saying And so the heart of the issue is who loves him the most. A person who understands forgiveness and understands God's grace is a person who loves God because they recognize they don't deserve this position. In other words, he wants to emphasize that a healthy perspective is all about love. It's not just about a well-formed worldview, and I am in no way diminishing the need for a well-formed worldview as a pastor, one of my greatest burdens is that as in the teaching of God's Word, people's worldview is shaped so it's consistent with the truth. It is thoroughly biblical. It is really the way that God wants us to think. That is so important. Thinking is critical. But it's not just our brains that God wants. He wants our affections. He wants our love. He wants our heart. And so he wants the truth that we know about him to actually become so personal that it grips our heart and it stirs our affections and it directs our hearts to love him thoroughly. He doesn't just want our heads and our hands and our feet. He wants our hearts to be guiding and moving and motivating our hands and our feet. So you may say, Pastor, what what is the application? What am I supposed to take away from this this morning? Let me give you a couple of thoughts to think about. First of all , We need to go back and remind ourselves of what Christ was trying to tell Simon. Now I am in no way suggesting that everybody listening to this video is a Simon, okay? I'm not saying that at all. In fact I would say probably the vast majority of you really are not Simons, okay? You understand the gospel, you place your faith in Christ, you understand that you are in this position by grace alone through faith alone and Christ alone. And and you you're not in arrogance saying, I deserve to be in heaven someday. You say it's the grace of God alone. That's the vast majority of us. But you know the truth is this. Even though that is our fundamental position and we rest in it and we know it in our heads, it's really easy for us to drift away from a healthy perspective in relation to how we view ourselves. And so the lesson that Jesus was trying to drive home to Simon, we may need it ourselves this morning. The second thing is this. The point isn't how much we owe. But rather our inability to pay it and the fact that God at his grace forgave it in full. That's really what it's all about It's not about comparing ourselves to other people and say, oh wow, I'm not as bad as they are. Oh, they are a lot worse than me. No, that's not what it's all about. It's about saying, you both need forgiveness. And God forgives, and He's good, and you should be grateful for it. That's the point. And so we need to be a people Who think a lot less about demanding our rights and demanding justice and I'm going to get what I deserve and thinking, God, thank you. For your grace. Help me to be a little more patient with the people around me. Help me to extend the kind of grace to others that you've extended to me. That's the way we need to be thinking. Third thing. God wants us to do more than just think right about Him. He obviously wants that. He wants our hearts to be moved. He wants them to be moved regularly by the truth. And the way that happens is that we have to continually take the time to draw ourselves back to the truths of the gospel, and we've got to meditate on them, we've got to chew on them, we've got to Dig into them on a regular basis. Folks, it's not just about our heads, not just about our hands, it's about our hearts. I pray that this will be a real encouragement to you today. I want to share with you one more thing that I read the other day. I jotted this down on Tuesday in my journal, and I'm reading through a book called Voices from the Past. It's about uh different Puritan uh writers and some of their uh some of their devotional thoughts. They weren't writing devotionally a lot of them are sermons but People have taken excerpts of those sermons and their books and they've put them uh as as uh thoughts to consider, devotional thoughts. And this is one that I read uh the other day by John Owen. I want to read to you because I think it really captures what we're talking about this morning. Here's what it says. It says, it's exceeding grievous to the Spirit of God to be slandered in the hearts of those whom he dearly loves. It is folly to doubt God's love. He is good, gracious, tender, kind, and loving to his children. Endear your souls unto God. Delight in him. and make your abode in him. I think that's a really great statement by John Owen. It's actually, uh I took a larger quote and I broke it down into some of the pieces. But that's really what it's all about. It's about our heads thinking clearly so that our hearts can be fully engaged, so that when we go to work with our hands and our feet, We're properly motivated by a genuine love for God. Remember, obedience is not the engine, it's the caboose. Love is what motivates Obedience to God. I hope that that's an encouragement to you this morning. It's a lot to think about, and I pray that it's a blessing to you. Have a blessed day, and Lord willing, we'll talk again tomorrow. Bye now.