Tonight uh we're going to kind of abbreviate uh our beginning part because we have our business meeting tonight. Uh so we're gonna open up with a word of prayer and we're gonna take some favorites. And then do testimonies, and then we'll get right into the message. So let's bow for a word of prayer, and uh then we'll get started with a couple of favorites tonight. Father, thank you so much for uh this Lord's Day, the opportunity we had this morning to just remember the birth of Christ and the significance of the incarnation. I pray that you'll bless this evening, help our time singing together and sharing praises. Help it to be very encouraging, uplifting. And I pray that you'll bless the preaching of your word. We also pray that you'll bless in the business meeting tonight. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening everyone. Boy, if we're seeing hands. Pop up. Look at all that. Okay, I tell you what. I've got to get something to write down with. And You know what? We'll start with the kids first, but everybody's gonna get your uh licks in here, I can tell. So little young lady back there in the middle. How come all ye faithful? Yeah. Okay, then we'll start over here with Nate. Number two, red book. Okay, little Kinian. One fifty two blue book. Yes, sir. Ninety six? 196 in the red book. Maya? Two twenty in the red book. Okay, now Let's let's start with those. That'll be all we can do. You think so? Yes. We're abbreviating it again. Ah, okay. The pastor has spoken. Sorry about that. Well we got it. We got several in there. I got to get my glasses on so I can read these. Okay. All right. Whoever called out 201, you can come up here and help me sing, right? Yeah, no. Okay. I bet she would. She'd come up with your oh No, can you sing with your mom? Because I'd have to hold you up here and that that would that would probably wear this old man out, okay? Yeah, he's not as as young and vigorous as he used to be. But thank you for being willing. That was a blessing. Just a okay. Stand. And we'll sing One verse of O come, all ye faithful. Sing out Joyful and cry of time. For him All come with the world, all come with the Lord. Okay, just a couple more pages back to 197. Page 197. It came upon a midnight clear. Amen. I gotta watch out for these young kids. They'll call my bluff if I ask them to come up here, won't they? Goodness. Okay, now number two. is not necessarily. Ah, okay. Page two, all the way to the front. Come, Christians, join to sing. This was Adeline's request, right? Okay. We haven't sang this one in a while. Good. Go ahead and have a seat. We'll turn back to page let's see. Oh, it's the blue book. Okay, page 152. That's almost to the back of the blue book. It helps if you've got it right side up. Maybe. We'll see. Oh Okay. All right, it was for me he died. Been a while since we sang that one That's a good one for Christmas time. All right. Now we'll go back to the red book, page 196. Page one hundred and ninety-six, angels we have heard on high. Some door and let it go , even on the river play , I under the pretty fly , door black and little. And let's see. Page two hundred and twenty. I keep going by. We three kings of Orient are. You gonna come up after this and do some testimonies? Okay Why don't I sing the first and last of We Three Kings? We Three Kings. Field and back and forth and motion following the star Oh, star of monster, star of night, star with royal beauty bright, Westward leading state of proceeding sky and Thy perfect mind on less, glorious now before him and eyes, King and God and sacrifice , Star of wonder, star of night, star of royal beauty, bright. Good singing tonight. That's good. I don't mind that being made for me. the world. Anybody got a page real quick? What's that? 194. Okay. Yep. 194, the first and the last. For joy to the world. Please stand with me for our last song before the special and the message. Joy to the world the Lord is come. Let her receive her king. Let every heart prepared room and nature seek, heaven nature seek, and heaven and heaven He rule the world with great memory and make the nation through the glory. Amen. Please be here. Fear not, for I bring you good news Of great joy, of great joy Unto you a child is born is nice, Christ follow Christ alone, there is more light in this chance. Than darkness in the world, there is more peace in this prince Than power, strife, or sword. There is more love in this heart Than death can stand against His name is Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Fear not the love of the Father, send it on Stand his son. Fear not the promised Messiah. He has come. He has come see or not, though you sit in darkness. There is light. There is light. Fear not the gift that he offers brings new life Brings new life. There is more light in this chart. Than darkness in the world, there is more peace in this prince Than power of strife or sort There is more love in this king than death and against His name is Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Okay, thank you so much for that. Uh if you could let's take our Bibles and turn together to Genesis chapter two. And uh I I mentioned this earlier this morning, um, but uh if you enjoyed the program this morning morning. I hope that you can come to our Christmas Eve service because we have a wonderful, wonderful program that is planned and the scriptures that we're going to be looking at, they're just, it's just telling the story. From really the fall to the promise to the culmination of those promises in the person of Christ. And the music is going to be very powerful and it's going to be very focused on the incarnation. So if you're here and you can come, I think that you will really enjoy that. And if you're not able to make it, I hope that you can at least following the live stream. But I will say this. The live stream does not do a justice to being in person in a service. And uh it's just there's something very powerful about how God works in our hearts. We're gathered together in this place. And uh so I just want to encourage if you can make it, please do come to that and uh bring people out. It'll be a wonderful, wonderful. Genesis chapter 2, and we're looking at verses 15 through 17. We are working our way through the Old Testament. It's only going to take us five years, no big deal, right? No, what we're doing is we're telling the story of redemption, but we're doing it through some of the key Old Testament passages that really are giving us the unfolding plan of redemption. And the last two weeks we talked about creation and how God made the world good. Last week we talked about the uniqueness of people. We are created in God's image. He created us male and female. And God created marriage. And the fact that we have dignity as people created in God's image, it actually matters. The fact that we are either male or female and that God assigns us that we We are born, not when we're born, when we're conceived, really, that is something that has sacred dignity. And when we talk about marriage, that God created marriage to be that covenant union between one man and one woman till death separates them, that is a sacred matter before God. So we're going to move from those very important tris to really where things start going bad. And what I want us to do tonight is not just look at when things went bad, but I want us to see that God knew exactly what was going to take place God was prepared to deal with that mess that we're now living through. And God promised that he was going to send redemption right away there in the garden. So Genesis chapter 2, verses 15 through 17 is where we'll start. And this evening we're going to look at the devastation of the fall and the promise of redemption. Genesis 2. 15 says the following. And the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it. For in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt Surely die. Let me kind of summarize the section that we will be spending time in this evening. God created Adam in his own image with the freedom to choose between good and evil. And when Adam sinned, his sin had devastating consequences for all creation. By the way, Adam's sin did not just affect himself. and his wife and those who would be his offspring. The fact is that the fall actually affected all of creation. All of creation groans and labors in birth pains the way the scripture puts it, waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our bodies. And so Adam's sin wasn't just about him, and it wasn't just about he and Eve, but his sin affected all of creation. So then we see when Adam sinned, his sin had devastating consequences, yet God chose to promise a Savior who would redeem And so when we talk about the goodness of creation, the devastation of the fall, it would be wrong for us not to look at the promise of redemption. Because God did not abandon his creation when Adam sent. I think what God would have us to see from this passage and the scriptures we'll look at tonight is that he wants us to understand why the world is so messy. So with that in mind, let's dig into a couple of simple truths that we'll find in these verses this evening. The first truth is that God created man as a free moral aid. Now when we use that phrase a free moral agent, what we're saying is that when God created Adam, he created him as a moral creature who had a real capability. to choose between what was right and what was wrong. This is not just a theoretical thing. This is a real thing. It says in verse 15, we just read it, that he took the man, he put him in the garden, and he commanded him, of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely Eat, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat of it. For in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Well, some of us might be reading these verses and we see where things are today and we go, why did God give Adam such ability that he could actually make moral choice between good and evil? Is free will actually a good thing? Well, if that's the way that God made Adam, then we have to assume that in fact it is a good thing. It serves God's purpose, but this fact is that if Adam was not a free moral agent, he really could not have responsible, or he really could not have the ability to have legitimate delegated He couldn't really have the ability to have real relationship with his creator. He could not reflect his creator the way that God designed him to do it. So when God God made him a moral creature, he was making him with the capacity to have relationship, the capacity to actually rule, delegated authority, and the capacity to reflects God's glory. But with that ability came the potential for terrible evil. And with that potential for terrible evil came, well, what we see today. The evil that we see in this world. And by the way, I'll say this. If God told Adam, I have created you in my image, and God created him with the capacity to choose between what was morally right and what was morally wrong. But that he never gave him some kind of test to demonstrate that this ability was actually genuine, then my question is, would it really be that he was a free moral agent? The answer is no. It would have been nothing more than a theory. And so for this capacity to actually be practical, God put a test in the garden. And the test was not there so that Adam would sin. The test wasn't there to lure Adam into evil. The test was there to demonstrate that this moral capability was real. It was actually genuine. It was not just a theoretical thing. The third thing I want to mention under this point is that decisions have consequences. If Adam obeys God, well then the world would not be the way that it is today. In fact, it's kind of hard for us to imagine what would have been the com the result of Adam having been faithful with this particular text. On the other side, when Adam sinned and disobeyed, the consequences were very real and very serious. Notice what it says in verse 17. In the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. And by the way, if you look at this in the Hebrew, the way it literally reads is, dying, you will die. That's a very interesting way of expressing it. it. And by the way, that is kind of how we live our lives, is it not? We are dying and we're going to die. The moment that Adam ate that fruit, spiritually, he died, and the process of dying began, and the guarantee that he would one day physically die was set in stone. There are a lot of scriptures that talk about this moment. Romans 5, for instance. By one man, Adam, sin entered into the world, and death by sin. So death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. 1 Corinthians 15, 22, and Adam all died. Romans 8. 20 says that the create the creature was made subject to vanity, the whole creation. groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. Hebrews 9. 27 tells us that it is appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment All of those verses really take us back to that moment in the garden when Adam chose to take the capability that God gave him as a free moral agent. and he chose to disregard God's command, and he chose to sin. The second thing I want us to see tonight is that God knew exactly what Adam would do. Now, when Adam sinned in the garden, it wasn't as if God goes, What am I going to do with this man? It wasn't like God said, What is going on? I didn't know he would do this. God knew exactly how Adam would respond. to the test. Listen carefully to two scriptures that I think are very, very interesting. One is actually a part of a sermon that was preached by the Apostle Peter. The other is Peter actually speaking in his epistle. I'm going to read his epistle first. In 1 Peter 1, verse 18, he says it this way. He says, Ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold. From your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Now listen carefully to the next thing he says, because it's very interesting. Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the worlds But was manifest in these last times for you. What that tells us is that before Adam sinned in the garden God already had determined how he would accomplish redemption for this man who was in the garden in innocence, but he knew would sin against him. God had purposed to send a redeemer. And so that was determined even before the foundation of the world. God would send a Savior. And then I love the way that he says it. He was forordained by before the foundation of the world manifests in these last times for you. In other words, it was determined in the past, and you have actually been eyewitnesses of the culmination of those promises. In other words, God has revealed his faithfulness to accomplish what he has purposed to do. Fascinating statement. Peter preached in Acts chapter 2. This is what he says, verse 22. Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know. Listen carefully what it says. Him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. whom God hath raised up having loosed the pains of death because it was not possible that he should be holden of it. So what these verses are telling us is as Peter is preaching these verses, he's saying, you know, from the perspective of people living in the first century, the reason that Christ went To the cross is because there were people that delivered him for the sake of envy. They hated Jesus. They wanted him crucified. They wanted to get rid of him. But in God's determinate plan, God was determining to send the Lord Jesus to the cross. And by the way, let me say this. Those people were not acting as robots. They really hated Jesus. Jesus didn't put that in their heart. God didn't make them evil so that they wanted to accomplish this evil purpose. It was in their heart. God gave them the liberty to do what they wanted to do with their own fallen and depraved hearts. They wanted to kill Christ, but God determined he would send Christ to the cross to accomplish whatever. What's really amazing about this is some of those very people that consented to the death of Christ. Those very people who said, crucify him, he was going to the cross for them. Is that not incredible? Think about the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul consented to the death of Stephen. The apostle Paul was very likely a member of the Sanhedrin. And so as this man is saying, My vote is that you crucify him, that man one day would bow the knee to the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ and confess, you are the Lord. And he would embrace him as his Savior. It's incredible to think about. But the point that I want us to notice here is that before the fall, God was not caught off guard. He had a plan to send Redemption. The third truth that I want us to say, by the way, we can't figure all that out, okay? But that's clearly what the scripture states. Truth number three. Adam and Eve chose to sin. Now I know this is uh rocket science right here, but here's what it says in verse six. It says when the woman saw that the tree was good for food Food. She took of the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave unto her husband also, with her, and he did eat it. To put it very simply, they saw the fruit, they desired what it could give them, and they ate the fruit. And the scripture tells us that when Adam sinned, he understood what he was doing. He chose to disobey God. So here's the question: what happened when they sinned? Let me put it in very simple terms. Adam and Eve died. You say, well, they did talk to God after this event. They did go and they did take fig leaves and sew them together and try to cover their nakedness because of their shame, didn't they? Of course they did. They did end up having children, Cain and Abel, didn't they? Yes, of course they did. They went on to live many, many years beyond this event. In fact, we know Adam lived 900 plus beyond it. So you say, well, how did they die? I want you to see the evidence of how they died. Because the fact is that when we talk about death, there are different aspects of death that the scripture talks about There's an aspect of death that is just as real as going to a funeral and seeing that there is a body laying in a casket. It's just as real, but a person is physically alive while they're spiritually dead. Every single person is born into this world fallen, broken, under God's judgment, and demonstrating their fallen state as they live out their lives. The very moment that Adam and his wife sinned. They died spiritually. And remember what it says: dying, you will die. So interesting how it's stated. In other words, there was an immediate spiritual death. They were beginning to physically die, though it would take a very long time. time. And one day they would physically die, and if it wasn't for the grace of God and the cross, there'd be no hope of redemption. Notice what it says in verses 9 and following. I want us to see the evidence of this spiritual death that took place. Verse 9 it says, chapter 3, the eyes of them both were open. They knew that they were naked. Very interesting statement. They sewed together fig leaves and made upon themselves aprons. And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And Adam and his wife hid themselves in the presence of the Lord God. among the trees of the garden. The Lord God called unto Adam and said unto him, Where art thou? And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden and I was afraid. Because I was naked. And I hid myself. And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree? It's kind of an interesting question. Not that God didn't know that. He wanted him to speak up. To fess up, you might say. He says, Has thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat? And the man said, the woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and did eat. And the Lord God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? The woman said, The serpent beguiled me and I did eat. I want you to see a couple of immediate evidences. But there was spiritual death that took place the moment they sinned. The first thing is they felt shame. It says that their eyes were opened and they knew that they were naked. Another way to put it is they felt shame. They've never felt shame before. They didn't even know what shame was. And all of a sudden, at that moment that they sinned, they feel something inside that is new. It's it's an experience that they didn't know before. It's that conscience issue that we talked about this morning in Sunday school. They felt shame. That's an immediate evidence of the fact that they were spiritually dead. They tried to cover their shame. It says they sowed fig leaves. They were looking for some kind of a solution. Outside of God, in themselves, they were looking for a solution. Like that person who says, I want to stand before God in my righteousness. And God says, No, I don't accept your righteousness. This is something that spiritually dead people pursue, trying to make a remedy in their own means. They tried to cover their shame. It's very interesting they hid from God. Adam and his wife hid themselves, it says. You know, it's interesting. In Romans chapter 3, it says that there is none who understandeth, and there's none that seeketh after God. What he's basically saying is, you know, people live in this world, and if God just left them to themselves, if he didn't pursue them in his grace, they wouldn't look for God. Now, as God begins to work in their heart, there are people that respond to what God is doing in their heart, but if God just left them to themselves, there would be no response. They'd not be seeking after God. And so here is God going after Adam, going after Eve, and they're hiding from God who can actually help them. Who can actually resolve their problem? This is a demonstration of the fact that something has taken place inside of them that is tragic, their spiritual death. It's kind of interesting. It says that they were afraid. They had a twisted view of God. They didn't see him as this glorious creator That had made this good world, this beautiful world, that they were enjoying, that they were managing, that they were living in. Instead they're afraid of God because their view of God has become twisted. And you go, why is it become twisted? Because of spiritual death. They accused God. Very interesting what Adam says here. He says, the woman that thou gavest me So who is the problem in Adam's view? Well, it is Eve, but it's God who gave Eve to him. You see what he's doing? An evidence of spiritual death. He accuses God. And lastly, they refuse to take responsibility. What does Eve say? She says, Well, the serpent beguiled me and I did eat. Now, you know what's really interesting? All of those things that were just mentioned, you and I experience them, don't we? Shame, trying to cover our shame, trying to hide from God, having a twisted view of God, accusing God in our lives, refusing to accept responsibility. These are the evidences of someone who's spiritually dead. Now I'm not saying that a believer can't experience these things, okay? Because when I trust Christ, when I become a new creature. I still have that fleshly nature, and there's this battle, this growth and sanctification. But those things are in our lives by nature because we are fallen people. So Adam and Eve did indeed die spiritually. There are immediate consequences for their sin. In Genesis 3, 16-19, it talks about how Eve was going to experience sorrow in bringing new life into the world. He says, I'll greatly multiply thy sorrowing conception, and in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children. And one of the most amazing things that we as humans are able to do in this world. is have offspring. I this is an incredible thing. Like our lives don't just end in SCN, but when we have children and we invest in those children, it's like We pass on to them and they pass on to the next generation and the next generation. We're part of a storyline. So one of the most glorious things that we're able to be a part of in this World is that that aspect of being able to pass on from one generation to another generation to another generation. Yet, in this particular scenario, what do we see? Something that should be a joyful matter. was now a very painful matter. And by the way, when we talk about pain, we're not just talking about the fact that it hurts to have children, but it hurts to not be able to have children. It hurts to have children who disappoint us. It hurts to experience the the heartache and the sorrow that is associated with raising children, and sometimes things come up that blindsided sometimes life. This particular statement can go into lots of different avenues. And so when he talks about sorrow being associated with the woman being able to bring children into the world. I can go in so many different places. Talks about the frustration of the roles that God has designed for Adam in his life. God gave them this wonderful thing called marriage, a covenant, where there's supposed to be a sweet relationship Yet that relationship is now going to become very strained because that man is a sinner and that woman is a sinner. And because they're sinners, they're going to have contentions that would have never been a part of such a relationship apart from their fallenness. He says, thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he will rule over thee. By the way, there's an interpretive discussion on this. But in my view, what he's saying is, you're going to want his role. And he's going to use his role, or should I say, misuse his role, by being a domineering person. Now I know that there's lots of different ways that this can go. Not every husband's a domineering person. Not every wife is trying to take her husband's role. But this is a very common problem that we see in marriages. If you've ever, you know, done counseling and co Encouraging young couples, guess what? You will see that these are some of the things that creep up over and over and over again. But the question is, what is it? What is the cause of that? It's the sin nature of those two people. We see the struggle to survive, thorns and thistles bringing forth, the frustration of our work and sweat, your face in the sweat of your face you will eat bread And then he says that ye will deteriorate physically. In the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat bread till thou return unto the ground, from out of it wast thou taken, for dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return You see how terrible the fall is? So here is Adam and Eve that enjoyed paradise for we have no idea how long. But because of sin, they experienced spiritual death. Their relationship with God is now broken. Their relationship with one another is now broken. Their roles in the creation are now strained, and they're going to struggle in this world, and eventually they're going to die. That's terrible. But that's not the most terrible consequence of the fall. Say, really? Yes, it's not. There's a theological significance to this sin. It's called eternal condemnation. Romans 5. 17, by one man's offense death reigns. Romans 5. 18, by the offense of one, judgment came upon all men to condemnation. Verse 19, by one man's disobedience many were made sinners. Not only do we are we born spiritually dead, And not only do we live a complicated life in a fallen world, but we're guilty before God. And we deserve eternal judgment in the lake of fire. These are the consequences of the fall. And say, Pastor, I'm glad that's not the last point. It isn't the last point. Because the last point is this. God promised redemption and restoration through the seed of the woman. Genesis 3. 15 says, I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Let me kind of break this down for you. The first thing is it's telling us is that Satan hates people. He hates image bearers, and this is how he puts it. There's going to be enmity between the Satan and the woman. The world hates the future Redeemer. Between thy seed and Her seed. And that statement, her seed, is referring to a singular person, the Lord Jesus Christ. So it's not just that Satan hates people, humanity, but he hates the coming Redeemer. Thirdly, the Redeemer is going to crush Satan and this world system It says it, referring to the seed of the woman, will bruise your head. Maybe the best way to put it is if you can picture Satan being a serpent here on the ground, he steps up to it, crushes its head, and stands on and says, I'm victorious. You like that image, don't you? I know somebody out there must love this image. That's what he's saying. The seed of the woman, the Lord Jesus Christ, is going to crush the serpent's head. He's going to be victorious, but at a cost. That's a reference to the pain and the agony that's going to be experienced by the Messiah as he renders that final death blow to save And folks, this is talking about why there's a cross. This is talking about what took place on the cross. The Lord Jesus Christ, as he was nailed to that cross, was experiencing the pain and the hardship predicted in this verse. But at the same time, he was conquering death and sin by his action on the cross. And this is all the result of what? Satan's hatred for people. Galatians 4, 4-5, it puts it this way: When the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son Made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. 1 Peter 2, it says, who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sin should live under righteousness by whose stripes we are healed. Second Corinthians 5 21, he made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. What was taking place on the cross? God's justice was satisfied So that there's now a basis for him to forgive you, to forgive me, and to declare a sinner righteous. It's all based on the work of Christ. So I want to bring it to a very simple conclusion. This story explains to us a lot of things about the world and the way it is. The first thing it does is it explains that this world and everything in it was created with real value and a good purpose. But corruption came into the world because of Adam. And you know, when we look at this world, we really see both sides. You know, we were talking about the conscience this morning in Sunday school. Every single person has a moral conscience. That doesn't mean that their moral conscience reflects the Bible, but it bears evidence to the fact that they're created in the image of God. They're a moral creature, they have a moral sense. But then we see corruption. The fact is that corrupt that that conscience is not is not an infallible conscience. Just because I believe something's morally wrong in my heart, or because I feel it's morally okay in my heart, does it mean that it is or that it is not? The standard is the Word of God. And so we see the testimony to the goodness of God's creation, and we see the testimony to the flaw, the brokenness of humanity. Third, Adam's rebellion and all the terrible consequences. They didn't catch God by surprise. I'm thankful for that. God didn't go, what did I do? What am I gonna do? Is there any hope? God said, okay, now it's time to reveal what I'm going to doing. do. And the gospel is our only hope. You know, when we think about this Christmas season, we can celebrate because all of this season tells us there is hope. And it's in Christ. And so when we think about the fall and what's taken place, I hope that we won't just look at the negative, but we'll also look at the Positive. That we'll glory in what Christ has done for us. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, thank you for this passage of Scripture. Many, many scriptures. That tell a story of what took place in the garden and why it was such a devastating, devastating course of action. Yet in this storyline we see hope and promise. We see redemption. We see that you have purposed and accomplished this plan of redemption for us. I pray that we would be a very grateful and humbled people. I pray that we would look at this world in a biblical way. And I pray that you'd help us to be passionate about proclaiming We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, I know that we have a business meeting in a few minutes. So rather than doing our normal closing song and all that, what I want to do is I want us to take about a 10-minute break. And uh during that time