Turn with me in your Bibles to the book of Luke, and we are in Luke chapter 20 this morning, and we're going to read through that chapter division, Luke 20, verses 41 down to chapter 21, verse 6. And we're going to dig into a concept that I think is extremely important, and that is the concept of the devastating consequences of Christless religion. And the text in front of us is going to give us some tremendous insight into what it looks like when a group of people are religious, but Christ is not the center of it all. Here's what the text says. And he said unto them, How say they that Christ is David's son? And David himself saith in the book of Psalms. The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. David therefore calleth him Lord. How is he then his son? Then in the audience of all the people, he said unto his disciples, Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes and love greetings in the markets. the highest feats of the synagogue and the chief rooms at feasts, which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers. The same shall receive greater damnation. He looked up and saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury. He saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites. He said, Of a truth, I say unto you, this poor widow hath cast in more than they all. For all these have of their abundance cast in unto the offerings of God. But she of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had. And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts, he said, As for these things which ye behold, the days will come. in which there shall not be left one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, as we read this text and we reflect on this text, I pray that your word would speak volumes to us. Pray that the Holy Spirit would take the truths of this passage. Drill them down into our souls. Help us to think biblically this morning. Father, you know every heart, you know every struggle, you know those who are believers and those who are not. You know the hindrances, the true faith in Christ. You know where believers have drifted from the simplicity and the beauty of the gospel. And so I pray that all of us this morning would see you work in our hearts. Draw us to yourself. May we be edified and may we rejoice richly in our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, when we finish this Time. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. I want to read to you an excerpt from a book, which is something I typically don't do when I'm looking at a sermon, but I want to read to you An excerpt from a book called Christeless Christianity. And this is a book we have in our bookstore, and it's a book that I really, really like because of the theme that is being emphasized. And this is Talking about a man who was a pastor many years ago. His name was Donald Barnhouse. He was a Presbyterian minister in the city of Philadelphia. And this is what he said when posing the question, what would things look like if Satan took control of a city? And the city he was thinking of was Philadelphia of all cities. This is what he writes. Actually, he said this on the radio. If Satan took over Philadelphia All the bars would be closed. You go, what? Pornography banished. That'd be good as that was. The streets would be filled with tidy pedestrians who smiled at each other. You say, well, that's when it was like in the good old days in America. Children would say, yes, sir, and no, ma'am, and the churches would be full every Sunday where Christ is not preached. That's the key. It's not about the behavior. It's about the source of the behavior. He goes on to say it is easy to become distracted from Christ as the only hope for sinners, where everything is measured by our happiness rather than by God's holiness, the sense of our being sinners. become secondary if not offensive. If we are good people who have lost our way, but with the proper instruction and motivation can become a better person, we need only a life coach, not a redeemer. A lot of the things that distract us from Christ these days are even good things. All that Satan has to do is throw several spiritual fads, moral and political crusades. and other relevant operations into our field of vision, focusing the conversation on us, our desires, needs, feelings, experiences, activities, and aspirations energizes us. Wherever Christ is truly and clearly being proclaimed, Satan is most actively present in opposition. What an interesting statement. Now let me just say something. I don't think that the man who pr who who made that statement did not want to see moral people walking around Philadelphia He absolutely did. He didn't want to see the murder rate go up. He wanted to see it come down. He didn't want to see broken families. He wanted to see strong families. He didn't want to see children who had no respect for their elders. He wanted to see children who knew how to relate properly to their elders. But this is what he was concerned about. He was concerned about an America that was moralistic rather than built on the gospel of Jesus Christ. He was concerned about churches that were more about teaching people how to be good little boys and girls rather than to be holy in Christ through the finished work of Jesus. He was concerned about a Christianity that was a moralistic, therapeutic, deistic form of Christianity, not one that is rooted and centered on the gospel. And the text in front of us will be very helpful for us this morning as we think about what Donald Barnhouse is talking about In that book, Christless Christianity. I would summarize the text in front of us in the following way. Christ exposed religion's blindness by highlighting its deficient view of the Savior. It's shallow preoccupation with reputation and its hypocritical devotion. As Jesus works his way through conversation with these individuals, as he calls attention to their silence, their deathly silence. He has a lot to say about the kinds of people they were, the kinds of doctrines that they taught, and the ultimate result of those who sat under such ministries. What we see in the text is that we must reject any system that replaces or diminishes Christ alone. And so that's what we will look at this morning. The first part of this text that I want us to look at is the deficiency of the theology of the people that Jesus is talking to. a deficient theology. In verses 41 through 44, notice what it says in your Bibles. Jesus asks the question, he says, how say They, interesting how he puts that. He doesn't say how do you say? He says how do they say that Christ is David's son, and David himself saith in the book of the Psalms. The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. David therefore calleth him Lord. How is he then his son? Now some of you are sitting here this morning and you're like, hold on a second. My brain on a Sunday morning is just a little bit fried and I don't know if I can follow this questioning that Jesus is asking. What is he saying? Break it down to me in a real simple way. And then why is he saying that? So I'm going to do that. Christ's question to the religious leaders has the following pieces to it. The first part is, why do people say the Messiah is David's son if he calls him his Lord? Now that is a really interesting question. If this is his child, then why would he bend the knee and say, You are my Lord? He says that doesn't make any sense Not only does it not make any sense, but it's interesting that David is saying this as one who is looking for the Messiah, not as one who is sitting in the presence of the Messiah. Such an interesting question The second part is this. Is he David's son or is he David's Lord? Third question is, well, if it's both, then how do these two concepts go together? What's very fascinating about this is that the religious leaders have been firing questions at Jesus Now Jesus turns it around and he gives them a question. But he gives them a question that is built on the scripture and he has a reason for it. Jesus is not just playing stump the Sadducees and stump the Pharisees. Jesus is drawing attention to something very, very serious about the teaching and the practices of the religious leaders of his day. He's drawing everyone's attention to see something here. Here is a psalm that talks about the Messiah. Here are people that get up in the synagogue and they have no explanation as to who the Messiah is. Here are people that rule the temple, they have no explanation as to who the Messiah is. Here are people that handle your sacrifices and they have no explanation Explanation as to who the Messiah is. What does that tell you? It's all a show. It's not real. It's not genuine. It's not built on truth. So Christ's motive for this question, first of all, is highlighting the core problem with the religious system of every single one of those groups that we talked about last week. We talked about the Pharisees, we talked about the Sadducees, we talked about the Essens, we talked about the religious zealots. All of these groups had a fundamental problem that united them. And you know what that problem was? They did not have a biblical view of the Savior. They argued about everything that didn't matter. They did not think about what mattered most. They did not need to understand the Messiah. Why? Because they didn't need a cross. They didn't need the resurrection. They didn't need to be redeemed. They didn't need a savior. For the Pharisees, the law and their traditions was enough. If they would do what the Pharisees told them to do, they could earn their way to God because they would build up enough religious credibility for God to accept them on the basis of those good deeds and those righteousness. And so in the view of the Pharisees, who needs a Savior who's going to die on a cross, who's going to rise from the dead, we have the law, we have the traditions, if we'll do good and be good and look good, We're good with God. They need Christ. Then we see the Sadducees. Well, if you don't believe in a resurrection, Then all you got is this life and who cares what happens after you die because there's no resurrection of the dead. So as the Sadducees are controlling the temple and as they are guiding people in the religious sacrifices They have no need for a savior. Amazingly. As these people teach the law As they do the sacrifices that are supposed to point them to the Messiah, they didn't see it. By the way, just because you come to church doesn't make you a Christian. Just because you carry a Bible, just because you look the part, whatever that means, doesn't make you a Christian. And so here are people that handled the scriptures all the time. They were viewed as experts, and they were lost. There was no resurrection for the Sadducee, and the zealots just needed a military hero to overthrow Rome. You know, it's interesting that when Nicodemus comes to Jesus and he says, we know your teacher come from God. Nobody can do these miracles unless God's with them. Jesus says, unless you're born again, you will not see the kingdom of God. And Nicodemus says, I don't understand this. How can this be? Can I go back into my mother's womb? And he says, how could you being a teacher not know these things? What's the point? The point is all of these religious systems had no need for Christ. But there's a second thing that he's highlighting here, and that is he's highlighting the danger of those who oppose the Messiah that they don't know. So the reason that the Sadducees and the reason that the Pharisees, the reason that these groups could come together and ultimately deliver Jesus to the Romans, the reason they could lay aside all of their arguments and their disputes and their We could say jockeying for power is because they had one common enemy. And Jesus draws their attention to recognize it's dangerous to fight against the gods you don't know. And so he says the following statement. The psalmist says, sit on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. Interesting statement. By the way, if we go back to Luke chapter 20, verse 17 and 18, so just a back a few verses, he says, the stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the head of the corner. Whoever shall fall on that stone shall be broken, on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder. You understand what Jesus is saying? What you teach doesn't need a savior. And you're opposed to the one and only Savior, and you will be judged if you reject him. What do the scripture say about Jesus? Oh, I mean, I could say so much here, but I just want to highlight a couple things I think are important. The Messiah is the eternal God in human flesh. Romans 1, 1 to 4. Jesus Christ our Lord, who was made of the seed of David according to the flesh. Declared to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. He emphasizes the humanity of Christ and his deity John 1, 1 to 3, and then verse 14, In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. The Word was God. All things are made by Him. Without him was nothing made that was made. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. God in flesh. Philippians 2, 6 Being in the form of God, made himself of no reputation, took upon himself the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of men. Being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. And became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Now we could stop here and we could just break this down for a really long time, but I just want to emphasize something. The Bible is very, very clear who Jesus is. He's God in flesh. It's very clear about why he came. He came to die for our sins. This is not just a New Testament concept. This is an Old Testament concept. The Pharisees, the Sadducees, all these religious groups needed to, should have, understood who Christ was, but they didn't. But I want to remind you of something. Christeless religion is not just a first-century problem. It 's a problem in the American Evangelical Church. And I use that term in very broad circles. For those who are theologically liberal, you know what it is? It's people redefining who Jesus is. You redefine him, guess what? You don't have a savior. You don't have a savior who died for your sins, who's qualified to do it. You don't have a savior who's risen and coming again for his children. Shallow evangelicalism kind of leaves him kind of undefined. We don't really know who he is. We're not telling you who he is. We're just kind of telling you, believe in Jesus. He'll make your life better. Well, who is this Jesus? Well, don't ask too many questions. Don't go too deep on that issue. Well, you know, who he is is a big deal. If you don't believe that he is who he is, you'll die in your sins, Jesus said. But then we have legalism. He's our coach. He's helping us do better. If we can work our way to him, if we follow his example, we can earn our way to God. Or moralism. He's our moral example that we're to follow. And I'm not saying we shouldn't follow the Lord, okay? Not at all saying that. But that's not the gospel. The gospel is repent and believe. Be clothed in the righteousness of Christ. Be found in him not having our own righteousness which is of the law, but the righteousness of God by faith. It's unto all and upon all them that believe. That's the gospel, not moralism. Mysticism, he's our imaginary friend. Do you wonder why the world laughs at Christians? Well, if Jesus is your imaginary friend, I can understand them laughing about that. He's a real person who came and he really died and he really rose from the dead. We need to get back to a historic and biblical understanding of Christ. And then prosperity theology. He's our genie in the bottle who gives us what we want. The reason I mention these is simply to say this is not a new problem. This is something that was a problem then. It's still a problem today, and until Christ returns, it will continue to be a problem. Why? Because people are people And we need to get back to the simplest simplicity of the gospel. Biblical Christianity as He is eternal God in human flesh. He died on the cross for our sins. He rose triumphantly from the grave on the third day. He commands us to repent and believe in the gospel. And all those who place their faith in Christ are new creatures in Christ. That's biblical Christianity. Second thing I want you to notice is this. Their deficient theology led to shallow preoccupations In other words, the things that they majored on and the things that they lived for, the things that they focused on, those things were all wrong. They were completely upside down. When we look at problems in practice, unquestionably there will be a root problem that has worked its way up into all of those issues. When you look at the church, and I use this in a general sense, or you look at our church in a specific sense, or you look at Christians in a general sense. or you look at the Christians you know personally, when we see problems in practice, there are roots that create those problems. And so Jesus addresses, we could say, the problems which go back to the root of a Christless religion. Notice what he says in verses 45 to 47. Then in the audience of all the people, he said to his disciples. This is a fascinating statement. So he had all this contention with the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and there's a lot of back and forth, and they ask him questions, and he answers their questions, they're quiet, he asks them questions. They're quiet. They don't have anything to say. And so Jesus pauses and he says to his disciples so that the leaders he's arguing with can hear. And all the people who haven't quite made up their mind can hear. He says the following, beware of the scribes. Which desire to walk in long robes and love greetings in the markets, the highest seats in the synagogue, the chief rooms of feasts, which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers. Now, Jesus in these verses mentions several expressions of religion that promotes self That's what he's done. So he talks about people that are enamored with religious pomp. They desire to walk in long robes. I remember years ago listening to some family members talk about a person that they knew well. who um they viewed as a bit of a religious hypocrite. And this individual was a minister, and they used to say something like this, whenever that minister wanted to get something free He'd go pull his collar out and he'd put it on , and he'd walk up and he'd be like, You know, I'm a minister of the gospel and I was wondering if uh you had any things that you could help me out with. And they just used to laugh at that and say, Well, what is this guy's problem? What is he doing? He was using his position to try to get stuff. And the truth is that there's some people when they walk into a building They know nothing about the theology of the people that meet in that place. They know nothing about the sweat and the blood and the tears that went into that particular thing. They make their assessment of what is good and bad by only what they see. And guess what? That's a problem. The fact is, this building doesn't make anybody spiritual. What matters is what's taught in the pulpit and what we do with it, not what we see. But you know what? A lot of people make their judgments based on what they see. Hyper-spiritual greetings. They love greetings in the marketplace. Someone gets up to pray and all of a sudden they have a different vocabulary. You didn't know that they could speak such amazing words or You see these two people interacting and the way that you talk, you're like they they're talking it just it seems very unnatural. You say, what happened to those people? That's not the guy I know, that's not the lady I know, those are like two totally different people And all of a sudden, there's this hyper-spirituality by the conversation between them. You say, is that put on or is that legitimate? Because if I was fishing with this guy, he wouldn't talk like that. If we were just having a conversation at a baseball game, they wouldn't talk like that. But something's changed. Why? Because they're interacting with a peer and they've got to elevate the interaction. Because they're spiritual people. Honors in religious context. It says they love the highest seats in the synagogues. I'd love to go to a football game and sit in the box seating, right? Get to eat all that food and enjoy the game in the AC, or go to a baseball game and get to sit right down there right behind home plate and And you you could almost reach out and touch the players and and and you see the game right there at eye level. What an interesting opportunity. Well, there's some people that they want to get the position of honor in the church Can I get my name on that pew right there? I own that pew. I have kept it warm for decades. Give me a brick that I can get my name put on it, right? Or where can I sit? We have this special seating for these people over here. You say, did people really do that? You better believe they did that. People still do, by the way. Sadly, there are religious settings where that's exactly how people function. In fact, James had to address that issue. Don't you dare demean a person who walks into your congregation who doesn't look like you, doesn't have all the graces, doesn't have all the money. Hey, why don't you you you sit over here? Oh You go sit over there. This is what he's talking about. Honors in social settings. They love the chief rooms and the feast. I would love to have that minister of the gospel come to this activity because everything will be so much better when he shows up. It's almost as if we have this uh this this experience of God's blessing because of this person's presence. No, that's not the case. Just another person in the room. And then he talks about money. They devour widows' houses. Hypocritical worship for a show. They make long prayers. And then he talks about how some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts. Talks about these impressive facilities. You know what, you know what all these things have in common? What they all have in common is these are things that impress people, but they say absolutely nothing about your standing with God. Nothing. How you look What the building looks like that you meet in, how much money you have, how eloquent you are when you pray, those things are absolutely irrelevant when it comes to the gospel. And it comes to a person standing with God and it comes to true holiness. But people who have taken religion and have taken Christ out of it or never had Christ at the center of it. Religion is dead and promotes nothing but self and self-promotion. And by the way, the Sermon on the Mount just slams this. Listen to what Jesus says. Matthew 5. 3. Blessed are the poor in spirit, theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Verse eleven. Blessed are you when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my name's sake. Verse 20, except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall in no case enter the kingdom of God. 6. 1. Take heed that you do not your alms before men to be seen of them. Verse 5, when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites. They love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets that they may be seen of men Verse 7, when you pray, use not vain repetition as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard because of their much speaking. You know what all this has in common? The same stuff that Jesus is talking about here in Luke 20 and 21. Why? because it's the same people with the same worldview with the same theology with the same practices and it's cold and it's dead and it's lifeless and it has no power to save at all. And you know what these people had more than anything else? They had a heart problem. It was their affection. You know how I know that? Because of words like desire. They love for a show. What does that tell you? Those are all reflections of heart disposition These people were not coming to God with the simplicity of a love for Christ and glorying in the gospel. Rather, they were using religion to prop up themselves. Crisis religion has no life. It has no transforming power. It promotes self. It develops mechanisms to deaden the conscience. Its passions are entirely misdirected. Third thing I want you to notice here is the hypocrisy or the duplicitous devotion of these people. We look in verses one through six, it says the following, and he looked up and saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury, and he saw also certain poor widows cast a certain poor widow casting thither two mites. And he said, Of a truth I say unto you, this poor widow interesting statement, has cost in more than all of them. For all these have of their abundance cast in offering to God, but she of her penure or her poverty Hast cast in all the living that she had. And some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts And he says, as for these things which you behold, the day will come in which there shall not be left one stone on another that shall not be thrown down. You realize that if you go to Jerusalem today and you look for the temple, it isn't there? Why is that? Because what Jesus said happened. All that's left is what we call the wailing wall. It is a piece of the original temple. And the fact is that the temple of Jesus' day was built by the Romans who were working in connection with those who controlled the temple, and they were very very proud of all that they had accomplished as a people. But there's something very interesting about this interaction that I think we often miss. When Jesus talks about the widow's might, he's talking about it in the context of rebuking the religious leaders of his day Notice what we have here. In this passage, we see that the disciples reflect the teaching of those who lead them. He looked up and he saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury. How do you think those people were doing this? Well, if you want to know, look at what Jesus says in other portions of the gospels. where he addresses the way that they would give because he gives you insight into what it means when he says he looked up and he saw them casting in their gifts into the treasury. For instance, going back to what we just saw in the Sermon on the Mount, he says, Take heed that you do not your alms before men to be seen of them. They were going into this place and drawing attention to what they were doing. Why? Because their religion was about promoting self. In verse 2 of Matthew 6, it says, When thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee as the hypocrites in the synagogue and in the streets. that they may have the glory of men. They were calling attention so that people would see what they were doing. Verse number three of Matthew six, When thou doest on alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth. He's saying, do not think much about what you're doing. In other words, don't make people think much about what you're doing. Don't you think much about what you're doing? Don't draw attention to what you're doing, but that's what these people were doing. And Jesus takes note of that. Why? Because you follow those who teach you. What they say, what they pattern in front of you, becomes the pattern you think is normal. The pattern you think is acceptable, the pattern you think is right. And so the disciples were following the teachers, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Essens, the Zealots. They were following the teaching that was right in front of them But there's a second piece that I think we miss. Their most noble disciples were abused and misguided by their teaching. Now this is where I think maybe some people disagree with me, but please bear with me. When Jesus draws attention to the widow casting her might, he both commends her And and he rebukes the system she's giving to. Did you catch that? He commends her, but not what she's giving to. And this is very interesting. In verses two to four it says, He saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mice. I don't think anybody was celebrating her when she did that. Hey everybody check this out. This this poor woman right here is giving too much. Everybody celebrate. I don't think they did that That's the first thing it says. Of the truth, I tell you, this poor widow has given more than they all. So hold on a second. No, no, no, no, no, no. Unquestionably they gave more money than that That's technically true, but he's drawing attention to something. What they have and give versus what she has and gives Now I know how this is typically taught. You need to give like the widow did. But I don't think that's the point of the text. I think the point of the text is, do you see what happens under this kind of system? Because we go on, and it says the following: All these have their out of their abundance have cast unto the offerings of God, but she out of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had. All the living that she had. I'm going to give you an illustration of what I'm talking about. I was a missionary for many years in West Africa, and I'm really thankful for the opportunity to minister in that context. In fact, this past Friday, when we were going through this text of Scripture, one of my brothers in Christ, who ministers over there, Michael, was with us on the call. And one of the things that his mind went to directly when we read this passage of scripture was what goes on in the prosperity theology circles all over that country. Examples of people who would put this box in the center of the congregation and there would be music and there would be dancing and people would come down and literally they would go from one road to the next and say If you've got a hundred CDs, come on down. If you've got fifty CDs, come on down. And they would make a point of every single person's amount that they were giving. And it would be very public and it would be very known. And everybody would celebrate those who gave a lot. And then everybody that's got their one CD, two CD, well, you come on down and you get it over with. You see, this hasn't really happened. Of course it happens. I sat in a context like that before. I've seen it with my own eyes. And that's exactly where that conversation went as we talked about this passage. But here's one of the most tragic things about that situation. Not just what is being done and how it's being done, but what is at the root of what is being done. You have a false teacher in many settings who is literally becoming rich and prosperous off of the backs of the poorest people in their congregations. You know, prosperity theology has its deepest grip and di deepest roots in places where people are very poor and very destitute. Why? Because these are people who are suffering and they want hope. And evil people will give them information to lead them to believe if you give it all, you're gonna get back. And you know what in the end happens? Those people are trapped in that system. And I think that's exactly what's going on here. Christ draws attention to her noble yet misguided sacrifice. She out of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had. She was literally giving to the detriment of her own physical needs. Verse 47, these are the people who devour widows' houses. That's an example of it right there. Do you realize that? Jesus just mentioned they devour widows' houses, and then here is this widow who comes and she drops in her two mice and she's like, that's an example of what I'm talking about right there. She's coming with a heart that is genuine, and these people are abusing her because they are teaching her something that's not true. That's what's happening. She was giving to a broken and dead system, verse 47. You know what Jesus said about the system? He says, the same shall receive greater damnation. These people who are teaching false doctrines, who are abusing the people under them, they will have a greater responsibility, a greater weight of judgment on that day than those whom they have deceived. Why? Because they knew and they rejected. He says in verse six of twenty-one, the day will come into which there shall not be left one stone on another that shall not be broken and thrown down. And that happened. The religious leaders were benefiting from the immense sacrifices of people like this woman. And her soul was being led astray by their teaching. This is one of the greatest tragedies about those who abuse people through false religion. And you know when people in the world look at that and they say, I would never become a Christian because I see that and they point to those kinds of things, that's not Christianity. Christianity. I think it's important to state it. Last thing I'm going to mention here is this. If she followed their teaching, she would die without Christ. Think about that. Matthew 23, verse 13 says, Woe unto you scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites, you shut up the kingdom of heaven against men. You neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in. Isn't that a shocking statement? In other words, you're not only gonna miss it yourself But because what you're teaching, there are people who are misguided and they're going to follow along the doctrines that you teach, and they will end up condemned just like you. This is why doctrine is so important. This is why you can't teach the gospel in any way. Christ 's religion is thoroughly corrupt, and I'm going to add this word, it's entirely evil. It creates self-righteous, abusive people. It preys on the most vulnerable and sincere. It is powerless to save and deadens the conscience to true spiritual poverty. It replaces redemption and regeneration with moralism. So how do we apply a text like this? Well, first thought is this to those who are not Christians. And by the way, I don't know who is here and what your background is. I don't know, especially those who are joining us in the live stream, I do not know your background. I do not know what's going on in your mind. There might be someone who's in our service, on the live stream, who will listen to this a year from now, who says, you know what? Religion is full of hypocrisy. It 's manipulative, it's abusive. And I'll say this, crisis religion is absolutely hypocritical, and it is full of manipulation and abuse. And so we agree if we're talking about the same thing. Why is that? Because Christ's religion is powerless to transform people, therefore the result is going to be hypocrisy. Crisis of religion produces manipulative, abusive behavior in its leaders and its followers. So nobody should be surprised. It shouldn't be hard to point out those kinds of things. Someone might say, well, I know real Christians, they preach the real gospel, and the truth is they're not very consistent. And you know what? Sadly, that's true. I hate to say that, but it's true. We are sinners saved by grace. Every single one of us in this room. Nobody is a Christian because they earned it. Nobody's a Christian because they've reached this point of righteousness and now God accepts them through that. No. We are sinners saved by grace. We recognize our righteousness is filthy rags. We turn humbly to Christ. We are convinced that He died for our sins. He rose from the dead. We place our faith in his finished work. And the Spirit of God makes us new creatures in Christ. That changes us, but we're still imperfect people. What makes Christianity true is not how good Christians are. It's the fact that it's conformed to reality There really is a Savior who really came and really died and he really rose from the dead. And if you turn to him, you'll really be saved. And if you don't, you'll really be judged. It's that simple. Perhaps you're a part of a Christless religious system. Do not allow yourself to rest in dead religion and the filthy rags of your own righteousness. Just because it's called Christian, just because it talks about Jesus, just because it may define who he is accurately, does not mean that it is in fact the gospel. And we need to be so very careful that if we find ourselves in such a place where we're trusting in anything but the death and resurrection of Christ. And we view ourselves as accepted before God in the basis of anything but Christ's death and resurrection and the righteousness of Christ that is ours by faith alone, if we are trusting in anything but that We are resting in a system that is not the gospel. There might be someone who needs to repent and believe. Place your faith in Christ. I know that sounds very simple. It is. But pride makes it hard. But then I speak to the believer. Do we see the marks of Christless religion developing in our own hearts? Are we enamored with religious pomp? You know, it's amazing how many Christians, and they can really truly articulate the gospel, there's no question about it, but if you thought about what they think is most important, you'd come to the conclusion that they think a lot like these people do here. You really would. They can articulate the gospel. They could say I've trusted in it, but the truth is, pomp and circumstance is everything. Devotion is about promoting self. People use the church and their reputation as Christians to get the honors of others. People who profess the true gospel but are greedy and use God as a means to their ends. They're enamored with the things that they can build and hold in their hands. I use the word they, but it can be we. Now I'm not suggesting that everyone who is, let's say, departed from where they should be on these issues is not a Christian. I'm not saying that at all. The fact is that we all are inconsistent in many levels. But there are times we need to be drawn to the fact that what we are majoring on is wrong. And the reason we're majoring on it is telling us something about the source, the foundation. We need to do some real hard work. We need to let the Spirit of God get down into our souls and ask the question. Why do I prioritize that and that and that and that and God says that doesn't matter and that doesn't matter and that doesn't matter and that doesn't matter. I don't think I'm on his s Hide on this issue We need to do some real heart reflection. Secondly, the question is: is our the culture of our church unquestionably built on the gospel? Now, the culture of the church is shaped by lots of things, it's shaped by our personalities. It's shaped by the preaching and teaching that you hear in week in, week out, the the the general approach to scripture, how we raise our families. What we do and what we don't do when we gather together. But the bottom line is that when we gather together, well we every you know lots and lots of differences in churches that are doctrinally sound. Lots of differences. When someone says they're independent, an autonomous church, they're Baptists, you know what they're saying? We believe that in the same core doctrines, but we don't all do things the same way in a lot of areas. That's totally fine. But you know what we cannot be off on? What's at the heart of why we do what we do? Are we gospel-centered in our focus, or are we a bunch of moralists? Are we worshiping Christ as he is, or have we created a Jesus in our own image? Are we resting in the death, resurrection of Christ, or are we laboring to convince God to continue to love and accept us You know how many Christians don't believe God loves them? They don't believe God accepts them, and you know what they point to? They point to their behavior. 100%. I'm not suggesting Christians should live like the devil. Absolutely not. But what I am saying is this. God accepts you because of Christ alone. And that is hugely important for us to understand. And those who love Christ walk with him. We must reject any system that replaces Or diminishes Christ alone. Let's delight in Him as we pray. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for the Word of God. I pray that this passage of Scripture would minister to our hearts, not just in this moment, but as we leave this place, as we go home, as we think throughout the week. May the tries that we have just gone through continue to shape our hearts and our minds. May we glory in Jesus alone, his death for us, his resurrection. And triumph, his righteousness imputed to our account. May we glory in the fact that we are accepted in the beloved because we are united with him, and that is it alone Father, if there's someone in our midst who's never placed their faith in Christ, I pray that they would understand that the gospel is the simple message. Of Christ, who died for their sins, rose from the dead, and calls them to repent and believe. May they turn to Him, place their faith alone in what He has done for them. I ask it in Christ's name. Amen.