I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and I'll turn with me to Luke chapter 18. Luke chapter 18. And we are reading verses 1 through 8 together this morning. And we are looking at the importance of prayer in the last days. And so if you were with us last Sunday, we talked just briefly about this concept of the last days. And if we were to look at the scripture, I believe that what it teaches is that we are living in the last days. That means that time before the return of Christ. And his return is imminent. And so we should live with this anticipation of his return. This morning what we're going to do is we're going to look at the next thing that Jesus picks up with in the text. And that is talking about the importance of prayer because of the nature of what it is like to live in the last days. So let's go ahead and pick up in verse number one. Here's what the scriptures say. And he spake a parable unto them, to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to faint, saying, There was a city, there was in a city a judge. which feared not God, neither regarded man. And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. And he would not for a while. But afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me The Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith, and shall not God avenge his own elect Which cry day and night unto him, though he bear with uh which which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them, I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless When the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to really help us to understand his word this morning. and then to see how it applies and then to not just hear the word, but to be doers of the word. So let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, I thank you so much for this service. Thank you for the beautiful music, the songs that have drawn our attention to the goodness of the Lord. And Father, as we think about how your peace is something that we enjoy because of the finished work of Christ and how it is truly well with our soul because we are children of the King. As we think about how important it is that we run to you when we are in times of difficulty, and as we remember the blessed assurance that we have that in fact The Lord Jesus is our Savior, and you are our Father and our God, and we are secured in your hands. because of his redemptive work. I pray that this morning, as we dig into this passage, that you would stir up our hearts and help us to think very clearly about The intent of this text. Father, help me to communicate it well, and I pray that you get the glory, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to summarize the text in front of us in the following way, since the last days will be difficult days, and many will be unprepared for Christ's return. God's people must bring their burden to him. and rest in his providential care through those very difficult days. Let me say that again. Since the last days will be difficult, and many will be unprepared for his return. God's people must bring their burden to Him and rest in His providential care through those difficult days. As we read through this passage, I think that we will see that the scriptures are telling us that the Lord wants us to regularly take our burdens to him. And to trust him to do what is best in our situations. And in fact, the things that we're going to talk about this morning, if we were to talk about the principles That are being communicated in this passage. It really doesn't w matter what kind of circumstance you find yourself in. It could be that the challenge that you encounter has nothing to do with something that a person has done to you It could be something that is just circumstance is very difficult. It could be the results of poor decisions. It could be the results of sinful behavior on the part of another person. It could be lots and lots of different things. No matter what the circumstances are, this principle that we're going to look at in the Word of God is applicable to us today. And so let's work our way through this passage and see how Jesus teaches on this issue of the importance of prayer in the last days. First fact that I want you to notice from the word is this. The last days are going to be difficult days for God's people. And verse 1 he says, he spake a parable unto them to this end that men ought always to pray. and not to faint. Now there is a reason that Jesus is telling them that they need to pray and not faint. And I don't want you to get the impression that the Christian life is some dreary life or some hard and difficult life. It actually is the best life you could imagine. The fact that I can have a clear conscience and know that my sins are forgiven, that my my sin has been washed away, that I am righteous in Christ, that I am the possessor Of eternal life that I'm going to spend eternity with God. There's nothing that can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. I mean, you want to talk about all the different blessings that we enjoy as God's people, the fact that we can know our Creator's design for our life and we can pursue that design. We live rich lives. But on the other side, we see that in fact we live in a fallen world. And every single generation is living at a point in time in history that comes with unique challenges. unique frustrations, unique dangers and pitfalls. And so the immediate context of Christ's teaching here is a continuation of his teaching on the last days. And the eminency of the return of Christ. Last week we talked about the tribulation, we talked about the day of the Lord, we talked about all of those things. This is a continuation of what Jesus has said. And the reason we know that is because of how he starts the section and how he closes the section. In verse 1, it says, He spake a parable unto them. to this end that men ought always to pray and not to faint. And then in verse 80 says, when the Son of Man cometh Shall he find faith on the earth? In other words, Jesus has not stepped away from this teaching on the last days. This is a portion, a logical teaching that needs to come as a result of the topic that he's addressing. I want us to consider for just a moment the consistent teaching of Scripture on this issue. The Christian life is a rich, blessed life, but it's also a life of potential trouble. Notice a couple of statements in the Word of God about this issue. The first one is 2 Thessalonians 1. He says, we ourselves glory in you, in the church of God, for your, listen to the next word, patience. and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure. Words like patience And persecution and tribulation and faith are all made in the context of people who are experiencing some level of suffering and heartache Or 2 Timothy 3. 1, he says, In the last days, perilous times will come. And I'm not going to read through that passage, but he describes the nature of those perilous days. In fact, recently we have dealt with that passage. That these are going to be perilous days. The mentality of people, the way that people are moving and acting in the world, the Christian church is going to experience trouble. 2 Timothy 3. 12, the same chapter, he says, all who will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Acts 14, 22, as Paul is encouraging the church at Ephesus, he says, continue in the faith. We must through much tribulation, enter the kingdom of God. And then 2 Peter 2. 9 says that the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to reserve the unjust. unto the day of judgment to be punished. Now as we look at human history and we look at church history, we can see that all throughout church history. God 's people have lived through some very difficult times. In fact, church history is the story of the struggle of the church in a lot of different contexts. I'm very thankful. That we live in one of the most peaceful times and one of the most peaceful nations in human history. And you may be sitting here going, well, I think this is a tumultuous and horrible time in American history, but I'm telling you, if you look at the last several hundred years of of the history of this nation, you'll realize that there have been far more difficult times. than the times that we're living in. Far more challenging for believers. There have been a lot of ups and a lot of downs If we were to think about how some people in other parts of the world are living today, we would realize we have been very much insulated from the troubles that are going on. I think a couple of weeks ago where we had a table set up out there that was to remind us of the persecuted church. There are Christians all over the world today that when they assemble, they are not assembling like we are this morning in an open meeting place where we're singing praise to God and Someone who is in the government could walk into this place, they could sit down, they wouldn't interfere in anything that we said or anything that we sing, they wouldn't stand up and say, We have to close this meeting, arrest your pastor, arrest some of the men of this congregation. We don't have that going on in our country. Thank God for that. But the fact that we don't have that doesn't mean that there aren't other people who do. And the fact that we don't have that does not mean that by the end of our lives, some of us in this room may live through those kinds of seasons. We do not know. The return of Christ when it will take place. We do not know how things will be in our own nation at that time. And so we're reminded in this passage of Scripture that the last days will be difficult days. The implication is that believers must be sober and circumspect as they live in the period of history that God has planted them in this world. 1 Thessalonians 5. 8, let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for an helmet the hope of salvation. Second truth, even unjust judges are pragmatic. Now I'm actually going to expand this a little bit more than the statement that I just made, because there's another truth coming. But it's fascinating the illustration that Jesus uses in this passage. I think sometimes we get in our heads that the only way that we could live a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness is if the people in the White House and in the Congress and in the state legislature and in our local government officials all agreed with us and believed what we believe. and held our values, that's the only way that we could live a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness. If that is the case, then there has never been and never will be a generation of people who could actually live in such a way till the return of Jesus. I'm so thankful that God works through all kinds of different people. To accomplish his purposes. And don't misunderstand me. I want godly people in a position of authority. And I pray to that end. And righteousness clearly exalts a nation and sin is a reproach to any people. But it is also true that God lifts up all kinds of people and puts them in power. He brings down all kinds of people from power. He accomplishes his will in the armies of heaven, and none can stay his hand or say unto him, What are you doing? So notice what he says in verses 2 to 5. Interesting illustration. There was in a city a judge, which listen to the next statement. Fear not God Well, do you think that that judge was a good man in his illustration? The answer is no, he was not a good judge. He says he did not fear God, he did not regard man. And there was a widow in that city who She came unto him saying, Avenge me of my adversary. Now, a widow is probably the most vulnerable person in that time period in the entire community. So here is this man. He's unjust. He doesn't fear God. He doesn't fear man. And here is this vulnerable woman who has no ability to put any kind of leverage on this man. And she comes to him and says Please, I beg you, avenge me of my adversary. It says, and he would not. No surprise. It says he would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her. lest by her continual coming she weary me. And so in the illustration he's saying, here's this woman. She has no leverage, she has no money. She has no ability to put force on this man. He doesn't fear God. He doesn't fear man. He's unjust. But because she keeps coming to him over and over and over again, He's pragmatic and he says, I don't want to deal with the trouble of this lady hounding me about this issue. I'm just going to go ahead and help her out. You know what's fascinating about that? Throughout most of human history, people have governed out of pure pragmatism. They really have. Why do people make the decisions that they do when they have power? Their motives are rarely godly motives. Why? Because a lot of the people throughout history, they were not Christians. Even those who were Christians weren't always Christians that were great examples of godly people, God uses all kinds of things to move and to accomplish his purposes He likely supplied this illustration for two reasons. One is he is highlighting the pragmatism of human rulers, and two, he's providing a contrast to commend God's goodness. And we're going to come back to that second one in just a minute. But think about it. In verse 2, he highlights, this man does not fear God. This man does not regard man. In verse 3, it is a widow who's saying, Help me, and she has no power to protect herself. Verse 4. She did it for a while and he got tired of it. Verse 5, she troubles me, I will avenge her, because I don't want to be continually bothered by her. What's Jesus saying? That's the way some people govern the world. That's the way some people govern in the communities that they are, they are completely pragmatic. But God can work through that. God actively works through all kinds of people. And I want to highlight this for just a moment because it is extremely comforting to us. And it should be extremely comforting to us, no matter what we live through in our lives. Proverbs 21, verse 1: the king's heart is in the hands of the Lord. As the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he wills. Now that's not to say that human rulers are puppets in God's hands. It's to say as those people are doing the things that they're doing, they do not recognize that the hand of God is working through them. Proverbs 16, 9, a man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. And I want to give you some illustrations of this. from some of the most powerful people who have ever lived in ancient human history. And by the way, when we talk about these people, these people were absolute tyrants. These were people who had a degree of authority that no politician in the United States has and probably won't for a long time, thankfully because of the checks and balances that were created in our system of governance The first man is Pharaoh. And listen to what the Scripture says about Pharaoh in Exodus 9. 16. God says For this cause have I raised thee up to show in thee my power, that my name might be declared throughout all the earth Wow, did you catch that? Pharaoh is this powerful, arrogant man who thinks he could do whatever he wants, and God says, I put you there to prove to the world who I am. Pretty amazing to think about it, isn't it? A second example, Nebuchadnezzar. Daniel chapter 4, verse 25. He says They shall drive thee from men, till thou know that the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will. And by the end of this story, Nebuchadnezzar is thrown out into the field and he lives like a wild man, and after a period of time, his senses are returned, and the most shocking thing about this story. Is that his advisors and those people who had worked with him, they put him back in power. Can you imagine this? Here's this guy who they watched live like a wild man out in the forest. They put him back in power. Why? Because God's in charge. Not Nebuchadnezzar. God. And amazingly, as Nebuchadnezzar reflects on that as a clear-thinking man, he says, his kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. And he does whatever he pleases. None can stay his hand or say to him, What doest thou? This man, Nebuchadnezzar, understood, I am under the authority of my creator. Pretty amazing thing to think about. This is the same guy who said, Bow down to my stature, I'll throw you in a fire furnace, a furnace of fire. And he did it. And then think of a third example, Cyrus. Now this statement was written hundreds of years before Cyrus ever existed. Cyrus, the realm that Cyrus was going to rule over, didn't even exist when this was written. Isaiah 44, 28. The scriptures say, Cyrus, he is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure, even saying to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be built. and to the temple thy foundation shall be laid. Amazing that this statement was made before his kingdom was established. before this man existed, before Jerusalem was broken down and burned to the ground, and the temple was destroyed and laid waste for 70 years. And then we come to Ezra 1, verses 1 and 2. Now in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, that the word of the Lord By the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, King of Persia, that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying, Thus saith Cyrus, King of Persia. Amazing statement. The Lord God of heaven hath given me all the kingdoms of the earth. That was not David who said that. That was not Solomon who said that. That wasn't Hezekiah. That wasn't Josiah. That was Cyrus. The Lord God of heaven hath given me all the kingdoms of the earth. He hath changed, charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Man, what an amazing statement. Why did he do that? God? God's in charge. I'll give you another example. This one's really interesting. Ahasjueris, Esther chapter 6. The Jewish people were about to be annihilated because of the wicked plot of Haman. And this is how God foiled the plot. It says, On that night could not the king sleep, and he commanded to bring the book of records of the chronicles. And they were read before the king, and it was found, written, that Mordecai had told of two of the king's chamberlains who sought to lay hand on the king Ahjuarus. And the king said, What honor and dignity hath been done to Mordecai for this? Then said the king's servant that ministered unto him, There is nothing that has been done for him. Why do the Hajwaris have trouble sleeping? Because the heart of the king is in the hands of the Lord. And as the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. I'll give you one other example. There are so many that we could run to. But we're about to enter into the Christmas season, and I put before you Caesar Augustus In Luke chapter 2, verses 1 and 2, it says, It came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Serenius was governor of Syria. What was going on? The Caesar wanted to know how many people were in his realm. Why do you want to know that? Because he wanted to tax them He made them register so that he could get revenue from them. A very logical thing for a man who has that kind of power to do, right? You know, he wants to build roads and build his military and expand uh his his own his empire and all those kinds of things. But what he doesn't understand is that the heart of the king is in the hands of the Lord. And the reason that Christ, the Savior, was born in Bethlehem rather than in Nazareth. It's because Caesar said, go back to the community of your family's origin to be registered, to be taxed. And there is Joseph with Mary, and he's got to take her there What's the implication? Believers must pray for all leaders, even those who are seemingly unworkable, selfish, and arrogant. First Timothy 2. 1 says, I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings and all are in authority, so that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. Why do we pray? Because we believe that God moves when his people pray. Truth number three. God is good and does what is good when his people pray. Verses 6 and 7, he says, hear what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with him? I tell you, he will avenge them speedily. Now, the point of this passage of Scripture is to tell us that instead of being fretful and upset and wearied and anxious and trying to work things out in our own strengths. We're supposed to take our burden to God. And in order for him to teach this, he reminds us that even unjust leaders are pragmatic. And those pragmatic, unjust leaders, they're in the hands of God, and he can move them however he chooses. But there's an even greater piece to this than those two that we've just mentioned. And that is he's providing this contrast. Sometimes it is helpful to understand a principle not just by telling you what it is. But by showing you what it's not. So he could have simply said, God is good, and that is true. But instead of just saying God is good, he says, let me give you an example of an evil person. Who did good so that he didn't have to deal with someone hounding him. If an evil person can be that pragmatic under the right circumstances, then how in the world can you believe that a God who is good and wise and righteous and holy and cares for his people, would turn a blind eye to them and ignore them when they cry out to him in prayer. Do you see the logic of what Jesus is saying? If you know that unjust people do good sometimes, how much more would God do what is right? He is far better than the unjust judge. He says in verse 6, hear the unjust judge. Think about it, ponder it, and ask yourself the question, is God not much better? In fact, Jesus says the same thing when he's in the Sermon on the Mount, teaching the Sermon on the Mount. He says, Are you anxious and concerned about the things that are going on around you? Watch the birds. They don't sow, they don't plant, but your Father takes care of them. Hey, look at the beautiful flowers, the lilies of the field. They don't toil or spin. Yet Solomon and all of his beauty wasn't as beautiful as those are there. What does that tell you? It tells you if God takes care of birds and God cares to see the plants look beautiful, how much more does he care about you? The same thing is being stated here. But ask this question. Do you accept Jesus' logic? Of course I do. He's God in flesh. Why wouldn't I? Then why do you fret? Why are you anxious? Why are you so troubled inside? Do you really follow his reasoning? Do you really believe that he's good? Even unjust, self-centered people pragmatically do what is good for others. God is not unjust. He is entirely good. What he does is far better than what others do for one another. He has a special care for his children. And this is being highlighted here. In verse 7, he says that God will avenge, interesting word, his own elect. That word avenge is the idea that he's going to vindicate those who are abused. You know, sometimes in life we get into situations where there are people who they frankly mistreat us. And we do not have the power, because of circumstance, to be able to set the record straight. And that's a very troubling thing for people to go through. And throughout all of history, there are many, many examples, and we ourselves have seen them, and perhaps some of you have even lived through these examples. of situations where you see that the tide turns against the person who is innocent and injustice is done to someone who is vulnerable. And so what does the scripture say? God vindicates those who are helpless When they belong to him, when they are his children. That's what he means when he says that God will avenge his own elect. Interestingly, when we go to the book of Revelation, he uses the exact same language when he talks about the fact that he's going to come in his second coming and he's going to take the world and he's going to set it right. And he's going to judge the world, vindicate his children, and establish righteousness. I'm thankful that God is just Now he may not move as fast as we want. He may not move in the way that we assume that he will or that we think that we should that he should in the timetable that we're looking at. But God is always just He will always do what is right. He will never leave undone something that needs to be resolved. God doesn't forget about these issues. He deals with those issues. Listen to some of these scriptures that are so comforting on this point. Psalm 108, verse 3. I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people. I will sing praise unto thee among the nations. For thy mercy is great above the heavens. Thy truth reacheth unto the clouds. Exodus chapter 2. This is the story of the nation of Israel before they were technically a nation and they're enslaved in Egypt. And it says the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage and they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage. Interestingly, it doesn't necessarily say that they cried out to him. It simply says they cried. They wept. And it's fascinating how the statement is written. And God heard their groanings. And God remembered his covenant with Abraham and with Isaac and with Jacob, and God looked upon the children of Israel and had respect unto them. He looks at these suffering people, and we're not even clear if they understand who he is. And we're not even clear if they understand the covenant relationship that they have with him. That will be clarified when Moses comes. And God delivers the people out of out of out of Egypt. And he's standing there at Mount Sinai and he establishes the Syniatic covenant with them. All that will be made clear at that moment. But leading up to that, we can't say for certain they understood. Yet what does God do? He looks on them with compassion. Psalm 68, verse 5. He is a father to the fatherless and a judge of the widows. Literally, he vindicates them. He is the God who is in his holy habitation. God setteth the solitary in families. He bringeth out those which are bound with chains. Amazing statements. What does that tell you? He takes the most vulnerable, the most abused, the most oppressed, the people that have no ability to stand up for themselves, and he works on their behalf. Aren't you thankful that's the God that we serve? He literally says that he will hear their cry. Verse 7: They cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them. You know, when God delays to move in the way that we think, it's not because he is disconnected. It's because he knows that the right timing and situations But as we struggle, and he waits, because the timing is not right, he doesn't wait with some kind of standoffishness But he literally has compassion for us as we cry and we wait. This is our God. It says in Psalm 72, He shall deliver the needy when he crieth. The poor also, he that hath hope hath no helper, he shall spare the poor and the needy, he shall save the souls of the needy. Verse 8 says, He will deliver his children. I tell you, he will avenge them speedily. The implication is that believers must learn to take their burdens to God rather than allow fear to cripple them. The fourth and final truth that I want to address this morning is that many will be caught by surprise at his coming. Now, this last statement is fascinating. He says, nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? It's actually more of a question. He says, when this day happens, the day of the Lord begins. God brings his people to be with him. He begins that last part, the eschatological part of what the Bible talks about. Will there be lots and lots of people looking for him on that day? The answer is based on Scripture, no. I want to remind you of a passage that we saw last week. But before we do, I want you to notice he's making a contrast here. The first is that we have a good God and we have an unjust judge. He also reminds us that there are people who are going to experience God's grace, and an unbelieving world will experience his judgment. And that is at the heart of what he is saying here. Look with me in your Bibles at 1 Thessalonians 5, because I think that this passage very, very well establishes this difference between those who know the Lord and those who don't. Those who are anticipating his return, and those who are caught off guard. Listen to what it says. 1 Thessalonians 5. 1 Of the times and seasons, brethren, you have no need that I write unto you, yourselves know perfectly the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief for the night. He says, when they shall say peace and safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them as travail upon a woman with child. And they shall not escape, but ye brethren are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief. You are all the children of the light and the children of the day. We are not of the night nor of the darkness, therefore let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober. For they that sleep sleep in the night, but they that are and they that are drunk are drunken in the night But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for an helmet the hope of salvation, for God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. We could say a lot of things about this text, but I want to draw your attention to one simple principle. We see the word you Brethren, you yourselves know perfectly the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. Then we have another word, and that's the word they. That's not talking to the believer. That's talking to another group of people. They shall say peace and safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them. Do you see the difference? One is anticipating and he doesn't need to be warned because he knows the day is coming and he's looking for it. The other says everything's good. And they're going to be caught off guard. He says, You in verse 4, but you, brethren, are not in darkness that that day should overtake you as a thief. Verse 5, we, we are all the children of light and the children of the day. We are not of the night, nor of the darkness. Verse 6, us, let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love for an helmet, the hope of salvation. Verse 9 God hath not appointed us unto wrath, but to obtain salvation. Do you see the difference between those two things? It's important that we don't miss this. Sometimes when we're reading our Bibles, we see this statement about this thing, but we don't think about who he's talking to. He says that day is not going to overtake you. You're not appointed to wrath. But they are saying peace and safety, but they're going to be caught off guard. You're not of the darkness, you're of the light. He leaves this clear distinction between the two. The question is why? Because on that day, there will be people who anticipate his return, and they'll be vindicated. And on that day, there'll be people who said, don't need to worry about it. They'll be caught off guard. You say, how do I know which category I'm in? Well, what do you know about the Lord Jesus Christ? Is he your Savior? Have you placed your faith in his finished work? Have you trusted in his death, resurrection, and righteousness? Or have you ignored it? It says in Romans chapter 8 that there is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. And so if you want to talk about the us versus the them , The us, the we, are those who have placed our faith in the finished work of Christ, and we are complete in him, and he is our righteousness and our satisfaction, our forgiveness, and he is our peace. We are safe in him. And those who have said no. What is the implication? Though this day will occur and many will experience his judgment, we can take great comfort in the promise that those who trust in the gospel will not face his wrath. That's comfort, folks. When you think of the book of Revelation, I hope that you do not read that book with fear If you place your faith in the finished work of Christ, you shouldn't read the book of Revelation as something to be terrified about. But you should look at the book of Revelation as God's triumph and vindication. Over sin and evil. The establishment of his eternal reign of righteousness, and we get to be a part of it because of his work for us. I want to leave you with some final thoughts as we consider all of these things. The first is this: we need to be realistic as we view life and be prepared to endure difficulties. I'm not a doomsday sayer, okay? I really I'm actually a pretty positive person when it comes to my outlook on life. I really am. I hope I stay that way. Some of you might hope it's that way too, right? I'm I'm very positive in my my orientation about life. I really am But that's not a positivity without recognizing there's a lot of pain, there's a lot of suffering, there's a lot of misery, there's a lot of evil. The reason that I am positive is because I know how it ends. And the reason I'm positive is because I know that as bad as it can get, the most important things can't be taken away. And that's a reason for us to be a thankful people. But we as God's people need to be realistic about the way this world actually is. You aren't going to see a utopia. The fact is, Christ is going to have to come and crush evil if we're going to see a reign of righteousness. Two, we need to take comfort in God's providence as he works for our good. There are a lot of things that we look at in history that we're not going to make full sense of. And I acknowledge that. But what I can see from the Word of God that is so clear is this: the heart of the king is in the hands of the Lord. As the rivers of water, he turns it whithesover he will. And God is able to take all kinds of mess in this world, and he's able to take those pieces And he's able to weave them together to accomplish good that only he can do. Thirdly, when we are overwhelmed, we must learn to roll our burdens on the Lord and cry out to him Whatever the difficulty is that you face, whether it's personal, whether it's physical, whatever it is, you've got to take that burden to God. Put it on his shoulders, cry out to him, and trust him to do what he says he's going to do. We need to take great comfort in the security that we have in Him. God does not promise that our lives will all be easy, but He does promise that what is most important can never be taken away. And that's the way we have to live this life. Lastly, we need to actively seek to point people to him while there's time. Knowing that we're living in the last days and understanding that the return of Christ is imminent, we should be living with the assumption that there are people that we interact with today. That are going to face what the text talks about. Why is that? Because we're supposed to be living with an anticipation of his return. And with that should come the motivation to care for the souls of people. With that should come the motivation to go and give the gospel. With that should come the motivation to, as much as possible, shape and encourage and challenge the generation that's coming with us and behind us. May God help us to faithfully endure as we turn to Him and roll our burdens on Him and leave those things in His hands. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we think about your word, I pray that it would take great root in our hearts. We've touched on so many principles, so many truths. And these truths are truths we need today, right now. May we take them and internalize them, take action upon them. May we live with an earnest expectation. Of our Savior's return. May we live with a sober-mindedness. May we live with comfort and courage and strength. Because we understand who we are and what we have in Christ. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.