Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you're joining us today, I'd like to ask you to turn with me to Ecclesiastes chapter 2. We're in Ecclesiastes chapter 2. Today we're looking at verses 1 through 3, which is part of a larger section, verses 1 through 11. Let's go ahead and read it together and then dig into a really practical and important section of this book. I said in mine heart, Go to now, I will prove thee with mirth, therefore enjoy pleasure, and behold, this also is vanity. I said of laughter, it is mad, of mirth, what doeth it? I sought in my heart to give myself unto wine, yet acquired my heart with wisdom, acquainted my heart with wisdom, and to lay hold on folly till I might see what was good for the sons of man, which they should do under heaven all the days of their life. Let me skip down to verse ten. It says this And whatsoever mine eye desired, I kept not from them. I withheld not my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced in all my labor, and this was my portion of all my labor Then I looked on all the works of my hands and what they had wrought, and on the labor that I had labored to do, and behold all was vanity and vexation of spirit. There was no prophet under the sun. Now we come to this passage, we see that the main point of verses 1 through 11 is to warn us against the emptiness of common pursuits. And when Solomon talks about common pursuits, there are really three main pursuits that he's going to address. And we'll look at them one at a time. Today we'll look at the first. The first is that pursuit of pleasure. And he talks about a couple of different kinds of pleasure that people can pursue. The second thing he mentions is pursuing things that we can build. And then the third is the pursuit of acquiring and amassing wealth. What's interesting is that Solomon was really able to do all three of those things over the course of his life. And one of the things that I think we can observe as we look at those three different types of pursuits is that really these are different pursuits for different seasons of life. When a person is very young, they really don't have the potential to acquire a lot of wealth. They don't have all of the skills and the position to be able to build from massive resources. So the temptation that's most likely for a younger man or a younger woman is the pursuit of pleasure You know, as a person gets a little bit older though and they go through that season of the pursuit of pleasure, not that that ever completely goes away, but they get to a position in life where they have enough resource to be able to build things. And as they give their energies into building, eventually they get to a place where the infrastructure that's developed focuses in on the acquiring of wealth. And so as people go through different stages of life, they get into a certain rut focusing on certain kinds of really empty pursuits. And Solomon's going to address that. One of the things that we're reminded of is that this book is all about saying if you live life without God, without eternity, without significance in the light of God's design on things, then what you're going to have is an emptiness in what you do. And so the first thing he talks about is pleasure. Notice what he says. I said in my heart, I will go and prove thee with mirth and enjoy pleasure. And when he did this, this was his assessment, he says, all of this is vanity. He talks about laughter, and he talks about it as madness. He talks about how he how he desired to get involved in wine. And I think the idea is he's saying, listen, I live for the kinds of pleasures that are heightened in an environment where people are drinking a lot of alcohol, where people's inhibitions go down and people start doing things that they wouldn't normally do. He said, I've tried those things, and this is what I found out. The end of it is emptiness and it's vexation, and there's no profit under it. Well, before we dig into what he's saying, I want you to notice a couple of things about this concept of pleasure. Because this passage or the statements that Solomon's making here need to be thought of in the light of the rest of what he says later on in the book. And not just what he says in this book, but also what he says in the book of Proverbs. The first thing I'm going to mention is that Solomon's not saying that pleasure in and of itself is evil or is bad. The truth is that God created us with a body that has the senses that we have that can enjoy pleasure. And some of the pleasures that we can and do enjoy in this life are not evil in and of themselves. In fact, they're actually good gifts from God. There are some people that have recognized, purely secular, okay, not thinking about God in eternity, but that they've recognized the emptiness of a lifelow for pleasure. And so rather than seeking pleasure, they've moved to the other side of the spectrum and said, let's pursue discipline. Let's pursue self-restraint. Well, I want you to realize that on the other side of that equation is something that also leads to an emptiness. Are there benefits to self-discipline? Of course there are. But the reality is it's not the pleasure in and of itself that it's evil. It's where we take the pleasure. It's the position that we put the pursuit of pleasure that makes it wrong and empty. The fact is that enjoying life as God intended it to be enjoyed, and within the parameters that God has developed, that actually can be a gift from the good hand of God. Solomon later on is going to say, I've learned that in labor, if you can enjoy it, that's the gift of God. He says, live joyfully with the wife. of your youth all the days of your vain life. Why does he say that? Because basically what he's saying is from the perspective of someone who recognizes God who created the order of the of the universe and how everything functions, when we do have enjoyments that are from his good hand, we should recognize those things and we should enjoy those things. The problem with this issue of pleasure is really falling into three categories. The first is indulging rather than restraining. In other words, I'm allowing pleasure to be something that dominates me. It controls me. It's something that I live for. A second danger that we can fall into is taking pleasure outside of God's design. And by the way, if pleasure is dominating me, then what am I going to do? Whatever I feel like doing. The truth is that when we talk about the pleasures that are available in this world, A lot of times there's a godly way to enjoy those things, and there's a way that God says, don't do that. It's outside of my design. We talk about marriage and we talk about sexual pleasure. That's one of the the most pronounced areas where we see this issue. But we can even talk about something like money. Money in and of itself is not evil We can use money for very good things. We can also use money for terrible and evil things. We can be controlled by a lust for money. And so the point is that when people take what is good and they use it without restraint and it dominates them, or they use it outside of God's prescribed design, that's when we fall into problems. But there's a third way, and this is really what Solomon is focusing on here, replacing a pursuit of God with a pursuit of self-gratifying pleasure. He says, when you take living for pleasure and you put it in the place of living for God, then all of a sudden you've created an idol And you're living for something that is empty, something that's going to leave you without joy. It's going to vex your soul. And that's the point that he's trying to emphasize here. He's not even emphasizing the self-destructive potential when it comes to indulgence and what happens when people are extremely indulgent. I mean he doesn't talk about the painful consequences of self-indulgence here Yet obviously we know that there are terrible, painful consequences for over-indulging in these areas or taking them outside of God's prescribed plan. He doesn't talk about the irreversible decisions that come. I mean he talks about the concept of he said, I gave myself to wine and banqueting. Well we know that when people go and drink alcohol They do a lot of foolish things. And a lot of times when they do those foolish things, what happens? There are painful consequences. Sometimes they make decisions that are irreversible and they have to live with those things. And so he's not even focusing on that side of it. He's not even focusing on how we often objectify people. When we live for selfish pleasure and indulgence, a lot of times The people around us, we we stop seeing their value and we start seeing them as means to an end that we want. We see them not as humans created in the image of God, but we almost objectify them. So he doesn't even talk about that. He doesn't even talk about how self-indulgence can dominate us and control us and we can become addicts, slaves to our own passions This is what he focuses on. The fact that when you pursue pleasure, it's empty. He says, rather than being satisfied, what do you have? Emptiness. A longing for more. Rather than being satisfied, what do you have? Frustration. Rather than holding something in your hands that has real value and lasts, he says, you have something that's empty. It doesn't have real meaning and value. The point that Solomon focuses on is that living for pleasure and self-indulgence leaves you empty. frustrated, and with nothing of true value. In other words, he said, I'm a king who has practically limitless resources. He married hundreds, hundreds of women. Now let's remember in those days they had a dowry system. The truth is that he made arrangements with hundreds of families. A lot of these were were basically kings who wanted to be in league with him because they wanted to be able to have that kind of a relationship to such a powerful king. But but that's what he did. He indulged his flesh. And you know what he said? After all that I saw it was empty. It was a frustration. It was a vexation to me. I had nothing of real value Solomon was able to party with the wealthiest, most powerful people that lived in his generation. And what did he say when it was all done? We laughed together, we did foolish things together. We enjoyed each other's company and at the end it was empty. I was frustrated. I had nothing of value He says, I went so far in this pursuit of pleasure that I pretty much went to the threshold. And what Solomon is saying is, listen, When you get into self-indulgent practices, there comes a point where it becomes extremely destructive. And he said, I came as close to that threshold as I possibly could. I wanted to experience the peak of pleasure and not have to deal with the terrible consequences of it. That's basically what he's saying. I was trying to push to that threshold. And he said, You know at the end I found out it was empty, I was frustrated, I had nothing of real value What's the deal? He says there are people who strictly from a strict fr strictly from a secular perspective look at self-indulgence and they say, you know what? It's empty. Anything that we pursue like this is empty. And so the question is, what do we learn from this? Well, what we learn from this is that living for pleasure is not a good choice. Now we're not saying that pleasure is all evil, but what we are saying is living for pleasure and pursuing pleasure is really a wasted life. So how do we apply this? Let me give you a couple of thoughts that I jotted down that I think will be helpful as we think about this. The first is this, don't see enjoyment as evil Solomon never says pleasure is sinful. You know the fact that you're married and you love your wife or you love your husband, that you have children and you love your children The fact that you have financially prospered and you enjoy what God has given you. And you're not abusing it, you're not misusing it, it's not dominating you, but you see it as a good gift from God's good hand. If that's really how you look at it, then you should enjoy those things. This is from God. The scripture says that God gives us richly all things to enjoy. And so when we walk away from this passage, don't think, boy, I shouldn't enjoy life at all. I should just live this life of complete isolation because I don't want to indulge myself and enjoy pleasure. That's not the point of what he's saying. Realize God is good. What he gives is good. And we should enjoy what he gives us in the way that He has designed us to enjoy it as a good gift from His good hand. A second matter I want to mention is this. Realize there are terrible dangers associated with self-indulgence. Solomon warns over and over and over again in the book of Proverbs about the dangers of alcohol. He warns over and over and over again of the dangers of immorality. He warns over and over and over again of the dangers of greed. And the fact is that we need to be a people who recognize when there's danger, we need to be cautious of what we do with those kinds of things. We need to recognize that if we live self-indulgent lives that pursue pleasure, we will get burned by the fire. It will hurt us. And we may not be able to reverse the consequences. of those choices. A third matter I'm going to mention is this. Don't be duped into replacing a pursuit of God with the temporary pleasures of life. Because these pleasures will leave you empty, frustrated, with no value in what you have done The truth is that when we enjoy life as a good gift from God's good hand, and we enjoy it as He has designed it to be enjoyed, What happens? We have satisfaction, not because of the pleasure, but because we recognize that the pleasure is from the hand In other words, we can we we are connecting the enjoyment of life not with the thing enjoyed, but with the one who's given it. And that's really the whole sense of what Solomon is saying. If you live life for pleasure, you get emptiness. But when you enjoy life in the light of eternity and from the good hand of God, you find satisfaction. In a God who's eternal, who's all-powerful, who's all-knowing, who you recognize is good and loving and kind to you personally. And so this morning as we think about these truths, I hope that they will encourage you and help you. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. If this has been a blessing, I hope that you'll share that. Perhaps share that with a friend, someone else who can be encouraged by it. And tomorrow, Lord willing, we'll look at the second section of verses 1 through 11, where we'll talk about the second pursuit that he emphasizes, and that is the building of things with our hands. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study your word together. Father, we thank you that you are good and you give good gifts to your children. You give us richly all things to enjoy, yet we recognize this morning that we can take those good gifts. And we can live for them and find emptiness. We can abuse those good gifts. And when we abuse those good gifts, we'll find emptiness. and vexation of soul. Help us to to walk wisely in the light of eternity and help us to enjoy the good things of God as gifts from your hand. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning, and I look forward to sharing with you the next section tomorrow, Lord willing. Have a great rest of your day. Bye now.