Okay, 1 John chapter 2. Let's read the text again, and then we will get into our sermon this morning. 1 John 2. 10 says this he that loveth his brother. abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him, but he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes Let's bear our hearts together in prayer and then we'll look at this passage together. Father, I pray that you'd help us this morning to have clear minds to see that on issues of right and wrong There's not a central area of ambiguity. It's either right or it's wrong. It's either light or it's darkness. It's either a work of the flesh or produced by the Spirit of God. I pray that we would see the very plain terms that John uses in this text, and that we will see exactly how it applies to our lives. And that if there's a need for thinking change, you will bring that, and that you would really work through this scripture this morning. Help me as I preach the word to have a clear mind, to present these truths in a way that's consistent with the text of Scripture. that the Holy Spirit can take the truth that's been established from your word and really burn it deeply into our souls and help us to understand the significance and the weight of these truths. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to have a picture in your mind of something that happened thousands and thousands of years ago. There's a man, his name is Moses, and if you have in your mind a picture of Moses, he probably looks like Charlton Heston, right? Okay. Sorry, it's just the truth. You know, you think of Moses and you think of that that red, white, and black thing that that that we have in that particular old movie. We think of Moses. I'm sure Moses didn't look like that at all. But I want you to take your mind back to that event. There is a group of people who watch an entire generation or two die for 40 years in a wilderness. They wandered around in the desert, waiting for the time when God would thrust his people into the promised land. The promised land that God had promised to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob. The promised land that those descendants of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob probably discussed when they were enslaved in Egypt. A group of people who were able to, maybe when they were very small children, witnessed the parting of the Red Sea Okay, some of them were maybe teenagers. They were very young adults, we could say, not past the age where God said, from this point on, you won't enter the promised land. And they're getting ready to go into the promised land. And God moves Moses to write a book called the Book of Deuteronomy. And whether you realize it or not, the book of Deuteronomy is written like a legal document, if you will. And the way that it's written, there are statements just like they wrote legal documents in the ancient world. And it's basically laying out, if you will, the conditions for those people to enjoy blessing in God's promised land. When we talk about the Abrahamic covenant, we're talking about a covenant that was unconditional. God said, Abraham, I'm going to bless you no matter what your descendants do. But when we talk about the Mosaic Covenant, there were conditions, and those conditions did not eliminate the Abrahamic covenant. If you will, they talked about the blessings that Abraham's descendants Could either enjoy in the promised land or that they wouldn't miss out on. I want you to hear this very startling text in Deuteronomy 30 that these individuals heard. These are the people who saw as children or teenagers the Red Sea parting that watch their fathers and their mothers and their grandparents and their aunts and their uncles die in the wilderness. And they were raising up their children. Moses writes in Deuteronomy 30: I call heaven and earth to record this day against you. These are the witnesses of this covenant. And he writes, I have set before you life and death. That's startling, isn't it? Blessing and cursing. Startling, is it not? Therefore, choose life That both thou and thy seed may live. And what he begins to do is he begins to remind them of the law Or we could say the conditions of God's covenant with his people Israel. And if they followed God's commandments, God was going to bless them in the land flowing with milk and honey. It was going to be a rich and a glorious experience. But he warns him, if you disregard my law, I have no choice but to bring leanness to your souls. Hardship and struggle. I put before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Therefore choose life. You know what's interesting in the Bible we find places that state the difference between light and darkness, blessing and cursing, in the same kinds of terms. What is the middle ground between life and death? What is the middle ground between blessing and cursing, if you will? Is there any middle ground? Well, some people go, I don't really want the curse. I don't, you know, the I want some middle ground. He doesn't give them middle ground. He says it's either here or it's here. That's the way this text is. He says, He that loveth his brother abideth in the light. He that hateth his brother is in darkness. He doesn't give middle ground here. He doesn't say there's like hating, there's loving, and then there's sort of like the ambiguity stage. He doesn't say that. He doesn't say there's life, or there's light, and there's darkness, and then there's like well, what would you call the in-between? There isn't any. And so he just speaks in very startling terms. You ask the question, well, why did John write this the way that he wrote this. And here's the reason. He wants his readers, his audience, to live out a vibrant Christian walk. God does not want you and he doesn't want me to just bump along through life and have a miserable Christian experience and then die and go to heaven having lived a pretty worthless life. I don't mean worthless as in our lives are worthless, but I mean it's not significant. We didn't really do what God wanted us to do. We didn't follow and pursue his will. We didn't grow very much in our Christian experience. We didn't taste the goodness of the Lord. He doesn't want us to have that kind of an experience. He wants us to have a vibrant, healthy, growing, thriving Christian walk And John wants to communicate that to his listeners. So he draws their attention to some significant contrasts in the book. In this text, the contrast is between walking in the light and walking in the darkness. And he's doing that because he wants them to reject the temptation to indulge in fleshly temptations that will rob them of that joyful Christian experience. That's really what it's all about. You know, this morning when we were talking in our Sunday school class, we talked about the way that God came, or not God, the way that Satan came to Eve. And he came to Eve and he said, Eve, God is holding you back from something. There's something that you can know that you don't know, and it's called evil. And he says, God knows that if you eat the fruit of that tree, the knowledge of good and evil, that when you eat it, you'll become wise like God. You will know good and evil. Well to Eve that seemed kind of alluring. And maybe to some of us there have been times it seemed alluring too Well, I know what it's like to live the good Christian life. I know what it's like to be a part of the church and with God's people. The world looks very enticing to me And so we want to know what evil tastes like, if you will. Now we don't think of it in that terms, but that's exactly what we're doing. We want to know what the darkness is like. Because all we've known is the light, if you will. John says, don't do that. Because when you go into the dark, there are huge consequences. There's a startling contrast between the light and the darkness. And I want you to know, Christian, the difference, the contrast between light and darkness. So that you'll not be lured into the darkness and experience the heavy consequences of going into the darkness, if you will. The truth is that God wants us to consistently walk in the light. He doesn't want us to taste the light for a few weeks. to taste the light for a day or two and to vacillate back and forth. He wants there to be a sustained, consistent walk in the light. What does the Bible say about Enoch? Enoch walked with God, but he didn't walk with God all of his life. There was a period where he didn't walk with God. And through circumstances, things changed and he began to walk with the Lord. Abraham was called the friend of God. It says that God spoke to Moses in a way he did not with any other person. God wants us not to just Taste the light and taste the darkness and vacillate back and forth. He wants a sustained, consistent walk in the light. And so what does John do? He says, here's the contrast. If you will, you are standing on the continental divide. If you go on this side, you go down this side of the mountain. If you go on this side, you go down this side of the mountain. You are Standing at the center with a choice to make if And he says, choose to walk in the light. This morning I'd like us to look at this concept of the contrast between light and darkness. So that we will think clearly, we'll think biblically about this issue, and we will choose to walk in the light. The first truth is this: we must understand the contrast. between light and darkness. It doesn't, I'm not saying, well, it's a good idea. We have to. It's an absolute essential. It's an absolute necessity for us in the Christian life to understand the contrast. In verses ten and eleven he says this, He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. He that hateth his brother is in the darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because the darkness hath blinded his eyes. I want us to see how in other passages of Scripture this same concept is kind of presented to us. Look at Paul's epistle. Go in your Bibles to Galatians chapter 5, if you will. In Galatians 5 verse 16, this is what Paul writes. He says, this I say Walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. The flesh lusteth against the spirit. the spirit against the flesh. These are contrary the one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that ye would Do you see the incompatibility of light and darkness? The incompatibility of the works of the flesh and the works of the spirit He continues in the same chapter, and in verse 19 he says this now the works of the flesh are manifested, which are these. Now I'm going to read some words that maybe you won't understand. And so if you need a dictionary, look up some of these words. But some of them you'll immediately understand what it's talking about. The point today is not for me to break down all these words and explain in great detail. I just want you to get a grasp of the general concept. But the works of the flesh are manifested, or we could say revealed, which are these things? Adultery. Fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatreds Let me mention a couple that you understand a little better. Wrath, strife , heresies, the idea of divisions. Envying, murder, drunkenness, revelings. Revelings have the idea of, well, if you will like Mardi Gras party type stuff. He mentions the works of the flesh, the manifestation of our flesh, the indulgence of our flesh. Then we continue down to verse 22, he says this, but if you will, in contrast, the fruit of the Spirit is love. Joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, and temperance You know, we could stop on every single one of those words and develop them in great detail. But it's just drawing us to analogy here. These two concepts, so these two lists, they're in complete, we could say, in conflict with one another. There are two principles, if you will. That are contrasted with one another. They're constantly at war and fighting one another. For instance, we have love Okay? Love is a fruit of the Spirit. It's produced by the Holy Spirit. It's in contrast with adultery. Adultery is not love in the biblical sense at all. Fornication, it's not love in the biblical sense at all. Hatred, obviously not love, wrath, strife, the idea of contentions, division, meaning that we're going and we're trying to create contentions in a body. Murder. Do you see that these things are in conflict with one another? It's not just like you can love and do these things. Either you love or you don't love, and these are the things that end up happening They're in conflict with one another. Meekness and temperance are contrasted with things like murder. If you murder somebody, are you being meek? No. Hatred, is that meekness? No. Drunkenness. Revelings. We see the conflict between these two concepts. We have two principles that are at play, and one is light and one is darkness. One is the work of the flesh and one is the work of the spirit. This is the point that John is drawing to our attention. And this is what Paul also does. So let's examine for just a moment these two principles, if you will. The principle of light and walking in the light, and the principle of darkness and walking in the darkness. Notice, first of all, that walking in the light is a grace-empowered kind of living. Love is not something that is natural to us. Okay? As much as we want to say that it is, it's not natural to us. It's natural for us to feel happy when people make us feel happy. It's natural for us to like what people give us, but that's not love. Love is self-sacrificing. Love is something that involves grace and humility and forgiveness and sacrifice. Love is not self-serving. Love is focused on others. Love is giving, if you will. That is grace-empowered living The Christian life is a life that has to be lived by God's grace and by God's power and by God's strength. The reason it's called fruit of the Spirit is because the Spirit of God and dwelling in the Christian is the one who produces those unnatural things. People are not naturally temperate. People are not naturally loving. People naturally hate. People naturally become contentious. Just work in a nursery for a little bit. Okay? Work with those little kids. Do those kids naturally share? No, they don't. If that child shares, it's because their mom and dad work with them constantly Okay? If that child doesn't become angry when you tell them no, it's because their mommy and daddy have been teaching them you can't respond like that Okay? And even parents who are laboring and working with their kids to teach them, their kids still do these kinds of things. Okay? And by the way, it's not just kids, as we get older, we do the same stuff, except We do it in different ways, okay? But what's natural in us is to respond in the flesh. That's what's in our hearts. We don't become sinners as we get older. We manifest our sin nature as we get older. We begin to demonstrate what's in the heart. That's why Jeremiah says, in the heart of man it is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. That's all of us. We all have that problem. When we submit to God, it's because of his gracious work in our lives. It's because of his spirit's work in us. When we live in this way, it's because of his work in us. He's the one doing it. accomplishing it in us. And so he says, he that loveth his brother walketh in the light. This is a grace response. This is a grace-empowered response, if you will. A second aspect is this. This walking in the light is in the fellowship of God. He mentions this multiple times in this book. Walking in the light is walking in communion or fellowship with God. He's abiding in the light. If you will, he's living there. That is what he's doing on a regular basis. It's like Enoch walking with God It's like Abraham being the friend of God. It's like Moses having fellowship with God. It's like you and me getting into the text of Scripture, reading it, absorbing it, meditating upon it, and as we dwell on truth, the Holy Spirit speaks to us. And moves and works in our hearts. That's what he's talking about. Walking in the light is a grace-empowered life. It is a fellowshipping with God life. He also mentions in verse 10 that it's in the light. If you have light, you have the ability to do something. See. Light allows you to see. If there's no light, you can't see. That's what enables you to see. You can have healthy eyes, but if you're in a dark room, you don't see anything. Light is what enables you to see. And so walking in the light is a position of clarity, if you will. Discernment, ability to perceive and recognize, and think clearly. And lastly, it's a position of stability. There is none occasion of stumbling in Him. What does he mean by none occasion of stumbling in him? That stability. He's talking about an internal stability. You cannot control what you go through in this world many times. There are some sicknesses that you have absolutely no ability to keep from happening to you. You know? It's sort of like you go to the doctor and they're like, Can you please give us your family history? And you start like talking about, oh my mom had this and my grandma had this and my aunt had this and you're just going, I'm really in trouble. You know what I mean? You don't control your family history You know, a lot of what we experience is completely because of our genetics. We have no control over it. You can't control how people treat you sometimes. You don't control lots of aspects of living in this world. But internally, in the midst of all those things, you can have stability. And that's not natural. We don't have stability just by default. We have stability because of the work of God in us. Because He has transformed how we think and how we respond. He has given us stability and strength. And so that person who walks in the light has stability, an internal stability, in spite of what may be going on around them. It's also a consistent pattern of godliness. Sometimes you'll have a conversation with somebody and they'll say, you know, my dad did this when he was such and such an age. And I'm afraid I'm gonna follow in his footsteps, that I'm gonna do what he did, I'm gonna act the way that he did. I'm afraid I have this friend who did this, and I fear that I'm gonna end up in that place. Let me tell you, the way that we keep from stumbling. Is by walking with God. It's by walking with God. If you don't want to stumble, if you don't want to walk in the paths of those who have fallen, you've got to walk with God. That has to be the focal point. Not them, not you, God. Walking in the light is what gives you stability and strength. And so when John talks about walking in the light, he's talking about grace and power living, love in the biblical sense. He's talking about fellowshipping with God, using the term abide. He's talking about clarity because he uses that illustration of light, you can see. And he talks about stability. There is none occasion of stumbling in him. And let's not just think of that in the physical sense of I've sinned and everybody knows about it. We're talking about the internal stability as well. And both of those are critically important. That's one side. And he says, this is what I want. I put before you life and death, blessing and cursing. This is the kind of text he's talking about And so he says, choose life, walk in the light, abide in Christ. But there's another side. And here it is, walking in darkness. How does he describe walking in darkness? Well, first of all, he uses the term he that hateth his brother Remember the Galatians passage? Now the works of the flesh are, and one of them is what? Hatred. This is the natural way that we respond in our flesh. If it's not for the grace of God in our hearts, if it's not for him limiting our will, if you will, by pressing upon us through his spirit's work, through the conviction of the Holy Spirit, through that new nature, if it's not for that restraining work, that's how we respond by nature. Works of the flesh. This passage just talks about love and hate. But you know, there are lots of passages that talk about other types of contrasting work of the flesh versus works of the spirit. Really, it filters into all areas of our lives. He that hateth his brother. A second aspect is this. There's a separation from God. We are walking in the darkness. He says, you're in darkness. And he uses that term throughout his writings to refer to separating from God, not in fellowship, not in communion with God. A pattern of fleshly living, verse 11, he says this: He that walketh. Walking means that you're not standing, it means you're moving. Do you get the difference? I had a conversation with someone recently, and I said, when it comes to areas of moral right and wrong and sin and the works of our flesh, they're not stationary. They don't just sit still. It's not like I have this problem and it just stays like that for 20 or 30 years. No, that problem begins to metastasize, if you will That problem begins to grow and become deeper and fuller if we don't address it. We don't tame our flesh. We have to crush those works. of the flesh. And so the idea is that that person who's walking in the light, he's abiding in Christ. He's walking in fellowship with God. That person who's walking in the darkness, he's moving somewhere. Where he is today is not where he will stay if that issue is not addressed. A lack of clear thinking, verse 11, he says, He knoweth not whither he goeth. This is one of the great contrasts between a person with a biblical worldview and a person who does not have a biblical worldview. Is that the Christian can look at life and they can make sense of what they're saying. I didn't say it's easy to make sense of what they're saying. I'm not saying that they're going to understand all the implications of what they're dealing with, but they have clarity in a way that the unbeliever doesn't have. They have the providence of God that is the anchor to their soul, if you will. God's ability to take evil and use it to accomplish good. That's the kind of stuff that they are able to look at. I saw a friend of mine, he posted something on Facebook. He writes a blog and he talked about God taking evil and accomplishing good, and he said this I wish I could say it the way that he wrote I should have copied it down and just quoted what he said. He basically said the greatest example of God taking evil and turning it to good is the cross. This example. People murdered Christ, if you will. They spat on him and they mocked him and they hated him and they gloried in the fact that he was suffering physically. And God took that pain and suffering and he redeemed us through it. You know what I'm saying? There are countless examples of how God takes evil and turns it for good. It doesn't mean that he makes evil good. He uses it for good. There's a difference. And the believer can think clearly about these kinds of things. He can mature and he can become more focused. The unbeliever doesn't have that ability. To them it's just I rolled the dice and I got a I got unlucky, you know? It's like I'm in the casino and I I win or I lose. I I don't have any control, it's just a random chance. But as Christians, we believe in the providence of God and that changes things God's power and ability to accomplish good in spite of the evil. And lastly, it's this, verse 11, because of the dark but the darkness has blinded his eyes, not only they can't see clearly. But their ability to see becomes impaired. So what would happen to you if you sat in a dark room for a day? For one day you wouldn't be able to see. What would happen if you sat in a dark room for five years? When you got out, you might have lost your ability to see. Do you get the difference? And so what he's basically saying is that the darkness blinds the eyes. Being in that condition of being separated from God not only takes away your ability to see in the moment, but it affects and impairs your ability to see in the future. And this is one of the devastating consequences of sin, is that when we say the darkness looks alluring, we do not know the way to the consequences that will follow our taste of darkness. And so he says the darkness has caused them to lack an ability to see clearly. It's blinded their eyes. When we go to Romans chapter 1, what does he talk about? He says, for this reason God gave them up. And it talks about the tremendous perversion, calling good evil and evil good. What is that? People have lost their ability to see. They've become blinded by the darkness. Not just the fact that they're in the darkness means they can't see, but being in the darkness long enough takes away their ability to see. We come to a second truth, and that is this. We must understand the difference between the believer and the unbeliever's relationship to sin. Now, the text is not really dealing so much with this, but in my mind, it's something we need to clear up. The way that a believer relates to sin and the way that an unbeliever relates to sin is very different. And I'm just going to give you a real quick mention of some things. First of all, Ephesians 2. 1 is a is a critical text here. It says this, you hath he quickened who were dead. Catch that? Dead in trespasses and sins. Before I was converted, before I placed my faith in Christ, before I was regenerated, I was spiritually dead Separated from God, I had no ability to live for God. None at all. I had no ability to conquer sin. That doesn't mean that I was the most decadent sinner out there. Didn't mean that I went as far down the road of depravity that I possibly could go, but it means I had no ability to conquer sin. I was a slave to sin, dead in trespasses and sins, the text says. He says Going on, he says, in times past you walked according to the course of this world. There was a specific way that you walked that was connected to what you were positionally before God and under sin. In times past you walked according to the course of the world, the prince of the power of the air, who works in the children of disobedience. among whom also we all. And you know, Paul's not just saying, oh, you you Ephesian believers, you were the real bad ones before you got saved. He says, we, I was one of those people. He says, We all had in our times past the lusts of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh in the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as others. You know, you talk to talk to people who are living in the corporate world and they're living amongst people that have no biblical interaction at all. And you discuss some morality issues. If you share what you believe, people be like, What? You believe that? That's crazy. That doesn't work in our twenty first century. Oh, that's old school. That doesn't work. And there's just a complete mockery of the biblical position of what is right and what is wrong on so many levels. Well why is that? Because when a person doesn't know the Lord They're walking in the darkness. They don't have the ability to clear see clearly. They don't even realize that what they're thinking is so far from true. They don't even have that. It's not even on their radar, if you will. That's how we were before our salvation. Romans 8, 7, and 8 says that the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, nor can it be. Did you catch that? It cannot be. It's not just that a person goes, I want to obey God's law, and if I try hard enough, I can, it says, you can't. If you're not in Christ, you are under the dominion of sin. You are sin's slave, if you will. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. I'm not going to unpackage this to its fullness. I'm just making a statement of fact That a person who does not know the Lord is spiritually dead, their thinking and their affections, whether they realize it or not, are completely contrary to what God says is true and what God says is right. They are dominated by sin and they don't know it. They are a slave to sin. I use the term they, we all. It's not just the world out there. If you're saved today, it was true of you before God in his grace opened your eyes to see the truths of the gospel. To the preaching of the Word of God, God stirred up that fallow ground, like we talked about in Sunday school last week, and broke your heart to your sinful condition. And he worked in you a work where you began to see the light. And in humility you turned to Christ and you trusted in his finished work. That was you before you were saved. Whether you were a kid, a teenager, a young adult, someone who was well up in years, it doesn't matter when you came to understand the gospel and trust Christ. That was your condition before salvation. Whether your life manifested that to its fullness or not is irrelevant. That's what you and I were before our salvation. The unbeliever's relationship to sin is domination. Being dominated, being a slave to, being blinded by sin and that indwelling principle, if you will What about the believer? Romans 6 gives us the answer. He says in verse 6, he says, Our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. He that is dead is freed from sin. Reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies. Neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin, but as instruments of righteousness unto God. I'll put it in very simple terms. The believer, when he got saved, died to sin. That doesn't mean that sin can't tempt him. It doesn't mean that he has lost his capacity to sin. The Bible is so clear about that. But he now is freed From the position under sin where he is the slave to sin. He's bound by sin. He can't overcome sin. He can't have victory over sin, if you will. That's been freed. He's freed from its dominion, if you will. Its kingdom, if you will. That principle was his king. That power is broken. He's no longer in that dominion. The old man is crucified. We are able to say no to sin's dominion. He says, reckon You also yourselves to be dead indeed into sin. That means that we can sin still as believers, but we don't have to. I like that term reckon. Best way to put it is uh the books are opened. And you start going through the books and what do you find out? Oh we put that in the wrong category over there. Oh we put the wrong amount over there. And so what do we do? We start looking at the receipts and we start changing what is there to reflect what is true. Do you get what I'm saying? We're going through this process and, you know, sometimes it's a real slow and simple thing, and sometimes it takes a long time. It just depends on how we went through the process. Well, God says this, reckon yourself to be dead unto sin. The way that you live, the way that you think, the way that you feel may not be consistent with reality. So you need to do some inventory. You need to think about your spiritual walk before God clearly. And when you're not acting right, you're not thinking right, you're not feeling right, the truth has to become brought in front of those things and say, this is true What I'm thinking is wrong. The way I feel is not a testimony to what is true. I'm embracing a lie. And we have to reckon ourselves to be dead to sin but alive unto God. The believer can do that. The unbeliever can't. And that's a huge distinction. The unbeliever is the slave to a terrible master. He's powerless to overcome that oppressive rule of sin. The believer is freed by the gospel to walk in newness of life. And the unbeliever is powerless. And I ask you a question today. Which position are you in? Which position are you in? Are you in a position where you realize I am the slave to sin? I'm not saved. I've tried to conquer and dominate sin and I've lost because I'm not a child of God. I've never come to Christ in repentance and trusted in the finished work of Christ. My inability to live the Christian life makes sense now. I've tried and I've failed. Are you a Christian who needs to reckon yourself to be dead to sin, but alive into God? You know, we go through our books periodically. Because if we waited till the end of the year, we'd we'd have so much time wasted in trying to reconcile everything. So we reconcile on a regular basis. Well, you and I have to do the same thing in our walk with the Lord. The way that we think can get off track. How we feel may not be a reflection of what is true. We have to reorient our thinking to the Word of God. I want to make some very simple observations in closing. Our ability to enjoy the Christian life starts with biblical thinking. We cannot be lazy. We cannot be undisciplined. We cannot embrace this lie that says the way I think naturally is true. That's wrong. We constantly have to take inventory. We constantly have to be in the Word of God. If you don't want to stumble, you've got to walk with God. You've got to walk in the light. You've got to bring the scriptures to bear. Our ability to enjoy the Christian life begins with biblical thinking. And I ask you this morning, do you think biblically? Or do you just say, oh, follow my heart. Whatever my heart tells me is true. That's not true. Please. You do that, you'll wreck your life. I promise you you will. The world says follow your heart and look at the consequences of that thinking. Biblical thinking, though, has to be united with godly discipline. A lot of times we know in our heads what is true, but we don't have the will to do it. And I remind you of this passage in Philippians, it says that it is of the Lord's to will and to do of his good pleasure. God not only tells us what is true, but through the Spirit's work in our heart, He enables us and strengthens us and presses us and motivates us. And so the Christian life is not just about getting our thinking theologically correct. It's about God working in our wills and motivating us and pressing us. And perhaps the reason that we don't live consistently in the light isn't about our knowledge. It's about our heart. It's about what's inside pressing us. We don't commune with God, so there's nothing pressing us to act upon what we know. We need biblical thinking to be united with godly discipline. And lastly, we cannot treat sin lightly. Even though we're now in Christ. There are devastating consequences to walking in darkness. When you and I have sinned, And we recognize it's there, and we decide I'm gonna guard and preserve that. I'm going to indulge that intemperance, if you will, then it will destroy You. It will begin to impair your ability to see clearly. You hear about a person who gets a tumor in their brain. And because of that tumor, what is normal changes and their ability to think and see clear maybe they can't see clearly. Maybe it affects their hearing. Maybe it affects their rationality. And that tumor, its presence, affects those normal abilities that we have. Sin does that to us. Sin distorts our ability to see clearly. And if we let it manifest itself long enough, it can leave almost permanent damage to us. Like it says, he has been blinded by the darkness. Please, I challenge you this morning. Ask God to help you to think biblically. Ask God to strengthen and enable you and motivate you to combine godly discipline with biblical thinking. And lastly, let's not treat sin like The consequences to playing with sin can be devastating. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer Father, this text is uh is is is vitally important to our Christian walk Like Moses wrote in Deuteronomy, I set before you life and death. You set before us light and darkness. And the contrast is startling. You don't leave us with middle ground. You simply say, here's light and here's darkness. Father, help us to embrace the light. Light to walk in communion with you. Help us to be people who don't just have the right theology, but we have a heart and godly discipline that motivate us to walk in light of truth that we know. Help us to constantly take inventory of the way that we're thinking and how we feel and how we're responding to circumstances and help us to reckon The way that we think and feel to what is true. I pray that you'd help us not to play with sin, but help us to recognize the tremendous danger and the devastating consequences. That flow from that kind of living and help us to be disciplined enough to turn from that I pray that you'd help us as a congregation to be godly, to be Christ-centered, and may you be glorified in our lives. May we enjoy the sweetness of communion with you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.