I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn with me to the book of Ephesians this morning, Ephesians chapter 2. And the text that we're looking at, in fact, it's a lot shorter, usually when we do our scripture reading, the first portion of our scripture reading is a little bit shorter. It's usually from the Old Testament. And then the second portion is a bit longer because that's the text that we're looking at for our morning sermon. But this week, because of the length of the the sermon or the the length of the text that we're looking at uh for our service, um we we took a longer portion. And uh it's a parallel passage. I think it really kind of lays out a lot of what is being talked about very briefly here in Ephesians chapter 2. So let's go ahead and read the text together, verses 19 through 22. It says, now, therefore, ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints. and of the household of God, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. And whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord. And whom ye also are built together for an habitation of God through the Spirit. Let's bow together for prayer. Lord, I thank you so much for the things that we'll talk about this morning from this passage. And as we look at each of these little pieces , And we treasure them, we glory in them. I pray that this morning our hearts would be deeply blessed by what we will see in your precious word. I pray by the end of this time together we would truly worship you with a sweet spirit in our hearts, a joy, a love for you, an attention to what you say is most important in all the world. And so I pray that today you would meet with us and work in us in a very special way. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. Text in front of us could be summarized in the following way. Reconciliation to God is more than just the removal of animosity. Now you think about what happens when two nations are at war and they finally get to the place where it's time to establish peace. What is the general basis of that peace? One answer, force. One power has so decimated the other that now that power is in a position where they realize I have no choice. But to accept terms, terms that I may be very unhappy with, but the reality is that my will cannot be imposed any further because I do not have the ability to push back. I have been completely decimated. That is the way that most military conflicts throughout human history have ended. And you know what ultimately happens when peace is established? There is a dropping of arms, but there's not Peace in souls. And many times what ends up happening is a generation later, or maybe two generations later, those underlying currents that were a part of Leading to that ultimate conflict, they rise again. A new generation comes up and they say, you know what? We may have had peace for 15 years. We may have had peace. for five years, we may have had peace for 20 years, but we're gonna go ahead and we're gonna settle the matter again. And you know what they do? They fight another conflict. And that's the way that human conflict tends to be resolved. It's very temporary. It's based on one person imposing their will on another. And what really led to that conflict is not true. In fact, it even happens many times on interpersonal levels. Hopefully not to such a level, but it often does. Well, what's very important for us to understand about the reconciliation that's talked about in the Word of God between we who are sinners and God who is holy and righteous is not just the removal of animosity. It's a peace that's been established that's gonna last forever. It's a peace that is sweet And enduring and eternal. And it's not just we're not at odds anymore, we're not at war anymore, we're at peace. There's actual unity between us and our Creator. And so when we talk about the text in front of us, it's showing us many wonderful blessings that are beyond just there's not war between God and man, but in fact there is a real, lasting, eternal reconciliation. God wants us this morning, as we look at this text, to just glory in his simple plan for us as his people. And so how do we do that? Well, I want to begin by first of all kind of breaking down a big picture view of this story of the conflict between man who is a sinner and God his creator who is holy and righteous. God's plan in the beginning for people was very simple and very good. We go to Genesis chapter 1 and we can read about it, but I'll break it down into three little components. One is this. We are image bearers, so we were created to reflect the glory of the one who made us. Out of all of creation, only people, only humans. are made in the image of God. That makes us unique. That makes us special to God. That gives us a dignity that no other portion of the creation holds. The second thing is that we were to use the strength and the wisdom that God has given us to take care of His creation. And so when God created Adam and he put him in the garden, he said, Be fruitful, multiply, and take care of the creation. He was given dominion over the creation. That was not to abuse the creation or to misuse the creation, but it was to care for the creation. And to use his strength and his wisdom in a way that ultimately would bring glory to his creator. And then the third aspect was that God created people to enjoy him in relationship forever. Such a simple thing. God gives us dignity as image bearers. He says, use your strength and your wisdom to take care of my creation and enjoy me forever. That's why I made you. And guess what? The fall changed it all. The fall messed it up. God created Adam as a real image bearer who could choose to do right or wrong. And you know what Adam did? He did wrong. In fact, we don't know how long it took before Adam did this. Probably not all that long, but Adam chooses to reject God's good plan for him. And the fall brought misery to everybody. In fact, in Romans 5. 12, we could put it like this by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, and so death passed on all men. For that all have sinned. God's beautiful creation, his good creation, is now marred by the fall of sin. And it didn't just affect Adam, and it didn't just affect Eve, it affected all creation, not just their children, but even the world that they live in. And in Romans chapter 8, verse 20, it talks about this. It says that the creation was not made subject to vanity, or was made subject to vanity, and the creature itself shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption, and the whole creation groaneth and and travaileth in pain together until now. When you look at this world that we live in, you see the good of God's design You see the beauty and the wisdom of God's design, and you also see the negative effects of a fallen and scarred world You see both of them together. And the question is, why is it like that? It all goes back to the garden. And the question is, is there any hope for this world and humanity? And the answer is, yes, there is. But before we get there, we need to recognize that the ultimate brokenness of this world is not what we see out there. It's what's And Romans 3 10 says, there is none who is righteous, not even one. There is none who understands. There is none that seeks after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none who doeth good. No, not one. That's a pretty bleak picture. And interestingly, in the text that we've been looking at, Paul is showing us one of the most vivid tensions. That was there in the church at the time. And that was this tension between the Jew and the Gentile as a part of this body. In verse 11, he says That these people were called uncircumcision by those who were called circumcision. You know what he says? There are people even within the church context that have disdain for other Christians because of one thing. ethnicity. He says in verse 12 that they were aliens from the commonwealth of of Israel. And he's emphasizing the fact that there was this exclusiveness to this issue of the Old Testament covenant of the Mosaic Covenant. And those who were Gentiles were outfit of those covenant promises. Now, don't read into that more than what is stated there. This is the attitude of being excluded And then in verse 12, he says, you were strangers from the covenants of promise. They were outside of those covenants. Now That's not going to be the end of the story. That's simply telling you what's going on and why those dynamics were so tense within the church. And you know what's interesting? When you read through the New Testament, you will see many, many examples of this controversy between Jewish and Gentile believers within the church coming to a head over and over and over again. It's in Romans. It's in 1 Corinthians. It's in Ephesians. It's in 1 Timothy. It's really in the book of Acts. You see it in many, many different places. Why is that? Because even though people were born again, they'd place their faith in Christ, they stand righteous before Him, within the church, there was a sense in which some of us We do not always realize in our practice what we are in our person. And so Paul has to constantly address this issue. But here's something I want to leave you with before we start looking at the content of the text. God's plan was always to include people from every kindred and tribe and nation. God's plan was always that people from every people group in the world Would enjoy him forever. And by the way, when I was doing my my my initial study on this, I had so much scripture and I was like, I just, I'm gonna have to like set this to the side because it'll be like a 30-minute introduction and I can't do that. So I'm giving you just one verse. Genesis 12, verse 2. This is what God says to Abraham when he calls him out. And he says, I'm going to make of you a great nation. Here's what he says. I will make of thee a great nation. I will bless thee. I will make thy name great. And the next statement's important. Thou shalt be a blessing. Why'd he say that? At the end of this section he says, In thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. You know what that statement is telling us? That statement is telling us that it has been the desire of God from the very beginning to save people from every kindred and tribe and tongue and nation. And so Christ is the one who makes it possible. And we go back to what we looked at just the other week at Ephesians 2. 13, and he says this. We are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. And he has abolished in his flesh the enity between us. That's incredible to think about. This reconciliation is bigger than just removing animosity. Yes, I know human conflicts many times. People make peace because it's nothing more than pragmatism. I can't go any further. I'm weighing the situation out. And I see that if I keep going, it's going to be far worse. I'm just going to make terms and live with it. Yes, even in our personal lives, we do that sometimes. But what does the gospel do? It brings everlasting peace and full restoration. That is God's purpose. So with that in mind, let's look at what he highlights in these verses. Very simply, yet very profound. The first thing we see is this: we have full right to an eternal kingdom. We have full right to an eternal kingdom. And here's how he puts it in verse 19. He says, now, therefore, you are no more strangers and foreigners. But you are now fellow citizens with the saints. Now, when Paul says now, and therefore, there's a lot that he's already talked about that is that is filling out details as to why Paul makes this statement. He's basically saying this, listen, in the past you were not a people. You were excluded. You felt the tensions. There is animosity, not just on the human level, but even you are not at peace with God. But now, because of what Christ has done, that's all changed. You're not a stranger. You're not a foreigner. You're a citizen with the saints of God. That leads me to a question. What is a citizen? What is a citizen? Well, if we want to answer the question in the mind of Paul, we need to ask what was a citizen in the first century in Rome? And so I want to give you a little bit of insight into the significance of that statement Roman citizen. A Roman citizen was someone who had a lot of perks in life. That the average person living in Rome did not. Citizens enjoyed benefits that non-citizens did not have. In fact, most Romans were not citizens. Paul was a citizen, and so Paul utilized the freedoms that he enjoyed in that status. These were people who enjoyed a legal protection. They were exempt from some taxes. They could vote in elections. Did you know that in the Roman world people had elections? They sure did. They could hold public offices. They could purchase land. There were other things that were going on, but basically we could say it like this. If a person was a Roman citizen, there were things that they were they were, we could say, excluded from, bad things. And things that were exclusive to them, good things. They were granted a full status to participate in Roman society Paul as a Roman citizen appealed to this status several times. I'll give you an example. Do you remember when the Apostle Paul was taken by force at Philippi? and he was beaten and he was thrown into prison and he basically said this, how in the world do you have the right to touch a Roman citizen? And they're like, well, you're a citizen It's like, yup, I sure am. And all of a sudden the guy that had just like grabbed and was beaten and was like, I I I am too, but I served in the military for decades so that I could buy my citizenship. That's what he said. said. And Paul goes, whoo. How does Paul end up in a prison going to Rome as he writes this book, the book of Ephesians? Well it's because he appealed to Caesar. Did you know if a person wasn't a citizen, they didn't have such a right? So as Paul writes this to these people, in their mind, when he says, You are now fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. In their minds, they're thinking, what is a Roman citizen in the first century, a person with all these privileges, a person who has the full status of society, and Paul is saying, we were not, but we are now in such a position. Position in relationship to God. It's a pretty awesome thing to think about. Through the cross of Christ, we have a heavenly citizenship. Again, I have lots and lots of scriptures I thought about right putting down here, but I'm just going to give you one. Colossians 1:13, Christ has delivered us from the power of darkness. and has translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. It's not just that we're no longer, we could say, attached exclusively to this physical world, but we have been removed from the kingdom of darkness where we are enslaved as sinners. And we have been laid into a new kingdom, the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ, an eternal kingdom that will have no end. I want to make this point because I think it's so important. We are called to be faithful citizens in this realm. We are not supposed to pull away from all like vote in elections. If you have the opportunity to serve in your community, Serve in your community. Any way that you can bless and benefit the people around us in our society, we should do this in a distinctly Christian manner, might I say. So we should be faithful in the realm that we live, but that's not where our ultimate allegiance should lie. Listen to 1 Peter 2. He says, I beseech you as strangers and as pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul. What's Paul saying, or Peter saying here? He's saying this is really not the realm that you are to. This is the realm you live in, but the one that you should be most concerned about is that eternal realm. Hebrews 11 13, these all confess that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. They desire a better country, that is a heavenly one, where God is not ashamed to be called their God. He hath prepared for them a city. And so our ultimate allegiance should be to Christ and his kingdom. And by the way, as we live in a distinctly Christian manner, we will be able to most benefit people people that live around us. We are not called as Christians to isolate from society, to live on communes, or to live on little compounds and have no interaction in the world that we're in. No. We are to bless our neighbors. We are to do good. But we are to live ultimately for eternity. Second truth I want you to notice here is that we are members of a family. And I know he uses the word household here. But the idea is you're a part of a family. There's a bond that you now have with people that you did not have before, and that's a very significant bond. Look what he says in verse 19. He says, and you are now of The household of God. Again, we have to remember that he's writing in the first century. He's writing in a Roman world, and so it would be helpful for us to understand some of the dynamics. of the households that would have been common in the time that the Apostle Paul is writing these words. So the structure and the strength of the household is the building block of the society. Why do you think we have a lot of disintegration in the United States today? It's because our families are messes. It's really true. We don't know what a household is anymore. I was thinking in my mind, I was like, okay, we can talk about a Roman household because we can read history. We could see what people have written about the times that they lived in. What would people say as a household today in the United States of America, 21st century? Might be really interesting what they'd come up with. The truth is that we as Christians should not be a part of the culture in this way, but we should be very distinct in the way that we run our household. This is the strength of society. Side note. In the Roman world, in the first century, the household was more than just a nuclear family. It wasn't just mom, dad, and some kids. It was actually like a little community. Okay? In fact, when we talk about people meeting in the house of someone like Lydia, I mean Lydia was a very wealthy individual. She ran a business, okay? She made money. She had a household, and when they came to her house, they had a place to meet. Or we talk about Aquila and Priscilla, the same kind of thing. These people didn't just have like a little house that they lived in. They had a household. They had lots of people living in this place. And there was a clear, we could say, distinction of roles and expectations. Who's in charge? Who's responsible to care and provide? All of those things would have been laid out in those days. Legal and religious education duties. These were a part of the household, and these people were bound together on some of the most personal levels possible. I want to just think about it like this Let's say everything's good in the world except in your house. Are you a happy person? Probably not. You're trying to get out of that household as often as you can because it's absolute misery. Let's say there's a lot of misery out around you, but in your home there is peace. There is harmony. It is a sweet and safe environment. Guess what? You can be a happy person Even though there's a lot of chaos in the world, a lot of chaos in your community, a lot of chaos at work, if there's peace in the home You could have peace in your soul. Why is that? Because what's going on in that little domain is one of the most significant things that happens in your life. I think one of the great blessings of being a Christian is even when there's a lot of chaos in the world, the things that matter the most to me and all of the world are things that are secured in him. And all this other stuff that I really I have no control over them at all. I can pray for them, I should pray for them, I I can be involved to some level, but the reality is I I really can't control a whole lot outside of But what I do in my personal life and how I live in that realm, that's where a lot of the peace or the drama of life really, really is. And so when he talks about the Roman household, fathers in that situation, they had almost absolute legal authority. But they also felt the full weight of taking care of their household, providing for their household. And so when he says you are of the household of God. There's a sense in which people would think of the authority, their relationship to God as their father. There would be also a sense in which they think of the care and the responsibility of the head of a household and they say If he's my father, I'm safe. If he's my provider, I've got what I need. He's good. He's not evil. I can trust him. And so when Paul talks about these individuals being a part of a household, the household of God. He's saying on the most important level, the most personal, most intimate level in all of life God is your father. He's the head of a household that you're a part of. You have security. In fact, if we push ahead in Ephesians chapter 3 , I love what Paul prays because it gives us insight into this concept that we're a part of the family of God and he loves us. Listen to what he says, Ephesians 3. 14. He says, for this cause I bow my knee unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, unto whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. Though he would grant unto you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. What would be the basis of such a strength? Does the Holy Spirit just like give us this mystical strength? No. There's real truth. That is the foundation of that. The reason that I'm strengthened the inner man is because I know, hey I belong to him. I'm safe in him. He provides for me. He protects me. There's a stability. There's a strength. because of what I know about my God in the inner man. He says that Christ may dwell in your heart by faith. The idea is that my life is beginning to resemble on a daily basis The God who saved me. Why? Because the Spirit of God indwells me and He's working in me and He's working through me and He's changing me. But here's the one I really love. That you would be rooted and grounded in love. Rooted, grounded. Rooted and grounded. What does that mean? Well, the vitality of your life is connected to this concept of God's love for you. The stability and the strength of your life is rooted in the fact that God is your Father and He loves You. you. That you may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and the length and the depth and the height, to know the love of Christ Which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. You know, there are Christians that have endured some of the most unbelievably imaginable circumstances of history. And they had joy. They had strength. They had community They felt safe. You say, how is that even possible? Because they knew their God. They knew their God. Yet we live in one of the safest countries that's ever, ever existed. One of the most prosperous countries that's ever, ever existed. And Christians are sometimes some of the most complex Complaining, disgruntled, unhappy people in all of the world. Why is that? Because we have a thinking problem. We have a heart problem. And it's not about circumstance. It's about perspective. Despite all the turmoil around us, we are part of God's family, and this should give us a sense of security and safety Third truth. We have immediate and unending access to God. Now, those two before I think are very interesting. But this one to me, I think, is one of the most profound things that I could ever imagine. And what's amazing is this passage does not really develop this concept very much. It's developed a lot more in 1 Peter, and it's really developed a lot in 1 Corinthians. it's developed in other texts. In fact, there's actually some parallel between what we talked about this past Wednesday. Notice the way he puts it in verse 20. He says And you and I are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord, and whom ye also are built together for an habitation of God through the Spirit. Now, we've already talked about what citizenship in the first century Rome was like. We've already talked about what the household, of course, very, very tangentially. Let me say. But we talked about what is in the mind of the people at the time Paul writes this. When Paul mentions the temple, the question is, what came to mind? Well, this is the location that represented the place where God met with his people. It was established as a constant. visible reminder that God is holy and cannot be approached by sinful people outside of his provision. Now I I cannot even begin to fathom. Like when I think of the temple or I think of the tabernacle, I get in my my my mind's eye, you know, maybe something that I saw like When I was in Sunday school when they did the flannel grass thing, you know, some of you that was your your time period. You sat there and you saw the flannel grass and you have all these colors and they're they're sitting on a felt board and so you think temple and it's it's a very clean and bright context. picture and then some of you you you know who are a little bit younger you don't think about the flannograph that was from a different time you think about these these pictures Well, not on cards anymore, but now like like on a screen. That's the way that we think. But when we think about Temple and Tabernacle, we really don't think about it the way that it probably really was. Can you imagine how bloody how bloody it would have been in the temple during the Passover? You have an entire nation of people bringing animal sacrifices into the temple And every single one of the heads of household is bringing an animal and they're putting their hands on that animal and they're killing that animal and spilling out its blood and they're offering it in sacrifice to God. So you see blood. You hear cries, you smell meat cooking, you have all that going on in that context. You say, well, what was the point? The point was very simple. He's holy, we're not. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sins. We do not have the right to have access to a holy, righteous God who made us without a provision of sacrifice. And those people saw it every single time they went to the temple, every time they went to the tabernacle before that time period. See, you and I don't have that in our minds because There is no temple today. Well, not that one. There is no tabernacle today. And in Hebrews 10, he says this. The law having a shadow of good things to come, not the very image of the things, can never, with those sacrifices which they offered year by year, continually make the comers thereunto perfect. In those things, those sacrifices, there is a remembrance again made of sins every year. It is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats can take away sin. And here's what's important. It's not just that they were reminded constantly that God is holy and we are sinners, but there was something else that they were reminded of. These sacrifices don't deal with sin. They cover, but they don't deal with it. They cover, but they don't deal with it. Why? Because they have to do it every year. They have to do it over and over and over and over again. But here's another thing that I think is very interesting about the first century temple that we also don't often think about. There were practices that were added into the temple worship itself. They were not in the scriptures, but they were added by the rabbis of the time that were added to, and in fact they distorted the simplicity and the beauty of the picture that God prescribed in his word. You know what they were? There were things like the court of the Gentiles and the court of the women. You're not going to read about that in Scripture. You know why? Because they're not there. Why were those things put into the temple? Because people said we need to add a little bit to what God has said. And so when we talk about the religion of the day that Jesus pushed against and that Paul left and was persecuted by, that was not biblical. And one of the most visible reminders of this was this wall that was built between the Gentiles who are outside and those who could enter into that court. And another place that said the men can go beyond this, but the women are excluded. Very, very interesting. No rabbinical edition were more visibly distorting that picture. And the barriers separating Jews and Gentiles, men and women in the temple. And you know what Paul does? In this text, he highlights that the cross abolished these unjustifiable man-made barriers to God. Listen to what it says. Now in Christ Jesus, 2 Timothy Ephesians 2. 13, he says, now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. And hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enmity. Amazing statement, isn't it? Let me give me a second one. Galatians 3:26. He says, Ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. For as many as have been baptized into Christ, have put on Christ, there is neither Jew nor Greek. Neither bond nor free, neither male nor female. Ye are all one in Christ Jesus. And if ye be in Christ, then you're Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. Now, if you're interpreting this passage to say that men and women don't exist anymore, you don't understand what Paul's saying. Or That somehow the gospel abolished slavery in the first century in Rome. Not true. Or that somehow people that were of Gentile ethnicity or Greek Or Jewish ethnicity, all of a sudden that's no longer a thing. That's not true at all. So what's he saying? He's saying that distinction that has brought stigmatization to the society that you live in. Jew Gentile, bond-free, male, female, it's gone. Why? Because of the cross The cross removes the barrier. To put it very simply, through Christ's sacrifice, those who were excluded from the temple are now the temple of God. Can you imagine that? We read this text this morning, 1 Timothy 2. It says, ye are as lively stones built up a spiritual house. A holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. He's saying that to people That at the time it was written, if they went up to Jerusalem and they were a Gentile, let's say these Ephesian Christians Who hear these things from Paul. If they went up into Jerusalem and they said, hey, Paul says there's no middle ball of partition. I'm going in, they'd say, you're going to die if you do that. Or you had some woman who says, well, I'm going to go into the court of the men because Paul said, and they're going to like, sorry, not going to happen. Not going to be allowed. These people who are excluded in that temple, he says, you are the temple now. It's incredible. 1 Corinthians 16, 6, 19 through 20. What know ye not your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost with Which is in you, which ye have of God, ye are not your own. Ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. It's not just that we have access to God, we do, but He indwells us. Indwells us. When I get on my knees and I pray to God, I am coming directly into his presence through the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no separation. He is the one who gives me access. The Holy Spirit indwells me as an individual. And in fact, the text even says that when we gather as a body, the Spirit of God is in our midst. We don't need to ask him to come. He's here. We need to ask him to work. And he will. He does. So, how do we apply this? Let me give you some simple thoughts. The first is this: we need to marvel at the gospel's power. Now I want you to go back and I want you to think about the animosity between the Jew and the Gentile in the first century, and then I want you to go back to a time even further when the nation was at war with its neighbors. The Egyptians Egyptians, the Assyrians , the Babylonians. And listen to what the prophet Isaiah writes at a time when there's tremendous animosity between those peoples. Isaiah 19 verse 21 says this the Lord shall be known in Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the Lord in that day. He shall be entreated of them and shall heal them. In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land. And the Lord of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel my inheritance. It's a wonder that Isaiah wasn't killed when he wrote that. Could you imagine how people would have taken that statement by the prophet? Yet guess what? He's talking about what the gospel does. How it takes people from every region of the world, every background you could imagine, every people group. And when they come and they place their faith in Christ, they are now a part of the body. A Romans eleven, have they stumbled that they should fall, God forbid But rather their fall salvation has come unto the Gentiles. If the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles, how much more their fullness? I would not, brethren, that you be ignorant of this mystery Blindness in part has happened to Israel, that the fullness of the Gentiles become in, and so Israel shall be saved. Ye in times past have not believed God, yet now you have obtained mercy through their unbelief. Even so, have there also now believed that through your mercy they may obtain mercy. God hath concluded them in unbelief that he might have mercy on all. Amazing stuff. What's the point? The point is that the gospel is the equalizer. This gospel can take people that you'd never see to be friends, brothers, and sisters. A part of the same family, and he says, the cross unites us. And that's one of the things that makes the gospel such a powerful thing. How visibly the gospel transforms people's lives. My question is, does your life reflect such thinking? Second thing, prioritize God's kingdom. Be a faithful citizen in this realm. But live with a greater passion for that one. Everybody has priorities. Everybody does You say, well, I've never sat down and thought through it. That doesn't mean you don't have priorities. How much time do you spend on your phone? How much money do you spend on this or that? The truth is, if we could get a log of our time usage, if we get a log of our internet usage, If we get a log of our financial usage, it would tell us about our priorities. Truth is, most of us really don't think through our priorities, we just do what we feel like doing. But the bottom line is we need to prioritize his kingdom first. And if we prioritize his kingdom first, you know what it does? It makes clear how we're supposed to function in all these other realms. And that's what's going to help us to be effective and bless others in this realm. Third, identify your purpose. When everything around you seems out of control, find your value, your identity, and your purpose and who you are in Christ. Truth is for some of us, we look at what goes on around us and it it just it wears us out. And it weighs us down, and it actually begins to define everything about who we are as people And here's the truth. That's the wrong approach. We need to get into the Word of God and we need to allow who we are in Christ. to really nail down our true identity and our purpose. And as we think clearly about who we are and what we're to do, then we engage what's around us. Thirdly, or fourthly, we need to be worshipers and praisers of God alone. We need to live worship-filled lives. I love 1 Corinthians 6. Verse 19, he says, What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost? Which is in you, which ye have of God, ye are not your own. Ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's Now I I I spent a little time on Wednesday being more technical about this looking at the different plural versus singular in the second person in this passage. But I'm just going to break it down like this. 1 Corinthians 6, 19 through 20 basically says this. You have personal responsibility to God, and you have corporate responsibility to God. God. That's true for all of us. In our personal lives, we need to live all of life to the glory of God. Think about what it says in 1 Corinthians. Whether you eat, whether you drink, whatever you do, do it all to the glory of God. That's how we are to live our lives. In our work, in our relationships, and our use of money and our use of time. You just nail it out. How we live life needs to be to the glory of God. And if we look and we say, it doesn't seem I could really do that to the glory of God, then let's cut it out. Simple. But secondly, there's the corporate. We need to prioritize and enjoy the sacredness of the gathering of the church. I hope that when we come together, it's really sweet. I really do. Not just it's my duty, I've got to be here, I've got to listen to a sermon. It's gonna be so boring. Sorry guys. Do the best I can. There is laughing. I hope when we gather together, we really do have a sweet bond with one another. Another. Something very special about the church. Something very sacred about it. When we come together, this is this is like one of the few places in life that we should be gathering with people who we prioritize first. The same thing. And that's the Lord. The truth is if our lives are all in balance, we're going to all prioritize the same thing first. Doesn't mean we're going to agree on everything else. But you know what we will agree on? What matters most. And when we agree on what matters most, it gives us a bond. It gives us a unity. It gives us a purpose. It gives us strength. May God help us to do that. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father in heaven, we think about this text, such an interesting passage, simple yet so profound So rich. Father, please help us this week to take to heart what we have just looked at. I pray that when it comes to our identity and our purpose, Purpose and what we live for. The center of it all would be who we are in Christ and what you've made us to do. That when it comes to the kingdom that we most prioritize, it would be Our eternal inheritance with the saints, and that we would live out of who we are in Christ in a way that truly blesses our fellow men Man. Father, I pray that when it comes to the way that we live our lives on a daily basis, we truly would do all to the glory of God. And when we gather together as a local church, We would experience a very sweet, unifying love for one another and a singular focus of praise to our great God. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen.