Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And sorry that last week we were not able to record our videos. Uh we were at the wilds of uh North Carolina and our teams had a great time at camp and uh it was good to get away a little bit, to spend time with them, to spend time with our family. And I'm looking forward to an exciting week of studies that are anchored in the Word. Rather than dealing with the passage of Scripture that we looked at this Sunday, I'm planning to actually go back to the Luke passage that we skipped over last week. And the reason for that is I feel like the doctrinal content in the Luke passage is extremely helpful. And then what I might do is I might on Friday look at the passage we dealt with this past Sunday. and kind of like a bonus episode. So that's kind of what I'm planning to do this week. If you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn with me to Luke chapter 9, and we're looking at verses 28 through 36 together. And then we're going to Go ahead and just work our way through this passage of the next several days. Here's what it says. It came to pass about eight days after these things. He took Peter and John and James and went up into a mountain to pray. And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered. His raiment was white and glistening. Behold there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias, who appeared in glory and spake of his decease, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep. When they were awake they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him. And it came to pass as they departed from him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here. Let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, one for Elias. Not knowing what he said. While he thus spake there came a cloud and overshadowed them, and they feared And as they entered into the cloud, outer the cloud, and they came a voice out of the cloud saying, This is my beloved son. Hear him When the voice was passed, Jesus was found alone. And they kept it close, and told no man in those days of any of those things which they had seen. Now this passage of Scripture is full of many rich concepts. And one of the challenges when we're dealing with narrative passages is that narrative passages Uh they they tell us what happened, but they don't always give us the details as to why things happened the way that they did. And so what we have to do is we have to look at other passages of scripture And as we dig into those other passages of Scripture, we use them to help us to interpret the narrative portion of Scripture And the Transfiguration is a great example of this. We look at the details that we find in the Transfiguration account, but then we go to other passages of Scripture. to help us to understand how to interpret those details. And so dealing with narrative passages can be very challenging from an interpretive side when you are preaching and you're teaching and you're trying to apply that. So this week I'm going to attempt to try to be very cautious in the way that we deal with this passage of Scripture. As I've read through Luke chapter 9, I would summarize it this way. Luke 9 is revealing Christ's inherent glory, which has been veiled in his humiliation. He is displaying his glory as a foretaste of what would later be revealed after Christ had fully accomplished his redemptive purpose. There are a couple of details that I think are very important. I use the word inherent glory Because the glory that is revealed in this text of Scripture is not a glory that Jesus didn't already possess. In fact, later on in the text it says that they saw his glory. In other words, it's not like Jesus was just an ordinary man and then for a moment God gives him glory. No, Jesus is God in flesh. He is the creator of the ends of the earth who holds all things by the word of his power. He has an inherent glory because of his nature, but that glory has been veiled in his humiliation And then the other thing that that that I point out here is that this is going to be a foretaste of what's going to be revealed later. God is going to remove the veil temporarily So that the disciples can see this glory, and then down the road, obviously after his death and resurrection, and then at his ascension And certainly at a second coming, we'll see Christ in his full glory. So that is at the heart of this transfiguration passage There are also several key themes that are addressed in this. For instance, it shows us the connection between the agony And the humiliation of the cross and Christ veiled and then future glory. And we're going to talk a little bit about that this morning. And then we see the dual nature of Christ in his humiliation. We see that he is fully God And he's also fully man. He's human. And we're going to talk about that, Lord willing, tomorrow. And then we are going to look at the preeminence of Christ in Scripture. Why does he have Moses and Elijah, why are they there at the Transfiguration? What is the significance of these individuals? And what is the significance of what they're talking about When the disciples wake up and they see these individuals talking, we're going to talk about that, Lord willing, the following day And then lastly, we want to focus in on Peter's incomplete comprehension of these truths, and we want to see how that is applicable uh in the in the text as well. So that's where we're going this week gives you a little bit of an idea. What I'd like to do is I'd like us to dig into the very first concept and I'd like us to see how God magnifies his greatness through the cross. Now, when I use the word magnify, I'm not suggesting that God is small and we have to make him big A good analogy that we could use is if we were sitting in an observatory and we were looking up into the heavens at feeds from satellites that were showing us Faraway things. For instance, if we were to look at um the the planets like Saturn or U Uranus Faraway uh place planets. If we were looking at those planets and we were looking at them in an observatory, we would see them as much bigger in the feed than what we see when we look up into the sky. However, what we're looking at in the feed is actually not even giving us a a complete picture of the magnitude of the size of, say, Saturn Or Jupiter. Why is that? Because these are massive planets, but they're far away. And so the telescope gives us the ability to see it to a greater degree from our perspective than we would if it were not for the the telescope magnifying it to us, but at the same time, we are still looking from a very limited perspective. Well That is the same sense we talk about God being magnified. When we see God's greatness in the cross We never fully get the picture of how great God is because we have a limitation in our ability to fully comprehend it. But when we examine the cross and when we reflect on the cross, what we are doing is we are getting a fuller picture than we do before we examine the cross. And so notice what he says in verse 22 He says, the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes and be slain and be raised the third day. And then verse 26 says He shall come in his own glory and in his fathers and of the holy angels. So we see that there's a connection between what Christ must do and what Christ will do Before we see Christ in all of his inherent glory and the glory that will be given to him by the Father, and the glory that will be revealed as the holy angels are proclaiming his glory at his second coming. We see that the cross has to come before this display of Christ's glory. And that's because the cross is an essential component in the gospel message. Notice these four statements He must suffer many things. He will be slain. He will be raised the third day. He shall come in his own glory. You say, well, what are those four statements indicate? Well, they indicate that this is an inescapable part of the redemptive plan, and that this is going to be establishing the basis for the removal of God's wrath against us who we who are guilty sinners. And it's going to show us that there must be a complete triumph over death in the resurrection. And there is an unshakably certain outcome, he will come in his full glory. So all of these pieces are an essential part of the redemptive plan. Let me explain it this way. God created every single one of us with an eternal purpose. You and I are not machines. We are not just bodies. We're not just computers. We are souls created in the image of God. And so in Psalm 8, verse 5, he says, Thou hast made him, mankind, a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory. and an honor. Genesis 127 talks about us being created in the image of God. It says God created man in his own image. And the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. He created us with the capacity to think and to feel and to choose and to have a valid relationship with God. We can actually display the character of God Through our very existence, we were created to reflect his glory, and so we are image bearers. But then we see that when God created us with such a capacity, He also created us with a capacity that has the potential to fall to sin. When God created you with the ability to make moral choices, he didn't make you a mindless robot who had to choose what is right. He gave you the freedom to choose between right and wrong. And what does that do? Well, that brings the potential for evil and corruption in the world. And so in Genesis 2, he says, Of every tree of the garden, thou mayest freely eat, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat in it. From the day that thou eatest it, thou shalt surely die. God established a test that demonstrated that mankind really was created with freedom. He gave him the warning that if Adam chose to sin. There would be a devastating consequence. And what do we read in Genesis chapter 3? We see that Adam and his wife chose to sin, and by one man sin entered the world. And death by sin. So death passed on all men for that all sinned. But then in Genesis 3:15, we see that God pursues Adam, and he pursues him. Why? To promise a redeemer. The seed of the woman would crush the serpent's head. And so the question is, well, how is God going to do that? Well, there it is, Lu Luke chapter 9, 22. He must suffer many things, be slain, be raised the third day, and he shall come in his own glory. And so that really is the explanation of why these things were essential. To put it another way, we could summarize it in Romans chapter 5. When we were without strength, in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. You and I had absolutely no ability to make ourselves acceptable to God, to remove our sin debt, to remove his wrath against our sin and to make us his children. We were absolutely incapable of doing such a thing. And so what did God do? He commendeth His love toward us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. He became sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Jesus bore the full wrath of the Father against our sin. He satisfied the Father's wrath. That is propitiation. He became our sinless substitute. And through his death, God's love was magnified. In other words, we can see the love of God more clearly and more pronounced because of what Christ accomplished for us. He says we're now justified by his blood. Save from wrath through him, when we were the enemies of God, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. That passage, Romans chapter 5, really gives us a good synopsis of the connection between the cross, the empty tomb, and Christ's future glory. And so I asked this question. Will you reflect deeply on this this morning? The more you think about the cross, the more you think about why it was necessary, the more you think about the incredible weight of what Christ accomplished for us. You should have a deeper appreciation for God's love. His love should be magnified in your heart. You say, well, Pastor, what's the takeaway? Well, the takeaway is that you and I have nothing without Christ If he didn't go to the cross, we don't have redemption. We don't have salvation. We don't have forgiveness. We can't stand in the presence of a holy and righteous God. But We do have those things. Why? Because he did what he purposed to do. He did the Father's will. And I want you to think this morning about the great love of God and how much he loves you. And you know, we may be dealing with some great challenges this week. There might be some things that are very heavy in your life. And those are things that are taking your eyes off of the cross and off of God's love for you and what was demonstrated in that great sacrifice. And I want to encourage you, take your eyes back to Christ's sacrifice and remember. what he's done for you. Lord willing, this week we will move our way through this text and deal with those very important theological concepts. That can give us great stability as we go through a week. Have a blessed morning. Looking forward to talking to you tomorrow. Bye now