Good morning, like to welcome you to Friday morning and hope that you've enjoyed the study that we've had this week. And if you've taken the time to work through each of these um episodes. I just want to say thanks for joining us and I hope that that it was well worth your time. What we want to do this morning is we want to take everything we've talked about and just kind of put it all together with some final thoughts. And so I'm going to read the text one more time and then I'm going to kind of work our way through some concluding thoughts and a couple of questions to ponder as we go into the weekend. So Luke chapter 10, verses 21 through 24, here's what it says. In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth. But thou hast hid these things from the wise and the prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. Even so, Father, for so it ple seemed good in thy sight. All things are delivered to me of my Father. No man knoweth who the Son is but the Father, and who the Father is but the Son, and he to whom the Son revealed him. And he turned, and he turned him unto his disciples and said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that you see. For I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them, and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them. Now as we've worked our way through this text, we've dealt with several fundamental components. And I want to remind you that the whole concept that Jesus was emphasizing to the disciples Is that they were a blessed people. But the reason that they were a blessed people isn't because they earned it or because they deserved it, but because God had graciously revealed Himself to them. And he had just warned them in the previous passage not to be lifted up with pride like Satan was. And he reminds them that God chose not to reveal himself. to the likely people, the religious leaders and those, the reason is because they were self-righteous and they were proud. He confronted them. But they did not have the eyes to see what he was saying. Instead he's revealing himself to people who are humbled, people who are teachable, people who would be the most unlikely. And that's the way that God works. He resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. And so let's put it all together and ask the question, well, what can we learn from this? Well, here's the first thing that I think we need to take away. We cannot know God apart from his gracious revelation of himself in Christ. I love the song that we sang on Sunday morning. The song was God Has Spoken. And each of those verses talk about how God has revealed Himself to us. The first verse says that God has whispered through creation. All of the creation proclaims the glory of God. The heavens declare the glory of God. and the firm that showeth his handiwork. There's no speech or language where their voice is not heard. This is one of the ways that God's revealed himself is through the creation. But the second way he's revealed himself is through the scriptures. It says God has spoken through the scriptures, and he talks about how he's revealed himself in the scriptures. But there's a third way. He has shouted through the Savior. And so the Lord Jesus Christ, when he came, he literally revealed the Father. If you've seen the Son, you've seen the Father. And you if you've seen the glory of the Son, you've seen the glory of the Father. That is the sense. He reveals himself. through redemption and his love for sinful humanity. And so it is impossible to know God, to come to God, to have a relationship with God apart from Christ. The second point that we mentioned this week is that we cannot know God if we're unwilling to humble ourselves and accept the fact that we are unrighteous, we are undone. God reveals himself to not the proud, but to the humble. So if we believe that we can rationally understand God apart from the scriptures, we're never going to know him. Or if we believe that we can pick and choose what we want to know, what we don't want to know, what we agree with, and what we don't agree with in the scriptures, we're never going to know God. If we believe that we can know him outside of Christ, We cannot and will not know God. We do not come to the Father except through the Son, and that begins with humility. The third thing is this. If we know God, then we are a blessed people, because He has revealed Himself to us by His grace. And so we should be filled with gratitude and filled with love for God, filled with appreciation. We gather together on Sunday morning and we worship God as a corporate body. We should do it with passion because we have clarity of mind as we consider the fact that we are the recipients of God's grace. And so I want to remind you that when the Bible talks about Christians, it doesn't just refer to us as believers. Sometimes it refers to us as those that love God. Or sometimes he refills to us as those who actually care about holiness. Why does he do that? Well, because caring about holiness And a love for God is something that's produced in the lives of only people who are spiritually alive, regenerate, that have the Spirit of God working inside of them. And so this concept that we've talked about Is something that should press us into a very rich and heartfelt love for God. The scriptures should cause us to think honestly about ourselves. to humble ourselves before God and to cause us to feel the weight of our sin and the weight of his sacrifice and the weight of what we have been so graciously saved from and so graciously saved to. We should be a grateful, loving, humbled people. And when we realize this, the understanding of it is ultimately going to press us to respond the way that that Newton was when he wrote his song Amazing Grace. He says, Twas grace that taught my heart to fear, and grace my fears relieved. How precious Did that grace appear the hour I first believed? And so when Newton thought about his salvation, he was overwhelmed by the fact that it was the grace of God that humbled this calloused and hardened man who was so arrogant and so full of sin and self-centeredness and hatred for his fellow man It was grace that taught him to fear. And then it was grace that relieved that fear by showing him the redemptive work of Christ. And he says, how precious did that grace appear? They are I first believed. I ask you this question. Do you understand the weight of the text in front of us? Do you understand that you are the recipient of grace? that God has revealed himself to you because you've humbled yourself, but you've humbled yourself because God has worked in your heart. Are you a grateful, humbled person? And so I leave you with three questions going to the weekend. The first is this. Do you know the Father through the Son? Is he your Savior? Have you trusted in His finished work? His death on the cross? His resurrection from the dead, his righteousness. Is Jesus your Savior by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone? Second question. How do you approach the scriptures? Do you approach the scriptures with a pick-and-chose mindset? Or do you approach the scriptures with humility? Do you approach the scriptures with this attitude that says, I don't know? I'm willing to respond to it however I need to respond to it. How do you respond to the scriptures? And third question is this, how do you view your position? Are you a person who is humbled, grateful, joyful, and filled with worship and praise to God? Is your understanding of the position that you have pressing you to walk consistent with that position? Is it pressing you to tell others how they can be brought into that position through evangelism? Is it passionate about learning about the nuance? and the depth of that position. May God help us to be a people who live in the light of the scriptures. If this has been an encouragement to you this week, I hope that you'll share that. Perhaps share that with somebody who'll be benefited by it. And I hope that you have a wonderful weekend. Lord willing, we will see many of you on Sunday as we gather together at Inchor Baptist Church for corporate worship And uh if not, if you maybe don't live in the area or attend a different church, I look forward to Lord willing being able to talk to you about next Sunday's message. Have a blessed morning, and Lord willing, we'll talk again next week. Bye now.