Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you've been joining us this week, we've been looking at the passage dealing with the transfiguration of Christ. And that is in Luke chapter 9, verses 28 through 36. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it and let's all turn together to this passage. And uh we've been looking at several important themes that we find in the Transfiguration. We've we've seen the theme of the cross and its connection to Christ's glory. We've looked at the concept of the incarnation, and this morning what we're going to look at is uh how Christ is the centerpiece of all of Scripture. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles together to Luke 9, and I'll begin in verse 28. It says, and it came to pass, about eight days after these things, he took Peter and John and James and went up into a mountain to pray. And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered. and his raiment was white and glistening. And behold there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias, who appeared in glory and spake of his decease, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep, and when they were awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him. And it came to pass as they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here. Let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses. One for Elias, not knowing what he said. While he thus spake there came a cloud and overshadowed them, and they feared as they entered into the cloud. And there came a voice out of the cloud saying, This is my beloved son. Hear him. And when the voice was passed, Jesus was found alone. And they kept it close and told no man of those days, uh in those days any of those things which they had seen. Now if you can remember back, we mentioned the importance of The cross and its connection to Christ's glory. We looked at the issue of Christ being God in flesh and how his glory was veiled. in his humanity, in his humiliation, and then in this moment during the trig tr transfiguration, his glory is revealed. It's like uh it's like um that That that blocking of his glory was removed so that they could see it, it was unveiled. Well this morning what I'd like to focus in on is the presence of these two people, Moses And Elias, and that word Elias is referring to Elijah. That would be the Greek name, the Greek transliteration of Elijah's Hebrew name. And so these two people, Moses and Elijah, are there on the mount and they're talking about something. And what they're talking about is very, very important. So what I want to do is I want to focus back in on verses 31 and verse 30, and I want us to talk for a few minutes about the significance of these two men and what they were talking about. It says in verse number 30, Behold there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias, who appeared in glory. and spake of his decease, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. You might ask, well Joel, why these two individuals and why does it matter? Well, what Peter and the other disciples are witnessing is the significance of two of the most prominent Old Testament prophets. The first is Moses, and Moses is significant because he led the children of Israel out of Egypt. He's also significant because he is the person, the prophet, that God used to give us the Old Testament Decalogue. And so when we talk about the law, when we talk about uh the ceremonies that were part of the Jewish Levitical System, when we talk about those matters Moses is the prophet that God used to give us those things. The foundation of the entire Old Testament is built on what God gave us through Moses. And then when we talk about Elijah, Elijah is the first and most prominent of the prophets. And obviously Elijah was not a writing prophet like Eli uh like Isaiah or Jeremiah. or Ezekiel or Hosea and Joel and Amos, but Elijah is one of those prophets who was prominent in the Old Testament. Well you might say, well why Are these two individuals so significant? Well, they're significant because they really represent for us the entirety of the Old Testament, both the law. and the prophets and what is important is not just their presence on the mountain but what they're talking about. What did Peter here and what did the other two disciples hear them discussing with Christ? Well the answer is that they spake of his decease which he should accomplish in Jerusalem Now, what is significant about this is that Moses and Elijah, the law and the prophets, all pointed to Christ, and they spoke specifically of the nature of Christ's person and the nature of Christ's work and the purpose of Christ's work and the ultimate outcome that would result as a result of Christ's work. To help you understand this, we can turn to what Jesus said in Luke 24, because Jesus makes very clear what I think is the significance of these individuals on the mount and what they're talking about. In Luke 24, this is what it says. Jesus is walking on the road to Emmaus. He comes across two of the disciples. He's having a conversation with them. He's asking them, why are you so disturbed? Why are you so downcast? And they say, Haven't you heard about what was going on in Jerusalem? And Jesus says, Well, what things? Well, in the midst of that conversation, this is really the heart of the conversation, and it it has a lot of bearing and it's very it's very um We could say it kind of takes us back to this Moses and Elijah conversation on the transfiguration. This is what it says, verse 44. It says, all things must be fulfilled Which were written in the law of Moses and in the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me. And don't miss that. All things have to be fulfilled which were written. And he talks about, we could say the Jewish uh breaking down of the Old Testament. We have the law of Moses, the Decalogue. We have the prophets. This is Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel and Hosea and Joel. And then we have the Psalms. These are the songs that the Jewish people sang in their worship. What Jesus is saying is in the Old Testament law of Moses and the writings of the prophets and the writings of the Psalms, all of those portions of the Old Testament, they point to something. What do they point to? Well, they point to what Jesus fulfilled. And it says, Then he opened their understanding that they might understand the scriptures, and said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. What is Jesus saying? Jesus is saying that if you read the Old Testament carefully, you will recognize that all of it points to Christ. And all of it points to the cross. And it points to the resurrection. And it points to the redemptive promises that God gave us in the Old Testament. So we could make the argument that Moses and Elijah being there on the Mount of T Transfiguration and talking with Christ about the death that he was going to accomplish is ultimately pointing us to the fact that Jesus and the gospel sacrifice that he is going to make, that redemption, is really the heart of all of Scripture. That's what it's saying. So when we look at the Old Testament, it points to the coming Christ. When we look at the New Testament, it points to the Christ who came. When we look at the Gospels, we're looking at the proofs of Christ being the fulfillment of what was promised in the Old Testament. And what the New Testament says is fulfilled, and the explanation of why it matters, all of that is bound up in both the Old Testament, the New Testament, and the Gospels that are there in the center. So all of Scripture points to the three persons , all of the scriptures point to the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the way, this is also fascinating. In this particular passage of Scripture, not only do we see the witness of Moses and Elijah, the Old Testament, but we also see the witness of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit pointing to The Lord Jesus Christ being the centerpiece and his death and burial and resurrection being the centerpiece of all of Scripture We see that the Father bears witness in this text, and he says, this is my beloved son. Hear him. By the way, this isn't the first and only time in the Gospels where the Father gives such a testimony at the baptism of Christ. We see that Which was a fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy in Isaiah, the Spirit of the Lord coming upon the Messiah. And then we have the voice of the Father saying, This is my beloved son, hear him. So the father bears this witness. And then obviously Christ bears this witness and in the things that he says, the claims that he made, the things that he taught, the miracles he performed, the questions that he asked. The Father bore witness to Christ person and work. The Son bears witness to his own person and work. And the Spirit bears witness to the person and work of Christ. You say, well Well, where is the Spirit in this passage? Well, the Spirit is the one who spoke through Moses and through Elijah. And so we see in this passage of Scripture The Old Testament being Moses and Elijah, we see the Father and the Son and the Spirit bearing witness, and you could even make an argument that the presence of these three apostles there on the Mount of Transfiguration. are a part of this story as well. The Old Testament, prophets, the New Testament, Apostles, the Father, the Son, the Spirit, they all testify and point to the necessity of the person and the work of Christ. Jesus is the centerpiece of all scripture. You might say, well Joel, what what can we take away? How can we maybe summarize this and apply this this morning? Let me give you a couple of things that I jotted down that I think we should consider and really meditate on this morning. The first is this, more than anything else, our Christianity should be about Christ. We want to be like Christ in the way that we think and the way that we respond in the very character that we possess. Christianity starts with the heart. It starts with being born again. It starts with the Spirit of God working in the heart and gradually shaping us to think and act in a godly and biblical way. Christ is the centerpiece. And so our Christianity, more than anything, is about Him. Secondly, when we read the Scriptures We need to read the scriptures in relation to what does it reveal about Christ. Now, we don't tend to think this way when we're dealing with the Old Testament. Because a lot of times, you know, if you're reading through Levitical Laws or you're looking at the ceremonies and the sacrifices and all those things, you may read those things and say, Well, this is so foreign to the way that we think and so foreign to the way that we live. This has nothing to do with Christ. The answer is it has everything. Because what does the law do? It shows us that we fall short. It shows us what God's righteousness is, and it shows us that we Need a savior. What was the point of the sacrificial system? Well, it was to help us to understand the nature of how redemption would be accomplished. through the death of a substitute, through the shedding of blood. And so we see this concept of sin and sacrifice and substitution. and faith, and we see the picture. And as we see God working through the nation of Israel, and we see all these all these Old Testament narrative passages, what is it a reminder of? God's preserving a nation in spite of their sin, in spite of their failures, in spite of the times that they stumbled, what does God do? He continues to be faithful in accomplishing his plan of redemption. So when we look at the Old Testament, it points to Christ. We look at the New Testament. It points to Christ. We look at the gospels. It points to Christ. We need to read Scripture with a mindset that is looking for how it reveals Christ. Thirdly, We need to consider the fact that our greatest needs are ultimately remedied in Christ. If it wasn't for his death and resurrection, You and I would be of all men most miserable. When we talk about our perspective in life, it really starts. with the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Even when it comes to the way that we live distinctly as Christians, it all goes back to the fact that we are positionally righteous in Christ, therefore we should live consistent with the position that we have in Christ. Or because we are new creatures in Christ, old things have passed away and all things have become new. So now we have The enabling by the work of the Spirit through the Word of God, we have the enabling to live according to the new nature that we have. So Christ is the one who ultimately remedies all of these things. And then lastly, we need to worship and rejoice in God, our Savior, this morning. I hope that this morning, after you finish listening to this study, you'll stop and say, God, thank you. Thank you for that plan of redemption. Thank you for Christ's willingness to lay it lay aside his rights and to humble himself and to go to the cross and to bear the wrath of God's justice against my sin, and thank you for redeeming my soul and giving me a position in Christ and giving me a purpose that is outside of myself, that is for all of eternity. Let's be a thankful, grateful, rejoicing, worshiping people. Hope they have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll continue our study tomorrow. Bye now.