Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our morning service. And if you are visiting with us today for the first time, or maybe the first time in a long time, Uh we hope that you feel very warmly welcomed and that uh you were able to receive a welcome packet. Inside of that there is a connection card and if you'd like us to reach out to you sometime this morning next week. Just take a moment to fill out that connection card and let us know the best way to reach out to you and then put it in the little box in the back. And we'll make sure that we reach out to you. And just glad that you could join us this morning. We have a couple of announcements, and then we'll open up our service with our scripture reading. Good evening, or morning. Good morning. Uh I don't know where my mind's at this morning, but yes, good morning. Glad you guys can be with us today. Not much going on this week. Just um Tuesday night. We are starting the B A B B I classes again as normal. Uh so nothing too out of the blue, but this at following this morning service, there is a parents of teens meeting for those that are um interested sorry, not interested, but please those that are parents of teens. the double door room just down the hall of following the morning service. Pastor Josh will be meeting with you guys there. And then next week there's a Truth Trackers meeting. Truth Trackers is starting the first So be looking forward to that. If you want to start pre-registering your children, if you go to the church's website, anchorbaptistonline. org There is underneath the events tab, you'll be able to see that there is a sign-up for TrueTrackers. You can start registering your children now. If you have any questions regarding that, please come and find me. There'll be more information coming out both at the parent meeting in the next couple weeks as well. Other than that though, next in a couple weeks we also have a Sunday school parent teachers meeting and then kind of into the school year rotation of different events. So exciting as that is. Um hope you guys enjoy the last little bit of summer. Pastor Josh. Well, I guess it's evening So we'll take naps or go to bed after No we won't because we're supposed to listen to the preaching. I better read scripture. Our opening scripture this morning is found in Ephesians. Chapter 2, and we will start with verse 1. And you hath he quickened, who are dead in trespasses and sins. Wherein in time past you walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. Among whom also we had a conversation in times past in the lusts of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. But God, who is rich in mercy, For his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath he quickened us together with Christ, by grace are ye saved. And hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come we might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us. Through Christ Jesus. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. Our theme for worship today is let's glory in God's undeserved love. Before we go to the Lord in prayer, I just want to call your attention to the hymns we're going to sing this morning. And the first two of those hymns are going to be a celebration of our Savior. The first one is really going to be very, very majestic. And so when we sing, Glorious is thy name, uh, you're going to see that this is a song that really celebrates the majesty of God. And so as we sing about His Majesty, let's think about that. And then the second of those hymns is Our Great Savior. And it's one that is is really expressing a very heartfelt passion. Toward the Lord Jesus, our Savior. And then the third is going to be a very reflective hymn, and that is When I Survey the Wondrous Cross. And we're thinking about what he did for us and why we celebrate him as someone who not only is a majestic savior, but he is a sacrificial savior. And he went to the cross for us. And so really sing that reflectively as we think about these three hymns to open up our service and we reflect on how undeserving this love that we have experienced. from God through the sacrifice of Christ is. So let's bow together for prayer. Let's ask the Lord to help us to think about the truths that are going to be laid before us. And then that we will just worship him with just a heart filled with gratitude. And our fellowship will be very sweet with one another. Let's pray. Father, we're so grateful for the body of Christ. We're thankful for the local church. And we celebrate the fact that we are redeemed people, we are forgiven, we are cleansed. We are justified because of Christ's great sacrifice for us. And we recognize that the only reason we have life is because of the power of the resurrection and the regenerating work of the Spirit in us who quickened us when we were dead in trespasses. and sins. Father, as we think about the position that we enjoy, we think about the sacrifice of our Savior, and we think about the great love of God that moved you to send your son for us. I pray that our hearts would be filled with the deepest of gratitude. That we would rejoice in our great Savior, and that we would reflect very deeply on the wonders of your cross. And Father, I pray that our time together would be very uplifting very Christ-centered and would prepare us to face the weak with a very godly perspective. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen Good morning, Acre Baptist Church. Thank you for joining us in person or online. And if somebody hears this Later, as a recording, I want you all to stand. And as Pastor has given directions, we're going to sing page 8 in your hymnal or follow along with us on the screen. Sing out majestically this morning. Raise your voices. Make that happy noise to the Lord's Sing out. Gloria , Gloria , Golia, Golia, Gloria. Того принять, того я. Amen. You're starting to sound pretty good on that fourth verse. Let's see if we can't ramp it up a little bit more. Making joyful noises, page one hundred seventy-seven, our great savior. Money girl. Please have a seat and we'll turn to page two hundred and forty-three in our hymnal. Two hundred and forty three. When I survey the wondrous Where are you? All the Lord God. Amen. I'd love to hear the congregation sing. Our scripture reading will come from the book of Luke, chapter 15. And we're going to read verses 11 through 20. Luke 15, starting in verse 11. And he said, A certain man had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land. And he began to be in want. And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country. And he sent him into his fields to feed swine. And he would have fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger? I will arise and go to my father and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee. and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. And he arose and came to his father But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Amen. Alright, perfect song. Pick for the next one. Y'all gonna have to stand with me for I 'm not gonna stand alone amazed in the presence. So please stand with you. I stand amazed in the presence. At the end of the third chorus, turn around and meet and greet one another And say hi and keep it to a subdued rumble and come together with me for the last minute. Verse, okay. I stand amazed in the presence to you. I stand in the prayer of the memory and wonder how you What is purple? So Okay , turn around their eye to somebody you don't know. Well come that shall be my joy with the Please go ahead and be seated But I want to point out on that song there at the chorus, it isn't a question that's being asked. How marvelous? It's a directive. It is marvelous So, just a thought that crossed my mind, and I thought you needed milk. Anyway, okay, we're going to take our blue book out, page 109, page 109, our triune God. I thought we had some yard in my face is a. . Please stand with me on this glass verse and let's do it a capabella. Please, musicians, ow. Sing ow. We truly by God we go to We praise you for your We shall until we stand up we Please be seated. Oh, my heart and strength should have peace gives way and fears free then. Turn into you there I might so march on and on So come when my hopes are lost, or so it seems I am left with broken dreams, turning in faith to what is true. I see the path that we From a tall day and dark of night I deal loving way, we might have your pressure. I call you When no one seems to strange Always be named a say , tiny myself when I was fully Like finding you my all in all through the day and dark of night. I be your loving way by the shoe. I know you are Throw the way away. Don't drive. Thank you for that. Our children who are in children's church can be dismissed to the back for your class. And the rest of you would like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 15 this morning. And the text that we're dealing with is a little longer than what I typically deal with. And uh we have to deal with the whole section because it is a parable that was meant to be looked at not in two parts, but as one part. And what's amazing really about this is that this is the third of the parables that Jesus taught that are really building a progression that are moving us to understand the things that we will talk about this morning. Luke chapter 15, we'll read verses 11 down to verse 32. Here's what it says. And he said A certain man had two sons, and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. Not many days after the younger son gathered all together, took his journey into a far country. And there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in the land. And he began to be in want. And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and sent him into his fields to feed swine. And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. And when he came to himself, he said , How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough to spare, and I perish in hunger? I will arise and go to my father and will say unto him, Father. I have sinned against heaven and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants And he arose and came to his father. But when he was a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And his son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven in thy sight and am no more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said unto his servants, Bring forth the best robe, put it on him, put a ring on his hand, shoes on his feet, bring hither the fatted calf and kill it. Let us eat and be merry, for this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. And they began to be merry. Now, his eldest son was in the field. And as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing. They called one of the servants and asked them what these things meant. And he said unto him, Thy brother is come and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound. And he was angry and would not go in. Therefore came his father out and entreated him. And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandments, yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends. As soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots and has killed him, you've killed for him the fatted calf. He said unto him, son. Thou art ever with me, all that I have is thine. It was meet that we should make merry and be glad. For this thy brother was dead and is alive again. And was lost and is found. Let's spare our hearts and ask the Lord to help us to understand what Jesus was saying in this text. Father, as we have read this passage of Scripture, I pray that the truths of it would have already begun to sink into our hearts. As we think about the details of this passage and why Jesus said what he did, I pray that these truths would grip our souls in a very profound way. If there's someone here that does not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, as they think about this text of Scripture, I pray that they would have this overwhelming Conviction of soul that no matter where they've been and what they've done, no matter how they may feel about themselves, there is a Savior who is calling them to himself. And he'll receive them if they'll repent and believe. And Father, I pray that if there is one in our midst who Does not know you as Savior, but in their self-righteousness is clinging in arrogance to the filthy rags of their own righteousness, that this text would humble them And show them that there is a Savior who is also calling for them to turn to Him in repentance and faith. And I pray that every believer that has the opportunity to hear this Would have a little bit better appreciation for the tremendous depths of your love and grace toward us. And that we would leave this place having been humbled. having been fed in soul, and having been richly strengthened because of the ministry of the Spirit through the Word. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. I'll summarize the text this way. Christ taught three parables to celebrate God's immense grace extended towards sinners, warning the self-righteous and comforting the spiritually broken. Now we mentioned this the last couple of times we've been dealing with this passage. This passage was not just intended for one group of people, but it was actually very broad in the way that it was being presented. In other words, Jesus has a desire for people to be humbled, and he has a desire for people to be comforted. And so as we read the text, What we're going to see is that what God wants us to do is be humbled so that we will rejoice in him in the right way. That's really what it's all about. And so in order to do that, I want to kind of pick this apart in a couple of different pieces. The first thing I want us to notice are some of the important details that give us an appreciation for what Jesus is saying. Now I know that as we read these verses , I believe the Holy Spirit is already beginning to work in your heart because of the power of the Word of God. But you know, as we take the text and we break it down and we digest it a little bit at a time The Spirit of God takes the truth that we're beginning to understand a little bit right now, and he begins to press it into our souls And he begins to help us to understand the significance and the weight of what is in front of us. And so a valuable part of that is considering these details I want you to think about. First of all, the audience, and I know that we already talked about this the last time we gathered, because there are three parables that are one after another, and they're really driving at the same point. His audience was a diverse group of people. It says in verses 1 to 3 of chapter 15, then drew near unto him publicans, that's one group. Sinners, another group, Pharisees and scribes murmured. So there are four different groups of people that came to Jesus. And to put it in the simplest way, the publicans were people who were known to be national traitors. They were extortioners. These were people who had power and they abused that power and they took advantage of people and they literally climbed on the shoulders of the people around them, their own countrymen nonetheless. And so you can only imagine how much people despised that group of people. Let's not forget that Matthew, one of the 12, was a tax collector. And one of those twelve, Simon, was called a zealot. And so you can only imagine how Simon would have looked at Matthew going I can't believe Jesus took you to be one of the twelve. And there must have been some unbelievable tension during some of those moments in the early days as these disciples followed Jesus. Publicans. And then he uses the term sinners. Now, all of us are sinners. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. But when he uses the term sinner here, he's talking about people who were noteworthy for the kinds of sins that they were involved in. You could say that these were people who were scandalous in their behavior. And you get the sense of it in the story that Jesus is talking about that these would have been people who probably were involved in things like prostitution and people that were involved in a lot of sexual deviant behavior. They were known for that kind of behavior. You see that in the parable that he gives. And then we have the Pharisees. The Pharisees were probably the strictest of all of the religious people in Israel at the time. Now there were different sects of Judaism at the time. And each group had a different, we could say, association with them. And the Pharisees were known as the rule keepers. They were the people that didn't just follow the law, but they followed what they believed was the intent of the law, and they built all kinds of arbitrary rules around these laws that were meant to protect them from breaking those laws. They were very, very strict people. And so when you thought of someone who was a Pharisee, you didn't think of them the way that we think of them, you thought of them as like, wow, that guy is really devoted, really serious-minded, somebody who has given everything to follow God and to do things his way. And then the scribes. These are the religious scholars. These are the people who copied the Word of God. These were the most knowledgeable people when it came to issues of theological discussion and debate. And so you look at this f these four these four groups of people all come together, you see there's no way anyway that these four people could have something in common I mean, publicans, sinners, Pharisees, scribes, no way are they having something in common. But they did. They didn't know it. They couldn't see it But they did. They were all sinners. They all needed to be saved by grace. They all needed to come to the same Savior. And some of them were noteworthy for their scandalous behavior, and some of them were noteworthy for their very careful behavior, but they all had the same problem. And then we think about the circumstances that lead to this. One of the things that we see is that Jesus said some really hard things. Even things that, as we read them today, we say you gotta hate father and mother. and children in your own life and you can't be my disciple and you need to bear your cross and follow me or you're not worthy of being my disciple. In other words, he's saying things like, you have to forsake everything if you're gonna follow me I've got to be the highest priority of everybody in your life, including yourself, probably the hardest one to not put in the number one position. And he teaches those things. And then we see that the publicans and the sinners, they humbly came to Jesus. And they said, we want to hear more. We want to learn. And the scribes and the Pharisees looked down their noses and complained and said, How can this man receive and eat with sinners? All of those details are really important for us to appreciate what is stated here. Third thing I want to mention here is that the progression of Christ's teaching is no accident. It's no mistake. In fact, I really thought about dealing with each text as an individual week, but then you might have been kind of bored with me and say, well, why are we talking about the same topic three weeks in a row? Because that's what Jesus did. He taught the same topic three in a row. Boom, boom, boom. And they're all basically emphasizing the same thing. In fact, when you say something once, you mean it. When you say something twice, you want people to know that you mean it. And when you say it three times, you want them to remember that you mean it. And so Jesus gives three parables. That make these people realize what he's saying, and they won't forget it, and they'll know it's important to him and to them. So the first parable was the parable of the lost sheep. And just to remind ourselves that we talked about last week, it reminds us it is natural to search for lost things. It's natural to rejoice when lost things get found. And since it's natural to rejoice over found things, how much more should we rejoice when a person who has real value to God, we're not talking about an animal We're not talking about a coin. , We're talking about image-bearing value. Humans. How much more does God value those who are lost being found? That's what he's saying. And he's really celebrating the grace of God because it is a miracle when God saves people. The second parable is basically saying the exact same thing. The third parable is also saying the same thing. But he's going a little bit further than just stating those very basic things, natural to find, to look for lost things, and you celebrate when you find lost things. People have value. He makes this third parable an expansion of the first two. And he personalizes it in a way that is very different. He doesn't talk about a Stubborn sheep who went out and lived in a terrible way. He's an animal. He doesn't talk about a coin that ran off and hid under a couch somewhere. He's talking about a coin. But when he talks about this story, he's talking about a dad who has a son who lived a horrible, wasteful life. He's talking about the same stuff, but it's way more personal. It was meant to prick the conscience in a very different way. It was meant to get people feeling the emotional highs and the lows of this moment. It was a lot more heart-hitting. And so in this parable, we see that God's grace is something that it is so good we cannot fully grasp it. In fact, God's grace is something that is far higher than the most noble grace that you ever feel towards other people. It is far more lavish than the normal expressions of human kindness. It's something that if you look at it, you might actually feel uncomfortable when you see it. That is what Jesus is getting at. So let's get into the text itself What is this storyline? Well, there's several sections to this. The first section is really simple. It's just setting up the story. In verse number 11, he says that a certain man had two sons. The younger of those sons was described as very restless and wild. And maybe there are some people in this room that if you could take yourself back to an 18 or 20-year-old version or a 24-year-old version of you, you say that was me. Restless, wild, and I made some decisions I really regretted in life. The older son was a hardworking guy. He was bound to duty. He was the one who, when you talked about the family, you'd say. There's that older boy who is really faithful to dad and he works so hard on the farm and he manages his money so well and he carries himself with so much dignity And then there's that young one who, man, that kid is wild. What's wrong with him? That's where it starts And immediately you have in your mind the one that you like and the one you don't. Why is that? Well, because that's how people see And the the Pharisees and the religious leaders, the scribes, everybody's listening to the story, and they're like, oh yeah, that's the good guy and that's the bad guy. They've already got it figured out in their head. They know where this is going as soon as Jesus starts talking. Then we come to the second section. This is verses 12 and 13. We see the scandalous behavior of the younger of those two boys. And nobody should be surprised Because as we work our way through the text, you're going to see what he does, and you're going to see what happened as a result of what he does. Look down in your Bible at what it says. It says, and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living, and not many days after. The younger son gathered all together, took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. Now, if we continue working our way through the text, we're going to see what happens as a result of this boy's behavior. But let's kind of take ourselves back a little bit and try to fit our brains into the first century, which Probably a little bit hard for all of us, but the fact is that from our modern reading of the text, this is bothersome to us. If anybody had a child at a certain age who, let's say, embarrassed you, you read this and you're like, yeah, I know what that feels like. But you don't know what it feels like. Like a first century father did. Why is that? Because we have a culture that kind of celebrates independence. We have a culture that celebrates being your own person, doing it your way. And so if if a modern reader is reading this to say, well, you know, maybe the dad wasn't very nice to him when he was younger, and maybe the real uh the reason that he did this is because, you know, the dad was a really harsh person. We don't really know. It never tells us why he did what he did. But this is what it tells us. Number one, he disrespected his father. When he says, Give me what falls to me, it was something that wasn't supposed to happen at that time in life. Like, how long is your dad gonna live? What's he gonna do with uh the stuff that he gave to you? Like, how's he gonna live? He didn't care. Immediately he runs away from the community that he's in. And by the way, this isn't like, okay, I'm going to move to a bigger town so I have opportunities and I'm going to start a business. See what I can do, make more money. That's not what's going on here. He's going to a far country because he wants to go to a place where people did not live like Jews. He doesn't want to eat the same food that he ate growing up. He wants to eat Gentile foods. He doesn't want the same kind of legalistic rules that the Jewish people had to find Follow in the first century. He wanted to go out into the world and he wanted to do the wildest things you can imagine. And he didn't want anybody to know his name. He didn't want anybody to know his family. He went away for a reason. He walked away from his community. And he lived a wild and reckless life. So long as he had the money to do it. Because if you don't work, there comes a point where the money you have is gone. And that's what happened. This boy took everything that he had that had been given him by his father, an entire lifetime's worth of work and saving and investment and diligence, something that was supposed to help him to continue the family name and work the land that had been given to them, and he would be a responsible man, raise a family Be the kind of person that would make the community strong and vibrant and happy. And you know what he does? He blows it all. And what happens when this young man blows it all? It says in verse number 14 When he had spent all there arose a famine in the land, and he began to be in want, and he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into the fields to feed. swine, and he would have fain filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. Now, if you're listening to this story, you are responding to what Jesus is saying. And so you're sitting there and you're going, that's what he deserves. He deserves to be in this position He's experienced the harsh consequences of his behavior. He's left with nothing. He's left with no one. He's forced to beg to survive. He's eating what the pigs are eating. This guy's getting what he deserves. And at this moment, the Pharisees and the scribes are going, maybe we're on Jesus' side. You know, he really gets it. He understands. And if you're on the other side, you're sitting there going, where's this going? Where's this going? The next part is very important. We see his actions, we see the harsh consequences of his behavior, but then we see his repentance. His humility. And look down in verses 17 and 20. Here's what it says. And when he came to himself, it's such an interesting statement, isn't it? He said, how many hired servants of my father have bread enough to spare, and I perish with hunger? I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. And he arose and came to his father. Now this is a really important thing for us to not miss. This young man, for the first time in the story , is starting to think the right way. The circumstances of his life began to really fall apart. And I'm going to say it like this. That's the way life is. You choose to go down the wrong path. God didn't have to punish you. He needs to just let you do it. And guess what? You're going to get hurt in life. Why? Because when God says the way of the transgressor is hard, it's his way of saying it's because that's the real life consequences of bad choices. You choose to go down a certain path in life, and it's going to lead you to a lot of pain, a lot of frustration. a lot of heartache, a lot of misery, a lot of internal turmoil. And the fact is there might be somebody listening to this this morning and they're like, I know that. That's where I'm right now. I know that. That's why I'm here right now. Because there was a day that it all clicked So he begins to think clearly for the very first time in the story. And at this moment, all of a sudden, if you're on the one side, you're starting to go, now where's this going? Now where's this going? Jesus has pulled the people in, and he's getting ready to come to the punchline, but he needs to give a little bit more information. Because for the first time he sees that his father is a good man. Isn't that interesting to notice? He says, How many of my father's hired servants have not just enough to live off of, but they have abundance? And I'm starving. The guy he mocked and scorned and give me the stuff and he wasted it. He said, that man is good. That's not how we saw him when he left. He didn't care. He wants to see his dad again. He wasn't concerned about what his father thought. Secondly, he saw himself as deserving absolutely nothing that was good. He says, I'm going to go to my father, and I'm not going to say, I'm your son, have mercy on me. He didn't say that. He said, I'm going to go to him and say, I'm not worthy to be called your son. Let me be your servant. Let me work in your house. What does that tell you? He wasn't entitled. He understood how serious his sin was. He understood how much he had disrespected his father and he felt the weight of it and he saw himself as deserving nothing that was good. Let me say something. You can't be a Christian until you come to that point. Do you got that? You can't. Why is that? Well because this is what puts you in the position to realize you need forgiveness and salvation You need a savior who died for you and rose from the dead. You can't be saved until you come to this point where you say, I deserve nothing good. I'm the sinner, I'm the rebel. God should never accept me. Thirdly, he saw that his offenses were directed at God first. I think this is a fascinating detail. He says, I have sinned before God and in your presence. Now that is in no way diminishing the seriousness of his sin against his father. It's actually helping him to realize that I have not just sinned against people, but I sinned against The Creator, the righteous and holy and just one. And when he comes, he comes without any expectations. He didn't say, Dad, I expect you to hire me. He said, Will you please do it? What do you see? A totally different person. What is that? He came to himself. It's called repentance. It's the person who is so proud and so arrogant and so full of themselves, recognizing I have nothing to give you. All I have is your mercy and grace. Please give it to me. That's what he's saying. And I love this next statement. He went home. He didn't just think about it. He took action. He turned and he went to the house. Now, that's not the point of this story. I didn't say it's not a part of this story. I didn't say that there's nothing for us to learn about it. But the next part is where it really starts to get to the heart of why Jesus taught this parable. And that is we see the shocking response of the Father. And verses 20 through 24 it says, but when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion, and he ran. and fell on his neck and kissed him, and his son said unto him, Father, I've sinned against heaven in thy sight, and I'm no more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, put it on him, put a ring on his hand shoes on his feet, bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it. And let us eat and be merry, for this my son, was dead, and is alive again. He was lost. And he is found. And they began to be merry. There's a lot we can say about this. But the first thing I want you to notice is his father saw him And he ran to him. His father saw him and he ran to him. I wonder how old that dad was. Maybe he pulled a muscle on the way. Why did he run? Because he loved that boy. Now listen. A father who responds like that is not a father who was stewing on his front porch for the last several years. He's like, man, if I ever see that kid again, I'm gonna just. tear into him and he sees him and it's like, you know, he looks pretty bad. I'd give him a chance. That's not what he did. In fact, it really gives you the impression that he believes at some point the boy's going to come home. Why is that? Because he knows that life has a way of bringing you to a point of humility. To bring you to an opportunity for restoration. And so the father sees him and he runs to him. And he lovingly embraces his son. Now, I remember when I was in high school, I used to wrestle. I wore the same shirt and shorts every practice. When I think about this today, It's terrible. And I used to sit in the car riding home with my dad and you know we'd have these little conversations and I c sometimes My dad brain like clicks in, I go, what would I think if my boys today went to wrestling practice five straight days same shirt same shorts and they're sitting in that seat next to me. Hey guys Go get changed, take a shower, and then we're gonna go home. I love my voice. But I don't want him sitting in the seat next to me smiling like that I still love him. But what did the what did the s what did the dad do? Hey boy, go inside, get changed Shave, clean up, we'll get you changed. Come on over, give me a hug when you're done. That's not what he did. What does that show you? It just shows you this warmth and this affection for a boy that had been so disrespectful. Now, if you're listening to this story as a Pharisee or scribe, all of a sudden you're going, hold on a second, I don't like where this is going. I don't like where this is going at all. This is the problem. A loving embrace, running to see his son, immediately treating him as a son. And by the way, the son, he he goes into his story, says, Dad, I don't deserve to be called your son. He said, Go get this kid. Shoes on his feet, robe for his for his stuff. Let's get a fatted calf. Let's have a celebration. He called for a feast to celebrate. What does it show you? Love and the word is grace. Grace. Grace is undeserved favor. There is nothing about this boy that merited that kind of a response. There is nothing about this boy that merited the hug and the kiss and the clothes and the shoes and the celebration. None of it. And when the Pharisees and the scribes heard this story, they knew where it was going next. But Jesus isn't done. Because he's going to drive this point home really deep and really personal He could have stopped right there. In fact, I think a lot of people, when they preach this passage of scripture, they actually stop in verse 24 and they say, let's celebrate the grace of God, and that's what we should do. Uh, celebrate the grace of God, not stop in verse 24. Because the last section is actually where it's really going to hit home. Here's what it says in verse 25. Now. His elder son was in the field. And he came and drew near the house and he heard music and dancing, and he called one to his to one of the servants and asked them, What these things meant. That's a great question. Like, I didn't know we were gonna have a celebration today. What's going on? I smell this me cooking, and I hear all this singing and this music. Something's going on. What is it? And he said, Oh Thy brother has come home. Thy father has killed the fatted calf because he hath received him safe and sound. And the brother said, I can't wait to see my brother. That's not what it says. It says he was angry. He would not go in You ever seen a little kid gout in the corner? I'm not going to play that game because that's not the game I want to play. Oh, well now you're in charge, I see. Thank you. I didn't get the piece of cake I wanted at that birthday party. I didn't get the right ice cream. Say thank you that you got ice cream and cake, please. This is not a little kid, folks. This is an adult. This is a grown-up person. This is a man. Not a boy. A man. And when he hears the story, he says, I'm not going in there. I want nothing to do with this guy. He's not my brother. He's dead. My brother is dead. I don't know him. If I saw him, I wouldn't recognize him. I'm not going to have any time to do with him. It's kind of amazing. I think that sometimes people have more animosity towards other sinners than God does. You realize that? Why is that? It's because we have these things called blind spots. Here is a holy, righteous God who can receive a sinner who's repented and believed and extend such grace to them and we can look down our noses at them. Yet we needed the same salvation that they needed. And so we see that this boy refuses to go in. And his father actually comes out to him. And his father begins to reason with him. And he says The son says, These many years I've served thee, I've never transgressed at any time your commandments. Yeah, right. You raise children? Your kids never like disobeyed you one time? Your kids never pouted and gone to a corner one time? Yeah, right Never went through a period where they're, you know, really bucking your authority. Self-righteousness. The Pharisees, the scribes, they're hearing this and they're like, He's coming at us. That's what he was doing. He's coming at them. Absolutely. And the father begins to reason with him, and he says, He says, Son. You have me. Thou art with me. All that I have is thine. It was me. It was right. It was appropriate that we should be merry and be glad, for your brother was dead and is alive. He was lost in his father. He literally has this conversation with his son. And he doesn't say, well, you know, you have your opinion. I have my opinion. Let me do what I want with my stuff. You do what's what you want with your stuff. He doesn't do that. He says It's right for me to do this. You need to come in. He's your brother. He's my son. Come in and join us. And how does it end? We don't know. Know if he did. Why does Jesus teach this? What is his point? A couple things. These parables were meant to comfort the spiritually broken and rebuke the self-righteous. All three of those parables, they're teaching the same thing. They remind us that God's grace is incomprehensibly good. This grace is extended to people who are rebels, who have committed unconscionable offenses. Folks, we don't remember how many times we sin in a day. We really don't. If we sit down and we really reflect, I just say, you know, I'm gonna I'm gonna write down things that I've done today, either in action or in thought or in motive that were wrong, and I sit down and I just start writing, you'll just keep writing all day because you're gonna keep remembering stuff that happened. Yet, what does God do? God still loves us. We see in this story that God graciously allows people to experience the weight of their sinful choices to bring them to their senses. When people experience the harsh consequences of bad choices, it's not God saying, I'm getting even with you. It's God saying, that's why I told you not to do that. There's a difference between those two things. That's why I told you not to do that. You put your hand on the stove. I told you don't do that. Guess what happens? You get burned. Don't do it. Well, I'm gonna do it anyway. Okay. Why does God allow people to fall on their faces? Because that's what's supposed to happen when you make those kinds of choices. But there's another side. He holds back his anger to permit opportunity for restoration. I think about Romans 2. He says, do you not understand that you are treasuring up wrath for the day of judgment when God's righteous judgment will be revealed? Do you not understand God's forbearance and his patience? And the fact is that God has every right to come and crush us at any moment. But you know what he does? He holds back. He's patient with us. He's patient with us. He's kind to us. He even sometimes graciously Softens the blows of life for our own good. We don't even see it as we're going through it. He holds back his anger so that there'll be opportunity to turn To Him. Restoration. These parables celebrate the glory of redemption. They celebrate God's goodness. That's why Jesus gave these three parables, and that's why the last one really hits it home. So how do you apply it? Two scriptures I want to read before I give you my final The first is 1 Corinthians 6. 9. Listen to what it says. He says, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates, nor abusers of themselves with mankind. Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. Guess what? That younger son was guilty of about half that list at least. And this is what he says. Such were some of you. So how does that work out? Glad you asked. Ye are sanctified. Ye are justified in the name of our Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of God. Here's what happens: when a person who has lived, I mean, he just laid it out, boom, all those things. When that person comes face to face with the reality of their sin. And God's justice against their sin and their absolute inability to come to God through their own righteousness and through the keeping of the law and all those things. And they come face to face with that reality and they see there's a Savior who died for me. He rose from the dead. He bore my sin debt. He was punished in my place. And they say, I believe that. And they say, I want to be saved from my sin. And the best way that they know how, at that point in their life, they turn to God and they say, God be merciful to me a sinner. I want to be saved from my sin and be your child. Guess what he does? Sanctified. You know what that means? He calls you holy. You say, but I wasn't before that. Oh no, that's true. So how does he call you holy? Position In Christ. Justified. He calls you righteous. Say, but I'm not. In Christ, you are justified. He says, in the name of our Lord Jesus by the Spirit of our God, he takes a person who has lived in great misery and by his grace He redeems them, he cleanses them, he calls them not guilty. That's what he does. Their identity is completely changed. Why? Because of Christ Christ. In Adam all are dead. In Christ all are alive. First Corinthians 15, 9, Paul writes I am the least of the apostles. I am not me to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. By the grace of God I am what I am, and this grace which was bestowed on me was not in vain. But I labored more abundantly than you all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was in me. You know what Paul's saying? There is nobody in all the world that should have been an apostle who had my reputation, who had lived the life that I lived. I hated the church, I persecuted the church, I threw people in prison, I was an unjust angry, self-righteous man, and I ruined people's lives. But God in his mercy and grace saved me. And because of what I was and what he has done in me , I want my life lived for him with all of my might. His grace so motivates me because of what he has done for me. Don't forget those scriptures. So how do we apply it? Let me give them to you very quickly. Number one, we need to feel the weight of our sin more deeply. A lot of us kind of excuse and categorize a lot of things in our lives. Number two, we need to stop creating categories of excusable and inexcusable sins. I mean, sin is the transgression of the law, whether people see it or not. Whether the people around you see it as scandalous or they celebrate it, doesn't matter. It's sin, transgression of the law. Whether it's something that a lot of people say, ah, everybody messes up, big deal. God understands. He doesn't categorize like that. Either I broke the law and I'm guilty or I didn't. Three, we need to be more patient with people and stop projecting ourselves into the place of God. This is a real problem that we have But if I was in the place of God, this is what I'd do. News break. You're not. You're not. So don't worry about it. Let him deal with it. He's God. He's big enough. He's smart enough He's not compromising his holiness in how he deals with people. Number four, we need to learn to patiently allow matters to play out. There might be somebody in this room that you got you got somebody you prayed for for a long time, and they've brought a lot of grief to your heart. God may continue that work. Just keep praying. Be patient. Let it play out. Let God work in them. We need to be ready to engage when God opens that opportunity. What did that man do when he saw his son? He ran. You may have somebody that you've prayed for for a really long time and they have hurt you very deeply and you are so grieved and you'd love to give them a piece of your mind and another piece of your mind. If there was anything left, you'd give them another piece of your mind. And God opens that opportunity and he says, all right, now show him grace. What are you going to do? Be ready to engage when God opens the opportunity. And lastly, we need to celebrate the miracle of redemption And rejoice in the depths of God's goodness. That's where this parable and this series of parables should land us. We serve an amazing God. Let's go to Him in prayer. Let's all bow our heads, close our eyes. Before we pray, I'm going to ask a simple question. I'm not going to ask you to come forward. I'm not going to ask you to stand up. I'm just going to ask you to raise your hand if you need to Is there anyone here that would say, Pastor, I 'm not sure that I'm saved? I never really heard the gospel. I never understood the gospel. I just I need to speak to somebody about this issue. If that's you, would you quietly raise up your hand? I'm the only one looking, and the only reason that I'm asking you is so that I can try to connect with you. Anyone like that at all? Don't hesitate to reach out. You may say, I'm not raising my hand, but I need to reach out. Okay, go ahead. Do that. Send me an email Reach out through Facebook Messenger. Maybe you're following on the live stream. You never heard a message from our church ever. This is the first time you're just like, ooh, I need to talk to that guy. Okay, send me an email. I'd love to speak with you. I'm not going to ask anybody to raise your hand, but perhaps somebody here needs to get another dose of remembrance of the grace of God again. Why was Paul such a faithful and persistent servant of Christ? Because he was gripped by the grace of God. He saw himself as someone who didn't deserve any good thing from God. And he received all these blessings, and he said, How could I not love him? How could I not serve him? How could I not celebrate him? That was why Paul did what he did. He wasn't trying to earn anything from God. It was all about an abundant display of love for the God who loved him first. And so let's let's confess our sin to him if we need to, and let's ask him to give us a renewed sense of of his grace. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the word. Thank you for this text. What a gripping and powerful parable. I can only imagine how Christ would have handled such a story and handled the responses. Father, help us to understand how great you are. How immense your grace is, how deep your love is for us. And I pray that as your people, we would have a renewed sense of that, and that we would live very practically. Out of that sense of love and gratitude. And I pray that if someone in our midst or someone who's found this online does not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, I pray that this morning They would in childlike faith turn to you and trust in what Christ has done for them. Call on your name and ask you to save them, realizing that it is Christ alone, his work, righteousness. Death, resurrection that gives them standing in your presence. And I pray they'd reach out so that we can be an encouragement and help to them. I pray that as we go out of this place, our minds would be filled. with an appropriate response to your word. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like you to take out your hymn books and our closing hymn actually it's going to be the same one we sang last week. I know that's redundant. But I just think it's like the most appropriate hymn I can think of in the hymn book to close out this series of parables, and that is 156. How can it be? I'd like to ask you to stand up and we're going to sing it out and as we sing it really think deeply about this very powerful song and the truths that we've just heard about. 156, how can it be? Democracy Powerful truth. I'd like to ask if Brother Cheryl Nees can close us in prayer this morning. And uh if you're visiting with us today, I hope that you'll uh come by and just greet my wife and I uh before you head out. And I hope that the service was a great encouragement to you. Hope you can make it back tonight as we will be back in our series through Saul and David. And so hope you can join us for that, Cheryl. Dear my Father, we just thank you, Lord, for this day and this opportunity to meet and worship. And Lord, we just thank you for your love and your forgiveness. And your grace. We are so unworthy. It's just amazing that you uh talk with us and guide us and forgive us and be in our lives. We ask, Lord, that we just praise you in all things and we ask that you be with us for the rest of this day as we we go on our ways. And we thank you in all things. In Jesus' name. Amen.