James chapter three verses one through five. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading the text and then we'll dig into the content of this passage And I know last week I went a little longer than usual. I did not get any comments, but well I no, it's not true. I got a comment from my son. He's like, Wow, Dad, you preached really long last week. Well, I will say that the last time that I addressed that passage, I tried it in one part, and it was about double the length of what I did last week. So that will not happen again this morning James chapter 3, looking at verses 1 through 5 together. My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man. And able also to bridle the whole body. Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths, and they do that they may obey us, and we turn about the entire body Behold also the ships which, though they be so great and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth Even so the tongue is a little member and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter, a little fire, kindleth We come to this passage in front of us this morning. We can really narrow down the main point of the passage to this simple statement. The passage reminds us of the power of the tongue, both for good and for evil. And it does this to challenge us to grow into spiritual maturity where we will consistently use our tongue for the glory of God. That's what the passage is all about. That's what God wants us to do. In fact, God wants us to recognize that through the way that we speak, we ultimately reveal whether or not we are spiritually mature. And when we reveal whether or not we're spiritually mature, what God wants us to do is pause and ask, How can I change? How can I grow? How can I more consistently use my tongue for the glory of God? This passage Is going to help us address that very issue. How can you and I use our tongue, a very powerful little instrument for God's glory consistently in our lives? Well we need to look at several different truths this morning that ultimately will help us to understand why the tongue's so important, how it ends up becoming such a problem for us, and how we can actually address the issue when it comes to how we speak. The first truth we're going to find from this passage is that we must be sobered by the liability of our tongue. Let me say that again. We must be sobered by the liability of our tongue. Maybe I'm the only person in this room who can confess to this, but I can confess to you, I have many times. Not once, not twice, many times said things that I absolutely wish the moment I said them I could take them back Yeah, many times. Am I the only person here like that? No. Okay, wow, okay, good. I guess I'm not the only person here. Okay, so then you would be able to confess yourself that you have used your tongue many, many times in a way that the moment you spoke something, you said, I wish I could have taken that back. In fact, sometimes we use our tongue so irrationally and so foolishly that we stop thinking about it because it would be too painful to consider how often we use our tongue in a way that's completely inappropriate. This passage reminds us that our tongue is a liability. When I say liability, it's something that it gets us in trouble, and it gets us in trouble a lot. And this is the way that James expresses it in the text. My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. Now he gives really two simple warnings under this statement that the tongue is a liability. The first is this we need to guard those who teach Now, when he uses the term master, we tend to think of master like master servant, but in the context, he's referring to someone who is like a schoolmaster, someone who is teaching someone who's instructing other people. Well the context that he's talking about is obviously not a schoolroom, but it's the church. He says we don't want to multiply those who are instructing in God's word. The question is why? Why do we need to be cautious not to be quick to rush people into a position of teaching? Well, really, what it comes down to is those who handle God's word have a heavy responsibility and have the potential to get themselves into lots and lots of trouble. For instance, here are a couple of things to consider. The first thing that is when a person is teaching God's Word, they have access to a lot more information than the rest of the people in the church. How many of you this week spent at least 30 minutes studying James chapter 3. Anybody like that? How many spend at least an hour? How many four hours? Okay, I'm gonna stop there. The reality is that if you're teaching God's Word, you spend a substantial amount of time not just reading the text of scripture but digesting the text of scripture understanding what it's saying thinking about the implications of it think about it personally think about it practically thinking about it for other people When we handle God's word, we have access to a lot of knowledge. You know what the Bible says? Those who have access to knowledge are people who are going to be held more accountable than those who don't. Now, I'm not saying that ignorance is absolutely bliss, but the reality is that you are far more culpable the more that you know. Some people say that I'm going to stop coming to church because I don't want to learn more and I don't want to be held more accountable by God. That's not the conclusion you should come to. But the conclusion you should come to is this the more you know , The more you're responsible. You know, we have the potential to influence people for good and for bad. Perhaps you've been through a situation where you saw a pastor or a teacher, someone who was in authority, who frankly really not only disappointed you, but actually shook you to your core by the folly of their decisions. Or by the spirit of their actions. The truth is that when a person handles God's word and they're inconsistent and they're a hypocrite, it can create tremendous damage to the people that are under that ministry. On the other side, you have the potential for incredible good. People's lives can be completely changed in the right direction because of the instruction of a teacher. Someone can embrace false doctrine because of somebody who is very powerfully influential but is not preaching the truth And because of that, the Scripture warns us to be cautious not to multiply those who handle the Word of God. The reality is this: the more that you speak, the more that you say, and the more that you say, the more that you have the potential to mess up And so if you think about it, if you speak week in and week out, year after year after year, you will most definitely say things from time to time that you'll look back and say, I don't think I meant that. So, what does he say? The reason that we should be slow when this issue of multiplying teachers is because we, he says, shall receive the greater condemnation. Another way to put it is James believes that his tongue is a liability. He believes that your tongue is a liability. And the reality is that this little instrument that God has given you that has the ability to communicate good and bad can get you in a lot of trouble. So we need to be warned. The second truth that we see is this: we need to be sobered by the transparency of our tongue. Now we talk about our tongue being transparent. What I mean is this. What you say reveals something about what's going on inside of you. In verse 2, he puts it like this. In many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man and able also to bridle the whole body. Now, this is an unbelievable statement that he makes here. If a person does not offend in word, they are perfect, is what he says, and they're able to control their entire body. This is a stunning statement. In other words, what you say reveals if you're a disciplined person. What you say reveals if you're a spiritually matured person. What you say may reveal whether or not you're a Christian. What you say is important. The way that we use our tongue is a transparent test of our spiritual maturity. Notice what he says, phrase by phrase. First of all, we're all imperfect. He says, in many things we offend all. I asked the question, is there anybody in here this morning that has said something that you wish you could have taken back the moment you said it? And everybody kind of laughed and said, oh yeah, that's me. The truth is all of us. We're fallen people. All of us are fallen people. There are no people in here that can stand up and say, I don't mess up. I don't say things that I shouldn't We all do. We offend in so many ways, and he says, nobody's perfect. Folks, that's all we needed, the gospel. That's why the Bible says that all of our righteousness is like a filthy rag. The reality is the best we can give God is imperfect at best. And he reminds us of that reality. The second thing he mentions is this consistently godly speech is a sign of spiritual maturity. Now it's interesting when you and I think of the word perfect, we think of without any kind of error. And it is true that there are times in the Bible where God uses the term perfect in that sense. But there are also times that God uses the term perfect in his word to have the idea of completeness or maturity. And I really think that that's actually the sense that he's giving in this text. He's not talking about a person who is sinlessly perfect, because obviously there's no example of that on this side of eternity apart from the Lord Jesus. But what he is talking about is spiritual maturity. He says, if any man offend not in word, the same as a perfect man. Let me give you two examples of this word being used in this kind of a sense. The first example was actually earlier in the book of James. In James chapter 1, verse 4, he says this letience have her perfect work. that ye may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. Now when James is talking about this, he's not considering the fact that you and I are going to get to a point in our Christian experience where we stop sinning. He's not saying that we're going to get to a point where we stop having the frailties of our flesh. What he is saying is there's a point that you can get in your Christian walk where you are matured. And so he says, you need to allow patience in the midst of struggle, the testing of your faith, to produce a work in you, and that work is spiritual maturity. Nobody in this room grows without struggle. Nobody. Nobody can become spiritually mature without the process of going through the testing and the trying of your faith. I don't know how many of you like exercise. When I was in high school and in college, I did that a lot. I'm starting to get back into it. But here's what I've learned. What I've learned is when you go into a gym and you have a goal and you sit down and you're going to bench press your goal or you're going to squatch your goal or you're going to curl your goal, you can't do it the first time. You can't do it the second time. You can't do it the twentieth time. Unless you have a goal that's pretty much like A worthless goal. Okay. But I'm saying you really want to strive to get somewhere. Guess what? You have to put in the time week after week after week. You gotta eat right. You gotta put in your ups. You gotta get the rest that you need. You gotta go through this process over and over and over and over again. There are no quick fixes when it comes to developing physical strength. There aren't quick fixes when it comes to developing a skill like being able to play the piano or some other learned skill. It's not a quick fix. You can't take a pill, take a shot, and it happens. You could take a pillar of shot that makes it happen faster, and that's not good. But you still have to go through the process. And you know what he says? Spiritual maturity is like that. It takes time. There's a process. When he uses the term perfect, he's saying you've got to let the process develop you into spiritual maturity. We see the same idea in 2 Timothy 3, verse 17. He says that the scriptures were given that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. When he uses the term perfect in this text, he has the same concept of spiritual maturity. In other words, the word of God is sufficient to make you what God wants you to be. To grow you into his likeness, to make you spiritually matured, to get you to the place where you do what is right. God's word matures us And so in the same way that he uses the term in James 1, and the same way that Paul uses the term in 2 Timothy 3, James uses the term here in James chapter 3 to say, if you're spiritually matured, you restrain your tongue. If you're spiritually matured, you use your tongue for the glory of God. And if you're not spiritually matured, guess what the opposite is? You don't control your speech. It's that simple. The corollary to this principle is that the destructive, ungodly uses of our speech are an indication of spiritual immaturity at best. Or of an empty profession of faith at worst. Let's not forget that earlier on, just a few verses before, he talks about the fact that faith, if it doesn't have works, is dead. And the way that we're convinced of the fact that a person is truly a child of God is we can see with our eyes the change that takes place in them through the power of the gospel. He's not suggesting that we become Christians by our works. The Bible is very clear, it's not by works of righteousness. But the way that we're convinced of a person's profession being genuine is in what we can see with our eyes. You know, it's like a person who tells his friends, I'm not going to go hang out with you anymore. The places we used to go and they say, Why not? He says, I'm a Christian now, I don't really feel comfortable doing that. We'll see how long that lasts. Twenty years later they say you never turn back. Why? New creature in Christ Old things pass away. All things have become new. The reality is that we can see the evidence of new life in Christ. And so when a person has controlled speech, when they use their tongue consistently, week in and week out, over and over and over again, in circumstances they use it for the glory of God, you say that person is matured in the faith. And on the other side, you say, what's going on in that person's heart? The simple reality is That our speech is a transparency, it allows us to look into the soul of a person and see the health of the soul. Why is our speech an indication of our overall discipline? Our speech is also an indication of overall discipline. He says that the person who lacks a controlled tongue is able also to bridle the whole body. That's an amazing statement, is it not? A person who can control their speech is disciplined in all areas. Why could he say that? I want you to think about that for a moment. I'm going to come back to that question a little later in the message. But here's the reality: our tongue says something about us. And here's my question. What does your speech say about your soul? What does it say about your heart? What does it say about your spiritual maturity? Does it strengthen people's confidence that in fact you're a Christian, that you're growing in the Lord? Or does it make people wonder and doubt the reality of your profession? A third truth we see is this: we should be sobered by the power of the tongue. Now, when we talk about the power of the tongue, we're not talking about the fact that it gives some information about what's going on in our soul. We're not talking about the liability of the tongue, but the reality is that the way we use our tongue can do stuff that's really good or it can do stuff that's really bad. It can do stuff stuff that's very, very instructive and encouraging and helpful, and it can be extremely destructive, and it can destroy your environment in a heartbeat. Notice the way he puts it in verse number three. Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths. That they may obey us, and we turn about their whole body. Behold also the ships which are which though they be so great are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth Even so the tongue is a little member and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth. I'll put it in very simple terms. What you say matters. The way you use your tongue is significant. If you use it for good, God can use it in a powerful and glorious way. And if you use it for destructive purposes, You can destroy the good work of God in so many different areas of life. In fact, just to emphasize this I want to tell you about something that happened to me Friday. This Friday I went to the Eastern Shore and I went crabbing. In fact, that was pretty fun. I had a good time. And around 10 o'clock I got in the car. I was going to head back and supposed to meet up with somebody for lunch, and I was going to study and get a lot done today, or on Friday. And seven hours later, I got home. How did it take seven hours to get from Chester? To Severn. Well, the reason is because there was a man on the Bay Bridge who for almost 24 hours was threatening to jump to his death. In fact, as I sat in the car and people were playing cards on the hood of the car behind me for about an hour and a half, as people just walked around, I got on Facebook and I said, What's going on? And I look down through all the comments. Do I even need to say what was on those comments? I don't. Here's the reality. If that man Could have read those comments, I have no doubt he would have jumped. No doubt. We would have all gotten home a lot sooner, and a man would have made a decision That cannot be reversed. Today, as far as I know, he's alive Is the people that are helping it. And you know why? Because there are people that got up into a man lift while he hung off of the side of The cables of that bridge, liter literally 200 plus feet in the air. And they spoke words of encouragement to him. I think that's a living example of the power of the tongue. It really is. I have no idea what that man was going through. None whatsoever. But I'll tell you what. He's one of many. I don't mean many who are about to jump off the Bay Bridge. He was one of at least three last week. But there are a lot of people that are going through tremendous turmoil internally. Some of the things have nothing to do with decisions they made. And here's the simple reality Things that we say can push them one way or the other. Our tongue is a powerful tool. It can be a weapon, it can be a bomb. And the reality is that James says, let me give you a couple of examples you can see with your eyes and say, Did you know that the tongue is like that? He says, look at the horse. In the ancient world the horse was it was a tank, it was a car, it was a truck It was whatever it needed to be. It was for transportation, it was for warfare, it was for farming. The horse was an integral part of society. And this massive strong beast that outweighs the person riding on it or using on it probably by five or six times its weight. And his powerful is controlled by a little piece of metal right in its mouth. It's incredible. You'd have this little guy who weighs a fifth of what that horse weighs sitting on that thing and he just pulls it this way and the horse goes and he pulls it this way and the horse and he could just he could he'd do that all day and the horse will do what he wants him to do He can use that horse for so many constructive things. He says, look at the ship. That massive ship is is going through a storm and the waves just beating that side of that ship. And the wind is howling, but the ship is going where it's supposed to go because at the back, down in the water, there's this little rush. And there's a guy standing there moving it wherever he wants it to go. He's controlling the rudder. He says, but look at a fire. California right now there are massive wildfires. These are not the worst they've ever had, but within the recorded history, they're in the top five. And the season's not over yet, so who knows where it goes. It is 2020. How does the fire start? Just a little spark. And that one little spark can destroy thousands upon thousands of acres. Multi-million dollar homes. That people have put so much pride and energy into consume like that. Why? Because of a bolt of lightning that hit a tree in a forest And before you know it, it's out of control. And you know what James says? That's your tongue. The tongue can be used for constructive means like the horse and the ship. The tongue can create unbelievable damage through just one little use of it. Just one little use. And the point is this your tongue is powerful. We should be sobered by that reality. You can motivate a person to take a decision that will bless them forever. You can destroy a person's will to live. You can restore a broken relationship with so much hang on the line. You could permanently destroy the most significant relationships in your life. You could proclaim the gospel to someone whose life is broken and miserable. Headed to eternal destruction and through the preaching and teaching, through the conversation of communicating the gospel, that person trusts in Christ and their life is forever changed, not just eternally, but even within this small time we live on this planet. You can undermine a person's faith. The list goes on, but the reality is this: our tongue is powerful. And I ask you, with that power, how are you using it? For good or for evil? The fourth truth we see is that we must address the root of our embarrassing speech. Someone might be sitting here today saying, Pastor, I I hate to say this, but The way I use my tongue is a disaster. It's a total disaster. So what do I do? I have a huge problem. Do I just work harder at trying to keep my speech under control and just learn to walk away from people so I don't say something I'm going to regret? Do I go to some therapy session so I learn how to speak differently? What do I do? I want to go back to that question that we asked earlier. Why is it that when James is talking about the tongue, he says, if you control your tongue, you control your whole body? Why does he say that? And here's the answer. Because your tongue is not the root problem. It's your heart Folks, what we say with our tongue starts inside of us. And I will also go so far as to say this. What we say is not what we think initially. It takes time to get there. In other words, there's a habitual thinking pattern that goes on within our hearts. that eventually presses out in the kinds of things we regret. When a person has a terrible anger, the problem is not so much the anger, but what causes the anger in the heart. When a person who has trouble being violent, they like to fight. When a person uses their tongue in disreputable ways, the problem isn't the tongue, it's what's going on in the heart. Because the tongue is simply a tool of expression. The truth is you could cut a person's tongue out of their mouth. Not that you'd want to do that. But you could do that, and it wouldn't change what's going on inside. They would express the same evil in other ways. The truth is, the reason that our tongue is so important And the reason he says if you control your tongue, you control your whole body is because if you control your tongue, your heart is healthy. And if you don't control your tongue, your heart's not healthy. And when your heart is healthy, not just your speech changes, but everything about you changes. And when your heart is not healthy, you express that in countless ways. The way that Jesus put it in Matthew 12 was this. When he spoke to those religious Pharisees, he said, O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. A good man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things, an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things. But I say unto you that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned By the way, the fact that you know you're going to answer to God for the way you use your tongue is not enough to control your tongue. You realize that? It's not I can know full well I'm going to stand before God and give an account for the way I use my tongue. But if my heart doesn't change, my speech doesn't change. There's a reason that the Bible says that when a person is trying to be justified by the law, they fail But when a person is saved and they have a new nature and the Holy Spirit's indwelling in them, that person begins to actually do what the law says, and they do it even without thinking of it. Why? It's because the heart has changed. Jesus is telling these religious Pharisees that the reason that their speech is so evil is because their heart is full of evil. And if they want their speech to change, their heart has to be made new. It's that simple. Our speech is the fruit of the health of our soul. What we say flows out of how we think. What we say flows out of what we really believe deep down inside. Our speech is like the juice of a fruit. You know what's interesting? When you go to the grocery store and you pick up a lemon, it's yellow and it looks like a lemon. And when you pick up an orange, it's orange and it looks like an orange. But when I lived overseas in Ghana, did you know that an orange was green when it was ripe? And so is a lemon? And so is a grapefruit and so is a lime. They were all green. In fact, if you were holding an orange and you were holding a lemon and you were at the right distance, you wouldn't know the difference at all. It's amazing that it's true. A lemon, orange were both green. But if you cut that orange and you cut that lemon and you squeeze the fruit into your mouth, immediately you know the difference. And that's how our tongue is. When we are squeezed and when we are oppressed, if there's sweetness in the soul, it comes out. And when we are squeezed and we are oppressed, if there is bitterness in the heart, it comes out. I can't tell you how many times I've gone to the hospital to visit somebody who is going through tremendous affliction. And when I sit down with them, as a pastor, I don't always know what to say to them. I really don't. And sometimes I sit there. And I think about myself and I say, how would I respond if I was them? Could be me one day. You know, we all go through this cycle of life. We get there eventually. I can't tell you how many times I've had people encourage me. I come out of that hospital, I come out of that room, and I sit in my car and I'm just like Wow. There is grace on display in that room. Grace on that. Some of those people have done their funerals. Not on their funerals. And here's the reality. Not everybody in those circumstances is like that. There are some people if you went to go visit them in that hospital bed The nastiness that would flow is something else. What's the difference? What's going on inside? Folks, if you want your speech to change , you've got to address your heart. You must allow God to bring repentance to your heart. We talk about repentance. Repentance is not only talking about matters of salvation, but repentance really touches every single area of our Christian life Repentance means that the way that we think is changed when it comes in conflict or in it when it's contrasted with truth And in 2 Timothy chapter 2, this is what Paul writes to those who will minister to those who are bound by lies within their hearts. He says, the servant of the Lord must not strive, but must be gentle to all men, apt to teach, patient, in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves If God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who has been taken captive by him at his will. You might be sitting here this morning saying, Pastor, I don't want to say this, but I feel like a miserable human being right now. What the Bible's saying is true, I know it. And I feel really bad. What do I do? This text tells you what you need to do. The first thing is you need to realize that your heart needs to be filled with truth again. What kind of people help those whose hearts are not healthy, people who have the ability to teach? They can take the truth, they can apply it to your soul, and it's the truth that frees the soul, it's the truth that keeps us from sin, a heart that is filled with truth. is a heart that is on the process to healing and good spiritual health. We need to realize that our thinking When we are in a place like this is very self-destructive. The way he refers to it is he says, instructing those who oppose themselves. You know, when my heart is not healthy, it's not just that it isn't healthy, but it's actually hurting me. And it's hurting the people around me. The way that I'm expressing what's going on inside is very destructive, not just to me, but to the people around me. And we need to actually see it for what it is. It's destructive. We need to realize that it takes time. Notice the way that he puts it. He says that someone helping a person in this place needs to be gentle. He needs to be patient. He needs to instruct in meekness, so that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him at his will. The reality is that when my heart becomes unhealthy, it may be the result of repeated behavior for weeks, months, years, thinking patterns that will not get reversed in a 10-minute conversation. Something that's going to take time. Something that's going to take patience. Something that's going to take somebody being meek in the way they instruct a person. Just like it takes time to go to the gym and build muscle and strength. Just like it takes time to develop the ability to play the piano or some other instrument. Just like it takes time to develop any skill that's worthwhile, it takes time for your soul to become healthy again. It's a process. Realize it takes time to humble ourselves. It takes a humbling of ourselves. He says that you're looking for repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. Here's the simple reality. When my heart's not healthy, I probably am believing a series of lies on a lot of different levels. All these lies are interconnected, and the reality is bit by bit, one by one, they need to be addressed. And as one comes down, then there's another one that needs to be addressed. And when that one comes down, then another one needs to be addressed. And over a series of conversations, by getting God's word in our heart, by working through these things, guess what happens? God begins to do a work of repentance in us. He changes how we think, and as our thinking becomes biblically founded, and as we start thinking in a healthy manner, our soul becomes healthy again. Vibrants. That's what God wants. And there's one final thing I want to mention. We need to realize it comes by God's power. He says, if peradventure God will give them repentance. Now, he's not trying to give the impression that God flips the switch and all of a sudden, oh, it's gone. That's not what he's saying. What he's saying is that through this process Patience, teaching, gentleness, all of those things going on. God is ultimately the one who is changing, who's restoring, who is cleansing, who's renewing the heart. God is the one who gets the credit. It's not the person or the people or the circumstances that get the credit. It's God who does the work in us. And so I asked this question. Do you need your heart to get back to a healthy place? It's the question of the morning. It's really not about your tongue. Your tongue is the indication that you need your heart to get back to normal. It needs to get back to a healthy place. And so I ask you this morning: what is God showing you? How's he working in you? It might be that this morning you say, I need God to renew my heart again. Then you need to take these steps that are laid out in this text so that God can begin to restore good spiritual vitality and health to your heart. It might be that you're not a Christian, I'm not preaching this message to make you doubt your salvation. I promise you. Salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. But there are many people in churches that believe that they're a Christian simply because they come to this place. You know, you don't become a car if you sit in a garage long enough. You don't become a Christian by coming to this building. It may be that the reason that your heart is not well is because your heart is not saved. And so I ask you this morning, how is God working in you? God wants us to become matured Christians. whose speech is used for his glory. And so I want to challenge you. Let's address the root cause of our inconsistencies and move forward to the glory of God. Let's bow together for prayer. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask two simple questions. The first question is, is there somebody here this morning that says, Pastor, I know this wasn't a gospel message, but I really don't know for sure that I'm saved. And I I need to talk to somebody so that I can know for certain what the gospel says, so I can respond to it. Is there anybody that say, Pastor, that's me? Raise your hand quietly so I can see that. You say, I don't know for sure that I'm saved. Anybody like that How many of you say, Pastor, I I'm a believer, I know that, but my heart is not well. And my speech is It's showing that. And I'm very convicted, and I want God to help me to get back to where I need to be. Is there anybody that would quietly raise up your hand and say, Pastor, that's me? My heart is not well. my speech sort of shows it. Actually really shows it. And I need to get back to where God wants me to be. Thank you for your Your honesty. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to respond to His word this morning. Father, it is good to come in contact with truth. Where our hearts are exposed and laid bare before you, so that we see them as they are. I pray that you'd help us to be a people who are honest enough with ourselves to just call what it is. To cry out to you for mercy and help. And I pray that we would start picking up those tools that you have provided for our growth and start putting them to work in our own souls. Father, help us to get victory. Help the lies of our heart to be ripped back. Help our minds to be fixed on truth. Father, I pray that you would help us to be a holy, godly people. who walk in practical righteousness. Because in fact we are your children and our souls are healthy before you. We ask that you'll bless each person who's joined us this morning. Thank you for their attendance. Thank you for those who joined us in the live stream. May you encourage each of us through your word this morning. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.