And then uh No , yeah, uh , The stars In the sky, the countless constellations, the sprawling solar system, and among it a little planet named Earth God made all those things, and all of the people and inhabitants of our planet, and He made them out of nothing. Just over two thousand years ago, when we needed him most, God sent his only son to earth To save us and give us the promise of an eternal home in heaven. When he came, he could have chosen anywhere on earth He could have built a palace for himself that would have made the grandeur of the Roman Empire seem like nothing. But he didn't God chose to send his son to be born among the forgotten, the overlooked, and the poorest. This is the story of how God came to be with us. The story opens with a young woman in her home, Mary. Mary. Unless you look a bit deeper, there's nothing particularly remarkable about Mary. She was from a town called Nazareth. And she was engaged to be married to a man named Joseph. God sent an angel down from heaven with a A message for her. Mary found it hard to understand why the angel had come to see her. She was just an ordinary woman. Don't Don't be afraid, Mary. He will give birth to a son and will call him Jesus. He will be the son of the Most High. I'm not even married yet. How can I have a son? The Holy Spirit will come, and his power will give you a baby. He will be the Son of God. The angel departed, leaving Mary excited about the news. The baby. She told Joseph, the man she was about to marry. He was worried at first, but an angel appeared to him Him too, and this gave him great comfort. But the Roman emperor Caesar Augustus, who ruled over the land, Sent an order saying he wanted to count every single person in the country. So everyone, including Mary and Joseph, Had to go back to their hometown to be registered. Joseph came from a faraway town named Bethlehem Because Mary was engaged to be his wife, she came with him to Bethlehem. Mary and Joseph travelled. Traveled for many miles and many days. Mary rode on the back of a donkey because it was so, so far. To walk. They went from Nazareth in Galilee to Judea and then to Bethlehem. When they finally arrived in Bethlehem Bethlehem, they knocked on every door looking for a place to stay. But there was no room anywhere. Mary and Joseph nearly gave up. But then they tried the very last guest house. Please, please help my wife. She's about to have a baby. Don't you have a milk in today? And so Thank you so much. We'll take it. So, Mary Mary and Joseph went to stay in the stable. It was a very difficult place to bring a new life into the world. But Mary and Joseph And so it was that while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered, and she She brought forth her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in The inn. Mary looked at the sleeping baby in the manger, and she knew that he was a precious gift. So yeah, very well you can play out. Brown children. And sweet, sweet. In grace God. Meanwhile, in the fields near Fox A group of shepherds were keeping watch over their clothes. It was night time, and they were surprised when an angel The glory of God shone all around the shepherds, and they were terrified The shepherds were ordinary people going about their daily lives. They weren't considered very important. So they were They were surprised when the angel spoke to them. Let them not be afraid. I bring you tidings of great joy. Today in Bethlehem, a Savior has been born. Baby flying in a major. I won't try I bring to you glad tidings the rejoy about our little boy. Within our nature. Don't be afraid for until you are The Savior comes, God's word in flesh was made a mighty day. Don't be afraid He called the wonderful counselor, the almighty God , everlasting father, and the And for everything he shall raise lonely. The angel was joined by other angels. All of the angels sang the good news. Glory to God in the highest heaven. The angels left. The shepherds wondered what they should do next. What should we do? Let's go to Bethlehem. Yes, I want to see what the angels have told us Okay, go ahead. Oh yeah, then So that 's the last one , they will make sure that. Some believe that you For the sky The shepherds found the stable where the young couple was, and they went to see the baby. in the manger. Then they went back to their flocks. They told everyone they met about the child. People were amazed to hear Changed, except them. They wanted to express The joy they had found and changed the world around them. And what better way to celebrate the birth of Jesus? These humble shepherds ' lives were transformed through an encounter with the Savior. Mary had seen it all happen And she kept these things close to her heart. She knew that God the Father had plans for this blessed baby boy. Oh, yeah. Joyful and triumphant Behold him on a king Oh come let us ignore. Oh come let us ignore Oh come, let us adore him. Singing exposition those singing He says the same of the Oh glory in law yes. Oh come let us go. Oh come let us adorning. Oh come let us adorn. Yeah , are we re For this happy morning, Jesus to be all glory. Word of all shaky oh come letter Let us adjoin. Oh come, let us adjoin. Oh come let us adjoin. Please stand, open your hymn books to hymn number two hundred and one. We sing this hymn all three verses, two hundred and one. So it 's all and soy okami okami to blah Come and be wrong for the king of me. Angels, oh come, let us ador him. Oh come let us ador him, oh come, let us ador him Just sing an exal for sing all year sentence of Glory to God For with that glory with Great singing. Please be seated. And as our ushers come forward to collect our offerings, we We would like to remind all of our guests, we are so grateful that you have chosen to join us and worship this morning with us. Please, as the offering plate comes by, please fill out The visitor's card that you were handed earlier, fill it out and drop it in the offering plate. That would be a wonderful gift for us this morning. And again, uh, we are so grateful to have the opportunity. Need to be a blessing to this ministry. Let us pray as we ask the Lord to bless this offering. Father, thank you for this day. Thank you so much for the advent of Jesus Christ. And thank you for sending him to be born in a humble manger so that he could die on the cross to save us all from our sins. Thank you for the continual grace that you show. in our lives and we ask Lord as we seek to continue to honor you through the worship of ministry here at this church that you would continue to meet not only our financial needs Lord, but our spiritual needs as well. Please continue to bless the offerings that are given today. Bless everyone that has chosen to worship with us. And we ask that your spirit would Speak to the hearts of everyone here. Lord, if there is someone here, Lord, who does not know you as Savior, we ask for you to work in hearts. We ask for you to make the gospel clear Plain and clear to all, and we thank you for what you will do today in your house. These are things that we ask in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. Currently It's good to see everybody out this morning. And I want to just take a moment to say a big thank you to all of those who were behind the scenes working to make sure that we were We're able to host this event. And uh don't you love the spontaneity of children? When the sheep don't follow. Just happens that that sheep belongs To me. Oh boy. Well what we're gonna do is we're gonna let the children uh ages four to seven be dismissed to junior church. They're not used to being in the service. Twos and threes for sure. And uh the rest of the children uh who are not in that category, they're gonna come and join you parents. And I want to encourage the rest of you, if you can take your Bibles and turn to the book of Luke Luke. Luke chapter 2. Luke chapter 2. And what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to kind of take what you've just seen, and I'd like to to kind of pull together the implications and the purpose and the reason behind why those events unfolded as they did. Before we open up And look at this passage. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Really ask the Lord to bless our time and thank Him for what has been a very delightful time. Enjoying the children. Presenting the story of the birth of Christ, but also being reminded of that wonderful story, the beginning of the good news. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer. Father, how privileged we are to be here this morning, to be under the ministry of the word, where we can be challenged Where your word can be opened and expounded, and we can understand the weight of those truths. We thank you so much for the work that went in behind the scenes. The many, many hours spent helping these children get ready to come and to tell the story of the birth of the Savior. Thank you for all the work. Thank you for how you've blessed this time. Father, help us this morning to have settled minds as we focus on your word. I pray that every person who's here would experience your specific work in their lives through the word. Father, you know the specific needs. Perhaps there's a need Where the heart needs to be warmed, encouraged, strengthened. Maybe there's a heart that needs to be convicted. And people need to understand Understand their need to turn to Christ in repentance and in faith to be saved. Father, you know the specific needs. I don't. So I ask you to work Work as only you can. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter two, verse eight. You have your Bibles turned there and let's look at This section of scripture. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings. of great joy which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior which is Christ the Lord And this shall be a sign unto you, ye shall find the babe, wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host. Praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, good will toward men. You know, whenever we read the Bible, we should do two things. Number one, we should kind of look carefully at the details of the passage so we understand what is going on. But then we need So we understand the events, and we need to ask the question: why? Why is that recorded for us? What was trying to be communicated? Why Did God work in the way that He worked at that point in human history? And so, what I want to do this morning is I want to answer the question: why? Why did God do this? What was He trying to do? Teach us what was he trying to accomplish? What do we learn about God and his work with people from this passage of Scripture? Well, what I think God wants us to see is God wants us to see the good news of the gospel, then he wants us to respond properly to it. So what does this passage tell us about the gospel or the good news? I'm just I'm just going to mention three things, and I'm going to use one word with each of those three truths that could kind of jog your attention as you think about those facts related to the gospel. The first word that I want you to write down or I want you to remember is the word impartial. Can you say that with me? Impartial. Let's try that again. What's the word? Impartial. You know, there's one thing that we as humans despise, and that is partiality. That's something that really bothers us. When someone is in authority, has peace They got this guy over here. They really treat him with a lot of kindness and they give him lots of gifts and they speak very well of that person. But then another person Doing the exact same things, working the same number of hours, there's no difference on paper between those two people, practically speaking. Yeah, that person doesn't get any kindness and they don't They never speak kindly of that person. This partiality. We don't like it in the workforce. We don't like it in the church. We don't like it in the community. We don't like it in in the government. We don't like it in this classroom at school. We don't like it in the family. You know how many families a father or mother place favorites and for the rest of their lives they're Those kids have conflict amongst themselves because of what started when they were just little kids in the home. We don't like partiality. We despise it The reason we don't like partiality is because we understand it's not just. It's not the way that it should be. We should treat people impartially. I have good news for you today. God is impartial. God is impartial. And we see that laid out for us in this passage of scripture God is not someone who looks at the lowly and scoffs. He looks at the poor. He looks at the broken. He looks at the The person whose life is weighed down by sin and says, I despise that person. I have no time for that person. That's not the way that God is. But that's how We are. Even though we know it's wrong and it bothers us to our core when we see it or experience it, we have such a tendency to do that. Yet I want you to notice a very Very simple series of details from this passage. There were, verse 8, in the same country shepherds. Shepherds. Now I lived overseas for a while and during that time period I got to see sheep. And sheep are not the smartest of animals. They're not the cleanest of animals. animals. I watched a car hit a sheep one time because the sheep's just running down the road and all of a sudden he just jumps right in front of the car and I couldn't believe it. I said, how in the world could it do a thing like that? Sheep. Sheep are led. They're cared for, they're provided for. And let me tell you, it's not the most glamorous job in the world to be taking The kinds of people in the ancient world that took care of sheep a lot of times were probably younger guys. These are not older, seasoned individuals. These are probably young In fact, the kids that were in this program might have been the age of some of the very people that were watching those sheep that night as we pick it up in Luke chapter two. You don't have to have a lot of talent, a lot of skill. You just smell bad because you're with animals. You lead them around. You take care of their wounds. That's your life. What a life. Yet that's who God came to that night. He didn't go to a palace. He didn't go to a wealthy merchant in Jerusalem. He went to the Shepherds in the hillsides of Bethlehem. He says later on in this statement, Lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, the glory of the Lord showed round them. About them. They were sore afraid, and he said, Fear not, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to how many people? All people You know, there were people who a lot of folks would have kind of not had a lot of time for, and they're part of that. You know, you might might be sitting here this morning and you feel like the person that always gets passed over, the one who always gets looked past, and nobody has time for you. Your life is so Weighed down with so many burdens, and you say God would never have time for that's not true. God went to the shepherds on the hillside, probably teenage Boys. God went to them and he said, I have a message for you. This good news is for all people. It was God who Who chose Bethlehem? A little town that the prophet says, though thou art little amongst the towns in Israel, out of you will come the Messiah. It was God who went To Nazareth, a very shanty little village up there on the Sea of Galilee, to a young woman who was probably very close to the age of some of the people in this program today. And he said, I'm going to use you to bring the Savior into the world. It was Joseph a carpenter. Who raised this little baby? I want to remind you of something. God is impartial. He cares About everybody that he's made, the rich and the poor. He cares about those who have great education and those who are illiterate He cares about people in all nations. And this story is about you. And it's about me. There's a second truth That we find here, and I want you to write down or remember the word savior. The word is savior. God is the savior. Notice what he what the angel said: unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ. At the end of that section it says, and suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God on the highest, and on earth peace Notice who is the actor in this particular section. The people were not calling out and saying, God send some angels to get a The people were not looking for God. God initiated the action. From the Garden of Eden, when man sinned in the garden, immediately at that Point, God said, I'm gonna send a Savior. And all those complicated stories of people's lives all throughout the Old Testament. And there's some really complicated ones there. We've highlighted a couple in this Christmas. Let me tell you all those stories tell us something. It happened. It's on God. It's good news from God. He says, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. And he says, I'm the one who is sending the Savior. I want to ask you a question. Do you see yourself as somebody who needs to be saved? You might say, I'm I don't need salvation. What are you talking about? I live in Maryland, in the United States. Got a really good job. I live in a nice house. I drive a nice vehicle. I'm married. I have children. My kids are all healthy. I don't have any need. Are you sure of that? Because there'll be a day when if you don't feel you have need right now God in his own way is going to allow your circumstances to bring you to the realization that in fact you do have need. You aren't God. You aren't all powerful, you aren't all knowing, you're a creature. And at that point, God begins his work in our hearts, and he begins to reveal to us some things about us You might say who needs salvation? Let me tell you, everybody needs salvation. Every person in this room, from the youngest to the oldest, you say, Well, why in the world do I need salvation? I'm fine. I'm not in a position needing God's help or God's rescue or anything like that. Let me tell you why you need salvation. You and I need salvation. because we have a problem. You know, let's just imagine for a moment that you're in really good health, really good strength. You exercise regularly. Maybe you go to the gym, you run, you lift weights. You eat healthy, everything seems good. You go to the doctor, they check your blood pressure, it's perfect. They check your cholesterol, they check all these things and they say you're in good health, and all of a sudden one day you get to This little pain right here. You've never had something like this before. Get this little pain. You've been in good health, you don't have any problem. You go to the doctor and say, ah, you know, I never experienced this before, but I got this little pain right here. He says, Oh, that's kind of weird. Everything seems good with you. Let's run some tests They run some tests and they get back to you and they say, We we we need to see you again. Run a couple more tests. And they call you again and say, We need to run a couple more. What are you doing? Well, we're trying to figure out what's what's going on. And all of a sudden, one day the doctor calls you and says, I need to talk to you in person. We can't talk on the phone. No, I need to see you in my office. That that doesn't sound good. J just I need to see ya. Here's the time, here's the day. You sit down, he said he said Yeah, I gotta I gotta tell you something, it's not good. You have, and he tells you. And it's something that can kill you. All of a sudden your humanity becomes You know, you and I have a problem, and it's not a health problem that I'm talking about. It's a spiritual problem. Every person In here is a sinner. I'm a sinner. My children, you got to see the display of a little bit of that today. My wife. Every person in this room, we're sinners. You see that is so condemning, I don't like that. Hey folks, do you condemn your doctor if he tells you you've got a problem? I mean he's just telling you the Truth. You'd be really angry if he didn't tell you the truth. And he just lets you stay like that. You know, the Bible says that all of us have sinned. And come short of the glory of God. You know what's interesting, you think that a child is perfect until you start watching them more closely and how they relate to their siblings. You get 'em in the c classroom and you start seeing how they deal with authority and their teacher and how they deal with confrontation when they've done wrong and when somebody takes the toy that they magically want When somebody tries to take the toy that they got. When somebody goes for the toy that was sitting beside them that they didn't even care about, but all of a sudden Sudden if that other person goes for it, they all want the same toy. Why is that? Because there's something in our nature that's not right. We're sinners. Out of Out of our heart come so many different expressions of a fallen nature. All have sinned, the Bible says, and come short of the glory of God. And it's not just that we We've sinned, but it's that we have to stand before God as the judge one day. You know, uh we have laws in our country Lots of them. Try not to think about them too much, but there are certain laws that from time to time we find out about. They could be laws that we deal with in our community. They could be laws we deal with on the road. There could be laws that we deal with in so many different areas. Maybe it could be like financial tax issues or something like that. And you go, I didn't know that was there. And all of a sudden you find out it's there. Gotta deal with the problem. Well did you know that there is a law giver that's greater than the IRS and greater than our local uh Judiciary and greater than the Supreme Court of our nation, greater than the United Nations General Assembly. It's God. He created us. He created this world and everything In it. And he ordered it exactly how he wanted it to be. God created you with a very specific and unique purpose in this world. Live it out. And that is be to be right with him and to walk in communion with him and to manage what he gives you. He wants you to order your life in his ways. And the Bible says that That we're all as an unclean thing, and our righteousness as a filthy rag. In Isaiah 53 6 it says, All we like sheep have gone astray. To his own way. That's how we live our lives. And when we stand before God, we are going to be held accountable to his justice system. You know, I mentioned to you earlier that God is impartial, and we all smile and say, That's wonderful. That means the lowly and the high, he treats them the same. I'll tell you when you don't like It's when you're standing in front of a judge and he looks at the law, he looks at what you've done, he says you're You're guilty. He says you're guilty. And here's the punishment that you deserve. Impartiality is wonderful in one realm But in another, we struggle with it. We cringe at it. We want God to be a favorite to us. We want him to kind of sweep it under the rug and ignore it. But he doesn't do that. God is God is just and God is holy. And the Bible tells us that the wages of sin is death. Anybody in here who has sinned Has earned death, has earned separation from God to spend eternity in the lake of fire Fire. In fact, the Bible tells us in the book of Revelation that we are one day going to stand before God's great white throne. He's going to open up his books in the call courtroom and he's gonna look at what is there and what we have done and he's gonna judge us according to our works and someone says well man that's great I Would love to be judged by my works. I'm here in church today. I treat people fairly. I do this and I do all these things. But then I ask you a question. Is God going to be looking at how innocent you are or how guilty? Guilt. In fact, when God looks at your life and his laws, you're going to be innocent And I'm going to be in big trouble. And the scripture says, Whoever's name is not written in the book of life, be separated from God and cast into the lake of fire. Folks, that's terrible news. That's very difficult news. That is actually worse than going to a doctor and him saying, You are terminally ill. You have six months to live. That's actually worse because it's talking about eternity separated from God and eternal punishment. Folks That's what we deserve. But I have good news for you. God wants to save you. He wants to save you. You know what we just watched here today? was him telling the story about how he brought a savior to this world. I have good tidings. Great joy shall be to all people. Unto you is born this In the city of David, a savior, which is Christ the Lord. That's what he said. How in the world does God provide salvation? He sends his son The Bible says God became flesh and he dwelt among us. And the they said we beheld his glory. The glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Jesus Christ Christ took on flesh and he lived among us and he lived in perfect humanity. He never sins. He lived a perfect, sinless, pure, holy life. And Jesus Jesus willingly walked to the cross to take our sin debt on himself. I mentioned Isaiah 53, and I mentioned only half the And I did that for a reason. It says, all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way. But the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of a soul. You know what God did? God's son willingly, it wasn't like he was kicking and screaming and said, I can't do this. He said, I'm gonna do it because I love you. God demonstrated his love. While we were young Sinners. Christ died for us. Jesus came and when He was nailed to that cross and He shed his blood and He died, our sin debt was placed on Him, and now God is in a position To legally and justly forgive us and cleanse us and say, You're my child. He can do that. Sitting here today, we may have some folks. We might have Have any like this? We may have Benny, I have no idea. I don't I don't know between you and God where you are, I have no idea. But what I do know is this if you've never come To receive God's forgiveness. Place your faith in the finished work of Christ. God is calling to you through this text of Scripture to say you need salvation I've provided it for you. Jesus came, died, rose from the dead. He was punished in your place. Has done everything necessary for you to be forgiven, for you to be set right with me, so you can fulfill the purpose for which I created you. He has done it all. I leave you With one response, one responsibility. And you know what that responsibility is? It's to receive a gift. That's what salvation is. It's received as a gift. Now you know it's Christmas time. We give gifts to our kids. Grandparents sometimes give a few too many. You know how that is, right? Right? Grandma and Grandpa on one side they come and grandma and grandpa on the other side and oh this person wants to give a gift and that and pretty soon you're like, man, my kid's got too much stuff here. You know how that is, right? And grandma and grandpa just say Calm down, it's okay. You'll do it too someday, probably. It's possible. Possible. We'll see. It probably happened. When you give a gift, who pays for it? Grandma, Grandpa, Mom, Dad, Auntie, Uncle. Friend, who pays for it? The person who gives it. When you get a gift, what do you pay for it? You don't pay anything for it. You can 't And you say that in fear. Grace is giving you Something you don't deserve. That's what gifts are. True gifts are grace. That person doesn't deserve it. Your grandchild, you love them, but they're not perfect. They didn't earn that. didn't pay for it, but you gave them a bike for Christmas. You gave them whatever. You gave it to them. You love them. You're showing favor and kindness because that's how you feel towards them. But they have a responsibility. They can either take it or they can leave it. And every you know, every kid I know goes, Oh, I'll take it. But somehow, when it comes to the gospel, we take a Different mentality. We say, God, I don't want grace. I want to buy something. I want to pay for it. We have this wrestling of pride and self-righteousness in our heart, and we say, I've got to do something for you, God. You can't just give it to me. I've got to earn it. And God says, by the works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. Nobody in this room Can earn their way into God's good graces. It's impossible. Peter says, you weren't redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold. Oh, we had it, we took an offering. There are people that give money to the church because they think that that's how they get to heaven. Well, Peter just says, you don't buy heaven with money. You don't buy heaven, by some tradition that you received from your parents or some ancestor. You're redeemed by the precious blood of Christ as Of a lamb without blemish, without spot. It's not by works of righteousness that we've done. It's according to his mercy that he saved us. Folks, salvation is a gift And it is by grace alone. You don't earn it, you receive it freely. God pays for it. This book is full Of passage after passage teaching us that very fact. You might say, well, what do I need to do to personally receive salvation? There are two words that the Bible Uses. The word is repent and believe. What does it mean to repent? Repent means the way that you think has to completely change. Let me kind of give you an illustration like this. All of us by nature don't like to admit when we're wrong. We like to present ourselves as better better than we really are. We like to kind of put on a front When it's not really true. When we're told we're wrong, we like to pull back. We don't like to take handouts. By nature, we ourselves Self-sufficient, self-righteous, proud. It's all of us. There are no exceptions in this room. We're all like that. I'm like that When I'm not like that, it's because of God's grace, not because I'm naturally that way. Same thing for you. Repentance means that you have to think humbly. You have to let Let God's righteousness stand for you, not your righteousness. You have to humbly receive a gift, not stand in your self-righteousness and say, Look what I've earned You have to come to God like a humble child, depending alone on what he did for you, not presenting to him what you did for him. That's what repentance is. Repentance is me being convinced I'm a sinner. Repentance is my heart being moved and broken because I realize my sin 's an offense to God. Repentance is me being humble instead of proud. Repentance is me being willing to receive God's grace rather than pushing it away and saying, I'll do it myself. Repentance is acknowledging that this whole thing is true instead of hiding behind it as a myth. Repentance precedes faith You cannot believe in something like the gospel until those roadblocks and how you look at yourself and your sin and Jesus change so that you see it clearly and biblically The second word is faith. Faith means depending on something. Trust. A person who wants to receive God's gift of eternal life Has to see themselves as a sinner who can give nothing to God to remove their sin debt and to make them righteous. They have to accept God's payment on their behalf. They have to come that way. And very humbly, they depend on what Christ did for them instead of what they do for God. Moment that a person whose heart is repentant before God, who sees the glory of Christ and what he did, and believes it is true, calls in the Lord for salvation. Saying, God, here's what I am. Here's what I cannot do for myself. I'm trusting in what you did for me. The moment that a person turns and trusts in Christ Christ. Calling on him to save them. He saves them. You say, well, is there like some magical prayer like can we put that on the on the board so that I can say that? Hey folks. God doesn't listen to a magical prayer. There's a whole lot of languages, so you have to give it in like thousands of languages, right? It don't work that way. God's looking at your heart The moment that he sees that your heart has been humbled, and that you see yourself scripturally, and that you turn and trust in Christ, and as a child say, Help, save, he does it That very moment, he isn't listening for a specific set of words. The Bible says, with the heart, one believes unto righteousness. There are a lot of people that were saved before they ever said the words, God save me. Because the moment repentance and faith came together in their heart, God save them. When they called on the Lord Lord, it was in many ways sometimes just an expression of what had already gone on in the heart. Folks, God is a savior. Not only is he impartial, not only is he a savior, but lastly he's a peacemaker Verse thirteen says this Suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace. Goodwill toward men. You know, you may not realize this, but from the moment that you're born into this world, you are set in rebellion against God. You say that ain't true. Folk, it's true. I promise you it's true. Our heart is set against God. He says don't, and we say why. He says, do and he says, I don't want. That's the way we live our lives. When we try, we stumble and we fail. We are set And rebellion against God. Someone might say, Why is it that so many smart people reject the gospel? I'll tell you why. Because they suppress the truth and unrighteousness Jesus told Nicodemus, he said, There are a lot of people that love the darkness rather than the light, so they run from the light, lest their deeds are exposed. You know what God does? God comes to people who in their heart reject Him and rebel against Him. And He takes the step. And He puts together all the pieces so that they can be reconciled. You and I aren't like that with people, are we? We get in a conflict with somebody and it's like, it's their turn, they can come and come to me They better get on their knees and they better get real low and they better say the right words with the right tears or I'm saying I'm not listening to you. You say, I don't do that. Might be true. We do that. We don't take the first step. But God does. That's what the story is. It's God taking the step. And he took a whole lot In fact in Matthew Jesus says, You've heard it said of old, you should love your neighbor, hate your enemy, but I Tell you. Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them which despitefully use you, that you may be the children of your Father which is in heaven For he maketh his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth his reign on the just and on the unjust. You know what that scripture is saying? God treats With tremendous kindness, people who hate him. He does. And he's saying to his disciples, Love your enemies. Like God. Hey folks, he's the peacemaker, and that's what that's what the Christmas story is all about. It's about God making his enemies. His children. I want to ask you this question. Have you embraced the gospel? Might be somebody here today that says, Man, I Pastor I had never heard it said like that before. Well that's the Bible way. I didn't come up with that in my head. I couldn't come up with a story like that. It's God's story. And say I've never trusted Christ, then today should be the day you do that. Don't leave this place without responding to the gospel. You might say, Pastor, I'm saved. I got saved twenty years ago, fifty years ago, sixty years ago, I don't know, maybe seventy for somebody here. Has it warmed your soul? In a while. Cause it should. We need to respond correctly to the gospel. If we're not saved in humble repentance and faith. And if we're Saved and worship and praise. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer as we prepare to close. I want to ask this question because I think this message really appropriately calls us to think about our relationship to the gospel. Is there anybody in here that says, Pastor , I don't think I'm saved? I don't think that I've trusted in Christ. I never understood the gospel before. It's never been explained to me. And after hearing that message I'm actually really concerned about my soul. Can you pray for me? I don't know if I'm saved. I'm not gonna call you out. I'm simply gonna Pray for you in a general way. Is there anybody like that? Heads bowed, eyes closed, who says, Pastor, I don't know for sure that I'm saved. I'd like you to pray for me when we close. Anybody like that at I want to give you an opportunity as we come to our closing time. If you don't know for sure that you're saved, I want to invite you not to come forward when we're singing, but when I am back there in the back greeting people, just shake my hand and say, Pastor, I need to talk to you If you're a lady, I'll make sure that there's a lady you can you can talk to. If you're a man, I'd be glad to meet with you or get you connected with another man who can go to the gospel with you. Please don't leave this place. Without a confidence you're saved. Let's put our hearts together in prayer before our closing hymn. Father, thank you so much for every person who came today. What a privilege it is to present the gospel to people. I pray that you'll help each person to have a clear and Convinced understanding of the gospel. If anyone has not trusted Christ, I pray that today would be one step towards them understanding the gospel. And then their heart coming to repentance, faith, salvation. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Encourage you to turn with me to page 227. We're going to sing two verses of the hymn, Who is He in