Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of Our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh this is the third part to the passage that we're looking at Luke chapter 8, verses 4 to 15, the parable of the sower. And so if you have a Bible, I want to encourage you to take it. And let's all look together at this passage of Scripture. I'm going to go ahead and read it again just to refresh us and then we're going to pick up where we left off yesterday. It says And when much people were gathered together and were come to him out of every city he spake by a parable A sower went out to sow his seed. As he sowed, some fell on the wayside, and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it. Some fell upon a rock, and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away because it lacked moisture Some fell among thorns and the thorns sprang up with it and choked it. Others fell on good ground and sprang up and bear fruit an hundredfold When he had said these things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. His disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be? He said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to others in parables, that seeing they might see, and hearing they might not understand. Now the parable is this The seed is the Word of God. Those by the wayside are they that hear it, and then cometh the devil and taketh away the word out of their heart, lest they should believe and be saved They on the rock are they which, when they hear, receive the word with joy. These have no root, which while they believe, and in time of temptation they fall away. That which fell by the thorns are they which, when they have heard, they go forth and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But that of a good ground are they which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience Now if you remember, yesterday we talked about some very important details to observe. And the last detail that we looked at was the fact that the disciples did not understand what Jesus was saying. I mean they understood the details, but they didn't understand the intent. What was the purpose of Jesus giving this parable? What was he trying to teach? Well I'd like us to do is I'd like us to expand that last uh that last detail the disciples didn't understand and they go to Christ and they ask him to explain it and I want us to kind of break down that that last piece a little bit more So let's look at it this way. The first thing that I'm going to say is that the parable was meant to establish a very clear distinction between two groups of people. In Jesus' audience were two kinds of people. There were those who believed and those who did not. There were those who uh accepted that he was the Messiah. You could say that they were believers, they were disciples. They were people that were listening with anticipation to what Christ was saying. There were others who, for whatever reason, and there were maybe different categories of persons within this main category, but they were unbelievers. And so he says it this way in verse 10. He says, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. but to others in parables. Do you see the distinction? This is for you, it's not for them And he says, so that seeing they may not see and hearing they may not understand. Now you might go, I thought Jesus cared about everybody. I thought he wants everyone to hear the truth, to understand the truth, to embrace the truth. And it's true, Jesus does desire that all men should be saved and come to a knowledge of the truth. That is his desire, that not any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But one of the things that we're going to see about this particular teaching is that this particular teaching does not apply to the unbeliever Yet, that doesn't mean that it never will apply to the unbeliever or that it has no ability to apply to someone who is an unbeliever. It simply means that at the time it does not apply. I mean think about a passage like Ephesians chapter 2. He says, you have he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the earth, the spirit that worketh in the children of disobedience He makes this distinction about what a person was before they were saved versus after they were saved. They were dead in trespasses and sins. Now they're alive in Christ. So formally they did not have the capacity to live the Christian life because they weren't alive in Christ. And so this is the point that we have to keep in our minds as we're looking at that. His teaching was for the disciple. He wanted them to learn and to understand. Those who did not yet understand the gospel, had not yet embraced the gospel, who were disinterested in the truth. This particular teaching was veiled to them because at the time it does not apply to them. The second detail I'd like to notice Is that Christ had a very deliberate purpose in why he taught this way. Now this is uh a concept that Maybe you've not considered or sometimes we we think about it and we just kind of move past it because we don't want to dig into it. But I want you to recognize this. Not all truth in the scripture is directly applied to all people at all times. Now, please don't misunderstand what I'm saying by that I'm not suggesting that there are portions of the Word of God that have no value to the believer, okay? 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scripture is profitable. And so there are passages in the out in the Old Testament that seem very obscure to us. They're not directed to us as New Testament Christians, but they still have value to us. They are profitable. The things that were written aforetime were written for our learning. And so there are implications to passages in the Old Testament or passages That do not apply to us directly. There are timeless truths that are a part of that. But when we look at those passages, they do not necessarily apply directly to us. We understand this concept in other areas. There are some principles that we could say are foundational truths. For instance, I gave this example on Sunday. Let's say that you have a person who's learning mathematics. Well, when they're in four, you know, four or five years old, they're learning their numbers. They're just learning very basic addition, like one plus one is two, and two plus two is four. They're learning very foundational matters. They are not yet ready to understand more complex mathematics. There'll be a day that they do. I mean every person that works in advanced mathematics today at one time learned their numbers and at one time learned very basic addition and subtraction and multiplication and division. They learned those basic concepts. But there are foundational matters that have to be established First. There are some truths that have to be learned in sequence. So before I learn this truth, I have to learn this truth because there is a sequence of events that I have to understand in order. There are some truths that are issues of maturity. Think about what the writer of Hebrews says. He says, For the time I have to teach you the basics because you've come to a point in your maturity that you are not learning the you have to go back and learn the basics rather than being able to handle meat. You've got to go back to milk. So we see that some truths are things that we really will not understand if we're not at a point of maturity. And there's also another side to this. Some truths are meant for a particular people at a particular time, and you might say that these are context-bound truths Now hold on to that in your mind because I'm going to go back to that concept and give you some examples in a minute of what I mean. But before we look at those passages, I'm going to say this. I cannot apply every single text of Scripture directly to myself. There are certain uh contextual uh matters that that kind of bind that truth to a certain context and I'll show you what I mean just a second. Now this doesn't matter that, oh, that passage doesn't directly apply to me, so it's of no value. That's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is I've got to understand the context and I've got to understand the timeless truths before I move to application. Let me give you some examples of what I mean. The most obvious examples are Old Testament passages dealing with things like Jewish dietary laws. Are we allowed to eat pork today? The answer is yes we are. Are we allowed to eat shrimp? Are we allowed to eat shellfish? Are we allowed to eat crabs here in Maryland? The answer is of course we are. Well how do we know that? Because there was a time in the biblical history that people were not allowed to eat those things. And that's because they were under the Jewish dietary laws. They were a part of the Mosaic covenant. But we know as New Testament Christians, this was actually a debate that was kind of flushed out in the book of Acts, we know for a fact that as New Testament Christians, particularly Gentile New Testament Christians, we can eat those things. Those things are permitted because God's made that very clear in His Word. So it's a context matter. We understand that in the Old Testament, New Testament division. But there's some other passages that I think are very important too There are some passages that directly apply only to the believer, and there are other passages that they they will apply to an unbeliever, and then eventually to the believer. For instance, Romans chapter 8, verse 1. It says, there is therefore Now, no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. That word now is very important. It means that before a person comes to faith in Christ, They can't say there's no condemnation to me. Why? Because they're not in Christ. And so that little statement in Christ and the word now is very important to being able to apply that passage directly. If I'm going to apply this passage and say there's no condemnation to me, then then I have to be one who is now in Christ Jesus. Or 2 Corinthians 5. 17, he says Therefore, if, that is a condition, if any man be in Christ, that is the qualification He is a new creature. Old things are passed away. All things are become new. That means that not everybody living today is a new creature. Only those who are now in Christ Jesus. They are the ones who are new creatures in Christ. And so an unbeliever cannot apply that passage to themselves because they don't meet the qualification that's bound up in the context. Or even Romans 8, verse 28. We know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Again, the context binds this truth to those who are the called according to his purpose. Who are those people? Well those are people who are believers. Those are people who the the Holy Spirit has set them apart as sanctified, holy to God, and this is the person who's growing into Christ's likeness as a believer. And so the point that I'm trying to make And really the point that's being emphasized in this particular parable is that because there were people in the audience that were not yet believers, These verses didn't apply to them because it was impossible for them to apply the passage if they were not yet Christians. And by the way, As we read our way through the book of Luke and we get into chapters nine and ten, we're going to see that he's going to send out his twelve disciples, that after that he's going to send out seventy people who are going to spread them the gospel of the kingdom. And those are directly connected back to this particular parable. His teaching was directed to believers, specifically believers who would carry the weight of a very heavy duty, of spreading the word of God uh indiscriminately all throughout the land of Judea. So the question that we're going to close out is this. How do we apply these verses? Let me give you a couple of thoughts that I hope will be an encouragement and help to you this morning. The first is We've got to learn the basics. Before we can apply truths like this one, we have to understand the basics. Jesus died for my sins. He rose from the dead. His righteousness can make me accepted before God. If I'll turn to him, I'll place my faith in his finished work, then I can be a new creature in Christ, forgiven, cleansed, set apart to God as holy and righteous. That is what is the foundation to being able to be able to apply this pastor scripture. The next thing I'm going to mention practically So we have to carefully study the context. Whenever we're reading a passage of scripture, before we rush to application, we've got to ask, what does the context say? Are there any If then, are there any qualifications that that are an important thing for me to recognize before I rush to application? Before I tell someone there's no condemnation, you're alive in Christ, all things work together for good, I've got to ask myself the question, are they truly in Christ? Have they Embrace the gospel because if they haven't, those things don't apply to them. The third thing I'm going to mention is this. We need to go to the source when we encounter challenges in understanding the interpretation of the Bible Now what was wonderful about the disciples is that they had the Lord Jesus Christ with them right there. They simply said, Jesus, we don't understand. Can you explain this to us? My question is, how do we do that today? Do we have uh the ability to look over and say, Christ, can you explain to me how I'm supposed to understand us? The answer is no, we don't. What we do have is we have the completed word of God. And so what a person can do is they can Dig into the context, look at the details, and compare scripture with scripture. The way that we can interpret the Bible very well is to see how the Bible comments on itself in other places. And so one of the ways that we say, I don't understand this, is we continue reading, we continue observing, and we consider other places where those passages come to bear in helping us understand that particular passage, comparing scripture with scripture, interpreting the Bible in light of the Bible A second thing we can do is we can go to Christians who are matured, they're godly, they're wise, they've studied the scriptures. And they can really be a help to us in these areas. And so I want to encourage you, if you have a godly pastor who loves the Lord and is a faithful A teacher of the Word of God, when you have a question, go and ask them. If you have a godly parent or you have a a more matured believer who is a dear friend, and you come across a sticky passage of scripture, you can understand it You 'll go to them and ask them, can you understand do you understand this passage? Can you explain this to me? And you know what that person will do? They'll take the word of God, and hopefully, because they've studied it longer than you have, they'll be able to take it and they'll be able to rightly divide it and explain that to you As we think about this passage, I think that the principle that we're talking about this morning is very, very important. The reason that Jesus established this distinction between those who were disciples and those who weren't, those to whom this passage applied and those to whom it didn't, is because sometimes when we come to the Bible A passage is bound in its application by its context. And we have to understand the context and we have to apply it rightly in the light of the context. And this is a great example of that. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. If you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to me. uh either in a private message or maybe through Facebook, through YouTube. If you just want to share this and it could be an encouragement to somebody else, I hope that you'll do that. And uh Lord willing tomorrow we'll continue our study. Have a great rest of your day. Bye now