Well good evening. Good to see each of you tonight on a really nasty it's a really nasty night. So if you wanted snow, you got it, and then flip terrain, and now it's It's like a slushy out there. So anyway, it's good to see each of you who are here tonight, and then those of you who are joining us on the live stream want to say welcome. And let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we'll sing uh opening song and then get into our lesson tonight, which I think will be a very encouraging lesson. Father, thank you for the opportunity to gather again. Thank you for the safety you've given to each family that's here. And thank you for those who've joined us tonight on the live stream. I pray that you would uh really minister to our hearts through your word tonight. Help us to be encouraged. It's such a simple topic, yet also such a profound and deep topic. And so I pray that you would really help these truths to resonate in our hearts tonight. Help me to effectively communicate the truths that are before us and I pray that we would take these things to heart and live in the light of them. As we come together for prayer, I pray that our hearts would be knit together. And that we would really lift up to you some requests that are in fact very urgent and very, very serious. I pray that your hand would be at work in those situations. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could, let's turn together to hymn 198. And the song is Born to Die. Hymn one ninety eight, we're gonna sing verses one, three, and four together, please. On a night Christmas born just before wake up born at the stars and thus dying the place where he lay. Fell a shadow pulled break of a cross that would humble our bearing die upon Caleb. Jesus suffered my send you for give born to die upon me He was wounded And I might live on the third from his throne. Jesus came, laid aside heaven's name, in exchange for the cause of God. For my cate suffered lost, for my sin he bore the cross. He was wounded and I was set free. Born to die upon Caleb You suffered my send you for years born you die upon One Calvary He was wound in that I might live on the fort evermore, my cross by earth. As I fall off on the ground of my death, I forsake my ambition I forsake Oh my well, I remember to be Born Jesus died upon God measured my sin. To forgive born to die upon Calvary to the one that I might. Okay, well good singing. I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Luke. And we are in Luke chapter 2 this evening, and we've been working our way through the entire uh section of Luke that's dealing with The birth of Christ. And really what we've dealt with in each of our lessons has been leading up to the birth of Christ. Tonight we're going to continue in that frame of leading up to the birth of Christ. And what we're going to look at tonight is a really interesting topic. In fact, it's an extremely important topic. It's a very practical topic. And it really is a major part of the discussion about the birth of Christ. This evening, what we're going to look at is the topic of God's meticulous sovereignty. God's meticulous sovereignty. Now, when we use the term sovereign, what we're basically saying is that God is the one who rules over everything. Now when we say that God rules over everything, that doesn't mean that God is responsible for the sinful decisions that people make or that somehow God is the motivator for those decisions. We are personally responsible for the decisions that we make. But what we do see is that even when people sin Even when people do things that are evil and are a violation of God's moral will, God is still able to take those circumstances And he's able to use those circumstances to accomplish his good purposes in the lives of people. Those things are not able to thwart his plans. And so what we're going to do tonight is we're going to look at an example, one of many, many examples we find in the Bible, of God taking decisions that people made. Decisions that were impractical for the people that were affected by their decisions, sometimes decisions that are evil, sometimes decisions that are harsh. And the reality is God is still able to work in spite of those difficulties. And might I add, he's able to use those difficulties to accomplish his purposes. And one of the things that I'm going to say about this topic is that there is a mysterious side to this topic. There is a sense in which we cannot fully comprehend or fully understand everything there is to understand about this topic. Yet what we see is that God is the one who rules. God is in control. And so let's look together at Luke chapter 2, and we're going to read verses 1 through 6 together. Luke chapter 2, verses 1 through 6. Here's what the scripture says. It came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Sereneus was governor of Syria. All went to be taxed everyone into his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. Because he is of the house and the lineage of David, to be taxed with Mary, his espoused wife, being great with child. And so it was that while they were there, the days were accomplished. That she should be delivered. Now, you know what's really interesting? We've been talking about the Christmas story, and we end at this statement: she should be delivered. We still haven't gotten to the birth of Christ. Yet what we're going to talk about tonight is a very important part of that. So let me begin with just a simple summary statement of these verses. And then from the summary statement, we're going to work into this very important topic. And I think it's a profound topic. It's a wonderful topic. Here's a summary statement. The following section of the story of Christ's birth gives the details regarding how Christ came to be born in Bethlehem rather than Nazareth. which ultimately fulfilled Micah's prophecy regarding the birth of the Messiah. It's a really interesting statement. This is going to tell us How Jesus was born, not in Nazareth, where Mary was from, where Mary carried that pregnancy almost all the way to the very end, how they end up in Bethlehem and why that was even significant. Very interesting discussion. And what I want us to see tonight is that God wants us to live very humbly in light of the fact that God is sovereign. So, with that in mind, let's begin with four very simple facts about the verses in front of us. Here's the first fact: Mary and Joseph were from Nazareth, yet Christ was born in Bethlehem. Now this might seem like a really simple thing to say, but it's really significant. She was from Bethlehem. She was not from Bethlehem. She was from Nazareth. Joseph was from Nazareth She is great with child, and she's living in Nazareth. And here's my question. Out of all of our ladies here who have had a child, how many of you would have wanted to make that trek either by foot or on a donkey in your final trimester within just a few days of giving birth Anybody in here want to raise your hand and say, oh, I would do that in a heartbeat? Nobody. Nobody would do that. The fact is during that time, you're ready to have this baby. You don't want to have any disruptions. You don't want anything crazy going on. You just want to be able to get to that time and have that baby. And by the way, Mary is a very young woman. who has never had a child, and you can just imagine how she would have felt leading up to this moment. And all of a sudden they get word they're going to have to leave Nazareth. You want to talk about disruptive? That was extremely disruptive. There are a lot of women that would have been ready to s to wring their husbands' necks If they would have come to them at that point in their pregnancy and said, oh, by the way, we're going to go ahead and take a 40-50 mile trek on foot to a place just because. But that's what goes on. Notice it says, Joseph went up from Galilee out of Nazareth into Judea unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. And it was that she would be delivered in that location. Very significant though. The second fact I want us to see is this. Joseph's decision to travel to Bethlehem while Mary was in the final weeks of her pregnancy was by Force. Joseph did not make that decision because he was just a practically impractical man. Okay? He didn't make that decision because he was a callous Harsh person. He made that decision because he had zero say in the matter. Now I want you to think about it for just a moment. Today You know, today was the day that you couldn't go and eat in a restaurant anymore in Ann Reno County. Indoors, outdoors, canceled. Guess what? Today there was a judge that said, well, you can eat outdoors. Really helpful today, is it not? You can eat outdoors today. Well , I'm bringing this up for a reason. When they decided that they were not going to allow certain things, people were not happy about it, were they? There was a group today that met together and they had a town hall to talk about, to protest what was going on in Anirundel County. There are people that are getting on the news. There are people that are writing letters. All these kinds of things. They're not happy with some of the lockdown restrictions. Well, I want you to realize that there comes a point when the government can just say, whether you like it or not, you're going to do this. This is not a democracy that these people were living in. They didn't get to vote for their leaders. These are Jews living under a Roman Empire that conquered the entire Mediterranean world by force. And so the fact is that there was a ruler all the way back in Rome who said, you know what, it's time for us to register, essentially do like a census. of all the people in the empire. And the reason that we're going to do this is because we're going to bring in tax revenue. That's essentially what's going on. And so the word gets to Nazareth, and the Roman rulers say, you have to pack up your things, and you have to go back to the town that your family comes from, and you have to do it now. And we're not going to ask questions. We're going to say, go now. Now, folks, that was not nice. That was very rough. In fact, we could say that there's a lot of reason for the people to be angry, but they had no choice. Joseph had no choice. Mary had no choice in the matter. They couldn't say, oh, can we get an exemption because she's going to have a baby in two weeks? No, they weren't able to do that. No exemptions, just go. And when they get to the city, the town of Bethlehem. What we see in the story is that there were so many people crowded into Bethlehem that they didn't have room for them in an inn. And by the way, in those days people traveled a lot and inns were places that people could go. But the reality is there were so many people there in that small village, that small town, that they literally had to sleep in the barn with the animals. And that's where the Lord Jesus Christ is born. But I want you to realize something. The reason that they ended up in Bethlehem, and Christ was born in Bethlehem. Humanly speaking, was because they were forced to go there. They had no say in the matter. Fact number three, this is really interesting. These actions, while explainable on a strictly human level, were ultimately guided by God's sovereign hand. Now this is really important for us to recognize. If you were to ask me, Pastor, did God put them in Bethlehem or did Caesar Augustus put them in Bethlehem? I would say, well, the answer is yes. You say, well, it's it's either or. I want to know it's A or B. And you say, C, it's both. The fact is that Caesar Augustus made the declaration. He enforced the declaration. They had no right but to follow the declar declaration. But ultimately, God is in the background working and accomplishing his purposes. And I want you to realize that this is how God works. We talk about God's hand and how it works. There's a mysterious aspect to this. But the fact is as people make decisions and as people are working through life and doing what they do, The fact is God's still working and he's on his throne and he's accomplishing purposes. And that's what we see in these verses The fact is, if we were to explain how they got to Bethlehem, humanly speaking, it was because of a forceful decision that came from Rome. But if we want to talk about why God put them in Bethlehem. The reality is God put them in Bethlehem because hundreds of years prior, he promised, he prophesied that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. You know it's kind of interesting. You would have thought that if Mary and Joseph are students of the Word of God, they would have at some point go, hey, you know, maybe we should move to Bethlehem because we have to fulfill the prophecy. They didn't think that way didn't even cross their mind. You know, it's kind of interesting when the Magi come and they're looking for the Messiah in Jerusalem. They didn't recognize that the Lord Jesus was going to be born in Bethlehem. They were not aware of that. They just went to Jerusalem and they were looking for that. The fact is that the reason they got there is because God moved through circumstances. In Micah 5. 2 it says, But thou Bethlehem Ephrata. Though thou art little among the thousands in Judah, yet out of these shall come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel, whose going forth has been from old and from everlasting. In other words, God promised, He predicted, He prophesied that the Messiah would be born in this location. And this is how the plan worked out. On a personal level. Fact number four, the ultimate timing and the unfolding of these events connected to the birth of Christ are an overwhelming testimony. Of God's sovereignty. I want us to look at Galatians chapter 4. And so if you have your Bible, I want to encourage you to turn there. Galatians chapter 4 and verse 4, it says this. It says, but when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son Made of a woman, made under the law. That little phrase is very important. The fullness of time was come. Now we could use that kind of a statement to describe what happens when a woman is carrying a child. So as that child is developing in the womb. It goes through a process. First trimester, you have development to a certain level. Second trimester, you have development to a certain level. Third trimester, you have development to a certain level. And so the reality is once that child is conceived and it's beginning to develop in its mother's womb and it's growing in size and it's actually learning skills and all kinds of different things, we could say that process is a set period of time And when we talk about the fullness of time, we could say God's plan had a set period of time. And what's so very interesting is that he actually gave the timing many, many hundreds of years before it unfolded. Daniel chapter 9, he talks about this. I've referred to this text several times throughout our Christmas discussions, but in Daniel 9, 24 it says this. Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city to finish the transgression, to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity. to bring an everlasting righteousness, to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy. And when he talks about 70 weeks, he's talking about 70 periods of time. Okay? And so he's talking about the timetable that's going to be involved in his plan ultimately of bringing redemption. In fact, when we talk about Daniel's 70th week, we're referring to the tribulation time period. And so this is a period, one of those seventy weeks. It's a period of seven years. Okay? So basically what Daniel is doing is he's giving us a timetable. Like literally, you can sit down and you can calculate the years. And you can know essentially from a certain point of time to the time that Christ is going to be born, you can actually predict that based on the information that's been given. He goes on to say this. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah, the prince shall be seven weeks. Three score and two weeks, the street shall be built again, the wall, even in trouble trouble troubleless times And after three score two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. Now I want you to think about how interesting it would have been for Daniel to write this when he did. Daniel writes this prophecy while he is in captivity in Babylon. Okay? And so actually, Daniel actually outlives several rulers. Babylonian rulers, Persian rulers. He actually lived through two major empires, and he's living as essentially an exile in that region And he talks about the fact that the the city of Jerusalem is going to be rebuilt. And it's not just that it's going to be rebuilt, but the fact is There's going to be a command from a very powerful ruler that that city is going to be rebuilt. And by the way, that ruler was Cyrus. And so when Cyrus makes the command that they're going to rebuild the this this city from that time period until the time that the Messiah is born, and then the Messiah is going to live and he's going to die. There's a set period of time that's been established by God, and it's going to unfold on that timetable. In fact, what's very interesting is that history records That when Cyrus gave the decree to Jerusalem, he recognized that he was doing exactly what the prophet Isaiah Said was going to happen, and he even named Cyrus. Literally before Cyrus a Persian, the Persians were even an empire. It's a pretty fantastic thing to think about. So the fact is that when he talks about the timing of these events, it was a timing that was predicted. And it was a timing that was unfolding according to God's plans. Well, what's the point of all this? The point is this: God is sovereign. So all these people are making decisions. And they're kind of doing their own thing. But what they don't realize is as they're making these decisions, as they're doing their own thing, God is still governing over their lives. Now, these aren't even people that are submissive to God. The fact is that the Roman Emperor was not a God-fearing person. He wasn't a worshiper of God. He didn't believe in the Messiah. He was a pagan. He was an idolater. Yet God used him. So here's the question we want to ask this evening. With all these things being understood, how do we apply what we've learned tonight? The fact that God used these people to get the Lord Jesus Christ to be born in Bethlehem. What do we learn from that? Let me give you four very practical things that I think will be a blessing to you this evening. The first is this. God works mysteriously in human hearts. Now, when I say mysteriously, what I'm basically saying is this: the way that God works through people is something that we can't fully understand. In fact, what I have learned in life is that you can't really see it while it's happening, but you can look back and all of a sudden you see the evidence of God's hand at work. Do you understand what I'm talking about? In fact, it's a really remarkable thing. I think about when my family went to Ghana, when we went as missionaries, and all of the details that unfolded In like the precise timing in a way that was well beyond our ability to put it all together. And it just boom, boom, boom, just fell in place just like that. Now if I was trying to make it happen myself, I couldn't do it I mean really I could not have done it. It was out of my control. Yet God just put all these pieces together in an absolutely remarkable way. And the timing of it and the way that it went, it was so smooth and it was according to God's wave. It was incredible to find to see, to witness. I experienced the exact same thing when I came back to the States, to be very honest with you. I saw God's handwork in the exact same way. Well, I want you to realize that there are times that we see the evidence very strongly of God's hand at work in our lives. And then there are times that we don't, but that doesn't mean that he isn't doing it. Doesn't mean that he's not actually working in our lives. The fact is, he arranges circumstances and he works through circumstances to get us where he wants us. He is personally involved in our lives And this is a mysterious thing. It's not something we can fully comprehend. It's something that we just look and we kind of in awe recognize. Let me give you a couple of passages that talk about this. Proverbs 21:1 says this: the king's heart is in the hands of the Lord. As the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. And that's exactly what happened in these verses. God allows powerful people to make decisions. He allows people to make decisions. He gives them those liberties. But as they are making those decisions and as they are moving in certain directions, his hands are working behind the scenes to accomplish things that they don't really understand at the time. And unfortunately, sometimes they never recognize because they never have the eyes to see God's hand at work in their lives. They reject it. But it doesn't mean he's not involved in their lives. Proverbs 16:1 says that the preparations of the heart in man, the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. In other words, God is the one who ultimately is behind those conversations. How many times have we had a conversation that weighed very, very heavy on our hearts? We had no idea how it was gonna go. And I don't know if you're like me, but I'm one of those people that I have a really heavy thing that I gotta that I gotta face. that I have thought through what I believe is every potential rabbit trail that it can go down. Anybody like that? Oh, okay, I'm not the other person like that. Alright. Lots of people are like that apparently And you know it's so funny, a lot of times it's the one we didn't think about. Like, oh yeah. I guess I wasted a lot of time doing that. But how many times have you had that conversation that you were so worked up about, so concerned about, so consumed with And then when it's over, you look back and you're like, wow, that that just like It's like just like it's done. Like how did that happen? You know, like something that you you're facing, you know it's gonna happen, and it's just it's so heavy on you. And then you walk through it and you're like, wow, it's like God just just put it all together. I don't even know how he did it. And that's what he's saying. God is like that. He works that way. I think of another example in Proverbs 16. 33, it says, that the lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. He talks about the concept in the Old Testament that used to cast lots to determine how to make a decision. It's like flipping a coin. Okay? Heads or tails, which one are we going to go with? It's like you've had an election and it's a tie. Is it possible? It's possible. And in those situations, sometimes the way that they settle is they flip a coin. And the winner is the winner. And you know what? The passage says God's hand is even in those kinds of little details. It's a pretty phenomenal thing to consider. A second fact is this: God's plans cannot be thwarted by powerful people. Now, I know we don't feel this way. I mean, there are situations that we look at that we get really worked up about, very discouraged, very frustrated. I'm sure nobody feels that way right now about anything. But here's the very simple fact. God's plans can't be thwarted. Doesn't matter how powerful somebody is, doesn't matter how much they're working the system, they're manipulating, they're abusive, they're doing their things behind the scenes. They're not going to stop God from accomplishing his purposes. It might be very frustrating to see what's going on. It might really cause us to want to pull our hair out. But the fact is, God is going to do what he's going to do. In Daniel 4, 35, it says, all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as thushing. He doeth according to his will in the army of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth none can stay his hand or say, What doest thou? And what's so amazing about that verse is that that's a statement made by Nebuchadnezzar. You know, we talk about the Old Testament. We say that the Old Testament is written in Hebrew. And the majority of the Old Testament is written in Hebrew, but there are sections that are not written in Hebrew, they're written in Aramaic. What's very interesting is that this little section is not written in Hebrew. And it's like God is actually speaking through Nebuchadnezzar, a man who was very, very proud, a man who was arrogant, a man who was abusive. I mean, how arrogant a guy is like, I'm going to build a 90-foot statue, and when I play music, you're going to bow down to this thing And if you don't, I'm throwing you in a furnace of fire. He's not a nice man, okay? Not a nice guy at all. Oh, you guys can't tell me what my dream was And you guys can't, since you can't tell me what my dream is, you also can't tell me what it means. So guess what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna kill all of you because you can't do it. That's the kind of guy he was. And here he is. He says, I'm nothing. Absolutely nothing. In other words, God humbled this man in an incredible way. And what does it do? It tells us God's plans can't be thwarted even by powerful people. God can give people space and he can let them make decisions and he can let them run down their course, but there always comes a day when he says, okay, you've crossed the line, no more. He does it. Even the most powerful people that have ever lived, they eventually met that remarkable fate. Third, God works through all circumstances to accomplish good purposes. Now I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying I am not saying, and I try to emphasize this when I come to this concept, I am not saying that evil is good. Or that sin doesn't matter. Or that pain isn't pain. I'm not saying that at all Sin is evil. Evil is evil. Pain is real. But here is the fact: God works in spite of sin and evil and pain. In fact, if you want to think about it this way, God is going to use the instruments that live on this planet to accomplish the purposes that He desires to accomplish. And he has imperfect, not just imperfect, but very rebellious people to work with. People who are set in their own ways. People who do awful things. That's what he has to work with. It's as if you have a painter and the painter is painting on a canvas. And you say, wow, it's a beautiful picture that you're painting. What are you using to do it? And he says, here, let me show you what I'm working with. And he pulls out the brushes that he has. He goes, That brush looks pretty gnarly right there. He goes, it's true it is. But that's what I had to work with. So he's using it. Well that's not the nicest of paint that you have there. He says, it doesn't matter. I have the skill to make it look good on here So, what does God do? He uses all of these imperfections and all these problems and all these problematic people and problematic circumstances, and he uses them to accomplish the purposes that he has. It's like the artist who can take all of those different colors and he can take that instrument and he can make something beautiful with what is in front of him. In fact, if you really want to put it very simply, you see God's power and his wisdom and his goodness on display because he's able to use such imperfect instruments to accomplish good things. In Romans 8, 28 it says this. We know that all things work together for good to them that love God. To them who are of the called according to his purpose, you say all things? Like what about if when I was a younger guy, I did some really bizarre and stupid and foolish things? Well, he doesn't magically make those things good, but he can still use what took place to accomplish good in our lives. He can use it to accomplish good in the lives of other people, believe it or not. He has the ability, the power to do that. He uses even difficult and harsh and evil circumstances to shape us into the image of Christ. And to accomplish something that's bigger than the little moments. The fact is, when God is looking at circumstance, He doesn't just look at the dot, He looks at the whole picture. He looks at the entire process. He looks at the end point where it's going. And that's the way that God works. Think about Genesis 50. Where Joseph was facing his brothers. Or maybe I should put it this way, his brothers were facing him. And here Joseph, when he was a young boy, you know, a young man, just a young teenager. His brothers hated him so much that they wanted to kill him. And they said, you know, why kill him? Let's make money off of him and still not deal with him. So they sold him as a slave into Egypt. You go, well, I mean like that is so callous and so evil, and it is. It's incredible. And then he gets into Egypt, and what happens? He's falsely accused by Potiphar 's wife. And he's thrown into prison. And while he's there in the prison, he's forgotten in the prison. And the fact is, through circumstances that were outside of Joseph's control, God essentially moves him from prison and from slavery to be second in charge of the entire kingdom in Egypt. And we talk about powerful kingdoms. I mean, you know, study history. Egypt was one really impressive kingdom. And the reality is, here's Joseph, essentially the second most powerful person in the world at the time. And you say, how did he get there? He got there because his brothers hated him so much that they wanted to sell him as a slave. He got there though because God was in control and working. And his brothers come to him trembling when their father has died, and they're convinced this man's powerful and he's going to get revenge on us. And he's going to make life really hard for us. In fact, if he even lets us live, and they pleaded with him, don't kill us. And this is what he said: he says, As for you, you thought evil against me. But God meant it unto good, to bring to pass as it is this day, to save much people alive. So if you want to talk about intent. The intent of Joseph's brothers was evil on every single level. There was no way that you could explain it any other way. And you say, then why did God let them do that? It's because God knew the whole picture. And God said, in spite of the evil, I'm going to allow them to do this, because in the end, I'm going to bring this full circle, and I'm going to preserve these people, and I'm going to restore these people. And I'm going to demonstrate my power and my goodness. Only God can do a thing like that. You and I can't do things like that. But God can. The last thing I'm going to mention is this. We can trust God in all of our circumstances. And that really is the crux of this whole matter. We can trust God. Proverbs 37. 1, it says, fret not. Anybody a fretter in here? Okay, yes, but some of the same people that plan out every single detail when they have this stuff there. Yeah, I'm one of those two. Fatnauts. Because of evildoers. Don't be envious against workers of iniquity. They will soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord and do good So shalt thou dwell in the land, and fairly thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself in the Lord. He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord, and trust also in him. He will bring it to pass He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord, wait patiently for him. Fret not because of him who prospers in his way, because of the man who brings wicked devices to pass. To put it in very simple terms, because God's sovereign, we can trust him. And we need to trust him. And to be very honest with you, even when we don't trust him, he still does what he's going to do. And that's actually a comforting thing. And when God does it, he doesn't look back at us and say, I'll look at you, worthless person. You you you doubted me. He comes alongside and he strengthens us and says says, learn from that mistake. , Learn from the failure. Learn from the stumbling. That's the way that God is. And I tell you, He is so much better than we are. So much better. You know, somebody somebody does something to us and it really really gets under our skin. And when the time is just right, we go, let me just kind of put a little leverage there and say, hey, you remember what you said? Well, here we are. You want to take that back? I mean that's that's kind of the way we feel. It's the way we think about things. But God isn't like that. He says it's an opportunity to learn and grow and to learn about me And so when we think about the text in front of us, Luke chapter 2, I think the thing to take away is this: God rules. Because God rules, we can trust Him. And because God rules, very difficult circumstances can be turned for good. And that's a very, very comforting thing to see. think about. Because every one of us, in some way at some time, walks through things that we go, there's no way that could ever be used for good. And God says it can. And He has ways to do it. Let's bow together for prayer, and then we'll talk about our prayer requests a little bit tonight. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study the text in front of us. It's been a truly remarkable passage to consider. Help us to trust you and to walk with you. Help us to be appreciative that you do accomplish good in us, in our lives, in spite of all the challenges we face. Father, we want to glorify you. We want to honor you. We want to walk with you. And so I pray that you help us to be people that do that. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.