Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church, and I hope that you've had a wonderful weekend, and we're looking forward to a wonderful week want to just draw your attention to one or two items quickly and then uh Pastor Chris will also have a few announcements. First of all I want to mention that there will be no midweek service on Wednesday. Instead our midweek uh service will be moved to uh Christmas Eve the 24th and uh at 7 o'clock we'll be gathered together for our Christmas Eve. program and I hope that you can join us for that in person if possible. We will be live streaming that as well. But it's really going to be a wonderful time of scripture reading. We're going to be walking through uh the entire story of the birth of Christ. And so there are going to be some wonderful scriptures being read. We're going to have a lot of special music and there'll be a short challenge at the end. So It's really a great time to invite family, friends, people that may not know the Lord as their Savior, but will come to a very special service like a Christmas Eve service. So I want to encourage you, if at all possible, to come to that service on the 24th. It'll be at 7 p. m. And basically it's an hour on the dot. So Uh that gives you a kind of an idea of what's going on there. Um unless we have like, you know, a foot of snow or something, we're just gonna So I'm really looking forward to that. Chris has a couple of announcements here, and then I'll come back for our scripture reading. Good morning. Merry Christmas. We have uh just a few teen activities coming up. Um particularly our teen parent meeting is tonight after the service. It'll be be really quick, but we do have very important information. to put out. So for our team parents who are here, that'll be tonight outservice. If you're not going to be here tonight, let us know and we'll get to you that information after the meeting. We also have our Tooth Trackers Marketplace tonight, before and after the service. It will be set out set up out here in the Narthex for our kids, our tooth trackers, to be able to use the points they've earned. and get some last minute Christmas items. There's some really good stuff uh there thanks to our generous church family and I know they're gonna really enjoy it tonight. So if uh you have truth trackers, have them be there tonight and they will be able to uh enjoy that marketplace. And with that the pastor's gonna come. Okay, our opening scripture reading is Isaiah 25. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn there or look up at the screen and we're reading Verses 1 through 9 together. Isaiah 25, verses 1 through 9. O Lord, thou art my God. I will exalt thee. I will praise thy name. For thou hast done wonderful things. Thy counsels of old are faithfulness and truth. Thou hast made of a city a heap, of defense cities a ruin, a place of strangers to be no city. It shall never be built. Therefore shall the strong people glorify thee, the city of terrible nations shall fear thee, for thou hast been a strength to the poor. A strength to the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shadow from the heat, when the blast of the terrible ones is as a storm against the wall. Thou shalt bring down the noise of strangers as the heat in a dry place, even the heat with the shadow of a cloud. The branch of the terrible one shall be brought low. And in this mountain shall the Lord of hosts make unto all people a feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the leaves, a feat of fat things full of morrow, of wines on the leaves well refined. He will destroy in this mountain the face of the coverings cast over all people, and the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death and victory. The Lord God will wipe away every tear from off all faces, and the rebuke of his people shall he take away from off all the earth. For the Lord hath spoken it. And it shall be said, In that day, lo, this is our God. We have waited for him. He will save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. We will be glad and rejoice. in his salvation. This morning as we focus our attention on Luke chapter 2, I want to remind us that we will be expressing worship to God by glorying in the gospel. And it is the most glorious and most wonderful message that has ever been known to man. And so let's bow together for a few moments and ask the Lord to bless our time together this morning. Father, we come into your presence this morning with hearts that are, first of all, very humbled. We are reminded that we are a sinful people. We fall short of your glory, we are unrighteous and undone, and even our righteousness is as filthy rags Yet, Father, we're reminded that the Lord Jesus Christ looked upon us with compassion and love, and he came to earth And he gave himself as our sin-bearing substitute, a sacrifice in our place. He bore the full wrath of your justice against our sin. And because of his work of redemption on the cross, we can be forgiven and cleansed, and we can be brought into your presence as your beloved children. We thank you for his righteousness that is given to us at the moment we repent and believe on the work of Christ. Father, I pray that this morning we would rejoice in the glorious work of redemption that is before us. Father, help us to think about who Christ is. Help us to glory in his person. Help us to glory in his gracious work on our behalf. Father, help us to rejoice in his kindness toward us that allows us to be called your children. Father, we pray for those who are in our midst this morning and those who are gathered on the live stream that are in great need of encouragement. Father, you know hearts that are weighed down, hearts that are discouraged and frustrated and fearful and anxious. I pray that in every circumstance you would demonstrate yourself to be strong. And you would demonstrate yourself to be good, and you would demonstrate yourself to be compassionate. I pray that you would encourage your people today through the ministry of your word, both in song and through the preaching of your word. Father, I pray for those who physically are burdened, those who are carrying heavy physical infirmities. I pray that you would strengthen their bodies, help them to be in good health and strength very soon. I pray that you would help them to be back in a place where they can be strong and be able to glorify you through just the daily details of life. Father, I pray that this morning you would give us a greater sense of how awesome you are, how truly glorious and how lovely you are. I pray that this morning we would walk out of this place, having reflected on your presence and how good it is, that we would be strengthened by it. And that as we go into this week, that we would reflect deeply on the incarnation and the miracle of God in flesh. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good morning. Merry Christmas to you all. Thank you for joining us this morning. Please stand. If you would like to have a hymn book, we will be singing hymn number two hundred and two. Good Christian men rejoice. Sing all three verses. Sing out this morning. Good Christian man reads voice , left heart and soul and voice giving me. To what we say is news. Jesus Christ is for today , or the last before him now, and he is in the internal Christ. The Christian man is alloy with heart and soul and voice and more amen. Jesus Christ was born for them in an open heaven store and man is blessed forever more Christ was born for the first time. One more death, Christ was one for death, but rest and then soul and doors. Jesus Christ was born to save all new one and all you want to gain an everlasting all Christ was born Want to send Christ must want to send. And just a few pages back to him 196 Angels we have heard on high. We'll sing verses 1, 2, and 4. Sing out this morning. In the winner, with me all the way, and the land remote. That will be Stephen War Stay was never. I think we 're gonna go. Abraham de planner when they got taken. Thanks so much. Please be seated. Let's turn back. Just one page one ninety-four. Joy to the world. We'll sing verses one, two, and three. Joy to the world. But everyone remote And nature say that happened, nature say the What will I want? What will I bring? Great singing our scripture reading for this morning will be Luke chapter 2. Luke chapter 2 Verses 7 through 14. Luke chapter 2, verses 7 through 14. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David A Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace. goodwill toward men. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. We'll continue our singing. Hymn number 201. Oh come, all ye faithful. We'll sing all three verses. The carol. Oh God, all you 're joyful. Tég eleggül a térésznak az még farész. We need more than that before me underneath me all we can. Down Oh come. And please stand as we sing our last hymn before our sermon 227 Who is he in yonder stall? We'll sing verses one, two, and five. Do with me and yonder store, and who's meet my sample, do with me. God will pray and we will go. For memories of memories with me who may bring all us no more. Hello , the Lord, the king of glory, and this beach we hardly walk , I'll be crowded water. Who is me that from the grave I speak in our friend? Who is me that from this round goes through all the war? Said the Lord 's story, send the Lord. Proud of the war Grace singing Please be seated and our junior church children ages two to six are dismissed. Okay, well that was some wonderful singing. Absolutely love singing during the Christmas season. If you could take your Bibles, let's all turn together to Luke chapter 2. And we are looking at verses 7 through 14. And if you have been following our progression through the last month, we have gone from chapter 1, verse 1, and now to chapter 2, verses 7 through 14. And we have covered a lot of ground, not a lot of time, when you look at how much time took place from the beginning of the book of Luke. till the time where we are today. But the reality is there's a lot of material to go through. And there's a lot of wonderful, wonderful truth to be unpackaged in those first two chapters of the book of Luke. This morning we're going to be looking at a very simple, very simple topic, and the topic is the Savior, Christ the Lord. We're going to look at who Jesus is and what he came to do. And we're going to find that laid out for us in Luke chapter 2, verses 7 through 14. So let's read it together. It says, And she brought forth her firstborn son. and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. There shall be a sign unto you, ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host. Praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward man. We come to this passage in front of us. I'll give you a very simple summary statement, and this is a very simple summary statement. The following section of this account of Christ's birth reveals Who he is and what he came to do. That's really what the text is all about. Who is Jesus and why did Jesus come? And really this morning I want us to reflect on those two very simple questions. Who is Jesus and why did he come? And really, once we answer those two questions, then how are we supposed to respond in light of those very important truths that are laid out for us? in the text before us. The first truth I want us to look at this morning is that Christ's birth revealed his willingness To be humiliated or his willing humiliation. Look down at us, look down at verses 7 and 8, and we're going to see what the scripture says about Christ's willingness to humble himself. To take on our sins. In verse 7 it says, she brought forth her firstborn son and wrapped him in what? Swaddling clothes and laid him where? In a manger, and the question is why? Because there was no room for them in the end Then we move to the next statement. It says, there were in the same country who? Shepherds. Now, all of those little details are very, very important about the nature of Christ's willingness to humble himself. Three humbling details I want you to see this morning from these verses. The first is that Christ's family was from a very humble origin. I want to remind you that at the beginning of this section in Luke chapter 2 it tells us that in those days Caesar Augustus sent out a decree that all of the world would be taxed. And so Mary and Joseph leave their hometown and they head to the town of Bethlehem. The town that Mary and Joseph came from was the town of Bethlehem. Nazareth. Now I want you to remember when Christ began his first earth his earthly ministry and he's beginning to interact with those first disciples. And one of those men said, Come see the Messiah. And his brother says, Well, where does he come from? And he says, It's from Nazareth. And what does he say? He says, What good thing can come from Nazareth? Why did he say that? It's because Nazareth was one of the humblest and lowliest of the villages, right there along the Sea of Galilee. And he said, if there was any place and all of Israel that the Messiah would come from. It would not be the fishing community along the Sea of Galilee called Nazareth. The best example I can think of when I think of what it would have possibly been like to walk through a town like Nazareth is what it was like to live on the coast when we lived in Ghana. Now, there were certain communities in those cities that were not just on the coast, but they were literally fishing communities. And so we would go down and we would walk and on that seaside, on the side of the ocean, you see all these boats, these huge canoes that would go out into the ocean, and they would be lined up there along the beach. And then draped along all of those boats would be these nets that were drying out in the sun. Now when those nets were drying out in the sun, guess what they smelled like? Cooking fish. Not the kind of cooking fish that you would smell at a place you'd want to eat, but the kind of smell you'd smell if you found dead fish laying at Ocean City on the beach. The cooking fish were not fragrant cooking fish. They were kind of gross and rotting cooking fish. And the fact is, this is what it was like where Jesus grew up. If you were to walk through that village, you would have seen nets draped out all over the place. You would have smelled the aromas of dead fish and everything that comes with being a fisherman. That's where Jesus Grew up, not where he was born, but where he grew up. And the fact is that Mary and Joseph were not a wealthy, affluent family. In fact, we see In the details, when they take Jesus up to Jerusalem to perform the ceremonies that were associated with having a firstborn son, it says that they offered a dove And two pigeons because that was what they had. They were of the poorest class in Israel. The second thing we're going to see is that Christ's family was of such humble origins that they were not able to provide appropriate accommodations for him at his birth. Notice what it says They laid him in a what? In a manger. And the reason is because there was no room for them in the inn. The reality is that when they came to Bethlehem, here is this lady who is great with child. She's about to give birth. In fact, when they arrived in Bethlehem One would have to assume she may have even already been in labor at the time. , You know, think about the first child that you had. How long were you in labor? Some of our ladies might have been in labor ten, twelve, fourteen hours. I don't know how long it was. But the reality is when she came, it was very obvious that she was about to have a child. Perhaps she's already beginning in the early stages of labor. And what does the innkeeper say? Well, if you can find a place in the stable, go for it. In other words, they didn't have the money to find a place. They didn't have the ability, the accommodations. Yet that was what God chose to be the circumstances through which the Lord Jesus Christ would be born into this world. We also see that Christ's birth was heralded by the humblest in society. That last little phrase says, there were in the same country Shepherds abiding in the field keeping watch over their flock by night. And by the end of it, it says that God tells the shepherds. to go to Bethlehem and to see this thing that was announced. And later on it tells us that the shepherds went throughout all the countryside proclaiming the things that they had heard and the things that they had seen. What does this tell us? Christ was not born in a palace. Christ was not born to the wealthy and to the affluent. Christ did not have easy accommodations in the earliest days of his time on this earth. The fact is that Christ came in the humblest of ways possible, and he was presented to the humblest of people possible, and he was proclaimed by the humblest of people possible. But I want you to realize that the physical humiliation of Christ And what we see in that that inn, or we could say in that that place where the animals were, is not really the most significant part of the humiliation of Christ. There are three passages I want to draw your attention to this morning that give us a greater sense of the humiliation of Christ as he comes into the world. The first passage is in Psalm 113. So I want to ask you to turn to Psalm 113, and I want us to notice the details of what the psalmist writes about God's transcendence. We talk about God's transcendence. We're talking about his power, his authority, the fact that he's over all of his creation. Listen to what the psalmist writes. Praise ye the Lord. Praise, O ye servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. From the rising of the sun until the going down of the same, the Lord's name is to be praised. Why is that? The Lord is high above all nations, his glory above the heavens. Who is like unto the Lord our God who dwelleth on high? Now, when we read these verses, we read of God's transcendence. His power, his authority, his beauty, his sovereignty. There is none like him in all the worlds But I want you to recognize in these verses how great and how high and how lofty God is It says, who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven and in the earth. Now pause for a moment and think about this. That is God who enters creation. Just think about that for a moment. He is high and holy and lifted up. He is above all. And he literally humbles himself just to look upon his creation. And he walks into creation. He takes on flesh. Turn with me to John chapter 1, and I want you to see a little bit further explanation of what Jesus did when he entered into the creation. I want you to consider the willing humiliation of the Lord Jesus Christ. In verses 1 through 3, it says this: In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. This is one of the most powerful passages of Scripture and all of the Word of God. That talks about the fact that the Son, the Word of God, is in essence God. He has all that God has. We can refer to him as God because He is God. Yet we also see the distinction between the person of the Son and the person of the Father. So we have the one in essence, and we have the distinction in person within the Godhead. We see that his eternal. We see that everything that is made was made by him. When we go to Colossians chapter 1, it doesn't just say it was made by him, but it says it was made for him. And that he is before all things, and by him all things consist. Literally, he holds it together. He's not just the creator, but he is the sustainer. He is actively at work to guide and to work in his creation. And so we talk about the transcendence of God, but I want you to see what the rest of the passage says. When we skip down to verse 10, it says that he, the creator, the sustainer, the one who everything exists. For him, the one who holds it all together, the one who transcends all of creation, the one who has to humble himself to look into his creation. It says, He was in the world, and the world was made by him. And the world knew him not. He came unto his own. His own received him not. I mean, think about this for a minute. The Creator humbles himself to enter the creation. He doesn't just humble himself to enter the creation, but he humbles himself to enter the creation and to not be received by the creation. To not be known and understood by the creatures, the people that he interacts with. In verse 14, it says that the word was made flesh. And he dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glories of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Literally at a point in time, God takes on flesh and he dwells amongst his creation And when it says that they beheld his glory, recognized they didn't behold his glory all of the incarnation, but they only saw it at a point in time later on in his public ministry. The reality is that Christ's glory was veiled. Christ's glory was hidden. He just looked like a typical Jewish man living in the first century. Yet he is God in flesh. But then we move from that text to one that lays it out even further and even clearer. That is in Philippians chapter 2, and I want you to turn there. In Philippians chapter 2, verses 6 to 8, I want you to consider Christ's purposeful laying aside of his splendor and glory. I want you to realize that the reason that Jesus laid aside his glory, laid aside his splendor, that he came to dwell amongst his creation was for a purpose. In other words, there was a mission that the Lord Jesus Christ had. And so what he did was done for a reason. In verses 6 to 8, it says this. Being in the form of God. Another way to put that is, when you look at Jesus, you're looking at God. That simple. He is God. It says, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. In other words, if you look at Jesus, because he is God, he is not stealing glory, he's not taking something that doesn't rightfully belong to him. He is God, 100%. And it says that he made himself of no reputation, and he took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man. Now, when it says that he took upon himself the form of a servant, it's not saying he stopped being God when he did this. He's still fully God. He still maintains the same power and the same ability and the same purity and the same holiness that he had when he created the world. Yet he takes his glory and he puts it to the side for a time. And he does that so that he can really be born in this world. He can really fulfill the law. He can really go to the cross. He can really sympathize with our infirmities. He was really tempted in all points like we are yet without sin. He really physically was nailed to the cross and he really literally shed his blood and he really literally died on the cross and he really literally rose from the dead. He could not have done those things had he not been willing to lay aside his splendor and glory for a time. So that he could go to the cross and bear our sins upon himself. He took upon himself the form of a servant. He's now God in flesh. Fully God, fully man, going to the cross. And then it says he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. The reason that Christ humbled himself was not just to make a point, it was to provide redemption. It wasn't just to give us an example to follow, or just to give us an example of something that we can aspire to. He went to the cross to really pay the sins of humanity. He really took upon himself our sins. He really bore the wrath and the full weight of God's justice for our sins. And so when we talk about how Christ's birth reveals his willing humiliation, recognizes willing humiliation is not just about living in Nazareth. Or being swaddled and laid in a manger, or there not being room for him in the inn, or the shepherds announcing his birth. Those things tell us about his humiliation, but that's not the heart and soul of the humiliation of Christ. Yet this is an essential aspect of the gospel message. The second truth we find is that Christ's birth reveals a selfless mission. And really, what we see in Philippians chapter 2, the fact that there was a purposeful laying aside of his splendor and glory, tells us it was purposeful because there was a mission to accomplish. And verses 9 through 11, it tells us, The angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not. For behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord Now, this is a really interesting statement that the angel makes to these shepherds. He gives three descriptions of the nature of Christ's ministry, and then he gives us three descriptions of the nature of Christ's person And so I want us to see those descriptions this morning. First of all, one part of the description of his ministry is that this is good tidings. In fact, it's interesting. The word good tidings literally means the gospel. Okay? So, like literally, when he says, I've got good tidings for you, he says, I have good news for you. Or I have a gospel to present to you. In other words, the birth of Christ is the gospel story itself. If it wasn't for Jesus coming, if it wasn't for him living, if it wasn't for him dying, if it wasn't for him rising from the dead, there would be no good news. So the angel is saying, I'm literally providing for you the gospel story, the good news that there is someone who has been born today in Bethlehem. The second statement that's very interesting is that it's a good news of great joy. His birth is going to be a day that was rejoiced in by many. In fact, it's interesting in John chapter 8, when Jesus is talking about his eternality, and he makes a statement, before Abraham was, I am. When he makes that statement, what's very interesting. Is that the people that are talking to Jesus say, how in the world can you be greater than our father Abraham? You're only 30 years old. How can you be greater than Abraham? This is what Jesus says. He says, Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he was glad in it. What's he saying? Abraham was looking for this day that the Messiah would be born. I am the fulfillment. I am the fulfillment of the day he was looking forward to. Jesus is called the desire of all nations. It's interesting. The prophet Isaiah talks about people going to Jerusalem from every kindred and tribe and nation. And coming that to that city to see the desire of all nations, the Lord Jesus Christ When Simeon holds the Lord Jesus Christ in his hands, he says, Now you can let your servant depart in peace, for my eyes have seen your salvation, which was prepared before the face of all people. A light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. And so when Simeon is holding the Lord Jesus Christ in his hands, he's talking about the Savior, the joy that he lives for. A third description of his ministry was that it was going to be for all people. This news was not just isolated to one community or to one region. or to one ethnicity, it was a message for all people everywhere. One of the things that I absolutely love about the book of Revelation Is when we look at the book of Revelation, we see not only that God has redeemed people from the nation of Israel, from every single tribe. He talks about people who are called out, people who are going to destroy Distribute the gospel throughout the whole world. But he talks about the fact that there'll be people from every kindred and tribe and nation gathered around the throne of God singing praises to our gods. What is that? That's an indication that the gospel is not just for people in one little community or people in one ethnic background. It's for people from every kindred and tribe and nation. That's why we believe in missions in our church. We believe in missions because the gospel needs to go to the uttermost parts of the world. And so the angels are saying, This is good news, great joy for all people. We then see a description of who Jesus is. Three words: Savior, Christ, the Lord. Lord. All three of those words are extremely important. When he talks about him being the Savior, it means that his mission was to provide redemption from the curse of sin. We talked about him being the Christ that literally is the word, the Messiah, the anointed one. And so he's connecting this person, the baby Jesus, the Savior, to all those messianic prophecies. From Genesis to Malachi , primarily in places like the book of Isaiah and the Book of Jeremiah. All throughout the Old Testament, we see these wonderful promises of the Messiah. And when he says he's the Christ , He's saying that is the fulfillment of all those prophecies. And then he uses the term of the Lord. You know, it's kind of interesting. We talk about Jesus being the Lord. We tend to think of it in terms of a Lord who is a master and he has people who are servants. And that is an aspect of what he's saying. But what is really interesting is if we read about Jewish history, after the Babylonian captivity, and all the nation was taken, well not all the nation, some were left there in Israel and some were taken into captivity. But after that time period, many of the people came back to Israel, and when they came back to Israel, they were terrified that they would involve themselves in idolatry again. That they would take lightly God's name. One of the things that's very interesting is when they came back, many of them did not speak Hebrew anymore And so when they came back, one of the things that they had to do was they had to one teach people their own language again, and two, they had to provide a common language translation that they could follow. And so the translation that they gave was in the Greek language. And whenever they came to the name Yahweh or Jehovah, and the truth is we don't even know how it's pronounced, okay? A lot of people will tell you that they know how it's pronounced. We really do not know. Because when they would come to that name , rather than translating it, they translate it kurios. It's kind of interesting. In other words, they translated it Lord and they would put it in a special cap so that they would know that was the name of God, but they would not actually speak or write his name. In fact, what's very interesting is we read when we read our English translation, we see capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. We see it all throughout the Old Testament. You know why that is? Because we're actually following the translation practice of the Greek translators. You might not have realized that, but that's true. So whenever we see those all caps, it's translated Lord, but it's actually talking about God's covenant name You say, well, why is that significant? It is significant because when he talks about him being the Lord, he's connecting him to the covenant name of God's people. He's not just talking about the fact that he's the master and that we are his servants. That's true. And there are places in the Bible where that is the relationship that's described. But when he talks about him being the Savior, Christ the Lord. He's saying he came for a purpose to save. He's the Messiah who is going to answer all those Old Testament prophecies and fulfill them 100%. And he is God in flesh. God has come amongst his people. Emmanuel. Folks, this is a very rich passage, is it not? The third fact I'd like you to see this morning is that Christ's birth revealed God's love for sinners. In verses thirteen and fourteen he says, Suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host. Praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward man. Don't miss those words. Peace, goodwill toward men. You say, why does he use the term peace? Well, the fact is that we are born into this world as God's enemies. In fact, there are a lot of scriptures that talk about this. It talks about in Ephesians chapter two that we were dead in trespasses and sins. We walked according to the course of this world. In Romans chapter five it says that we were the enemies of God and we've brought been brought to him through the death of his son. The fact is that we are people who are born into this world not at peace with God, but at enmity against God. And because of what Christ did for us, God is establishing the means through which He can bring us to Himself. In other words, the enmity that's between us and God, the sin that stands between us and God, it is removed by the cross of Christ. In other words, God's work on our behalf established the way that people at enmity with God can be reconciled to Him. I remember I used to ask this question a lot to people when I was a missionary in West Africa. I would ask them this question: Why should God forgive you? I would ask them that question. Why should God forgive you? And people would say something like, Well, because He's merciful, and because He's kind and because He loves me. And I would say, Is that not an ignoring of justice? See, I never thought about it that way. In other words, God can't just zap forgive you. You say, well, God can do anything. He can do anything that doesn't violate his character. But if he's holy and if he's just and if he's righteous, he can't just say, Oh, I'm going to ignore your sin. In other words, the only way that God can forgive me and that God can forgive you is if there is a basis. established for forgiveness to be granted. If there's no cross, if God's not pouring out his justice on Christ If it wasn't for his shed blood on Calvary's cross, there would be zero basis for God to grant us forgiveness and to establish peace with us. In other words, God can't just say, oh, I want to forgive you, so I'm going to forgive you. In other words, the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. If it's not there, there's no forgiveness. And so when he talks about peace from God, he's establishing the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ is going to provide the one and only means through which there can be peace between God and sinful men. He then makes the statement, goodwill toward man. God is the initiator of our salvation. I want you to realize that in the garden when Adam sinned, God already had a plan. He already knew what he would do. He had already established that he was going to provide the one and only means to redeem mankind. It wasn't like God was reacting and said, Oh no, what do I do now? He knew exactly what he was going to do. And he promised to send a redeemer. And all of the Old Testament, going from that point where God promises redemption all the way up till he fulfills the promise, it's all about God pursuing his people. You see this over and you see this over and over again. God is pursuing his people. And not only is God pursuing his people, but he is called the author and the finisher of our faith. Literally, God brings us to that point where we see our need, and he brings us to the point where we realize we are spiritually bankrupt. And he brings us to the point where we are broken over our sin and we recognize it's Christ and it's Christ alone. And through his work, the conviction of the Holy Spirit, he humbles our hearts so that we believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And when he says he's the finisher of our faith, it means he completes it. He keeps it. He preserves it. God doesn't abandon his children. When he saves us, he keeps us to the end. In fact, it says in Romans chapter 8 that there is nothing that can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Paul writes, who is he that condemns? There is no one that can condemn us because Christ has died and verily he is risen. There is no charge that can be brought against God's people. And when he talks about goodwill toward men, he is establishing the fact that God loved us so much. That he sent his son into the world to redeem us. In Galatians 4, it tells us that we are redeemed from bondage to become heirs with Christ. Let me read to you what it says. It says, even so we, when we were children, were in bondage unto the elements of the world. But when the fullness of the time was come , God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, Abba Father, wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. He says, there was a time when you were under the curse of sin. And what does God do? He establishes the means through which you become his child. And you become his heir. Joint heirs with Christ. In Romans 5:6, it tells us that we're saved from wrath through him. When we were without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man. Some would even dare to die. But God commendeth his love toward us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. If when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son God sent his son into the world because he loves sinners. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 and following says we're made alive in Christ by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. It says, you is quickened. That means he's made you alive. Who were dead in trespasses and sins. Where in times past you walked according to the course of this world. According to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh, and the children of disobedience, among whom also you had your conversation in times past. And the lusts of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh, and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you're saved, and hath made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus That in the ages to come you might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ. By grace, you're saved through faith And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works lest any man should boast. Folks, Jesus came because he loved sinners. There's no reason for him to love us. We are not lovely people. We are not. None of us are. But he loves sinners. And he wanted to provide the one and only means through which we could be forgiven and cleansed and restored and reconciled and declared God's children. So I want to give you a final thought to think about. God wants you to know him and he wants you to love him as your wonderful Savior. And so I asked this question: how do you view Jesus? Do you view Jesus as just a story from the past? It's an inspiring story, but it's just something we think about during Christmas and Easter, or do you see him as God in flesh? Who came to earth to die for your sins, and through what he has done for you, you can stand righteous in Christ and be forgiven. Who do you see him as he is? Do you know him personally as your Savior? When I say personally, I mean that you are resting alone in what he did for you on the cross. We talk about faith. Faith is reliance. It's dependence. It's like if I brought a chair right up here and I said, do you believe this chair can hold you? And you say, Oh, I believe it. And I say, then sit in the chair. Oh, I don't know if I really want to do that. Why not? Do you believe it or not? Okay. When you sit in it, you're trusting in it. Do you personally trust in what Christ has done for you? When you think about how you stand before God, when you think about eternity, do you think about the work of Christ? or your own work? Do you think about his righteousness or your own righteousness? Do you think about his goodness or your own goodness? Do you have confidence that you have the same salvation that was proclaimed by the shepherds? And then I ask this final question: Do you glory in him as a wonderful Savior? I'm assuming that the majority of us, maybe all of us in here, but for sure the majority of us, we're believers. And I want to encourage you this morning to pause and to reflect on how great a savior he is. How great his work of redemption truly is. How great that purchased redemption was for us. I want to close with this final thought from Psalm 95. This is a wonderful statement that I think is very appropriate in light of what we've talked about this morning. Here's what it says. Oh, come, let us sing unto the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms. For the Lord is a great God, and a great king above all gods. In his hand are the deep places of the earth. The strength of the hills is his also. The sea is his, he made it, his hands formed the dry land. Oh come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, the sheep of his hand. Let's bow together as we think about this wonderful series of truths. With your heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to ask a very simple question in our closing. Is there anyone here this morning that would say, Pastor, I really don't know for sure that I'm saved? I have never trusted in Christ as my Savior. I'm uncertain that if I were to die today, I'd go to heaven. And I'd really like to talk to somebody about that. Last week I talked to somebody after the service. Who was in that exact position? There may be people that have joined us this morning on the live stream that you don't know for sure that you're saved. If you don't know for sure that you're saved, please reach out. My email is available on the church website. If you're watching on Facebook, you can directly message the church And I'll get back with you and try to connect with you and show you from the Bible you can be saved. Is there anybody here this morning that would say, Pastor, I don't know for sure that I'm saved, and I need to talk to something about that? If that's you, just ask you to quietly raise up your hand Give you just a moment to do that. I'd be glad to meet with you and show you how you can be saved. Let's bow together for prayer. And just thank the Lord for the incredible salvation provided through Christ. Father, we thank you so much for this season. We thank you because it reminds us that Jesus came to save his people from their sins. We are so grateful that Jesus is Lord, He's Messiah, He's Savior. We thank you for His willingness to lay aside His glory. So that he could take on human flesh, dwell amongst his people, and ultimately go to the cross and bear the sins of the world so that we could be redeemed. I pray that we would not get over the incredible weight of this gospel message. I pray that we would glory in Christ, that we would be overwhelmed with joy and humility and gratefulness. And Father, I pray that if there's anyone listening this morning, or anyone who will listen later, who has not come to a clear understanding of the gospel and trusted Christ, that you would work in their hearts and that through this message they would reach out and that we'd be able to show them from the Bible how they can be saved. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Our closing hymn this morning. Is is verse uh hymn number sixty-five in our wild songbook. It's God has spoken, it'll be on the screen. This song is going to walk us through how God's revealed himself in creation, how God's revealed himself through his word. And how God's revealed Himself in the Savior. And so let's stand together and let's sing this wonderful song of praise about how God has Shown himself to us. Let's sing it out. God has whispered through creation, making all with me His created points to let us the works we hear and see. Oh what power, oh what wisdom, oh what kindness God has shown, God has whispered through creation. He exists and maybe know. Exists and maybe know God has spoken through the scriptures. Breathing out his sacred word, spirit at the holy altar , and we hear the sensor. Us of sin and sickness of the savings that revives God has spoken through the scriptures. Uh to Jesus Christ. Just us to Jesus Christ. On the last, God has showed it through the Savior. Greatest word of God to men , that thy food our nature thou are sin. See on it sain God, God has shouted with the same. Well, amen. I hope that this morning. Being together with God's people has been a tremendous blessing to you. I'd like to ask if Eric Mahaffey, if you could close us in prayer. Good to see you, Eric. And uh Lord willing, we hope to see you back tonight. Uh just a reminder that for the kids that were not uh here on Wednesday, the Christmas market is going to be going on tonight. uh during our evening service. So I hope that our young people who are not able to be there for the Christmas market on Wednesday will be able to be here tonight All right, Eric, don't forget Christmas Eve service. I think it's Thursday, Thursday night. The 24th. We'll just go with that. It's the 24th. Yeah, I don't I I don't know what's going on around here. I just I just know it's the twenty fourth. All right, go ahead, Eric. Father, what a great and glorious God you are. We're so thankful for a time in our lives when we stop and remember what a blessed time of year this is, the greatest gift that one can ever receive, the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you that he was willing to step out of the glories of eternity into time as a helpless baby to save a helpless people. Help our desire to be for you, our focus to be on you. Give us safety in these uh challenging times. We just give you all the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen.