Well, good evening. Good to see each of you tonight, and I hope that you had a good afternoon, and uh we're looking forward to our continuation of our missions. uh opening to our missions conference month and uh so glad to have the ship 's with us. We really enjoyed getting to fellowship with them this afternoon and uh wish we could do it for a couple more days. Of course you guys don't live too far away, so uh we could you know we can extend that, you know, hit and miss that kind of thing. But uh one of the things I want to remind you is please make sure that you pick up our twenty twenty declaring his glory among the nations brochure and this will tell you which missionaries we're having in which Sunday and it also tells you what our Skype calls are tonight This morning we had a really good Skype call with one of our missionaries. And we don't live stream those uh just because of the sensitive nature or some of the the things that are sometimes discussed on those. Also our our Sunday school, we had a really good question and answer time. It was great to have some of our team. the Shipes teenagers on the panel to talk a little bit about what it's like to be an MK. So it was a really, really good time. If you can come on Sunday morning for Sunday school I hope that you will and then also on Sunday night I hope that you will uh be how be coming out on Sunday nights you are here tonight but continuing because um that's when our missionaries will actually be pres uh preaching. Um I did want to remind you of a couple of the activities that are going on since I skipped over that this morning, uh we were really pressed for time. First of all Ladies, you have your Bible study on October the 7th. That's this Thursday in the fellowship hall. Please make sure that you mark that on your calendars. And they're continuing in the book of Haggai. Is it Haggai 2? Well, it's it's Haggai something. But uh it's their second study in the Book of Haggai. Uh so look at the book if you wanted to do that. But My wife is doing that study. Also remember ladies who are going on the ladies' retreat. I believe 4. 15 is when you're going to be leaving. From the church to go to the retreat. And so please remember that. Also, we have our next college and career Bible study on October the 15th. That is a Friday night at 7 p. m. And uh we're getting into fall season, so we're like doing fire pits at our house like all the time and grilling all the time. So uh looking forward to doing something like that. So pray the weather's good for that. Uh also our fall workday. I saw that we had some folks sign up for that. And uh want to encourage you if you didn't get to sign up. please do sign up for that. That's a great time of fellowship. We get a lot done. And it's a great opportunity, especially for our young people, to get involved in that. So my kids love coming to the workday. At least that's what they tell me. So I I hope that our young people can go to that. And then also I want to remind you that uh Sacrificial Sunday is October the 31st and our service uh our offering entirely on the 31st unless it is designated otherwise. is going to go towards a project for the Edge Christian camp. And so looking forward to that. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer and then uh we'll get started with our service this evening. Father, thank you so much for the Lord's Day where we get to set aside uh all of our time and the distractions of of life and we focus our attention on you. And I pray that tonight as uh Brother Aaron comes and preaches the word that the Holy Spirit would take these truths. and really settle them deeply in our hearts. Help us to be receptive and humble under the ministry of the Word. I pray that you'll bless every aspect of the service this evening. May it bring glory to you. And may we your people be encouraged by it. We ask it in Christ's name, amen. Well good evening. Thanks for joining us for worship this evening. Let's get started as we open our hymn books to hymn number 537. Jesus saves. Let's stand. We'll sing all four verses of hymn number five hundred thirty-seven. Thirty seven We have heard the joyful sound, Jesus , Jesus face, spread the tiding all around. Jesus said , Jesus says To the news you will remind , on the seas that crossed away, onward says I would have done, see the face Jesus face. Watching on the will and guide, she 's the day, Jesus says , Well you said where I might Jesus said, she's the safe Sing ye on and come the sea, and go back in your case, God shall keep murdering, see the case , is the six Sting up on the back of stride, sing a fame , see the thing, why is that an endless The type, see the place in the face, sing it softly to the guns When some heart for music grace, singing joy up for her door, she's a face, she's a face Give the wedding a mighty boy Jesus, Jesus fence, but the nation shall rejoice. Jesus fence, Jesus , shall the head. Great singing, please. Please be seated as we turn just a few pages over to hymn number 544. Work for the night is coming. We'll sing all three verses. Of him number five hundred forty four. Work and springing fast, work while the day goes, work in the glory What for the night is coming when that work is done? What for the lightest movie Rest constant give everyone Something to give us an idea. When men work no more, work for the night for me. Under the sun that 's come by the bright cat. Work for daylight price, work for the light. Bayless is shine no more, but for the mind is working when man 's work has wrong And over to hymn number 550. 550 channels only. We'll sing all three verses How I pray the present second that I want with me , will have said that help me thy smell. Empty that the house would tell me how we pass all the time with no power. Shadows only all thy wonders. You're waking up and we can real She loves Spill now with thy spirit on the foes of the door, that the strings are living water Great singing this evening. Okay, well on Sunday evenings we like to give you an opportunity to share some testimonies. The Bible stands like a rock undaunted with the raging storms of time. Its pages burn with a trumpy total and neglect. But where 's my best time? When we have some time, my day. Farm foundation for the body cost. Oh, I had to come back to it. I haven't done that one in a while. It's a good one. Alright, 35 in the blue book. Thirty-five. I think I know this one. Can we play it through once? Grace Archari Sandy Moi Shangh I did not know that one. Alright. Twenty-six. In the red in the red hymn book. Twenty-six in the red hymn book. Praise to the Lord the Almighty. Praise to the Lord, the Almighty, the King of Christian. Oh my god yeah. And number fourteen in the red book Worthy of praise My heart will close with praise to the Lord. I will lift up my voice to the king I'm the pure love as well as my heart to say I power and I was shirt for the friend. All right, the others? That one draw? No? Chris. Forty seven in the blue book. Forty-seven in the blue book. Any others? Just Four seventy-eight. What uh what what uh book? The red book? Alright, one more? Yes. One thirty-five in the red book. Alright, let's see where this gets us. One sixty seven in the blue book. I do not know this one, but let's Let's play it through. Uh timing I'm gonna get lost. Let's give it a try. Let's give it a try. There we go. The lonely nine agony. The crying and salmony, the Lord of life for faces there, and will we make our exercise? It's no one, it's not the same my life. For Christ and giving everything for Christ. Alright. Forty-seven in the blue book. Four seven. Can we play Oh happy God. All right. The hymn book number four seventy eight. Which is well With my soul. We'll sing verse three on this one. Take the more take the more so Alright, let's stand once more before our preaching Tim number one thirty-five. Ooh. I think this is one I haven't heard in a while. Can we Play through this once Viga , See the first and the last lost in the dark death I stumble alone. Jesus found me and make me so my God Now when that's my type of love is work when we try all after He is my favorite, and he is my Lord, my way I can my God. We know it's gotten it for me. Yes, we saw yes for me. Great job, please be seated. It's not a good idea. Okay, well I'm really excited tonight uh for the opportunity to hear Brother Aaron preach. And uh one of the things that I love about Missions Conference is the opportunity to interact with missionaries, to learn from them, to fellowship with them, and then just to hear them preach the word of God. So brother, come on up and preach the word. Thank you again. It's a privilege to be here. And I can see Pastor Joel is taller than I am. The mic is up there high. But it's a great privilege to to be here at Anchor Baptist with you all. Thank you, Pastor, for the opportunity to come. What a delight to even spend the afternoon with his family. One of the things that we've enjoyed today about your worship services is the many songs. It feels very Tanzanian to me. We sing so many songs in our Tanzanian services and it just feels right. Our kids, if we've come back to America and we've been in numerous churches, and they said, Why are we only singing three songs? We're done. I mean it just doesn't seem right. So it's a real privilege to be in a church where we sing a great deal. And some of the songs that were chosen tonight were fantastic. I really have to commend you for the songs that were chosen. They were great songs Would you turn with me in your Bibles to Matthew 13? Matthew 13, we're going to look at the parable of the mustard seed and the leaven. And just To get our hearts around this idea of what God is doing in the world around us. A few weeks ago we were up at a church in Pennsylvania and one of the men asked me to go, said I'll take you down to the drag races. Yeah, there's there's the top fuel drag races in oh I don't remember where it was at outside of Reading, Pennsylvania And he said, You've got to come and experience a top full fuel drag race at least once in your life. And honestly I'd never been to a drag race in my life and thought, sure, this would be great. And the whole day we're watching these drag races. We got there early in the morning and we're watching them And uh they're great. I loved it. But then he said, you haven't seen anything yet. Wait till you see the top fuel drag cars. You will, I mean, we had earplugs in, and he said, that won't be enough. And we had the earplugs in, and then I'm holding my my hands over my ears, and your whole body is reverberating with the sound the engines are making as the nitrous ignites. in those engines. It was a phenomenal experience. But what struck me about that is just around that time I was reading about Alexander Winton. You may or may not know that name. He claims to be, actually he doesn't claim to be, he is the first person to build and sell an American gasoline powered automobile. Horseless carriage. And his car would go a top speed of 33 miles an hour, which was pretty impressive at the time. But those top fuel drag race cars were doing 350 330, 350, somewhere in that time frame, uh miles an hour in a quarter mile. It was a phenomenal experience. And with the the growth in the development of the automobile in just a little over 120 years is really an amazing thing. Early people, when they saw the automobile, the horseless carriage, they would yell at the automobiles that were putting along at six to eight miles an hour, and they would say, Get a horse! They couldn't see what benefit a car could possibly have when we already had horses. But now I don't think anyone here can I think everyone came in a in an automobile. And the reality is they the things that started out small became vastly different and have grown tremendously. And what was despised is now everywhere. And here in Matthew chapter 13, beginning in verses 31 and all the way to 30 35, Jesus tells two parables. Oh look at particularly at verse up to 33 says, and another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed. Which a man took and sowed in his field, which indeed is the least of all seeds. But when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becomes a tree. And another parable spake he unto them The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of me. Till the whole was leavened. Let's pray. Father, we love you. We come to you this evening. We thank you for the privilege of opening Your word. We thank you for these two parables which give us insight into the work and plan that you have for your church. Lord, I pray you would encourage us with these These truths, with these realities, and that you would strengthen our desire and our resolve to bring the gospel to all nations. Thank you for this church. Thank you, Lord, for the work that they have done over many years. Thank you, Lord, for the support that they give to missionaries, not only financially, but also prayerfully. And Lord, I pray that you would bless this month of missionaries. Awareness, and that this would be a great time of reminder of what you are doing in this world. Encourage our hearts, even this evening, Father. Grant me wisdom to preach your word with the power of your spirit. And we ask you this in Jesus' name. Amen. The focus of this these two parables are, these are essentially two parables teaching one main point. And as you read these parables, understand that Jesus is primarily addressing one main issue. The mustard seed that grows into a plant like unto a tree, and the leaven or the yeast that infiltrates three large lumps of dough. They're essentially teaching the same thing. Albeit with a slightly different emphasis in each one. And you notice here he describes this, he says, the kingdom of heaven is like unto. So he's saying the kingdom of heaven is compared to these two things. In some aspect, the kingdom of heaven is like this. And we know we could spend a great deal of time dealing with what is the kingdom Kingdom of heaven. of heaven The kingdom of heaven is anywhere that the reign of the King Christ is followed. He reigns in the hearts of believers. So specifically, what is being described largely in these parables is the church, the church age. We know that there is a already And a not yet aspect to the kingdom of heaven. That the church or the kingdom of heaven is among us. We know the kingdom of heaven is here, but we're also taught to pray, your kingdom. So there's a not yet aspect to the kingdom. So we see this very clearly throughout Scripture. But he's saying here that the kingdom of heaven has seemingly insignificant and Seemingly imperceptible beginnings, but through the work of God's Spirit, it will grow vastly, miraculously In an amazing way. So Jesus is telling these two parables to address the wrong impression that his disciples had. The apostles knew of the teaching about the rule of the Messiah, the earthly physical rule of the Messiah. They knew passages in the Old Testament that talked about the Lord being king over all the earth. They knew what Jeremiah said, that he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. They understood the prophecies about a literal earthly kingdom. Where the Messiah would rule over the nations of the earth. But they didn't fully understand the mystery of the church, the persecution. and the death and resurrection of the Messiah to bring redemption to the world. So when we read the Gospels, we see that the disciples were expecting a political kingdom of strength and power to begin immediately. And many times you can tell the disciples kind of viewed that they were getting themselves in on the ground floor. You 're coming in here, and we're going to be friends of the Messiah, and when he becomes the king that rules over all the earth, we're going to be in exalted positions. One of my favorite illustrations of this is in Matthew 20, 20. When James and John come with their mother. And this is immediately after Jesus had finished teaching about the first shall be last, and the last shall be first. And then he explained about his upcoming persecution and death at the hands of the religious leaders in Jerusalem. And James and John come with their mother. And this is a very Eastern way of doing it. I can hardly imagine an American man coming to ask a request through his mother. But I had this happen to me on several occasions in Tanzania, where a mother was brought in to bring a request for the son. And the idea is that you surely cannot turn down the mother. And so James and John are thinking, well, you know what, we could ask ourselves, but wouldn't it be better if mom came? Because how is Jesus going to turn down mom? And she asks for one to sit on the right hand, the other to sit on the left hand. And we know the story of what happens there. But the reality is they did not get The idea of the already and not yet aspect of the kingdom. They did not understand that the kingdom would not come in a physical political ruling immediately. They kind of expected, well, Jesus can raise the dead. He can walk on water, he can feed five thousand with a few loaves and some fish. Surely this is the guy to overthrow Rome. Surely this is the guy that can lead us into victory. And so from their perspective, they were looking for a physical kingdom. That's why when Peter, after saying, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God , he hears Jesus talking about his upcoming Persecution and death. The Bible says he pulls Jesus aside, who he just said is the Christ, the Son of the living God, and the Bible says he rebukes him. This shall not be. You're wrong. Because he knew that the king was supposed to reign in a physical kingdom, political kingdom on earth. So even after the resurrection, you remember in Acts chapter 1. When the disciples have seen Christ raise from the dead, they think, now's the time. Okay, we get it now. We got this. And they ask him in Acts 1, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? They're still expecting a physical Physical, political kingdom immediately. And he says to them, It's not for you to know the times or the seasons that the Father has placed in his hands. He doesn't say it's not going to happen. He says it's not for you to know. There's another job for you to do in the meantime. The kingdom of God did not come as they expected. But perhaps had they understood these two parables, they might have been So you see here that these parables are explaining to the disciples and to us the nature of the coming of the kingdom. Jesus compares the small beginnings of the kingdom of heaven to the smallness of a mustard seed and a small amount of leaven or yeast. Placed in a loaf or in lumps of bread, large lumps of bread, or of dough, to be honest. Mustard seeds are very small, the smallest of the garden seeds that were in Palestine at the time. And in this this pair, we obviously see the emphasis on the smallness, but then the large growth of the mustard plant, and almost to where it's it's to the point of of miraculous. Because he describes it as becoming a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof. This is an unusual happening. Where they actually become like a tree. But then he also describes this woman who takes. Some leaven, and she hides it in three measures. That word measures is the Greek word saton, which is roughly equivalent, each one is equivalent to three gallons of dough. So you could put that together. sets of three gallons of dough. That's nine gallons of dough. I don't know about your family, but that's a lot of dough. That's going to make a lot of bread. We used to make bread in our family. We had oh I used to love in Tanzania when it was bread making day and It's just the smell coming from the kitchen. It's phenomenal. But I can remember the dough would be kneaded and the yeast would be put in and then it'd be set and it would rise. They put a little towel over top of it and watching it rise. But then when it goes in the oven, that's where really the best part. Well actually the best part's the tasting of it. But the smell is is phenomenal. So he's comparing, though, in both of these parables, the small amount of leaven in a large amount of dough and a small seed to a miraculously large tree to the point where birds are nesting in it. And when you look at the church, it really is an example of God's miraculous growth. Historically speaking, the beginning of the church was extremely Seemingly small and seemingly insignificant. Twelve apostles. And all but one of them flees when Jesus is crucified. One betrays him and one denies him and turns him in. Even at Pentecost after the resurrection , 120 in the upper room. So at the time of Christ, the estimated world population was 300 million people. Here you have, at the very best, a hundred and twenty people that are supposed to evangelize 300 Million people. It's like saying Anchor Baptist Church, your job is to evangelize America. You've got to bring the gospel to America, to every last citizen of America. That's a vast, almost impossible, seemingly impossible task. What are 120 people in the midst of 300 million people? But like a small mustard seed grows into a tree, so the kingdom of heaven will start small and grow miraculously. Really, the history of the church is a test. Testimony to the power of God at work in seemingly insignificant people. Within just one generation, as you read the book of Acts. Although the church started in Jerusalem under the Roman oppression, it had reached to every region of the Roman Empire. Churches had been established all over the Roman world. Church history tells us that Thomas went to India. It's believed he sailed down the Red Sea across the Arabian Gulf and on to India. So when later explorers arrived in India, they found churches and people who Who claimed to be Christians already there? The Ethiopian eunuch took the gospel to his nation, to Ethiopia, to Sudan, and to Arabia. Eritrea. I remember being in Israel and watching Eritreans bring their children to be baptized in the Jordan River. And realizing that they had the gospel well before my German ancestors did. Although much of it has been lost today, the gospel had gone far in that first century. Paul went as far as Rome and possibly even to Spain. With the gospel in that first generation of believers. That's an amazing thing for twelve men who had lived their lives essentially in Judea and in Galilee. To take the gospel to Asia, to Africa, to Europe, to every province in the Roman world, God did a miraculous thing, and he is continuing to do a miraculous thing. So the worldwide spread of the gospel is also seen in these parables. When you look at the parable of the mustard seed, verse 32 says, Which indeed is the least of all seeds, but when it's grown, it is greatest among the herbs. and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof. The reference here, Jesus is making a reference to at least two Old Testament Examples. One is in Daniel 4. 12, where the kingdom and reign of Nebuchadnezzar is pictured in the form of a giant tree. You know that that that story And it's the the dream is seen of a giant tree. And the beasts of the field found their shade under it, and the birds of the sky were dwelling in the tree. And Daniel makes the clarification to this. He interprets this dream. And he says, that refers to the international realm of your kingdom, O Nebuchadnezzar. That all the nations of the earth have come and found shelter. They have found sustenance under your reign. So here we see the birds of the air are referring to the nations of the world. Second Old Testament reference is found in Ezekiel chapter 17. We don't have time to look at both of these tonight, but in Ezekiel 17, verses 22 and 23, it's a prophecy of the coming kingdom. And God speaks of the international nature of his kingdom by speaking of the birds nesting in the branches of the tree. And so Jesus is alluding to these two Old Testament references when he makes this parable. And he says, even the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches of the tree. Of the church. Jesus is reiterating the prophecy of Ezekiel. Which is saying this kingdom of God will have a small, seemingly insignificant beginning. But ultimately, it will encompass people from every kindred, every tongue, every tribe, every nation. And I believe we are living closer to the completion of that reality than ever before. We are living truly in a time when there are believers in every country on the face of the earth. Granted, many of them are persecuted, they're a small minority, but there are believers in every nation on this earth. And that is not an excuse to say, job done, time to get lazy and relaxed. No. This is to say we ought to be more encouraged that the prophecies are about to be finally fulfilled in their fullness. And we ought to be about the work of the ministry with greater vigilance. And our endeavors and missions should be ever more encouraging. The parable of the leaven reveals the almost hidden nature of the growth. When I read the parable of the Levin earlier, just a few moments ago, perhaps you noticed the unusual, the unusual verb that Jesus uses when he describes the woman. Hiding the leaven in the three measures of dough. I don't know about you, but I never really thought that my wife was hiding leaven. She wasn't hiding the yeast. Like, where is it gonna be? She was kneading it into the dough. It was an application of the yeast to the dough to make it rise, but it wasn't a hidden thing. And there is a more specific Greek term that could have been used, but Jesus says she hides it in three measures of meal. I think this really is referring to the way the kingdom grows from an almost imperceptible beginning. And the reality is, it doesn't get the notice of the evening news. It doesn't get the notice of the movers and the shakers of this earth. The rulers and the powerful men and the wealthy don't stand up and notice the growth of the church. But the church is growing nonetheless. The work of God is often unimpressive from a worldly perspective. I can tell you quite honestly, nobody drove past or walked past our church. In Tanzania said that is an impressive building. Didn't happen. Dirt floor, rusty roof, mud bricks. But God was doing something. And God is doing something. But it's not impressive from I mean, uh honestly, as an American, I wanted to do something about the unimpressive structure. But God was doing something more significant. Than a building. Much of what we see today in the world in the form of the megachurch movement is more of a pragmatic, man-centered, gospel-like Service to attract the unchurched. That's not the emphasis, nor is that the focus of what the church ought to be. Growth cannot be manipulated by strategies of men. Rather, it's the working of the Spirit of God through the Word of God. I think about, I mentioned in Sunday school the young man named Ima Carrera that we were discipling and training to be the next pastor of the church who fell into sin. And we rebuked him and confronted him, and he repented in front of the church, and then he began to agitate to try to split the church. There's the work of the ministry is not always pleasant. It was many times of prayer and fasting. And rebuking in love. It was times of heartache. And it was times of crying out to God for him to do something something. And after we left, it was so thrilling for me to hear that he had came up came to the church of his own accord and he confessed his sins of he said Stiff nakedness. I like that. I was like, yeah, that's right. That's actually very accurate. Stiff nakedness. And he repented How does a church grow? It doesn't grow through political or physical means, but rather through a person witnessing to another person. And them repenting and trusting in Christ as their Savior. How does a church grow? It grows when a young person witnesses to his friend and they repent and trust in Christ as their Savior. It grows when a drunk man is confronted with his sin. He recognizes his need of the Savior and he repents and he trusts in Christ as his Savior. It grows when a few believers, prayerfully in dependence upon the Spirit, begin to reach out to a community for the purpose of starting a new work in that area I love my son is named my youngest son is named Hudson. And we we did that on purpose, not for the Hudson. River, but because of Hudson Taylor, who went to China in 1853. We know his name in the Christian circle. But when Hudson Taylor went to China in 1853, the world did not stand up and notice. In fact, even the Christian world did not stand up and notice him. He was. Seen as a upstart nobody with odd ideas. Very un British, to say the least. But the Lord saw fit to bless this nobody. That the world disregarded. At the time of his death in 1905, there were 800 missionaries in China that he had personally recruited. And twenty-five thousand Chinese converts from every province in China And although you can't say for certain exactly how many believers there are in China, the estimates are somewhere between 50 million and 100 million Chinese believers today. Nobody noticed Hudson Taylor. It was almost like a hidden act that God was doing. The world's not going to stand up and notice when a young man says, I'm called to preach the gospel. I'm called to go to a certain place and bring the gospel. The world doesn't care. But God's church grows. And He accomplishes His will. The work is not done. There is great work to be done So I want to just make a few points of application this evening. First thing is don't despise the day of small things. Don't despise the day of small things. The kingdom of God is not buildings, it's not politics, it's not money, and it's not power. But it's the reign of Christ in the hearts of people. When we say your kingdom come, we're also asking God, you reign in my heart today. Have authority over me. I think of I just last night I sat with my dad and we were opening up my uncle's Bible. I asked his dad, where's the Just where's Tom's Bible? My Uncle Tom was the first person in our family to come to know Christ as his Savior. He died in the Vietnam War. When he was drafted, he went to Washington State on his way to Vietnam and he had a few days of leave in Washington State and he was enjoying himself. And he went downtown. I don't don't know all the details, but he went downtown to to find a girl and have some fun. And he sees this beautiful young lady and he says, hey, how about you and I go out to dinner today? She says, how about you come to church with me today? And he said, No, come on, church! No, it's a beautiful evening. Let's have some fun. And she said, You want to come with me? You're going to come to church. I said, Oh, why not? Doreen Bentley. Probably has no idea what God has done through her witness. My uncle Tom heard the gospel for the first time in his life. life, trusted in Christ as his Savior. And at that point he began writing to his brothers about Christ, what God had done in his heart. He became known as the Reverend in his platoon. Because he kept witnessing to his platoon mates. He passed away in Vietnam, but through his witness, ultimately my father came to know Christ. My uncles came to know Christ. My aunt came to know Christ Through his witness, there are multiple people in the ministry today, multiple people serving Christ today. Because of Doreen Bentley sharing the gospel, saying, You want to come with me, soldier boy? It's coming to church. And he heard the gospel. Don't despise the day of small things. Don't let Satan deceive you that your ministry or your witness or your Service doesn't matter. o And I doubt Doreen Bentley has any idea of what her service, what her witness did. But I look forward to being able to tell This past month I read the autobiography of Warren Wearsby. I think probably yeah, many people know Warren Wearsby, yeah. He's one of the finest devotional commentators of the twentieth. century. He was an active and in-demand Bible conference speaker, pastor, evangelist. But he's most beloved. Everyone knows for his over 150 books he wrote, his B series. Of commentaries through every book of the Bible. His autobiography is called Be Myself. I just love that title. That's what made me pick it up. I'm like, I've got to read this. Everyone knows Warren Wearsby. But I bet you don't know the name Everett Ostrom. He was the pastor who fell on his face every Saturday afternoon after confirmation call. class to pray for Warren's conversion because he said he knew he was a fake. And a year later he trusted Christ as his Savior. But through the faithful prayers of a pastor who said, That man's a fake. He needs Christ. No one knows Everett Ostrom. God does. God used him. It's that hidden nature of leaven. But God accomplished great things. Don't despise the day of small things. So this didn't happen on purpose. This kind of came about as accident. But all the rest of my applicational points are B imperatives. So I didn't do this on purpose, but when I saw it, I'm like, wow, that's appropriate. The next uh applicational point is be bold. Victory is sure. One of the main points of these twin parables is that what started small and hidden will expand, it will grow. And the result will be significant and it will cover the entire earth. This is the point of the statue prophecy in Daniel 2. I love this prophecy. You know the one of the head of gold, the chest and arms of silver, the belly and thigh of bronze, and the legs of iron, and the feet of iron and clay mixed together. And then you have this stone that's cut without hands. And it crushes the statue. And it pulverizes it and it disappears. The statue is turned to dust and it's just blown away, referring to the nations of the world. Would you turn to me in Daniel chapter 2? Daniel chapter 2, and just read what is said about that stone. Ezekiel Daniel chapter 2 Verses forty-four and forty-five. Daniel chapter two Daniel 244 says, And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed, and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms. kingdoms, and it shall stand forever. For as much as you sa as thou sawest the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it broke in pieces the iron and the brass and the clay and the silver and the gold The great God hath made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter, and the dream is certain, and the interpretation thereof. Amen. It's certain. We can be very bold because we know victory is sure. The kingdom Will not go pass on to another. There will not be another king that reigns after him. We don't have to be afraid. God has established an eternal Kingdom. We are in the already but not yet aspect. But the work is ever expanding. It is ever growing. And it may seem insignificant when compared with the power and the wealth of the empires of the world, but ultimately they will crumble and the kingdom of God will endure. forever. Hebrews 11 1 says, now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen We need to be bold because there's a promise, and boldness in the promise is faith. We don't need to be afraid We don't need to be quivering. We need to be bold with the promises of Scripture. Thirdly, be steadfast. Progress is often slow and seemingly Imperceptible. Just like yeast hidden in dough takes time to be fully leavened, and even while it's working, is working unseen, likewise spiritual work is a often slow and difficult to discern. Several times I cried out to God in Tanzania. Yeah. And he said to me, You be faithful. I'll build my Church. Your job is to be faithful. Be steadfast. But I will build my church. We ought not be weary in well-doing, for inducing Fourthly, be dependent. True kingdom work is done by the power of the Spirit. The seed was alive. And the leaven was unseen. Both of these are pictures of the Holy Spirit. John 3 8 says the wind blows where it listeth. You can hear the sound of it, you can see the effects of it, but you don't see the spirit. So is everyone who is born of the spirit. It's the hidden nature, the unseen working of the spirit. So when he describes it as being hidden in the leaven or in the dough, he's describing the working of the Spirit. That seed which has life in itself is the Holy Spirit working. The word of God is alive and powerful. It is the word of the Holy Spirit. Read it. Study it. Meditate on it. It obey it. Proclaim it. Depend on it. The word of God is so powerful. Be prayerful people. Just so many times we have seen God answer prayers for his kingdom's sake. But what Would it have been if we had not prayed? God delights to answer prayer directed toward the expansion of his kingdom. Let's be a praying people. Let's pray for missions. Let's pray that God would send forth laborers from this church into his harvest field. As he's done in the past, may he do again in the future. Let's pray that God sends forth laborers from this church into this community and that God sends revival in this land which is so desperately needing revival. And then let us be Holy, the holy, the Spirit of God is the Holy Spirit. And He seeks to make us holy. For when we are holy, we are the most like our God and Most able to bring him glory. Last point, let's be expectant. Be expectant. I love Matthew 24, 14. If you look there with me briefly, just a few pages over from where we are in Matthew 13, Matthew 24, verse 14. It says, and the gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. And I know there is a debate as to the interpretation. of this verse, whether it refers to the miraculous preaching of the gospel by angels in Revelation 14, 6, or to the second coming of Christ to follow the church bringing the gospel to all nations. And then the rapture. But it really doesn't matter which one it is at this point. Preaching occurs near the culmination of the kingdom of God. And historically speaking, we are closer to that event than ever before. God is doing a great work. The mustard seed has grown significantly. There is a large tree that all the nations of the earth have come and landed in There are believers from every nation on this earth. The leaven has permeated countless lands. We should give our lives to fulfilling this task and living expectantly for his return. We should give our lives because this work will happen His word is sure. So be bold. Be steadfast. Be dependent. And be expectant. Because God is building his kingdom. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we come to you this evening. We give you praise and honor and glory for their There is none like you. And your word is sure, and there is no one that can overturn your word. I thank you, Father, that you have given us These promises. You have given us these parables to understand the working of your kingdom, so that we might have faith in your promises. And we might act boldly. We might act in great expectation and with great steadfastness, but also in great dependence upon you. Lord, I ask That you would help us to take these truths. May they sink deep into our hearts, transforming our lives in our witness and our action And may we live in great expectation for the coming of Christ our Savior. Bless, Father, the remainder of this mission's emphasis. month and accomplish your will through it we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Pastor Joel. That is so good. Be bold, be steadfast, be dependent, and be expectant. And I don't know about you, but there are times that we look at what's going on in our nation and around the world and we get really frustrated and discouraged. And And we lose heart, we get faint. It's like uh a person who's running a race and they get tired at the starting line thinking about what they're about to endure. Anybody like that? And that's the way we looked at the Christian life sometimes. And the fact is that that God builds his kingdom the same way that a tree is formed from that smaller tree. And that that is a that is an outstanding Christ-centered illustration. So don't be discouraged. Take what God has given us, His Word. Let's get on our knees. Let's be in the Word. And let's always be ready to give an answer to every Let's be ready to give the gospel and uh let's seize every opportunity that the Lord gives us. I'd like us to stand together and we're gonna sing for our closing hymn. Wherever the order of services Send the light. Hymn 534. I want us to stand together. Let's sing this song. We'll sing all three verses. And I want to encourage you, we're going to sing, send the light, pick up some tracks on your way out from the track rack, and uh when you go get some uh we can't get Wendy's because They're refacing the building right now on Veterans Highway. But when you go to McDonald's, give give a track to the person at the drive-thru, uh, take opportunity, share the gospel with people. And uh pray that the Lord will open doors. Uh hymn three of five hundred and thirty-four, send the light. Let's sing it out As a call comes ringing for the restless wave, send the light, send the light, there's a soul to rescue, there are so Souls here, send the light, send the light, send the light, the blessed gospel like Let it shine from shore to shore. Send alive the blessed gospel light. Let it shine Forevermore We have heard the Macedonian call today , sent the light , sent the light, and the colour Send the light, send the light, send the light , the blessing gospel light, burn it shine from shore to shore. Send the Lord, the blessed gospel life by its shine forevermore on the last Let us pray that grace may everywhere about set the line , set the light into Christ's life. Here it everywhere be found in the lights, send the lights, send the light, the blessed gospel light, let it be Shine from shore to shore, stand the light, the blasty gospel could have shine forever Well, I hope that you've been encouraged as we get started in our missions month. And every Sunday this month, we're going to be focused on missions. Looking forward to the family that will be with us this coming Sunday. And they are on deputation going to Australia. And really looking forward to get to spend some time with them. So just be in prayer that the Lord really bless this next Sunday. And I hope that you also be with us on Wednesday night as we are now in the book of Ecclesiastes. We were going through the pastoral epistles and we have been plodding along for quite some time. We finished that series and now we're uh in the book of Ecclesiastes. And so So I hope that you can join us this Wednesday as we uh work our way through that. And we're in part two. You you know that on Wednesday nights I do like part one. one, two, three, sometimes four, depending on the passage, but uh let's make sure that uh we come for that. I think that'll be a real blessing. Uh brother Eric Nicky, can you close us in prayer and then Shipes if you guys can And go to the back and make sure that you uh greet them and uh spend a little bit of time fellowshipping with them and uh just encouraging them in the Lord's. Go ahead, Eric. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for this day and this time that we've had in your house and to be gathered around your word, Lord. We thank you for uh the message we've heard from uh the book of Matthew tonight. Lord, we ask that you would give us boldness and give us grace as we go out from this place. place, Lord, to be witnesses to uh the grace that we've been shown, Lord, in your gospel. And we just praise your name for it in Christ's name. Amen.