Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our Sunday morning service, and we are really looking forward to uh just the time spent in the Word of God focusing in on the week Before Christ goes to the cross and then the resurrection, the empty tomb. And so I know this is Palm Sunday, looking forward to a wonderful service as we focus on the Lord. If you're visiting with us today for the first time. or the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you. And if you'd like us to reach out to you sometime this next week, take a moment to fill out one of the connection cards. And there's some in the pew in front of you. There's also a welcome packet that you may have received. And we'd love to just uh find out how we can be an encouragement to you. Have a couple of announcements, and then we'll open up our service with the scripture reading. Good morning. Hopefully you guys are enjoying the sun after all that rain yesterday. This week does look like it'll be uh a little brighter than it was this past week. But Tonight, following the evening service, there is the Farewell Fellowship for the Cranes. There is a sign-up on the Bolton board for some snacks to bring, or if you'd just like to bring something. um if something is filled. But please uh we encourage you guys to come and see the cranes as they're leaving the next couple weeks, I believe. Then next Friday, we have the Good Friday service at Calvary. The vans will be leaving at 520. So if you'd like to ride along, please sign up on the Bulletin board. And then if you look throughout ladies' meeting in a couple weeks, teen activity, several things, but we'd encourage you guys to just swing by the bulletin board, look, sign up for what's on there, and then but also want to make a special mention for April 7th through the 10th. We'll have our evangelist Morse Gleiser come on in. So please make some time, schedule that in to plan on being here. Pastor Josh. Our opening scripture reading is found in Psalm 118, and we'll start in verse 21. I will praise thee, for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation. The stone which is stoweders refused to become the headstoner of the co of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now, I beseech thee, O Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee, send now prosperity. Our theme for worship today, let's reflect on the glories of Christ, our King. Please let's all bow together in prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service. And let's remember those in our congregation who are carrying burdens and have needs. And let's remember to uplift them in prayer. Please let's bow for prayer. Father in heaven, we're so grateful for this Lord's Day, where we remember Palm Sunday, the day when Christ came into Jerusalem, and the crowds said, Save us. I pray that you will help us to understand the significance of that moment in human history. I pray that as we look at that text of Scripture, that you would open our eyes to what you were doing in that moment and how it affects us today. Father, I pray that you be with those in our church who are dealing with heavy burdens. I recognize there are folks who are dealing with great physical affliction. They've gone through difficult weeks. And I pray that you would uplift them and strengthen them. Be with those who need healing. I pray that you would provide that healing. Please be with those who are still continuing to To grieve the passing of those whom they love, I pray that you would be a comfort and an encouragement to them and be with those who are dealing with very difficult days. Father, as we gather together, I pray that our worship around the Word of God would be very sweet and very Christ-centered. As we look at this text, I pray that you would help us to understand it well. As we sing praise to you, I pray that we would think about the wonderful truths we'll express in song and that our hearts would be knit together as a congregation. As we fellowship with one another, I pray that those who are burdened and downcast would be uplifted, and those who need an encouragement today would receive it as we're gathered together. Be with those who have joined us on livestream. May you encourage them through the word and through their time with us. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, good. Morning Acre Baptist Church. Warm greetings to those of you that have joined us in person and on live stream. Thank you, visitors, for uh coming and worshiping together with us, and we pray that it'll be a a warm and wonderful day for you as we celebrate Palm Sunday. We're going to start off. And I'm on the wrong page. Let's go to page 12. Okay, page 12. All hail the power of Jesus' name. Please stand with me. Warm your hearts and minds. Get the blood circulating and sing out. All four verses, all hail the power of Jesus' name. Sing with me. Amen. Okay. up with everybody here in just a minute. But turn to page 46. Page 46, it's right before 47. Crown him with many crowns. Now Amen. Now let's turn to page 65 or follow along on the screen. Oh, worship the King. Okay. So what the way for the we go to be all Allez Amen. Amen. Please be seated. Okay. Reading of the scripture coming up next. We'll go to the book of John. The book of John, chapter 12, verses 12 through 14, 19, 12 through 19. And the scriptures say, read along with me. On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna! Blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon As it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, thy king cometh, sitting on an ass 's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. The people, therefore, that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead bear record. For this cause the people also met him. For that they heard that he had done this miracle, the Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? Behold, the world is gone after him. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Minimum moni Yeah, but All right. As our folks are making their way back, take your hymn on turn to page 273. Page 273. Christ the Lord is risen today. We're going to sing, we're going to sing all four verses, but. At the end of verse 3, after the verse, after the chorus, we're going to do the meet and greet, okay? So at the end of the chorus on verse 3. Let's all stand and then we'll greet meet and greet folks. Make sure you visit our any any visitors out there, make sure that they're Greet it. Christ the Lord is risen today. I think that 's what we're doing with that. All right, start making your way back here to meet, please. Join me on the Fort Bird. There we go. All right. Amen. Y'all came back together pretty nicely that time. I think you're going to get it one of these days. Turn to page 18067 in our blue book. Page 167. Remain standing with me for this one last congregational. Page 167, it's still the cross. Amen. All four verses. It's still the cross. I really believe I 'm alone briefly to my life. Let me ask the instruments about a last burst. The grace of God sanctifies the Christ of the cross of price But why is my to live here with that with that? It's great , it's still a lot. It 's still his eyes, I love Committee to my life in dearly. Please We can see time. Seconds. Now to my Lord I know more king with our heart. Send for my blessing , okay , no name, but something now let 's try proclaim that Justin. That Jesus king was all to the kingdom of Horry was not to the king of We just tried the Lord our heart and call the joy of my God. The king of the God to the king of me , I 'll go to the king of Jesus , my master is not like Jesus come. Well Okay, thank you so much for that. Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed in the back for their class. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn with me to John chapter twelve. John chapter 12, and this is Palm Sunday, and as I typically do during times like this of the year, we focus our attention on what really is being remembered on this day. In each of the Gospels, this account is given, but this morning we're going to focus in on what John records for us Of the triumphal entry. John chapter 12, and we begin in verse 12. On the next day, much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereupon, as it is written, Fear not, daughters of Sion, behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. The people therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead bear record. For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle, and the Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Perceive ye how ye how ye prevail nothing. Behold The world is gone after him. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to understand these truths that we'll find in the text in front of us. Our Father, thank you for the word of God. It is a privilege to be a people who can read the word, who can hear it, and can spend time together this morning looking into the wonderful trees that are laid out for us in this text. Father, as I take this passage and open it before us, I pray the Holy Spirit would take the Word of God and press it upon our hearts, that we would understand the significance and the weight of these things. That we would see how they point to Christ and how they should point every single one of us to him, to the significance of what he did on that week 2,000 years ago, and how it impacts us today. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. John 9 through 12 retell the unfolding events that led to Christ's crucifixion and resurrection, and they show how these events Fulfill messianic prophecies and establish the sole basis for our redemption. I mentioned this this morning in our Sunday school class. It's important when you look at a passage of scripture that you don't just zero in on one verse and ignore everything that's going on around that particular passage of scripture. When we're reading the text in front of us, this is a story within a story. And it's not just a story within a story that happened within a period of a few days to a week, but it's really a story within a story that starts with creation and the fall and the promise of Redeemer. And if you think about it, as we read through the Bible, what we see is that this story is just unfolding piece by piece, and it's it's sort of building to this moment where we're going to see that the Messiah, the Savior, enters Jerusalem. And what's amazing about the text in front of us is that the people understood he was Messiah, but they did not understand what he came to do. They knew what they wanted from him, but they didn't understand that in order for them to be able to enter into his kingdom and him to establish himself as the king, he had to establish a way for sinners to enter that kingdom. He had to go to the cross. And as we look at this passage, we're going to see that in fact that is a major theme in the verses in front of us. This morning we need to be cautious that we resist the tragic misunderstanding of his redemptive purpose that we find in these people in the text in front of us. And so I'd like to begin first of all by seeing Palm Sunday as an event within a story. I love the way that it starts out in verse number nine. He says, on the next day. You know what that tells me? What John is recording is connected to what he's already talked about in these verses. And so let's kind of step back for a moment and consider the big picture of what's going on. As we read through the Gospels. This story starts with prophecies that anticipate the Messiah. As we read through the Old Testament, we see example after example after example. of not just events in a moment, but events that push forward to something that God is going to do. And as we come into the Gospels, what we see is that those things that we're being pointed to are actually beginning to happen in real time before these people. As the disciples and as the people living during the time of Christ had the opportunity to witness with their eyes what Jesus said and what he did and how people responded. If they were listening carefully to what was read in the synagogue every single Sabbath day, they would have noticed that what they're seeing is what was foretold. We see that the Gospels open up with John the Baptist, his cousin, preaching to prepare the way for him. Literally, he says, repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And then when Jesus comes on the scene, what does he do? He preaches the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The same message, but the emphasis is slightly different. John's saying that someone is coming. Jesus is saying, that's me. He preached that message. And he performed numerous miracles that demonstrated that in fact what he was saying was true. Jesus was not a delusional man. Jesus wasn't someone who was making claims that were not true. Jesus was doing what was said would happen. He was demonstrating that in fact he is the Messiah. And as Jesus did this, a division began to develop amongst the people. Now, what's interesting for us to remember is that this concept of a division between the people isn't a new thing. You read the whole Bible and you'll see that there are people that embraced what God said and there are people that rejected what God said. During the time of Christ, you see that there are people who embraced what God said and rejected what God said. Today, there are people who embrace what God said and they reject what God said. And part of the division was that there are many people who lived under the oppression of Rome. That said, we want the Messiah to come and free us from those who oppress us. That is what the vast majority of the people wanted. They had the right person. They understood that he was coming to establish a kingdom. But they did not understand what was necessary for the kingdom to come and the fulfillment of all those things that God had given. So that's kind of the big picture of what we're looking at. But then I'd like us to zero down a little bit this morning into the immediate context of what we see in the book of John. The details that John chooses to record through the guidance of the Holy Spirit are details that are a part of a story that starts with God came and dwelt among his people, and you need to believe those things because that is how a person has eternal life. That's what the book of John is all about. He starts with Christ and he says he's not just an ordinary man. He is the word who is made flesh and dwelt among us. And each conversation he records, each time Jesus teaches, each time there's a confrontation, each miracle that he records. is meant to prove this point over and over and over again. And it's pointing to something that we cannot miss this morning. In fact, in John 9, 10, 11, and 12, we see that Jesus has these confrontations. In John 9, he heals a blind man. That was a good thing to do, right? But by the end of it, you know what he says? If you'd have been born blind, you'd be able to see. Why'd he say that? Because the people who had witnessed this miracle could not see the significance of the miracle. And John chapter 10, he says, I'm the good shepherd. And I give my life for the sheep. And many of the people that heard that, they knew the prophetic statements in the in in the Old Testament about God being the shepherd of Israel, but they didn't make the connection that when Jesus says, I am the good shepherd, I'm the fulfillment of those things. They didn't understand that. And when Jesus says I lay my life down for the sheep, they didn't understand that there's got to be a cross in this story or there's no redemption. They didn't get it. John chapter 11, when he raises Lazarus back to life, he makes this statement that is so very important that we don't miss. He says, I am the resurrection and The life. And then John chapter 12, he comes to Jerusalem to celebrate his final Passover. And on that celebration week, he will offer himself as the Lamb of God. Who takes away the sins of the world. Now all those pieces help us to appreciate what's going on in these verses. The second thing I'd like you to notice is that the people had to pick a side on this issue. There are some people today that have resigned themselves to the fact that they're okay with Jesus, but they're not okay with the way he is presented in the scriptures. They're fine to call him a good man. They're fine to call him a moral teacher. They're fine to say that he was a person who lived in history, who really died on the cross. And he told people that God loves them. They're okay with those details, but they're not okay with the strong claims that the Word of God makes, repeated over and over and over again. This is God in flesh. This man, God in flesh, Emmanuel, came for a purpose. And the purpose was to be nailed to a cross and to bear the sins of the world on his shoulders. and to be punished in our place, that the Lord would lay on him the iniquity of us all and he would see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. They're not okay with that And that he really died and he really rose from the dead. Well, that's another piece that they just are not willing to accept. That you can only come to God through his death and resurrection and his imputed righteousness. There are lots of people, then they're not willing to accept that. You say, why is that? Because when people are confronted with truth, they also think about implication. And when I accept that this is true, I'm also accepting that there are some things that logically are true as a result of what is stated. And so there was this great division. It was impossible for the people to be neutral about him because his claims were so exclusive. And I want you to notice in these verses how we see this laid out, how you see the different responses of people, and how they're going to teach us something about the way we need to think about Christ. So first group. Some correctly believe that he is the Christ. We see this down in chapter 11, verse 45. He says, Many of the Jews which came to Mary had seen the things which Jesus did and believed on him. Now, I kind of left this piece out. I didn't develop it much because I want to keep moving. But what they had seen was that Jesus was able to raise Lazarus from the dead. And there were also people who just a few days before Jesus entered Jerusalem that were in a room in Bethany, and Mary came into that room and she began to weep and she broke open this box of ointment. And she laid it at his feet, and she began to wipe his feet with her hair and with her tears. And there were people that looked and said, We don't understand this. He's saying that there were people that saw the miracle Saw what Mary did, and they had heard all these things, and they believed this is the Messiah. They may not have fully understood what he was about to do, but they were believing, to the extent that they understood at that moment. But there were other people that didn't look at it that way. There were people that when they heard Jesus teach, when they saw the crowds gathering around him , When they recognized how confrontational and how exclusive his teaching was, they were very much threatened by it. Some believed and they said, He's the Messiah, we need to trust in him. Others said we need to kill him. We need to feel how to figure out how to deal with this guy. And so in verses 46 to 48, he says, but some of them went their ways to the Pharisees and told them what things Jesus had done. Then gathered the chief priests and Pharisees a council and said, What do we? This man doeth many miracles. If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him. And this statement's very, very revealing. And the Romans shall come and take away both our place and our nation. Catch that? Why were they uncomfortable with Jesus? Because they were a lot more concerned with putting food on their table on that day than they were about the salvation of their souls. They were a lot more concerned about keeping power than embracing the Savior who would establish an eternal kingdom that they would have the privilege by his grace to be a part of. A third group, some plotted to kill him. In verse 49 of chapter 11, it says, one of them named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, This statement is fascinating. It is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. That guy had no clue what he was saying. But the scriptures say he was actually prophesying of what Jesus would do. One man would die so that there would be people saved. That's what he said. He had no clue what he was saying. Some, as they plotted, were unknowingly laying the pieces that would lead to his ultimate triumph in the cross. In verse 51, it says, this spake he not of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation. And not for the nation only, but that also he would gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. Is that not an incredible statement? And by the way, we go back to the Old Testament and we look at the various records of the Old Testament. There's so many times as we read the Old Testament that God's plan of redemption, you don't think of it this way sometimes, but it was literally hanging by a thread. And the reason it was hanged by a threat is because people made really, really bad choices. And those really, really bad choices appeared for that moment that it was going to disrupt what God was doing. And you know what God did in every one of those situations? He continued his plan. Sometimes he did it through these terrible choices that he made, that these people made. He continued to work his plan. Sometimes he intervened in this amazing way. And here is this man, the high priest at the time of Christ. There was con controversy about this man who was saying it's it's necessary for one person to die for the nation and he doesn't know this, but as they plot to kill Jesus, they're literally going to bring to pass the prophecies that had made all been made all threats. Old Testament. As these men were plotting and scheming and had such hatred in their hearts, they didn't realize that God was going to accomplish his purpose not just in spite of them, through them. incredible think about. And then we come to the text that we are looking at this morning. Some who believed on him sensed that the flow of these events were leading to the cross and they prepared themselves for his inevitable death Chapter 12, verse 1. Then Jesus, six days before Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was which was dead, whom he raised from the dead. Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. Then Mary took a pound of ointment of spite and very costly and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. Why did she do that? Because she understood that he is coming to Jerusalem to die. She got it But not everybody in that room got it. Because we see that one of his disciples became so disillusioned with the events that were going on that he decided he would take part in this plot to kill Jesus. In the next couple of verses it says, verse four, then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot Simon's son, which should betray him, why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence and given to the poor? He said, Why'd you waste that? Now why did he say that? Because he did not believe on the Messiah. Here's a man who saw all those miracles, he heard all that teaching, he heard Jesus expound the prophets of the Old Testament. He didn't see it. Well, when we come to the verses in front of us this morning, chapter 12, verse 12, we see that many wanted the benefits of the kingdom, but they didn't understand the cost that would purchase it. In verse 12 it says, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, they took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him. Now, here's the question I want to ask this morning. What was the fundamental distinction between those who believed and those who didn't? What was the difference? One word. It's word faith. Some believed. Some trusted. Others didn't. But there were pieces that supported that choice to believe or to reject. And the first question is, well, who is Jesus? Some said he's a good good man, he's a teacher. But he's God in flesh. There's a big difference between those two viewpoints. One will drive you to believe on him, and one will drive you to reject him. Question two, why did he ultimately come? Some said it was to overthrow Rome and give us material prosperity. Well we know now that certainly wasn't the case. Some understood it was to secure redemption through his through the death of the cross. How you answer those questions determines do you believe or not believe? Who Jesus is, what he came to do, that's the watershed issue. And question three, am I willing to face my sin honestly and receive him as my one and only Savior? Do I see him as a means to my own end? Do I see him as a roadblock to what I really want? Can I see that my own righteousness is filthy rags? He is the Savior who came to take away the sins of the world through his death on the cross. How I answer those questions determines whether I believe or I don't. And so the division between these people came down to who is Jesus, why is he here, and do I really want what he's coming to accomplish? That's what it came down to. Third truth I want you to notice this morning. Human nature hasn't changed at all. Now, there's no Jesus coming into Glen Burning riding on a donkey. And there are no people cutting down palm branches in our community for sure. But guess what? The hearts of the people living in this community are no different than the hearts of the people who were there in Jerusalem on that day. You say, well, that's kind of a blunt and uh strong statement you just made. I understand that, but it's true. What do we see in the triumphal entry? Well, we see Jerusalem is filled with worshipers gathering to celebrate the Passover. Now, the vast majority of those people were coming because this is a tradition that they had grown up with. But the same reason a lot of people went to church 50 years ago, they came to church simply because it's a it's a tradition. It's what my parents did, it's what my grandparents did, and maybe even beyond that, they came to church simply because it was a tradition. It wasn't something they despised. Well sometimes people despise it and they come, but but they came because it's what they're supposed to do Jerusalem was filled with lots of people like that. There were some people that were curious. They wanted to know about Israel's God. There are lots and lots of different motives there in the crowd. But the bottom line is this: they were coming to prepare for to celebrate a picture that they didn't get. And you say, how do you know they didn't get it? Well we know because of what happened after this event. We also know because of what Jesus or what is referenced in the text as far as the Old Testament. The fulfillment of the Passover was literally coming into the city for the last time before he goes to the cross. And as all these people are setting aside their Passover lamps, and all of these people are cleansing their houses of leaven, and all of these ladies are preparing to celebrate this feast of Passover, And all these kids are asking questions. Why do we do this? Why does this matter? While they're doing that, the fulfillment of the Passover is coming into Jerusalem. It's incredible. And they didn't get it. And their cries were passionate, but they were filled with a tragic irony. Look down in your Bible at verse 13. It says, they cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. Now, you may not realize this when you read that right away, but they are literally quoting Scripture as Jesus comes into Jerusalem. Now, the way that they're quoting Scripture is the way that a lot of us quote Scripture out of context. But just the honest truth. And you're going to see that in just a moment. They understood the king is here. They wanted him to save them, but they did not understand the rest of the prophecy in Psalm 18. And so I want you to take your Bibles and turn back to Psalm 118. This is what we opened our scripture reading with this morning. because this is the text that they are quoting from as Jesus comes into Jerusalem and as they are saying, Hosanna, save us. Blessed is the king of Israel who comes in the name of the Lord. And there's this great crowd, and they're throwing down all the palm branches, and there's all this excitement in the city. Their words were a direct quote from Psalm 118, verses 25 to 26. Here's what it says. Save now. Now, that word now is important. Because when we go and look at this text, Psalm 118, we need to know where the save now comes in the text. Save now, I beseech thee, O Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee. Send now prosperity. Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord. What they were saying was good. What they're saying was biblical. But what they were saying came without understanding. It's like a person who sits in the pew of a church for 20, 30, 40, 50 years. And they sing rich hymns of the faith and they memorize the scriptures. But if you ask them to explain how it applies to them, they can't do it. That's what was going on at this moment in Israel's history. And their words were filled with a tragic irony. And verses 22 to 25, these are the words that lead up to what they were saying in the Psalm. Listen carefully to what it says. And as soon as I begin to read this, you're going to go, I see the connection between these two passages of Scripture. It says in verse 22, the stone which the builders refused. is become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice And be glad in it, save now. Now, have you ever seen that verse on a card or on a calendar? This is the day that the Lord has made. We will rejoice and glad in it. I hate to burst your bubble this morning. But that's talking about a very particular day. Not today. It's talking about this moment that we're reading about in John chapter 12. That leads up ultimately to the cross. The psalm recognized that deliverance could only happen after Christ was rejected. Notice it says the stone which the builders refused has become the head cornerstone. He says that before he says, save us, Lord. You know why that is? Because that's how he's going to save people. You can't rush to the salvation without the cross And the reason that all these people are going to reject Jesus is because they wanted redemption or they wanted salvation in a prosperity kind of a way. But they didn't understand that the cross is absolutely essential to the kingdom. This was God's plan from the foundation of the world. Literally, it says, this is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. Now notice it says our eyes. Why does it say that? He says our eyes, because there were some people that understood this, but there are others that did it. And the people that were quoting this text of scripture as Jesus came in on that day. They didn't understand. I'm not going to say all of them didn't understand. Some did. But many did not understand this is marvelous. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. The this is not the salvation. It's the cross. That is the focus of Psalm 118. The cross had to be the basis for this final cry. This is the day that the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Notice it says we again. Why? Because some people get it and some don't. The crowd wanted salvation prematurely because it did not understand redemption. Save us now Now if you go to Psalm 118, it's basically telling you this. There are people that when they read that psalm and when they quoted that psalm and they sang that psalm They said in their hearts mind, there's Redeemer coming. And when he comes and is rejected, and God does this , it'll be marvelous in our eyes. And then Then we can say save us. You can't say save us without a cross, folks. If a person does not believe that Jesus came to die and to rise from the dead, there's no point in saying, save me, Lord. Because that is the heart of the gospel. That is the means through which God saves people. And even his disciples. Did not understand what was going on. And we know that because in verse 16 it says, these things understood not his disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had none of these things, and that they had that they had done these things until So what it's basically telling you is that when when Jesus was coming in and all the people were were crying Hosanna, the disciples were like, oh this is this is the moment, man. He's going to become the king, and we're going to be his princes right here and now. They didn't get it. But after the cross and after the resurrection and after the ascension, they reflected back and they said, you know what? Now I get what was going on. They got it. But I want you to realize that that's just the beginning of this story. Because later in that same week of the Passover , in fact, a lot of the content we read about in the Gospels actually happens after the triumphal entry leading up to the cross. John is a great example of this, okay? We're in chapter twelve right now, and there's twenty-one chapters in the book. So half the book basically happens during the week of Passover. And the vast majority of this actually happened on the night that they're preparing for the Passover. Later that week in Matthew 23 it says this, Jesus goes and he says, Woe unto you scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites, ye be witnesses unto yourselves that you're the children of them which killed the prophets. You know the story of Jesus overturning the money changers? This is when it took place. Later on in that text he says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, now that killest the prophets and stonest them. Which are sent unto thee. How often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathered her chicks under her wings, and ye would not So as Jesus comes and the people rejected them, rejected him, he is so blunt and so confrontational, but he says, I wish you would have embraced the gospel. I long for you to receive me. After the cross, after the resurrection, after the ascension. About seven weeks later, they celebrated Pentecost. And this is what we read in Acts 3. Peter preaches, ye denied the Holy One and the just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you. And killed the prince of life, whom God hath raised from the dead, whereof we are witnesses. And now, brethren, I want that through ignorance ye did it, as did also your rulers. Guess who he's talking to? He's talking to the people. That were on that roadside saying, save us, but they didn't get it. You know what he's doing? He's saying you can still turn. Lord. You could still embrace Him. Notice he says, you did it in ignorance. You didn't get it. And they were cut to the heart and they said, What do we do? And this is what he said, repent, be converted, let your sins be blotted out. You know what's amazing? Even though we see the rejection of Christ and we see all of the rebellion after the fact, here we are, we're we're seven weeks later, and what is what is Peter saying? You can still be saved. You can turn to Christ. And you know what happened? 3,000 people were converted that day. There's a reason such a massive group of people got saved through such a simple and short message because they lived through those events. In fact, about a year or so later, we see the story of Stephen, the first Christian martyr. In Acts 7. 51, he says, ye stiff-necked and am circumcised in heart, do ye not always resist the Holy Ghost as your fathers did? Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? And they have slain them which showed before the coming of the just one. It says when they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed on him with their teeth. And you know what they did? They killed him. And there was a man there that day who it says in Acts chapter 8 was consenting unto their death. You know who that was? That was the Apostle Paul. And from that moment he began to persecute the church with great hatred. Yet you know what we see when he goes to Damascus? He meets the Lord. And in Galatians chapter 1, Paul writes, You have heard of my conversation in times past in the Jewish religion. Beyond measure I persecuted the church of God and wasted it. and profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in mine own nation, being more zealous of the traditions of my fathers, but when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace Now there's a reason that I'm going through this. I know it's a little lengthy. It's to show you that there are people that didn't get it. And their choices contributed to the death of Christ in a very specific way. And those same people were invited to come to Christ. And the person who hated Jesus more than any other person in that crowd, arguably, was the Apostle Paul. And folks, the same problem still goes on today. In 2 Timothy 2. 3, it says, know that in the last days perilous times will come. Men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful and holy without natural affection. Doesn't that sound a little bit like today? Maybe it's because it is. Lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. Do you realize it was the Apostle Paul who wrote that? The same man who hated the church hated Christ. That's what she wrote. Folks, history repeats itself because human nature is fundamentally unchanged. We desperately need to understand the times we're living in and why they are the way that they are. We need the church to get back to the gospel, the authority of Scripture, making disciples of those who trusted Christ. I want to close with this final thought. The gospel still saves people. In chapter 12, verse 23, he says, The hour is come, the Son of Man should be glorified. And when he says it is come, you know what he's saying? All the stuff that was talked about from the fall to the moment I stand in front of you, it's about to happen. It's all coming to the head. I'm gonna go, I'm gonna die, I'm gonna rise, and the Son of Man is gonna be glorified. Now what was he doing? He's saying, I'm gonna save people. I'm going to save people. You say, well, what does the passage teach us? Well, you know, it reminds us of several things, and we've kind of seen them laid out through all the stuff that we talked about. The first is this: Christ did what God promised to do. Even when the people so arrogantly resisted him. I don't know about you, but I get frustrated sometimes when I watch the news Read the blogs, listen to the podcasts. Yeah, I do. More than I'd like to admit. And what we what we sometimes fail to realize is that God has a plan. We get so fixated on what's going on around us and how desperate the times are and how frustrating and how troubling things are. And we think we're living in the worst time ever. Well, did God change his nature? Like we do believe that he is an unchanging God, do we not? He accomplished these promises through all kinds of circumstances that were far more desperate and far more difficult than what we encounter today. And guess what? People who shook their face in the hand of God and said, There's no way we're going to embrace the Messiah. They accomplished his purpose. What an amazing thought. And some of those same people that had such animosity and such hatred became the greatest examples of the transforming Power of the gospel. Sometimes God lets people express their rebellion to show them how great his salvation is. That's exactly what he did in these verses. The same basic problem that plagued these people plagues people today. See, all the stuff that we look at isn't really the sum and substance of what's going on. It's The evidence of what's inside. Just give people different circumstances, the same problems internally. They just manifest themselves in uniquely different ways, but they're the same at the root. We see that God's grace has extended repeatedly and showed its power in unthinkable ways. 3,000 people were saved in one day at Pentecost. 3,000 people who rejected Jesus, who contributed to him going to the cross, said, He's the Savior. He died, he rose. For me, and I'm willing to be baptized and identified with this message, even knowing that all of Jerusalem was in an uproar. They were willing. No person hated and persecuted the early church like Saul of Tarsus. Yet he became the apostle to the Gentiles. You know how many skeptics? They sought to disprove Christianity and the resurrection. When they came to the Apostle Paul, they had no idea what to do with Paul. And they said, maybe this is true. It's a lot of people. But that was a major factor in making them realize this is true. This really happened. Jesus really came. He really died. He really rose from the dead. But this passage doesn't just call us to reflect. It calls us to action. It calls us to do something. It calls us to respond. In obedience. And so I want to leave you with some final thoughts. If you've never placed your faith in Christ alone, and there could be someone here this morning, In our midst, most certainly on the live stream, maybe this is going to get shared with somebody down the road, who knows? It might be 10 or 15 years from now. It's still on YouTube. Somebody might listen to this message. If you've never trusted Christ, then repent and believe. Turn to Him. Trust in what He did for you. Quit fighting Him. Quit acting like this didn't happen. Quit acting like it doesn't matter. Quit acting like you could somehow earn your way to God. You can't. Place your faith in Christ. If you've allowed yourself to see him as a means to your own selfish ends, and I I have to confess I find myself guilty on this one many times. God, I wish you'd transform this country so it'd be easier for me to raise my family here. I mean, I I I would like it to be easier to raise my family here, would you not as well? But what's God doing? We don't necessarily understand all the details. We see him as a means to our own selfish end. And you know what we need to do? We need to repent of our self-centeredness and our selfishness and embrace his purpose, whatever it might be. He has a plan. He's doing something. And we need to trust him. We need to embrace what he's doing. We are not the center of the universe. He is. He created it. If we've resigned ourselves to the thinking that there are people beyond his grace, and I think that we find ourselves here often. We need to repent of a deficient view of his grace and seek the lost again. Are there people that in your mind there's certain categories like, you know, you cross that line, it's impossible for you to be saved? That person's too far gone. They've had so many opportunities. There's no way they're going to come to Christ now. Well, I hate to tell you this. Actually, I don't hate to tell you this. I'm glad to tell you this. God's grace is bigger than you and me. He could do things we think are impossible. That is what his grace does. Nobody living at the time of Paul going and persecuting Christians believed he was going to be taking the gospel to the ends of the earth just a few decades later. Nobody would have ever dreamed that. And nobody would have ever believed we'd be talking about him today. Yet we are. If you've lost your sense of God's goodness, repent of your entitled spirit. Remind yourself of the weight of his sacrifice for you and the persistence of his grace to you. If anybody doubts that God is good, don't forget what he did. Did you believe did you deserve it? No? Okay. Does it not mean anything to you? Oh, it does. Okay, take a step back and let's look at what really matters in life. And let's analyze what we're experiencing through the lens of truth Not through how we feel in the moment, not through the things that the people around us are telling us, through truth, through what the Word of God says My encouragement is that we would resist this tragic misunderstanding that these people had of God's redemptive purpose. May He help us to be doers of the Word, not just hearers. Let's bow together for prayer. Before I close in prayer, I want to ask a question. There might be somebody here that has never trusted in the Lord Jesus as your Savior. This passage really, really emphasized the need to trust Christ. There might be someone who says I I need to trust Christ, but I'm still not clear on some things. No, no worries. I'd be glad to sit down with you and take a Bible and show you how you can be saved or have you sit down with someone else who can take a Bible and show you how you can be saved. Is there anybody here this morning that would just quietly raise up your hand with no one else looking but me and say, Pastor, I need to talk to you. Or to maybe a lady or another man, so that I can address this issue of salvation. I need to trust Christ and I need to talk to somebody about it. Anybody like that? Give you just a second Look around. You may have not raised your hand, but in your heart you go, I know I need to do that. I'd be too embarrassed to admit it, but I need Please do not leave this place without reaching out. Or as soon as you get home, send me An email, say, Pastor, I need to talk to you about this. I would be glad to tell you what the Bible says about salvation. The vast majority of us in this room are saved. Maybe that there's some things that we need to change about the way we see things. That's what the word repent means. It's a change of how we think. Truth has confronted us, we need to respond. Please do not hold back. If God is working in your heart, confess that to him right there in your seat. Acknowledge your need. Turn back to him. Ask him to help you to think biblically. Please let's bow for a word of prayer and then we'll sing our closing hymn. Our Father, thank you for the Word of God. May you take it and use it in our hearts Help us to be overwhelmed by the wonderful truths we find in this passage. Help us to live in the light of them. May you be glorified in our midst as we repent and as we We respond. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's pull out our hymn books and turn to hymn 416. And this is a really good one. My faith has found a resting place. We're going to sing the first and the fourth verses together. Please let's stand and we'll sing My Faith has found a resting place. I make a divine. And that he died for me, I for his leading on the world. With his word of God , salvation by my spiritual spirit , God, I need your heart for me. I think you can sign and die for me What a great song for us to close in. Just want to remind you that tonight we're going to have a farewell fellowship for the cranes as they'll be moving uh very soon. And so um if you need to sign up, please sign up for what you're gonna bring. If you if you don't sign up, you still come. Uh just bring something um if you can. And um I want to write remind you next week being um the day that we remember the resurrection of Christ We will probably have a couple people visiting who are not here this morning. And I know that we're going to have about 50 teenagers with a youth group that's doing their senior trip. So Please, when you come, park towards the back. If you come early, park towards the back. Try to move in and up a little bit so that we have room. um for folks who might might be coming in a little later and just know that this section over here is gonna be uh full when you come in from Sunday school more than likely. So uh just keep that in mind. I'm really looking forward to a wonderful time of reflecting. on the heart of our faith. We serve a risen Savior. He died and rose. And I really look forward to Easter Sunday, we'll remember the resurrection. And uh we do have invitations. Please do um invite folks um in your area, family members, friends, and it's just gonna be a really, really wonderful Lord's Day. So Want to remind you of that. Brother Charlie Archibald, can you please come and close us in prayer? And then hope to see many of you tonight. Heavenly Father, I do thank you for your love. Thank you for uh the reminders this morning. All that Christ has done for us and the um the gift that you've given, the salvation that you've provided. Uh pray you be with us throughout this this season as um we remember Christ's death and resurrection. Help us to um Be willing to share with others. Help us to be bold. Help us to be good witnesses for you. Just help us to remember all that you do for us. Pray in Jesus' name. Amen.