Well, good morning. Good to see each of you today. Hope that you're having a wonderful uh start to your Lord's Day And uh if you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, uh we'd like to warmly welcome you and so glad that you could be joining us today. Uh if you um receive I hope that you'll take a moment to look through that. And one of the items in the welcome packet is a visitor card. And we ask that folks who would like to to uh get followed up with, uh that you would take that, fill it out, and just put it in the little box in the back. And that's just a way for us to reach out to you to uh figure out how we can be a blessing and an encouragement to you. So I hope that you'll be able to do that if possible. I'd like to draw your attention to a couple of items that we have in our bulletins today. First of all, we have Our 2021 graduates here in the bulletin leaf, and we have Chris Hutchison , Billy Fhew, Marsha McCauley, and Morgan Peterson And some of you are high school, some of you are college, you know who is doing what there. But we're so thankful to have some of our graduates here. And we're gonna have a special Time to celebrate them not this Sunday but the following. So I'm looking forward to that. Also wanted to draw your attention to a couple of other items. First of all, there's a nursery workers meeting. after the morning service. So those of you that are involved in our nursery workers ministry, please come to that meeting. It's here in the auditorium And those of you who maybe are not involved right now, but you'd be interested in being involved, please come to that meeting as well. Also, there's a teens inspiration tonight, and so please mark that on your calendars and hopefully Hopefully our teams will be able to make it to that. We also have a special Truth Trackers Water Night. I believe this is the last night of Truth Trackers. Is that correct? So I know the kids are looking forward to that. After that, we'll have our True Trackers Award presentation the following Sunday. Please don't forget that on Monday the 31st, we're having a special group from Marinatha, the Heritage City. are going to be with us and um they're gonna be uh doing a special uh meeting on Monday night at five o'clock. We're going to have a cookieout and then at six PM we'll have a concert. So hope that you can come to that if possible. There is a sign-up sheet. And so if you're planning to come to that, please do sign up and mention what you're planning to bring. for that. Also, there's a baby shower on the 5th. If you are interested in coming to that, ladies, please sign up for that. And my wife is the contact person for that. uh baby shower and then also uh make sure that you sign up for vacation bible school and so on uh the twenty eighth through july the second we have VBS and we're really looking forward to a great VBS So we're really looking forward to being able to do vacation and bible school again this year. If you could, let's take our Bibles and let's turn together to our opening scripture reading. And our opening scripture reading is in Psalm 116. Psalm 116. And we'll read verses one through seven together this morning. Psalm 116. It says, I love the Lord because he hath heard my voice. And my supplications. Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon him as long as I live. The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell get hold upon me. I found trouble and sorrow. Then called I upon the name of the Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee, deliver my soul. Gracious is the Lord and righteous, yea, God is merciful. The Lord preserveth the simple, he was brought low, and he helped me. I was brought low and he helped me. Return unto thy rest, O my soul, for the Lord hath dealt bountifully with thee This morning we're going to be focusing on the importance of embracing restorative love, and we're going to talk about how within the local church there are times that sometimes we drift away and we need people to come alongside of us and encourage us in the Lord. There are times that we see others who are going through times of struggle and trial, and God wants to use us as an instrument to reach into their lives and to help draw them back to where they need to be. to be. And so we're going to talk about that concept this morning from James chapter five. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will uh go to the Lord in prayer. Then we'll sing. Father, we thank you so much for this Lord's Day. It's a time of reflection , a time of rest. It's a time for us to focus our attention on you Father, we are so thankful that today we can be gathered together and we can worship you with one voice and with one heart. I pray that there would be a sweet fellowship amongst Each one of us, I pray that our time together would be very refreshing and Christ-centered. I pray that as we head our separate ways later in the day, that our hearts would have been strengthened by this time. Together, and that we would have had our perspective shaped in a godly way to face the challenges that we most certainly will encounter in this coming. Week. Father, we pray for those who are sick, those who have traveled, those who are going through trials at this moment. I pray that your hand would be at work and strengthening them and comforting them. And protecting them. I pray that we would not forget your tender mercies in our lives. Father, we want to uplift you as a God who is truly worship of our praise. And as we think about what we studied in Sunday school this morning, and we talked about how awesome you are, how you are a God who is worthy to be reverenced. One who is to be feared before. I pray that we would delight in your love and your grace. We would be ever grateful for your patience. Father, we thank you for your compassions and your mercy. That are new every morning. We thank you most importantly for the gospel of Christ. How He came, died for our sins on the cross, He shed His blood, and He rose triumphant from the grave. So that we could stand righteous in Christ. I pray that if there's anyone here this morning that does not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, that through the things that they hear, through the time spent with Christians in this place, that you would use these truths to point them to the cross of Christ, that they would understand what it means to be born again and to be justified. In your presence. Pray for your blessing on each aspect of this service, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, well, if we if you could, let's turn together to our first hymn this morning Our first hymn is hymn number 14, worthy of praise. Hymn number 14, let's stand together, please, and we'll sing the first and the second verses of this song. My heart overflows. With praise to the Lord, I will lift up my voice to the king. He brought me out of the pit of despair and taught my heart to see Worthy of all my praise. You are worthy of all my grace I bow at your throne, and I pushed up you alone, for you are worthy. Worthy of praise on the last I live sing it praise our is one His word is the land to my way. His mercy and grace forever endure. His heart strong equals each day, worthy of all my praise You are worthy of all my days. I bow at your throne And I worship you alone. Lord, you are worthy, worthy of praise I'd like to ask you to turn over to hymn 165, and the song is the church's one foundation. Hymn 165, we'll be singing the first, the second, and the last verses together. Together please, him one hundred and sixty-five The church is one foundation is Jesus Christ the Lord. She is his creation on water and rob From heavy came and sorter to me is only With his own blood emotion and for her life he dies Relax from affination, catch one or all the earth. The charter of salvation. One more, one thing, one first. One more video, but take one more people. And the bubble she presses with every grace without Yet she on earth has until And it's extreme with social space with one. Who happy was only for ever Christ that Jesus I damn the mean on him. Great singing, you can be seated. Let's turn now to hymn 177. I love this hymn. The hymn is our great savior. We're going to sing the first, the second, and then the fourth and the fifth verses together of our great savior Surely think it out. Jesus was a friend for sinners Jesus lover of my soul Press me well me for the sell me. He my savior makes me more. Yahweh Savior Aleluya Friend Say me how me loving me and wet me to me and Jesus was strength in weakness as last me hide myself in him Temp Detri and Stop transferring my thing My big shrimp and gave your Daming how many loving east Jesus was a guide and he burns. He my diamond is my pride. Hallelujah wants a secret. Jesus, I do now receive him more than all in him I find He had frented be forgiveness I And his mind I look out, but I save your hero. What a friend saving helping keeping loving keep Great singing. Let's turn in our Bibles please to James chapter 5 for our scripture reading. James chapter five, and we are coming very close to the end of our series. We've been doing through the book of James. In fact, uh it's the last text, and then we'll do kind of a synopsis of the book in our next time we're together. But James 5, verses 19 through 20 is our scripture reading this morning. Here's what the scriptures say. Bret brethren, if any of you do err from the truth and one convert him, let him know that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way Shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins. Let me read that again. Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth and one convert him, let him know that he which converted The sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to bless the reading of his word, and then we'll continue. Continue our singing this morning. Father, we thank you for the scripture we've just read, and we're reminded of the importance Of the local church, we're reminded of how vitally important it is that we bear one another's burdens, that we uplift one another in prayer, that That we communicate when we are struggling and we are going through spiritual challenges. I pray that you'd help us to understand the Full weight and the significance of the Scripture in front of us this morning. Father, as we as we reflect on this text of Scripture, I pray that we would be impressed with the role that we need to function in both as one who receives restorative love and one who gives. I pray that within our local church we would have a sweet spirit, one doubt this encouragement of exhortation and challenge is something that is regularly happening in close and loving relationship with one another. another. Pray that you'd help us to to really live out practically the truths that we will look at this even this morning. We ask that you'll continue to bless our service. Thank you for The singing and the opportunity to focus on these wonderful doctrinal truths. Help them to sink into our hearts and help us to express these truths with joy, with understanding. We ask Okay, the next song we'll be singing is hymn 371. Hymn 371 And the song is a Passion for Thee. Hymn 371. A Passion for Thee. We'll sing the first and the second verses, please. Say my daughter, dear father, on me and people be Give me others for thy presence divine Nor keep my focus on loving me only first meeting Turn my heart after thine , compassion for thee, O more satisfying my soul. And a thirst for my God. Hear thou my prayer, Lord, thy power him. Yes, yesterday, but you must be with all of my heart. Father fill with thy spirits and bid me for service Let love for Christ and remote him inspired Teach me to follow and stop with submission in now my joy And my soul 's one design a passion for thee O Lord, set a fire in my soul, and a thirst for my God, give thou my prayer for thy power. Our embark, not just his sir, but to love me with all my heart Isn't that a great song? I hope that's your passion. That's your prayer. I hope that's where your heart really is this morning. Let's turn to our final song. This is in the blue book, hymn 192. And it's our song for the month. It's complete in thee. Let's stand together and we're going to sing the entirety of this song together. All four verses. Complete in thee. Comes need in thee, no work of mine, may take your place of thine, Thy blood hath God and born. And I am now complete and thee. Ye justified O blessed thoughts and sanctify salvation wrought Thy blood hath fought and bought for me and glorified. Comes in thee, no more shall sin. Thy grace shall come to reign within. Thy voice shall be done tender flee, and I shall stand complete to thee Can justify no blessed thoughts, can save my salvation thoughts, thy blood hath card and bought for me And glorified I do shall be on the third Complete and Dame and once the wide Has no good thing to meet denied. Since thou my caution over thee, I ask no more complaint in thee Get justified O blessed thoughts and sanctified salvation thoughts I cut hard and forth in me and live on shall we All traps and tons of sandal Comtro Sand I mean At thy right hand , completed thee, Yea, justified O blessed thoughts, And sanctify salvation wrought Thy blood hath fought and bought for me, and for without I too shall be. Great singing, wonderful song, you may be seated. And uh our children who are in uh junior church can be dismissed to the back. And uh moms and dads, uh one of you take the kids back there for junior church. Junior church. And the rest of you, I want to ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to James chapter 5. James chapter 5, and this is a passage that Uh we looked at in quite a bit of detail actually last Sunday. In fact, we looked at it in detail in both the morning service and the evening service. Because I think there was a lot that needed to be flushed out in this passage of Scripture. Well, one of the things that I think is so important when we deal with a passage is it has interpretive challenges and we need to really deal with details in those areas, is sometimes we miss out on other aspects of the past. That are extremely important. And I don't want us to do that. So this morning we're going to go back into James chapter 5 and we're going to look at verses 19 through through twenty. the But so that we can kind of get a sense of the the the flow of this passage, I'm going to go back and I'm going to begin in verse 16. because verse 16 really is part of the context of verses 19 and 20. So here's what it says in James 5, verse 16. It says, confess your faults one to another, and pray for one another, that ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. Much. Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years. Years and six months. He prayed again, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. Brethren, if any of you Do err from the truth, and one convert him. Let him know that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude I want you to realize that as we look at the book of James, we see one of the most practical books in the entire New Testament. Not saying that the other epistles are not practical, but the reality is that James is full of practical instruction. We see a lot of this things that James writes are drawing from things that Jesus taught in the Sermon on the Mount. A lot of what James taught also draws from things that we find in the Proverbs that Solomon wrote. James is a very practical book. And James is written to a body of believers who are part of what is called the diaspora. In other words, these were Jewish Christians that had to flee from Jerusalem. Jerusalem. They were spread all over the Roman Empire, and many of them were living in little pockets, little regions where they were in kind of isolated communities. Well, one of the things that we see about the book of James is that for these Jewish Christians who are living in other parts of the Roman Empire, they are in a very difficult place. because they are not only isolated living in these little communities, but because of their association with the gospel, because they're now a part of local churches. These Jewish Christians were facing tension not only outside in the community, but within their own communities. And so I want you to realize that these Jewish believers were Jewish believers who were very, very pressed individuals. They were facing a lot of challenges. It was very easy for these Christians to begin to get discouraged. And we all know that when we suffer and when we get discouraged, we tend to internalize what's going on and then the people the closest to us are the ones that are often kind of crushed in the the the the the challenges we're facing. Isn't that the truth? As we feel pressure, we tend to lash out at the people that are the closest to us. us. Well what we see in the book of James at the close of this section is that he talks about the fact that within the local church There is a need for something that we call restorative love. What I mean by restorative love is it's the kind of love that is needed for people who are at odds with one another, who are contentious with Whether we like to admit it or not, we all face times in life where we need Restorative love. We might be the ones that need to give restorative love. We might be the ones that need to be the recipients of restorative love. We need restorative love within our family unit. many times, between husband and wife, between children, siblings, sometimes within our extended families, between brothers or sisters or a parent who is at odds with a a grown-up child. The reality is that we need this thing called restorative love often. But one of the areas where we really do need restorative love is often within the local church context. You know, the local church is supposed to be a place where there is loving harmony. It's supposed to be a community where Christians gather together and because of the gospel Because of that gospel that unites us, we have a closer bond with one another than maybe we even experience with some people that are a part of our our family biologically, but we have a different worldview than they have. The church is supposed to be a harmonious place, a loving community. Unfortunately, because we are all sinners and because we're all prone to contention, it isn't always that way. It is always God's will that the local church is a sweet and harmonious community of believers. And in order for that to take place, there is a continual need for this thing called restorative love In fact, we look at this passage of Scripture in front of us, what we see is it's a a passage that was written to exhort us to understand the importance of this thing called restorative love, so that we will work diligently to promote a healthy church culture. That stimulates spiritual growth. You know, the church needs to be a place where you hear doctrinal soundness. The church is a place where we need to sometimes have our toes stepped on a little bit, just to be honest. The church is a place, though. Where we need to be developing some of the closest, strongest, most encouraging bonds that people could ever experience. God wants the church to have a culture that stimulates growth. Now, a lot of you know that I love to garden. It's one of the of those things that I'm kind of weirdly passionate about. And one of the things that I've learned both the hard way and positively is that if you do not put the right elements into that place where that where that plant is growing It will not thrive. If you have the wrong nutrient balance, or we could say imbalance, the plant won't grow properly. If it gets too much sun or too little sun, the plant will not grow properly. You have to give the right balance. And so as someone who is gardening, what do you have to do? You have to s pay careful attention to what that plant needs or what those plants need so that the environment is right to produce. Growth. The church is the same way. The church needs to be an environment where people are stimulated to grow spiritually. A place where we can thrive and where we can become more like Jesus and serve one another and to serve even within our communities God wants us to be a people who regularly receive and demonstrate restorative love. So this morning I want us to talk about how we do that. How can we be that kind of a people? The first thing I want us to see from the passage in front of us. Is that all of us are people that need shepherding. Now, when I say shepherding, please don't take offense to that. The Bible uses the illustration of shepherding quite a bit. In fact In 1 Peter chapter 5, we're going to talk about this passage later on. Paul talks about the role of the elder, the overseer, as a pastor. In fact, it describes the nature of that individual's work in the church. All of us, not just you, I, we need shepherding. I want you to notice what it says in verse 19. He says, brethren, if any of you do err from the truth What does he mean by err from the truth? Well, the Greek term that's used there has the idea of wandering away from the truth. And it's not just a deliberate kind of wandering. It could be an ignorant kind of wandering. In fact, one of the reasons that the scripture often uses the illustration of sheep is because Sheep are prone to wander and they need to be led and they need to be cared for and they need to be watched and they need to be looked out for. The Bible teaches that we are like that. We are like sheep that are prone to drift. I want to ask this question: why is it that we are so prone to wander? Why is it that when we're children we need mom and dad? Why is it that when we get into that that period of life where we're getting into adulthood, we need mentors, people that are looking out for us, investing in us Why is it that within the church context we need pastors who teach the Word of God regularly? Why is it that pastors need to be mentored by older pastors? Why is it that we need this? Well, let me talk to you for a moment. moment about what the Bible has to say about the natural tendency that is within all of our hearts. The first thing I want us to see is that we're a people that are prone to wander. Go with me to Hebrews chapter 5. In Hebrews chapter 5, I want you to notice carefully what the writer of Hebrews says about these individuals who were being tempted and pressed. to walk away from the church body. In Hebrews chapter 4, verse 12, he says, When for the time ye ought to be teachers Ye have need that one teach you again the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. Now I want you to notice two things that the writer states about these individuals. He says, you need someone to teach you again the first principle. Another way to put that is you need to be reminded again of the basics of the Christian experience, the Christian doctrine. Christian practice. You need to go back to the foundations and be reminded again of those basic truths. A second statement that stands out is he says, you are become That means that you were not initially in this position. There was a time when you knew the basics. There was a time when you didn't need this kind of instruction. You go, well, how in the world did these believers get to such a place? And the fact is this, they were being pressed. They were being pressed culturally. They are being pressed by the s the struggles and the strains of the time in which they were living. And the fact is this, you and I are in the same kind of situation. It is different in many ways, but in practice. Principle very similar. We are pressed through circumstance, through cultural pressures, through the things that we deal with in our work environment. maybe within our extended families. We are a people who get pressed, and guess what happens when we get pressed? We begin to drift. He says you should be in a position to be a teacher. That means in his mind, they had been believers long enough to be be matured, to have stability, to be able to communicate the scriptures, to be the one who is the mentor, not the one who is being mentored. But you have gotten to a place where you need to be taught again, and you have become a person who needs milk and not meat. If these individuals could get into such a place, so can you. We see an example of David talking about the soberness with which he lived in light of this own tendency he had within his own heart. When we talk about David, we know that David was a man who loved God. David, the Bible says, was a man after his own heart. Yet when we look at David's life, what we see is moments where David was passionate. and obedient and humble and matured. And we see moments where David was at the very bottom of life. David was a man, though he was maturing and growing and developing, who was still prone to wander. And listen to what he says in Psalm 19, verses 12 and 14. He says, Who can understand his errors? Cleanse thou me from secret faults. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them, presumptuous sins, let them not have dominion over me. Then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent of the great transgression. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. Now I want you to notice what he said. He first of all starts with a question. He says, who can understand his errors? Now, why does David say that? David states this because he understands that there are times that we cannot see Where we truly are ourselves. Do you understand what I'm saying? There are times that we need another person who is not emotionally bound up in our circumstances. who 's not dealing with the same besetting sins and struggles to come alongside of us in love, not in arrogance Not in a vindictive manner, not in desire to hurt us, simply purely out of love and kindness and compassion and in spiritual maturity, and comes alongside and says, you know, I see something that concerns me. me and I want to help you. Can I help you? That's what David is saying. Who can understand his heirs? We need God to open our eyes. This is why we regularly need to be under the ministry of the Scriptures, because every time we sit under the ministry of the Scriptures , What happens is the Holy Spirit takes the Word of God and He begins to sink it into our hearts. And as He sinks it into our hearts, He begins to press into certain areas. And God can do this in a way that no person can do this. And God can get down into the crevices, into those little places in our hearts That are unknown to everybody, even ourselves. And he can begin to prod and to prick and to work in us. And David says, I need that He says, I have secret faults. Now when he says he has secret faults, he could be saying two things. He could be saying, I'm hiding things from from people and they don't know about it. you. Or he could be saying, they're sacred because I'm even unaware of them myself. And I think that's really what David is communicating. There are things within my own heart that are detrimental to me and to the people around me, and I don't yet see it. God, I need you to cleanse me from these things He says, keep me back from presumptuous sins. Presumptuous means I know it's wrong. I don't care. I'm just gonna to do it. I'm just going to say, you know, God is good. God is merciful. God is gracious. I'm going to take my chances here. I'm sure nobody's ever done that. I'm sure many of you have done that. I'm sure many of us have had moments in our lives where we just said, Oh, God's a God of mercy and love and grace. I'm just gonna step out and do this. And then we read Regretted those moments. He says, God, keep me back from those kinds of sins. And then he makes an interesting statement. Let them not have dominion over me. We talk about dominion, we're talking about an oppressive, controlling, master -slave relationship. He says, God, I don't want to be a slave to my sin. I don't want to be a slave to my passions. I want to serve you in the freedom of having victory over these things. What is David expressing? He's expressing that we are people who are prone to want to You say, Well, why was he so sobered? Listen carefully, going back to the book of Hebrews, what it says. It says in verse 12, he says, Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. In departing from the living God, but exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. What the writer of Hebrews expresses, which is a universal truth about human nature. Is that sin has the ability to deceive us? And sin has the ability to harden our hearts against God. And unbelief is always a major temptation to every Christian. And so he basically says: you need to make sure that you listen to what God is doing in your life. Daily being exhorted by the truth, so that you don't drift in unbelief, so that you don't become deceived by sin, and so you don't become calloused and hardened to the deceitfulness of God This is why we need to be sobered. This is why we need people to look out for our souls. And so I state it very simply. As the text is saying it, we need people to look out for our souls. We need people who will love us enough to be willing to approach us in the right way at the right time to help us take the steps that we know we need to take, but we're having a great difficulty doing. Let me give you a couple of areas of this kind of spiritual accountability. The first I'll mention is church leadership. Now, let me just say something for I'm not presenting this text of scripture to present a paradigm of an abusive authoritarian leadership. That is not the intent of the passage. There are pastors, men, and people in church leadership that have abused their authority, and I know that full well. But I want you to understand that the scriptures do teach That we need people to watch for our souls, to pray for us To intercede on our behalf, to come alongside of us and to strengthen us and encourage us. Notice what he says in verses, verse 17 of Hebrews 13. He says, Obey them that have the rule over you. Submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls as they that must give an account, that they might do it with joy and not with grief. That is unprofitable for you. In another text of scripture in 1 Peter chapter 5, he talks about pastoral care, and he moves from pastoral care to really something that is supposed to be part of the entirety of the church congregation. In 1 Peter 5, 2 he says, feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof. Now Peter is writing to someone who he says is an elder, a person in a position of spiritual oversight, a person who is an overseer, a person who is a pastor He says, you need to feed the flock of God. In other words, teach them God's word so that their souls are enriched in truth. He then says this, taking the oversight, not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ruddy mind. In other words, it's not about money It's not about authority. It's about care. And then he puts it this way: neither as being lords over God's heritage But being in samples to the flock. Now pause for a moment and think about what he's saying. He says, you are not doing this as someone who is domineering. Someone who is authoritative. You are doing it as someone who is a shepherd under the shepherd. He reminds them that the primary responsibility is that of example. In other words, be an example to the flock. Not one who is domineering and lording, but one who is demonstrating by practical example, one who is feeding and one who is teaching and one who is nurturing. And he says, when the chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive the crown of glory that fadeth not away. What this passage is communicating Is that there is a chief shepherd who cares for your soul, and he delegates authority to individuals who are to care for your soul. And as they care for their for your soul, they are doing it to the Lord who is ultimately In charge. But then he makes a very interesting statement. He says, likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder, yea, all of you be subject one to another. Here's what he's saying. Everybody needs somebody to look out for them. Everybody. Whether you're a pastor or a deacon or a Sunday school teacher or a brand new Christian or someone who's been a believer for 70 years. We all need people to look out for one another. And the way he puts it is he says, all of you be subject one to another. In other words, there is this mutual accountability and encouragement and strength. In other words, we all need to exhort and encourage one another. When we come to church, it's not just about getting my fill and leaving, but it's about me interacting with others so that we mutually encourage and strengthen and build up one another. This is the sense that Peter is communicating in the text. In another passage, Galatians chapter 6 verse 1 he says Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of meekness considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. Now it's so important that we understand that when he talks about this kind of exhortation and this kind of encouragement, he presents it in the picture of someone who comes alongside and builds up and strengthens and encourages. In fact, when we talk about the Holy Spirit being the comforter. The idea is that he is the paraclete. He comes alongside, he strengthens, he builds up, he supports, he encourages Paul many times talked about when he was giving authoritative instruction, he would say, I beseech you as one who comes alongside of you, encourages you. and strengthens you and builds you up. This is the sense of the kinds of relationships we should have with one another in the local church. And he uses three statements that I think should help us to understand the nature of this. The first word is restore. The word restore means there's a skill dimension to this. Now listen, if you've got two people that are at odds with one another, just because you want them to get along doesn't mean you are well positioned to make it happen Anybody know what I'm talking about? You ever jumped into a situation and all of a sudden you wrote ah way over my head? If you are going to bring two people together who are going to be restored and they are genuinely at odds, it takes skill. And guess what? That takes time to develop. The scripture doesn't teach that any of us should just step into any situation. We need to be very cautious that we have developed to a point where we have the Tools by the grace of God to actually help people that are in such places. The second statement that really stands out is the statement, the spirit of meekness. So he's not just talking about skill, but he's talking about a humble approach. He's talking about the attitude and the way that we come about it. Meekness is something that holds back when it certainly has the ability to step forward. In other words, meekness is the ability to maybe harness our emotions sometimes. There are times when working with individuals who are at odds, the skill has to be Pull back a little bit and we have to humbly and meekly work with an individual. That takes time. You say that's hard word. I don't want to mess with that. Nobody wants to mess with that God says we need it. And then the third statement that's very interesting, he says, bear one another's burdens. You say, if I don't want to mess with the whole restoration thing, I most certainly do not want to bear other people's burdens. I have enough to bear myself. I'm being crushed under the load of my own struggles. Why would I want to carry somebody else's? But listen carefully. God wants us to be a people who have grown to a point of maturity where we can carry the burdens of others with them. He wants us to literally shoulder burdens side by side so that people can grow and be strengthened. The idea is that we need strength. The idea is that we need patience. And I ask the question, do you get these things, the skill and the humility and the strength and the patience? Do you get them immediately when you become a Christian? No. Do we just naturally have these qualities? The answer is no. These are the results of the statement at the beginning of the passage that says, you who are spiritual. In other words, a person who is matured in the faith is the one who can do this. I want you to realize that God wants all of us to get to the place. Where we have the maturity to do this. He wants that. The truth is that there are times that you will be far better positioned, frankly speaking. than the pastor to help somebody. You say, how is that possible? That's the pastor's job. I get that. I get that But there's something about going to a pastor and saying, I have this issue, I need to talk to you about it. All of a sudden it's like the stakes are really high in people's minds. But when you're a brother, a sister, a close friend, you may be very well positioned to help that person. And I want you to realize that the text isn't saying, oh, if you're a pastor, you do this, everyone else has to worry about this. If you're a deacon, you do this, but nobody else has to worry about it. He says, you who are spiritual restore. Men, women, olds , mid-age, whatever, if you are a godly person, you need to be positioned to do these kinds of And let me tell you, if a church is full of these kinds of men and women, the church is going to be strong and the church is going to be to be vibrant and it's going to be a place where people are thriving and growing and maturing. The second truth we're going to see is that we all need to either receive or to show this restoration. In verse 19, he says, and one convert him. You ask what does the word convert mean? Technically, when we use the term conversion, we tend to think of it in light of somebody coming to faith in Christ. For instance. In Acts chapter 13, verse 19, or 3, verse 19, when Peter is preaching at Pentecost, he says, Repent ye therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. When Peter is preaching at Pentecost, he's preaching to a vast multitude of people who had rejected the Messiah. In fact, some of those very people, just a few days, weeks before, had been saying, Crucified Jesus. They didn't understand who he was. They were rejecting who he was. And Peter is preaching there at Pentecost and he's saying, you need to repent And turn to the Lord Jesus Christ, embrace the Messiah, and you will be converted. And he uses it in terms of a person being turned from death. To life. When that person places their faith in Christ, old things are passing away, all things are becoming new. Their orientation toward God has completely changed. He speaks of conversion in the sense of their salvation. Paul uses it this way as well in 1 Thessalonians 1. He says, they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, how that you turn to God from idols to serve the living in church. And that word you've turned is the same word for convert, talked about in Acts 3, and here in James chapter 5. It's the same Greek term It is often used in the sense of a person coming to faith in Christ. But I want you to realize that is not the only way the term convert is used. It is also used in the context of someone who is a believer who has drifted from the truth and they're turned back to where they need to be. It's essentially what the writer of Hebrews is talking about when he says, you need someone to teach you the first principles of the oracles of God. You've become need of someone who needs milk instead of meat. And you need to be turned back. He's not saying you need to get saved or get saved again. He's saying you are walking away and you need to be turned around back to where you need to be. In fact, Jesus used this word when he was talking to Peter and Luke 22. Listen to what he says. Peter, I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. When thou art converted, strengthen strengthen thy brethren. You say, well what's what's he talking about with Peter here? He's not talking about Peter's salvation. He says, you have faith. I don't want your faith to fail, but you are going to drift. And you are going to turn away from where you're supposed to be. You're going to deny me. That's what Peter did. He denied the Lord three times. And that night, when Jesus caught his eye, Peter went out and he wept miserably and bitterly. But after the resurrection, Jesus goes back to Peter and he restores Peter. And he says, feed my sheep. In fact, he says it three times. times. He's talking about a man wandering and being turned back. And that is the same sense that James is using in this passage. David talks about this as well in Psalm 19. He says that the law of the Lord is perfect converting the soul. And that word converting, it says, so that the soul will be converted. He says it's converting. The idea is he's talking about the sanctification side of our salvation, how we constantly drift and we need to to be turned back and we drift and we need to turn back. convert Folks, we need this in our lives. Paul emphasized that there were times that people needed to play a role of drawing individuals back. For instance, in 2 Corinthians 5 2, he says we're ambassadors for Christ. God did beseech you by us. We pray you be reconciled to God. In Romans 10, 14, he says, how can they call on him who they've not believed? How can they believe on him of whom they've not heard? How say they hear without a preacher? God draws people through people. He uses the word, but he draws through people speaking to others. People. This is how people get saved. They hear the gospel. And as they hear the gospel, and as the word of God is laid out before them, they become convicted of sin and righteousness and judgment. And they turn to the Lord and they place their faith in Christ. God draws through people. We talk about someone who's drifting away from where they need to be. God draws through people. I love 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Probably one of my favorite texts of scripture. I have several chapters I love, but this is one that I really love. And this is what he says: He says, Seeing we have this ministry, We have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, not handling the word of God deceitfully, but by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. He says, if our gospel is hid, it's him to them that are lost. In whom the God of this world hath blinded the mind of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them He says, we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord and our servants for your sakes. He says, we have this treasure In earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. You realize God uses us, and we are very imperfect. We are not perfect instruments, but God draws through us. I want you to realize there are times that God wants to use us to restore Restore people. He wants to use us to reach into the lives of unsaved people. He wants to use us to reach into the lives of people that are genuinely saved but are drifting away from the truth. And you know what we call that? Restorative love. Restorative love. There are times that we're the one drifting and we don't yet see it. Or we do see it. But we're not willing to yet face it. And God brings along a dear brother, a dear sister, they come alongside of us and they begin to talk to us and they lovingly begin pointing us to the truth. And it is through their ministry. Their being an instrument God is working through. It is through their ministry that God draws us back to the truth. We need to be recipient Recipients and those who demonstrate restorative love. 2 Timothy chapter 2, this is what Paul writes. He says that the servant of the Lord Must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient, in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves If peradventure God will grant them repentance, the acknowledging of the truth, that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who are taken captive at his will. Folks, that's exactly That is exactly what I'm trying to communicate. That's exactly what James is talking about. Not striving, being gentle, able to teach. Instructing in meekness so that God can grant repentance. The third and final truth I'll mention today is this: restorative love limits the terrible damage that is done by unchecked sinful behavior. You know, in the book of Romans it says that the wages of sin is death. And I asked the question, do you believe that? The wages of sin is death. In James 1 it says, When lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Now listen to what James says in verse 20. Let him know that he which converted the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death. And shall hide a multitude of sins. I want you to realize that restorative love is something that preserves people From the terrible damage that is done by sin. I think of an example in the book of Ezekiel that's very interesting. It says in Ezekiel 20, it says, the soul that sinneth it shall die. And in those verses, he begins to talk about the fact that we are personally responsible for our sin. Now, in the context here, God is judging a nation. And he's judging a nation that he's in covenant with, who has been rejecting his covenant, and he's following through with what he promised he would do. But one of the things that we see in Ezekiel eighteen is that God put a distinction between those who were obedient to God, which was a very small remnant of the people and those who were rejecting God who were going to bear the full weight of the consequence of their sin. God preserves the righteous He judges those who are walking in sin. Earlier in the book, he talked about this idea that lust brings forth And when he talks about that, I want you to think of how sin is destructive. It is something that causes misery. It's something that separates us from fellowship with God. Look at the story of Adam and even the Bible in Genesis. You know, he says that if you eat this fruit, you're gonna die. And you say, well, what happened? They physically stayed alive, but you see the consequences of their sin. Immediately. God says, where are you? They're hiding. God says, why are you ashamed? What's making you feel this way? Did you eat the fruit? The fact is immediately Adam and Eve felt shame and guilt and they pulled away from God. They lied to God. They told him, hey, it's your fault, this person. was given to me by you, and they're the reason that I did this and they're excusing blame. What do we see? We see the consequences of sin. And what James is saying is this: when you come alongside of a person who's drifting, If God reaches through you to get their attention, He uses you to preserve them from the horrible consequences. The painful consequences, the destructive consequences of their sin, the misery, the destruction. He uses people in that role But he makes the second statement. Restorative love preserves from the terrible corporate damage done to sin. In James 4. 1 it says, From once from whence come wars and fightings among you come they not hence even of your lust that war in your members. In James 5, he says that this person, their role will cause them to hide a multitude of sins. It doesn't mean you're covering over sin. He's saying you're preserving from the destructive nature of sin in a system of people, a body. You know, when a dad is not living right, guess what it does? It doesn't just affect him. It affects mom. It affects kids In fact, it maybe will even affect generations of children that follow. If a mother is doing the same thing, the same kinds of problems If a person is being disruptive and divisive in a company, in a church, wherever the context is, their sin doesn't just affect them. It's disruptive in that community, that body. And so what he's basically saying is, if you will be used of God in this role, you will not only help preserve this individual from the personal consequences of sin. But you will preserve the corporate damage. You will preserve from that as well. God wants to preserve the church from being disrupted by interpersonal. conflicts and sinful choices. And so the bottom line is that this text of scripture tells us the way that God does that Is through the body functioning in a healthy way. Every single one of us needs somebody to come alongside of us. Don't walk alone in the Christian life. Walk with godly friends. Walk with people who love you enough to speak the truth in a gentle yet firm manner Walk with people who have the same world view who are going to help point you consistently in the right direction. Be that kind of a friend, that kind of a spouse, that kind of a parent, that kind of a church member. Be a person who is regularly willing to receive or to show restorative love. I'm going to give you a couple of practical thoughts as we close. The first is this We need to be willing to play our part to contributing to developing this kind of a church. culture. Now I'm not preaching this message because I don't see this heart within the church. I'm preaching this message because that's the text that we're in next But I want you to realize that over the course of the lifetime of a church, over decades and decades, people will come in, people will go out, people will be born, people will People will be married, people will die, the church is going to go from one generation to another generation. be It happens over and over and over again. again and guess what there is a continual need for the church to continually develop such a culture The second thing is we need to grow in biblical knowledge. Folks, if God wants us to be people whom He can work through, we have to be people who have the tools to be worked through. Through. If I'm biblically illiterate, then I am not positioned to help people grow spiritually. I can pray for them I can let them cry on my shoulder, but I'm not positioned to give them counsel. I'm not positioned to correct them because I am deficient in the depth of my own personal grace. Growth. We need to be people who are constantly growing in biblical knowledge. Next, we need to be a people who are continually growing in Christian grace. It's not just about having the knowledge to help people. You've got to have the character that can walk through the conflict with them. Just because you have the knowledge in your head does not mean you have the skills to work with someone to help them get through a challenge And the only way that you and I will be in that place is if we are growing in Christian grace, mercy, love , patience, meekness. Faith. These are qualities that are produced by the Spirit of God. So we have to be growing in knowledge and we have to be growing in Christian maturity. Next, we need to develop healthy communication that promotes edifying conversations. We've got to talk. We've got to talk to one another in such a way that what does it do? It stimulates the kinds of conversations that promote growth. Not the kind that talk about, oh, you know, who's playing the football game today? Not I mean I love football, don't get me wrong. But when we walk out of this place, you know what we should be doing? We should be thinking about the truth of Scripture so that we're stimulating one another in conversation. And lastly, we need to see that our connection to the local church is not just about us. We don't just come to be fed. We come to be fed so that we're equipped to minister to one another. This is such a critically important concept for us to understand. God saved us, teaches us, matures us, so he can work through us. Let's be our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to take these truths and really settle them in our hearts because they are so very, very important and foundational to our Christian growth. Father, thank you for the opportunity to look at this text. There is so much truth to unpackage with this particular Concept. I pray that you'd help us to be a people whose lives are filled with biblical knowledge , spiritual maturity. And a heart that longs to encourage and uplift and help one another. I pray that you would take these truths and minister to our hearts in whatever way we need at this moment. Strengthen your people through the scriptures today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The song that I'd like us to sing in our closing this morning is the hymn 374, Be Thou My Vision. And it's a beautiful song, but it's also a very rich song. Not just beautiful to sing and listen to, but it's It's a wonderful expression of what we should have in our hearts toward God. Let's stand together. Hymn 374, and as you're turning there, I want to encourage you, if you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. Many times people reach out and say, Pastor, I just I need to have a conversation with you. We in that message there were some things that were said. I need clarification. I need to talk through something with you. I would be very, very happy to do that. So please do not hesitate to reach out. If you're not confident that you're saved, this is not a salvation-oriented message, but if you don't know for sure that you're saved. Please don't leave this place without reaching out and saying, Pastor, I don't know for sure that I'm saved. Can I talk to you? Can you show me from the Bible how I can Let's sing this song together, hymn 374, Be Thou My Vision, first and the last first, please. Be thou might fish the Lord of my heart What we all else will be saying that thou art, now my best thoughts by game for my Waking or sleeping, thy presence my light, I king of heaven, my victory one. May I reach have enjoyed no brightness on part of my own heart, whatever before. Still be my Amen. Beautiful song. Well, if you can make it tonight, we hope that we'll be able to see you. We are continuing our study in the book of Ecclesiastes and the passage we're looking at at uh is a passage that's going to harmonize very well with the concept that we talked about this morning. And we're going to talk about the importance of teamwork. And partnered labor is really what we're focusing on. So if you can make it back tonight, I hope that you'll be able to do that. Uh we do live stream our services. I'm not encouraging you to stay home and be on the live stream, encouraging you to be with us, uh, but the the service will be live streamed and we'll have that um online if you are not able to make it for some reason, but I hope that you can come back so that we can look at a very, very important concept and I think it'll be very practical and encouraging and helping helpful. So we're back in the book of Ecclesiastes tonight. Scott Moore, can you close us in prayer and uh let's uh fellowship and encourage one another in the Lord as we leave. So Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you so much for the beautiful day that you've given to us. Thank you that we might worship you in freedom and uh peace. And Lord, we just uh Thank you for the challenge from your word. Pray that we might live for you and that we might be an encouragement for others, that we might live for you. Lift each other up and uh go from this place with the renewed hope. And just uh just give us peace and uh protection as we go in Jesus' name. Amen.