Let's take our Bibles and look at verses one to four from Acts chapter 13. Luke writes, Now there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophets and teachers, as Barnabas and Simeon, that is called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene. And Menaean, which had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch and Saul. As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, The Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. Then they laid fat they then, and when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed unto Seleucia, and from thence they sailed to Cyprus Let's bat our hearts together in prayer as we look at this very important text of Scripture. Father, we pray that this morning as we spend time in your word, you'd really speak to our hearts. I pray that you would settle our souls, that you'd help us to focus our attention on the Word. Help us to focus our attention on the significance of this very important chapter in church history. The first time in our Bibles that we see a church sending out a missionary team. Father, help us to understand that this is the Great Commission and Action. It's a commission to your church. It's a commission that we are to play a role in as your people. I pray that this morning you'd stir up our hearts. You would challenge our souls. You would burden us where that is necessary. You would encourage us and strengthen us I pray that your Spirit would do the appropriate work in our hearts that we most desperately need this morning. We pray for those who are here. May you bless their souls Through the ministry of your word today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin with two very important questions. And these questions are at the heart of everything that we do during this month that we are focusing on missions. The first question is: what is the goal of missions? I want you to answer that in your mind. Think about what you believe the goal of missions is. And the second question that I'll ask, which follows up from that question, is What is the role that I personally am supposed to play in that goal? You know, a lot of times when we s when we hear a missions emphasis, one of the first places that people will turn is Matthew 28. And we know Matthew 28. It's the Great Commission. We're going to talk about Matthew 28 today. But my question is, is Matthew 28 given to you sitting in your pew this morning? Is that passage something that you are to follow through and you are to do in its entirety Who is it given to? What was the intent by which it was given? How does that apply to us today? That's a little bit about what we're going to be talking about this morning. The fact is, as we look at these texts this morning, there's one truth that I think God should burn into our hearts, and I believe he will burn into our hearts. That said, he wants us to think biblically as we pursue obedience to him and our purpose and missions. God wants us to think biblically and he wants us to be obedient to him in this issue of missions. How can we do that this morning? That's what I want to answer. So let's go ahead and look at a couple of simple truths that we will not find just in one text, but we're going to look at a lot of scriptures today. So be ready to flip from passage to passage. as we move through our Bibles today. The first truth we're going to look at today is this. Missions begins in the local church. Missions begins in the local church. I asked the question, who was the great commission given to? Let's read it and then we'll see who it was given to. In Matthew 28, verses 18 to 20, this is what it says. Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, Who is that? Who are they? Well, he'll tell us in just a minute. He came and spake unto them, saying, All power or authority is given unto me in heaven and on earth Because of that, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. Who is he writing or who is he speaking to? Jesus is speaking to the disciples. What is the reason he's speaking to them? He's speaking to them because he has died He has risen from the dead, and he has the authority as the resurrected Savior to send out his men to do his work. He's going to send out the apostles. The Great Commission wasn't actually given to you and to me. It was actually given to them, but we have a role to play in the commission he gave to them. You might say, oh I I always thought it was given to me. Has anybody here ever baptized anybody? My wife over here is putting her hand down. She doesn't she's never baptized anybody. Um in fact the majority, maybe ninety-five percent of the people in this room have never baptized someone. Where do we actually do baptisms? Well we do them in the context of the local church. The Great Commission was given to the apostles who were going to lay the foundation for the church. And then the church was going to take their instruction and that would be their message and their purpose and that would be their responsibility From them to where we are today and until the Lord returns. This Great Commission involves several aspects. Going into all the world It's not just supposed to be a local thing where we just care about the people here, but we're going into all the world. It involves preaching to all nations. It says, teach them those things that I have commanded you. It involves baptism. Baptism is identifying with Christ. And so when someone has embraced the gospel, they baptize in front of the local church so that other people will recognize this person is a professing Christian. And in their baptism they join with that local church It then goes beyond that. It says, teach them all things whatsoever I have commanded you. It involves discipleship. The Great Commission was given to the local church. And we see that this is the first time this commission is given to the first church in existence, the church at Jerusalem. We then come to a second church that was in some sense planted out of the church at Jerusalem. Go to Acts 13, and that's where our text is. Paul is now at Antioch. Paul was once a blasphemer, a persecutor of the church. He was going to Damascus to bring those disciples in Damascus back to Jerusalem to be bound and to be imprisoned. And God comes and he meets him on the road to Damascus. There's a great light, and Christ says, Why are you persecuting me, Saul? Saul is gloriously transformed by the gospel. He turns to the Lord Jesus. He's gloriously converted. And Paul becomes the great missionary of the entire church age. He ends up at Antioch. And there at Antioch, this is what it tells us in Acts 13, verse 2. It says, As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Ghost said Separate to meet Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. So they being sent forth by the Holy Ghost departed unto Seleucia, and from thence they sailed to Cyprus. This morning in Sunday school we had a really interesting discussion. We're talking about the fact there are two offices in the local church. We have the pastor and we have the deacon. And we talked a lot today about ordination. What is ordination? Ordination is the appointment to an office. When we talk about ordination, we tend to think about ordination in the context of the pastoral office. We can also think of ordination in appointing someone to the position of a deacon, an office in the church. This is another example of appointment to a formal work. God's church at Antioch, because the Holy Spirit separated out Paul and Barnabas, is appointing and sending out Paul and Barnabas to start churches all throughout the Roman Empire. You know, today we got to Spend a few minutes with Josh Moore and his wife. Our church did that with Josh Moore. Our church had the opportunity to, not all of you here, but some of you have watched Josh grow up. You have seen him go from being a kid in the youth group. To a college student, to now a husband, a father, a pastor, a missionary in Ireland There was a time, there was a season in this young man's life where God began pressing on his heart. I remember going out on evangelism with him probably ten years ago and him talking about his heart for Ireland I remember when he used to play the bagpipes in here, you guys remember that? And it just fill this this auditorium with that glorious sound. God was working in that young man's heart. And there was a point where his burden to go to Ireland was something that meant that that meant our church laying our hands on him and sending him out. and saying, go and establish a church for the glory of God, we are sending you. That's exactly what we're talking about here. We are doing that, or we did that, really, as following the pattern established in the book of Acts. Chapter 13. We have another church, and that's the church at Rome. This is some period of time that's gone on from Jerusalem to Antioch to Rome. Rome was started not by Paul but some of Paul's associates. And in Acts chapter 15, this is what Paul writes to the church at Rome. He says, I strive to preach the gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should be building upon another man's foundation. But as it is written, to whom he was not spoken of, they shall see. They that have not heard shall understand. For which cause also I've been much hindered from coming to you, but now having no more place in these parts, and having a great desire these many years to come unto you. Whensoever I take my journey into Spain, I will come to you. I trust that I shall see you in my journey, and be brought on my way thitherward by you. If first I be somewhat filled with your company. Now let me take that statement from Paul and let me kind of put it into the context of what's going on. Paul has worked with some people who are now at Rome. Their names were Aquila and Priscilla. They were very close associates. Paul loved them dearly. Paul had never been able to visit Rome and the churches that were being established in that city. But Paul has a burden and a heart for those people. Paul has been extremely busy with church planting work in the areas where he was working when he wrote this letter It was his desire because he knew people there, he loved people there, he was excited about the work, he wanted the work to go forward and to be strong and to be properly organized and all those things That Paul writes to them and he says, I want to come and I want to visit you. But there's more to it than that. I want you to fellowship with me, to partner with me, and I want you to send me to Spain. And when he says Spain, he's talking about a region in the Roman Empire. And he's saying, I want to go to Spain because I know the gospel's not being preached in that region. And I don't need to preach the gospel in this region anymore. There are established churches. that can carry on the work. I need to go to a new region, a new place. I want to come visit you and be sent to Spain by your church. But there was a problem at Rome. The problem was that there was a lot of contention within that church between the Jewish believers and the Gentile believers. And Paul was aware of that, and there's a lot of history as to why it got that way. It's because the Jews had been kicked out of Rome, and when they came back to Rome, you can imagine there was a lot of distrust amongst those people. The Jews and the Gentiles did not mix a lot in the early church, at lot at least not smoothly. And so Paul is trying to get them to come together, to be unified, and to send him out as one unified church. How does he do it? He expounds the gospel chapter by chapter by chapter. Because he understands what's going to unify the church is the gospel. As they begin to recognize the universal nature of God's desire that all men be saved, that the gospel needs to go to the uttermost parts of the world, not just the Jews in Jerusalem. Not just the Gentiles in various portions of the Roman Empire, but the whole world needs to hear the gospel and that they need to work together to send him out lest people perish. Without knowledge of the truth, that is the reason that Paul does that. Why do I highlight Jerusalem, Antioch, and Rome? It 's because all of those churches were involved in what we call the Great Commission. In those churches were individuals who had a very specific role That they were to play in the Great Commission. Their roles were not all the same. There were Timothy roles. There were Paul roles. There were Apostle John roles. There were Aquila and Priscilla roles. There were Apollos roles. There were Lydia roles. There were roles that people were playing that were very diverse, but they all played an important role in God's work, that Great Commission. Yeah, I I love watching football. And when you watch a football game, you have a lot of different roles on the football team. You have offense, you have defense, you have some people who block and you have some people who try to take out a quarterback You have some people who throw the ball, some people who run the ball, some people who block for the guy that's running the ball, some people that try to break up passes, some people that kick field goals. They all have a different role Well, if you're gonna have a good team, you gotta have all of them. If you're gonna have a strong and healthy team, you've got to have all those roles playing together. You can't have everybody be a quarterback. Well, that quarterback could get killed because you need some big guys on the front. You need some people who can kick. You need some people who can run. You need some people who can block. And you know what in the church There are different roles. God did not call every person in this church to be a missionary. If he did, the church would be gone. Some of you God's called you to be a faithful husband, a faithful dad, a faithful Sunday school teacher. Some of you, God's called you to be a faithful pastor in the states down the road. Some of you, God may call you to go to a foreign field. God may call you to be one who starts a church. God may be one who calls you to help a church get grounded. God may be one who calls you to teach in a Bible college, to help people become more equipped in the truth. God may call you to start a business and work in that vocation so that you can be involved in the supportive missions. The truth is that God needs all those roles to be fulfilled. And it's not my job as a pastor to be God and say, that's what you're supposed to do. The Holy Spirit will do that He'll stir your heart. He'll press your soul. He'll fit you and gift you. You have a role to play. The Great Commission wasn't given to you as an individual. It was given to the church. But that great commission is being fulfilled in the church in so many different roles. I want to ask you this question: What role does God have you playing Or what role does he want you to play in his work of bringing the nations to himself? Please, if your role is not as prominent as you wish it was, don't chafe at God's will for your life. Don't become angry or frustrated. Don't feel guilty because you're holding the line as a businessman. Because you're not a missionary in Papua New Guinea or on some foreign field. The fact is this, God has people for that, but it might not be you. Maybe God does have something for you and you don't want to do it. God has a way of getting our attention. He has a way of winning the battle. I've told this story before. I won't give all the details, but when I was a junior in high school, if you'd asked me what do I want to do with my life, well the last thing I would have told you was be a pastor. I never even thought about being a pastor or a missionary or an evangelist or in Christian server. It wasn't even on my mind. I was just focused on one thing: baseball. Baseball. It's all I cared about. It really is. And thankfully, one day God knocked me upside the head, like literally, in a baseball game. Knocked me out cold. Ended up in a hospital, and I got to think about what I was living for for a little while. It's not when God called me into ministry But that knock upside the head was hard enough that it made me start thinking about it. God began doing a work in my heart. You know, God might do that in some of the young people in this room. I don't know. It's not my place to tell you what I know God has called you to do. God has fitted you for a unique role in his service. Embrace that role. Be faithful in that role. Serve the Lord diligently as he has fitted you in his service. We come to a second truth, and this is very important. Missions has really one primary goal, and you know what that is? It's to establish biblically functioning local churches. The book of Acts is full of stories of the establishment of churches. Did you know that the book of Acts most of our Bibles don't tell us, or most of our Bible doesn't tell us how Peter Trusted Christ. Doesn't tell us how John trusted Christ. It doesn't tell us how Matthew trusted Christ. It does not give us the story of very many of the apostles' conversion. It tells us about how God called them to follow him. It tells us about Paul's conversion, but very few stories about the conversion of those who were the leaders in the church. But you know what it does tell us a lot about? The birth of the Church of Ephesus. The church at Corinth. The church at Thessalonica. It tells us about Paul's desire to go to Spain. It tells us about churches in Crete. It tells us about the churches in Galatia. It tells us about churches in Macedonia. It tells us about the Church of Berea. You know it has more to say about the birth of churches than it does about the conversion of the saints. Isn't that amazing? Because the Great Commission is fundamentally focused on the birth of churches, the growth and the establishment of churches. And by the way, a church is only a church when it has converted people in it. It's only a church when it has discipled people in it. It's only a church that is healthy if it's got disciple making and maturing going on in it. But the Bible says a lot more about the birth of the church than it does the birth of the saints. So interesting. I want to look at the life of one church, the church at Ephesus, to give you a little bit of what I'm talking about. So go with me in your Bibles to Acts 18. In Acts 18, we have the story of the birth of the church at Ephesus. And I want to comment along the way about what was going on so that we get some details that I think are great. In Acts 18, 18 it says this. Paul, after this, tarried a good while. And then took his leave of the brethren and sailed thence into Syria, and with him Aquila and Priscilla. Who were Aquila and Priscilla? Well, there's some people that Paul met while he was making tents in Corinth. How did they get in Corinth? Well, it tells us in another passage they got kicked out of Rome when the the head of the Roman Empire said, We don't want Jews in our capital city anymore. He kicks them out. They could have been bitter, angry people, but the fact is that they met Paul making tense at Corinth, and they struck up a deep friendship. And we don't know when they became believers. We don't know anything about that, but we obviously know they did, because we see that they became grounded Christians. Godly people who traveled with Paul and were involved in church planting in several different cities Paul comes to Ephesus and it says he was there just a little while and then he leaves Ephesus and when he leaves Ephesus he leaves Aquila and Priscilla there. Those two individuals are going to be the foundational members of what will one day be a very strong, a very godly church. In Acts chapter 18, it tells us that there was a young man who is very eloquent in the scriptures. His name was Apollos. It said he was born in Alexandria, he was mighty in the scriptures, and he came to Ephesus This man was instructed in the ways of the Lord and was fervent in the Spirit and spoke diligently the things of the Lord, but it says something about him. He only knew the baptism of John. What that means is that John, or this man Apollos, was looking for the Messiah. He was not saying, Let me tell you the story about Jesus of Nazareth. He is the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies. He came, he died on the cross, he was crucified, he rose on the third day, he's ascended up to heaven, let me preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. He didn't know it All he knew was what John had preached. Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And as this man is preaching, Aquil and Priscilla are listening. And they say this man doesn't know something, something that's really important. So they pull this man aside and it says they explained to him more clearly the truth. It says they expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly. It's a wonderful little statement. These guys were not pastors. They're just a couple that met Paul. But they were grounded. They'd been discipled by Paul. They knew the scriptures. And they sit down with this man and they explain to him more clearly what they're preaching, what he's preaching. And it says he eventually embraces that. He exhorts many of the brethren, and he helps many of those who believe through grace. What are we talking about? We're talking about the establishment of a church. All those churches were established in different ways. This one was just a couple left in Ephesus. Apollosis is brought under their care and they begin to teach him, and God uses him We then come later to the book of 1 Timothy, third there to 1 Timothy chapter 1. It tells us this Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the commandment of God, our Savior, and the Lord Jesus, which is our hope. Unto Timothy, my own son in the faith He says, I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus when I went to Macedonia, that thou maidest charge some that they teach no other doctrine What are we going to see in the book of First Timothy? We see a very immature church. A church that's not properly grounded. It doesn't have biblical leadership yet. It doesn't have biblical pastors and deacons working in a biblical fashion. We have a very immature church. And so Paul sends Timothy his most trusted companion. And he says, I've left you there to remove those from leadership who shouldn't be there, to establish in leadership those who should, and to charge false teachers, don't you dare teach that stuff in this church. Kinda kinda interesting commission, huh? It was a tough commission. You know, we talk about Timothy being timid. I don't think Timothy was timid. I think he was a tough guy. But he had an unbelievable task ahead of him. And he was faithful. But the book of 1 Timothy is Paul writing to Timothy and saying, here's how you need to set in order what's lacking in the church. A very immature church that's not properly ordered. When Paul writes to Titus at Crete, he does the same thing. He says, I want you to appoint elders in every city. And here are the qualifications. And here are the qualifications for the deacons. You need to set in order the things that are lacking. That's what he's doing. We see the church in its immaturity. Then we come a little bit later on. I want you to turn with me to Acts chapter 20. This is a wonderful text. Listen to what Paul says in Acts chapter 20. From Militus he sent to Ephesus, verse 17. And he called the elders of the church. Paul calls that group of individuals who are leading the church at Ephesus. And I want to ask you a question. If they had a group of men leading the church, has something changed from the time that Timothy was there? Absolutely. Absolutely. It's a grounded church. It's an established church. It has legitimate biblical leadership. And I want you to see how Paul speaks to these people. He says this in verse 25. Behold, I know that ye all, among whom I've gone preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more. I take you to record this day. I am pure from the blood of all men. I've not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. Take heed, therefore, unto yourselves, to the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. to feed the church of God. He says, I know that after my departing grievous wolves shall enter in among you, not sparing the flock. Even from among your own selves, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace. How is Paul writing to this church? He's writing to them as an independent local church with leadership that is strong, that is able, that is biblical, that is properly ordered Folks, this is what missions is all about. It's about the birth of a church. It's about the infancy of a church that is going through the struggles of getting leadership and getting sound and grounded in the faith And how those who God leads to that place will labor and work in there. That is exactly where right now Josh Moore is. He's working in the Timothy stage of that church. But there comes a day in the church. This happened to our church in Ghana. God willing, this will happen in the church here. This happens in missions churches where the missionary steps back, the leadership is established, and he says, I've not shunned to declare to you all the counsel of God. I pray for your soul, be faithful. That's church planting. This is a church in its maturity stage. We have Ephesians chapter 3, a church in its depths. Ephesians 3, look at verse 13 He says, I desire that ye faint not at my tribulation. For this cause I bow my knee unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, that Christ may dwell in your heart by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love. May be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and the length and the depth and the height, and to know the love of God which passeth all knowledge, that ye may be filled with all the fullness of God Paul is writing to a group of people that he not only sees as independent, but as mature. He can share with them his heart. He views them as peers, if you will. Church planting. But then I'll direct your attention to Revelation chapter 2. And I'm not going to say a lot about this text because tonight I'm going to preach on this text. But I want you to see that this church went through a life cycle. And eventually it's a church that's in danger of complacency. In Revelation chapter 2, Jesus says this to the churches. Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus, write these things, saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. I know thy works, thy labor, thy patience. Thou canst not bear them which are evil, and say they are apostles and are not, and has found them to be liars. Later on, he goes on, he says, Remember from whence thou art fallen, and repent and do the first work, or else I will come into thee quickly and remove thy candlestick. The fact is, a church can be birthed, can go through its infancy stage, can become an independent congregation, can be mature and sound, but can become complacent. And folks, what is the purpose of the Great Commission? It's to establish healthy, vibrant, reproducing, independent churches. That's what the Church of Ephesus was. That's what we need to stay as a local church. The final truth I want to ask look at is this. Biblical churches have some distinctive elements. I want to mention them quickly today. I could go through lots of scriptures to establish these points, but I want to ask you a question. Is this what we have in our congregation? Have we drifted in any way? Are we becoming complacent in any way? We need to pray for this church that we will have these distinguishing marks now until the Lord returns. We need to think about our missionaries. We support many. We love them dearly. We need to pray that these will be the marks that they find in the churches that they are working with. We need to pray for sister churches, other fundamental works that are in our community and all around this part of Maryland and the East Coast and in our country. We need to pray that these will be the distinguishing marks. And these local churches. Let me go through them quickly. The first one is this congregational purity The church must hold fast to only embrace incredible professions of faith. Bringing into their membership those who are saved and baptized. The church needs to soberly and graciously practice church discipline. And when I say church discipline, I don't mean that we're, you know, hoping to kick a bunch of people out of the church. That's not the point. Church discipline isn't actually a disciplinary action as much as it's a restorative action. It's about going to someone who's in sin and bringing the scriptures to them and asking them to embrace truth. to come to repentance, to come to restoration, to come to a healthy walk. But we as a church have to keep purity. There's a second concept, and that's this gospel clarity. The leadership of a church should regularly espouse or expound the gospel with clarity. You should know what it means to repent and believe Christ. You should understand what it means to be justified. You should understand what sanctification is and what it is not. You should understand what the means are that God uses to bring you to maturity in the Christian life. You should understand how to deal with temptation. You should understand how to seek restoration. And forgiveness with God when you have stumbled as a Christian. You should know how to how to bring brothers who are in conflict together so they can be restored with one another. We should know how to appoint leadership. We should know how to send out missionaries. We should know how to do these things. We need clarity, beginning with the gospel. And we need to be a congregation that is motivated and articulate to proclaim the gospel. We need to be a doctrinally focused. Expositional preaching and teaching kind of a church. This is not a typical message actually. This is a little more topical. But you say, why do we want to emphasize expositional preaching and teaching? It's because exposition lets God be the authority. Exposition means that we tell you what God intended to communicate in that text. And so the pastor gets out of the way, the teacher gets out of the way, and it's the mind of God that's coming through the message far more than the mind. of the teacher. The word of God has to be not only our final authority on paper, but in practice. Doctrine needs to be regularly articulated in verse-by-verse articulation. And if we preach through the Bible verse by verse, chapter by chapter, we're going to expound doctrine on a very regular basis. And it'll be in balanced proportion. We won't just address this area week after week after week, but we'll have the whole counsel of God being presented to us on a regular basis. We need intensive discipleship. I think of what Paul says to Timothy in Timothy chapter 2. The things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. Who shall be able to teach others also. We need to be grounded individuals who are teaching those who are younger than us in the faith Pouring our lives into the next generation. I think one of the reasons that our churches today are in decline is because we're losing sight of the basics of discipleship. We're losing our young people in a lot of situations because we don't disciple them. They're not embracing the gospel because they're not being taught it with clarity when they're young. They're not learning the basics of the faith and what they walk away from is not even a correct understanding of the truth. We need intensive discipleship. And we need self-governance under the authority of legitimate, biblically qualified leadership. One of the things that as a missionary you look for. Is that that church is beginning to have heads of households who can teach their kids? Heads of households who can teach the church doctrine and practice. People who are qualified to be pastors, to be deacons, to be teachers. When a church doesn't have individuals like that, it's in trouble. Because that means that its death is on the horizon One of the reasons that missionaries need to try not to create dependencies. Is so that they can walk away from a church and it can continue to function as an independent, self-governing, self-supported local church. As long as we support a work, it's under our care. It's not really independent. So long as we're giving it money. You ever thought about that? Because in the back of people's minds there will be, if I make this decision, what will be the consequence? When that church is no longer financially supported by another church, it's independent. It's self-governing. It 's accountable to Christ, led by biblically qualified leadership. This morning I want to encourage us as a church To pray that these will be the marks in the churches that are being pastored by the missionaries that we are supporting right now. That those churches will be growing toward a position of independence. Self-governance, self-support, that these churches will be able to reproduce because they are healthy and they are strong and they are grounded. But folks, We need to pray that that's what we have here too. Because if we aren't a healthy church, there'll be a day when we'll have to take all those signs off the back because we don't have the ability to partner with them anymore I think of the United Kingdom. It was once a beacon of light in a dark world. Many, many buildings that once housed thriving congregations today are pubs, our mosques, our entertainment centers. They're places that are no longer houses of biblical worship. And folks, it can happen here too. May we pray that God will help us to be a biblical church. And to see the churches that we are partnered with be biblical, healthy, functioning churches. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Father, I'm very grateful for the privilege that I've had to study these texts and think about these truths. And to think about the Great Commission. Your purpose for missions is the establishment of thriving, self-supported, self-governing , reproducing local churches. I pray that that would be the product of the missionary work that we are partnered with all throughout the world. And Father, help us to be a congregation that doesn't stumble when we pass the baton on to the next generation. Father, help there to be people that we can hand that baton off to who will take it and they will run with patience the race set before them Help us to be diligent and holding fast to truth. Pray you'd bless this congregation. I thank you for raising it up. I thank you for preserving it. And I thank you for continuing to work through it. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen