Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are looking at the application of the parable of the Sower. And so I'm really looking forward to a practical study. And Lord willing tomorrow we're going to have a bonus episode, and so I hope that you will also enjoy that tomorrow. But let's go ahead and dig into the text, and we've been dealing with this for several days. Here's what it says, Luke chapter 8, verse number 4. It says, When much people were gathered together and were come unto him of every city, he spake by a parable A sword went out to sow his seed, and he sowed, and some fell by the wayside, and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it. And some fell upon a rock, and as soon as it sprung up it withered away because it lacked moisture. Some fell amongst thorns, the thorns sprang up with it and choked it. Others fell on good ground and sprung up and bare fruit and hundredfold. When he had said these things, he cried, He that hath an ear to hear, let him hear. Disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be? He said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God But to others in parables, that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand. Now the parable is this: the seed is the word of God. Those by the wayside are they which hear, then cometh the devil and taketh away the word out of their heart, lest they should believe and be saved They on the rock are they which, when they hear, receive the word with joy. These have no root which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell amongst thorns are they which, when they have heard, go forth and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. And that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience. Now, if you remember, yesterday we emphasized kind of the focus of this parable, and Jesus draws a distinction between two groups of people. There are those who are positioned to take the Word of God. uh two all groups of people there in in the land of Israel, and then there are others who are not positioned. And so this particular parable is directed to the disciple who understands the gospel, has embraced the gospel, and is in a position to take the gospel and spread it indiscriminately. And so what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to kind of expand this teaching on the disciple and then get into some applications that I hope will be very encouraging and helpful to you today. So the first thing we'll notice uh when we talk about this focus on the disciple is that the parable reveals how they're supposed to spread the word or excuse me, what they're supposed to do. We're gonna get to how and just say what they're supposed to do. And the answer is they're supposed to spread the word. Notice the sower the sower goes out and he he spreads the seed. The second thing that it reveals is not just what's supposed to be done, spreading the seed. but how it's supposed to be done. And that word indiscriminately is the word that really we want to focus on. The disciples not supposed to be so concerned that He's going to only plant in some areas and and and exclude other areas, but he's going to go out and he's just going to spread the word everywhere. It's almost like uh in this in the fall when someone is uh sowing grass seed in their yard, uh they get one of those little machines and they and they push it along. And it just it spreads the seed all over the yard. And they don't sit down and go, oh no, something has hit my driveway, I gotta go sweep it off, or oh, there's something that's in a flower bed and I gotta go pick it out or oh this went into a hard area. They just they spread the seeds, don't worry about it. Um some of it's going to grow, some of it's not going to grow, and they understand that. And so that's The way it's supposed to be done, just spread it indiscriminately. The third thing is that it was meant to prepare, and this is really the focus, it's meant to prepare the disciple for the inevitable outcome. That there are going to be some people that when the seed comes, when the Word of God is presented to them They're going to embrace the word, and the word is going to transform them. It's going to change them. It's going to save them. They're going to understand the gospel and embrace it. But then there are other people who receive the exact same message, have the exact same opportunity, the power of the word is un is not any different for them than for the other person, but they're ultimately going to reject it. Now they're not all going to reject it in the exact same way. Some people, when they reject it, they're going to be cold and calloused, like a person you knock on their door and you say, Can I invite you to church? And they slam the door in your face. I don't want anything to do with it. Well that could be one response Or you could have another person that well they appear to be receptive initially, and oh that sounds really good, and yeah, I'd really like to follow through with that. And boy, I'm so thankful that you're presenting this message to me. This is a great message. But then a week or two later you You never see them again. You say, What happened? I thought they were so excited about this. And they w they were they were they're gonna embrace it or it even appeared for a moment that they embraced it. But ultimately what happens is they don't they don't they don't accept it. And then another group that They they you can tell there's this struggle going on, but the cares of this world and money and and entertainment and riches and all those kinds of things, they choke out the word, and so the ultimate rus response is It appears a little different initially, but it's ultimately a rejection of the truth. So some people accept it and it's fruitful, some people reject it and it's not fruitful. And so he's preparing them for that The fourth thing that that that this uh this particular passage teaches us is that it reminds us of the potential uh for life, it is all found in that seed. And so the problem wasn't with the person spreading the seed. The problem wasn't with the seed. The problem was with the heart as it is uh as it comes in contact with the seed. And so the only thing that has the power to save someone and has the power to transform them is the gospel. It's the word of God. There's no other message that you can substitute that has the same ability. Doesn't have the ability to change the heart. It might be able to put a band-aid on something. It might might make something look good for a period of time, but only the gospel has the power to transform a person, to save them from their sins, give them new life in Christ, and ultimately to empower them to walk in newness of life. The last point that I'm going to make under this expansion of the focus on the disciple is that it reminds them where responsibility lies. The responsibility of the disciple is to spread the seed. The responsibility of the people who hear the word is to receive it. Now it's not the responsibility of the person spreading the word. to force people to receive the word. It's not it's not the responsibility of the person receiving the word to complain about the way that it's given and say, oh you should be a little bit gentler or you should you should uh you know come at it from a different angle. That the the responsibility of the person that's spreading the word is just to do it. Spread the word. And the responsibility of the person that's hearing it is to receive the word, to embrace the word. And it's not necessarily the person giving it, it's the It's the message that's being given. That's where the power lies. And so we have those four simple focuses on the disciple. So I want to kind of close out with a final question. How do we take this and apply it very practically to where we are today? The first question I have is, are you a disciple? Have you understood the gospel? Have you placed your faith in the finished work of Christ? Are you depending alone on his finished work? The fact is if you're not depending on the work of Christ, You're trusting in your righteousness, you're trusting in your church, you're trusting in your baptism, you're trusting in money or whatever it is. Anything save the finished work of Christ. His death His resurrection and his righteousness. The fact is it's impossible for you to apply this particular passage of scripture. Your responsibility isn't to try to apply the text. Your responsibility is to embrace the word of the gospel that's come to you. Second thing I'm going to mention is that we need to have a high confidence in the gospel and in the word of God. There is no substitute for the power of the word. As it says in James, it is the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. Or as Paul says in Romans chapter 1, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It is the power, and I would say, alone is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. Think about what Jesus says. I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh There is no substitute for the gospel. There is nothing that has the power to save and to transform a person, save the gospel message. And so I asked this question. Do you have a high view of Scripture and a high view of the gospel? Those should be the central focus of every single Christian. The third thing I'm going to mention is that when we deal with unsaved people, we need to be very deliberate in the focus of our priorities when we interact with them Obviously, Jesus' priority with those who were not disciples, those who are not believers, was not for them to understand this passage. Now it's not that Jesus didn't care about these people, and it's not that this particular passage could not eventually one day apply to them, but there is an order, there are foundational truths that come first. And so his focus for the disciple is, here's how you spread the word. His focus for the one who's not a disciple is Here's what I've come to do. I've come to save you from your sins. And so when we're dealing with unsaved people, we need to be careful that we don't get bogged down and and and issues that have nothing to do with their ultimate need. Trying to argue with someone about, you know, church form or some other s uh issue that I mean it's not an insignificant issue. The the fact is how a church functions in its polity or issues of eschatology or or certain issues of doctrine They are significant to the believer, but they're not significant to the unbeliever. So we have to keep our focus on what people need. You're a sinner, Christ died for your sins. Come to Him, place your faith in His finished work, and you can be saved. Fourth thing I'll mention Is that we need to feel the weight of our responsibility, but not the weight of their responsibility. Now that's not to say that we shouldn't have a heart for lost souls. We should be burdened for people who are lost in their sins. You know to grieve our hearts. I think about what Paul said. He said, My heart's desire, Romans 10, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. He he he says, I wish that I could be cut off for these people. I wish that I could I could give my own life for them so that they could be saved. The Apostle Paul deeply, deeply cared about these people But he knew that it wasn't in him and his ability and his power to make people believe. And so the responsibility of the disciple is to preach the word with clarity. It's to be consistent, to be ready in season and out of season. It's to always be ready to give an answer to everyone who asks us of the hope that lies within us in meekness and in fear. It's not to force people to believe or somehow feel that we are the problem when a person doesn't believe. If we've done our duty and we've done it effectively, we've done what God expects of us. Next, fifthly, we need to be prepared for diverse responses. Even though we hold in our hands the very word of God, which is the power of God into salvation, the fact is not everyone will embrace the message. One of the most difficult things about being a minister of the gospel is that you handle the truth and you see some people who embrace it and you see the wonderful benefits of that. Then you see others who reject it, and when you see that, it grieves you because you see how when people don't embrace the truth, the consequences can be very, very serious and very severe. And and when it comes to this issue of the gospel, it's eternity. It's heaven or hell. It's life with the Lord or being separated from him eternally to be judged. And so this is a very serious matter. And the last thing I'm going to mention is that we need to be very careful that we never allow the disappointment of seeing a person's response against the truth. or someone who appears to embrace the truth but then falls away or then becomes distracted, we need to be careful that we don't allow that disappointment to undermine our confidence in God's program and in the power of the gospel. We need to be so cautious that we don't get allured by the temptation to compromise by cutting the message short or to try to somehow Make the gospel more appealing to people. We need to just preach it straight. Tell people exactly what it says. The true gospel message cannot be cut short. We've got to preach it with clarity. And so that's my encouragement to you this morning. I hope that as we think about this passage of scripture, as we think about the implications, that we'll take this directly into our personal interaction with other people. And God will use that to help us to be a blessing in taking the truth to others. Hope you have a great rest of your day today and please share it. This has been an encouragement. Share it to them. And I hope that we'll have just a great study tomorrow as we do our bonus episode. Have a great day. Bye now.