You to another edition of our anchored in the word, more in reflection. Today we're back in Ecclesiastes chapter ten, we're looking at verses sixteen and seventeen together And the topic that we're going to look at today is an extremely interesting topic, especially when we think about the fact that we're in the midst of a national election. And there's a lot in the balances right now in our nation as a po as when it considered when we consider who's going to actually be leading our nation, really in the executive branch, when we talk about the legislature, when we talk about Each state, there's so much in play right now in our nation, and I think that what we're going to look at today has a lot of bearing on how we should think about that. So let's look down at verses 16 and 17 and then really dig into this passage. Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child. Thy princes eat in the morning. Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength And not for drunkenness. We come to this passage, we could give a simple summary statement that goes something like this. Nations with self-serving, undisciplined leaders suffer. Nations whose leaders have good discipline and sense the weight of their responsibilities allow their citizens to prosper. It's really interesting. In this passage, these two verses are actually parallel ideas. In fact, the way that a lot of times Proverbs are written is that you have a statement on one side, then you have a statement on the other, and by looking at the contrast of the two sides of that issue, what you see is an understanding of the topic. Basically, what Solomon's talking about here is that the kind of leaders that a nation has will determine the prosperity of the people, whether the people thrive or whether the people suffer. Whether the land is in a very difficult position and people's lives are put under a lot of pressure, or people are able to thrive and do well in life, and they they are truly blessed. physically, materially. That's what he's talking about. There's a lot that rides on leadership. And so he's going to talk about the kinds of leaders that really promote a prosperous nation, the kinds of leaders that promote a troubled land. So the first thing we're going to see is this. Fact one, leadership has a huge impact on the well-being of its citizens. In verses 16 and 17, these two statements should stand out. The first statement is, Woe unto thee, O land, when The second, verse 17, is Blessed art thou, O land, when? In other words, he's looking at two scenarios. In the one scenario, the land will be blessed. The land's going to prosper, the land's going to thrive. And the other the land is going to experience hardship and difficulty. In fact, when we look at human history, we can see that when there are good kings, people prosper. When there are evil kings, self-serving kings. People suffer. That's what Solomon's saying here. He's observing this because this is something that you see over and over and over again in the world. The second fact that we see is this. Nations suffer under undisciplined self-serving leadership Let me say it again. Nations suffer under undisciplined, self-serving leadership. Now when we talk about someone being undisciplined, we're basically saying that this person doesn't have a good work ethic. This person doesn't have good sense. They don't have good moral judgment. It's a person that doesn't listen to their advisors. It's a person who is not making decisions that are in the best interest of the people that they serve. That's the idea of what he's saying here. So in verse 16 he says, Woe to thee O land when thy king is a child. Now when he's saying he's a child, I don't think he's emphasizing that the person is eight years old. Now if a per if a nation was run by an eight-year-old, they'd be in trouble. But the idea is that this is a person who's immatured. This is a person that doesn't sense the weight of their responsibility. And what he's going to do is he's going to show how the person demonstrates that they're immature. Now, there's no such thing as a perfect leader. In fact, there are some leaders that they are very poor in certain areas of their life, in certain areas of their character and conduct, but as a general rule they have a very good work ethic They care about other people. They make pretty good decisions that are ultimately in the interest of other people. So he's not talking about somebody who's perfect. He's not talking about someone who doesn't make poor decisions at times. He's talking about the general direction of the person's life. He then said this. This is how you can see if the person is a child in the sense that he's saying. They eat in the morning. Now you might say, well, everybody eats in the morning, don't they? They either eat breakfast or brunch or something. Well it's not talking about eating breakfast here. He's talking about banqueting. He's talking about a person who has drunken parties. In other words, the first thing that hits their mind when they get up in the morning is how they can use their position to enjoy themselves and to basically give the people around them a good time. I want you to think about the example of when Daniel is an old man and the Persians are about to come in and they're going to conquer Babylon And you have Belshazzar who's there in the in in the in the palace and he's having this massive drunken party and he's basically just mocking the gods of Israel. and he's drinking out of out of these uh the gods of is the god of Israel w and he's basically toasting to his own gods and he's taking instruments that were used in the temple that had been taken out of the temple when the Babylonians conquered Jerusalem. And he's basically desecrating those instruments that were used in the temple and those things that were taken as loot out of Jerusalem. What's this man doing? Well rather than governing the nation, rather than doing things responsibly, he's having this massive party and he's just having a good time with his buddies. And that's exactly what Solomon's talking about here. He's saying this is a person who acts like a child because they exploit their power. They use their position to get influence to their friends. To basically allow them and their friends to live a good life and have a great time. I'll give you this simple illustration If you have a person who has worked in the government for say 20, 40, 50 years, and that person is massively wealthy, They own lots and lots of properties and they live a good life and they travel around the world and they enjoy the best of the best. That's an indication of a person who has the kind of character that Solomon's talking about. And I hate to say that, but there are a lot of people in our government that really fall into that category. They're people that have used the system to benefit themselves and to benefit their families so that they can live a good life. Solomon says that leaders like that are people that are very destructive And when people like that are ruling a nation, guess what happens? The people suffer. The question is why do they suffer? Well, they suffer because rather than a leader leading a nation in the interests of the people that are under them. They're leading the nation in their own interests, what benefits their own bellies. And the truth is when they're undisciplined, what are they going to do? They're going to hurt people to advance themselves. That's a really important principle. So nations will suffer when they have leaders who are self-serving. The second point that he's going to mention is the opposite of that. He says nations prosper under leaders who recognize the weight of their office and they restrain themselves And when he talks about people understanding the weight of their office, he puts it like this, Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles. Now he's basic he's basically saying that the person who's ruling has been raised in a system that helps them to understand the dignity and the weight and the seriousness of the position that they hold. In other words, from the time that this person was a child, they were taught that power is something that actually needs to be restrained. Power is something that a person of power needs to make sure that they don't abuse that power, that they carry themselves with certain restraints and dignities. That's what he's saying. So instead of a person being childlike, where they basically are impulsive and they're going to use the position for their own benefit, really to the detriment of those around them and under them, primarily those under them. then the opposite of that is a person who recognizes I have a position that I have a sacred duty to absolute actually uphold And so when we think about a nation, a nation that has people in power who consider the weight of their responsibility and they don't abuse it, those people govern well. And people who see their position as an opportunity to get gain are people who are going to destroy and harm and really discourage the people that are under them. He then says this, the second aspect of this, is he says, thy princes eat in due season for strength and not for drunkenness. The idea is they know when this when it's appropriate to eat and they control how much they eat and they're not giving it in excess. In other words, these are people Who have learned to restrain themselves and rather than abusing their power, they're going to choose to use their position for the benefit of those under them Now, when we look at human history, we see a lot of interesting types of leaders. We see some leaders who truly fall into the first category. We see some leaders who primarily fall into the second category. We see some leaders that they kind of fall into both categories depending on when you look at them at certain points in their Execution of leadership. But the reality is, the more that a person is restrained, the more that they feel the weight of the responsibility of their office. The less they abuse the position that they have, the more the people under them will prosper. And so he's basically making this very simple observation. People prosper under good leaders People suffer under bad leaders. So here's the question we should ask this morning. How do we apply it? How can we, as a people, this morning, apply this in front of us? Let me read to you 1 Timothy chapter 2, because verses 1 through 4 I think give us the application here Paul writes, I exhort, therefore, that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. for kings, for all that are in authority, that we might lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who will have all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. To put it in very simple terms, Paul says, pray for those in leadership, because if those people will govern well, you will have freedom And when you have freedom, guess what you'll have? You'll have the ability to live out the Christian life, not in secret, as one who is being persecuted. And one who is having to hide, but you can actually live out your Christian faith in public where people can be drawn to the power of the gospel. They can be drawn to the gospel through the power of a changed life. You can have the freedom to openly give the gospel to the people you encounter. And so he said, pray for those in leadership so that you'll have peace. Safety, stability, freedom. Because when you have those things, you have the ability to have the influence in society that God wants you to have where the gospel goes out, people are saved, churches grow and thrive. You know, there might be some people that counter and say, well, I thought persecution would make the church do better. Well, in one sense, persecution will whittle out those who are not serious. In fact, let's be honest, when we look at this pandemic, the reality is there are many people in our nation who have gone to church traditionally who now because of this pandemic have said, you know what? I'm not sure that I really need to be at church. It's really not a priority anymore. And the reality is they haven't been in a church building gathered with a congregation in eight or ten months. And the reality is they may never go back. I'm not saying that they won't, and I'm not saying that there aren't situations where people have genuine health problems and they can't meet. I'm not saying that. What I'm saying is there are many people today who truly have stopped going to church and will probably not go back, and it's simply because of convenience. Well, in the same sense, if there's persecution, there'll be people who are a part of the church who say, I'm not going to experience this level of frustration. and persecution, I'll just let it go and I'll be kind of a private, secret Christian. Well, in one sense, persecution will help the church to be pure. But it's also true that when the church suffers under persecution, the church suffers. Leaders are thrown in prison. People sometimes are killed. People sometimes lose their jobs. People can't speak as freely about the heart and soul of their Christian faith. There are restrictions that can be very hard and very difficult on Christians. And the reality is that the church can thrive under persecution on some level. But the church can thrive far better when it has the freedom to actually proclaim the gospel and they do it And so what does Paul say? Pray for those in leadership, because the decisions that they make will determine whether or not you have liberty Whether or not you actually have safety where you live, whether or not you're able to proclaim the truths of the gospel openly. Pray for your leaders So here's the question, how do we apply this? Well, first of all, pray for our leaders. We need to be praying for those who are in leadership right now We need to be praying for our president. We need to be praying for those who are in the Supreme Court. We need to be praying for our governors. For those who are in our local offices. We need to pray for our senators. We need to pray for those in the House of Representatives. We need to pray for people who are in leadership because the decisions that they make and the policies that they enact, they actually have serious bearing on our lives. We will either be able to thrive and prosper, or we will be crushed under the decisions that these people make. We need to pray for them. It's important. Secondly, we need to pray for this election. This is a significant election. In fact, when you look at the two systems of thought and the two party platforms that we have in our nation today, You essentially have one platform that believes in preserving liberty, and you have one platform that believes in destroying the system of preserving liberty to establish something different. Something different that may actually be very, very detrimental to our society. You have one side that actually believes in the preservation of human life. And you have one that believes it's okay to kill a child up to the very moment that it's born. You have one that believes in the rule of law, and you have one that uses the system for its own purposes. The truth is we have very flawed people on both sides of the divide, but the platforms that they hold could not be more different. And we need to actually pray that God in his grace would allow our nation to have peace, allow our nation to have freedoms, and that Christians will not come under persecution in the days, weeks, months, and years that follow this election cycle. Third thing I'll say is this. You need to vote. The fact is throughout most of human history, people haven't had the right to vote. They were stuck with the leaders that they had. In our nation, we actually can participate in the choosing of our leaders. Now you may feel that the state that you live in doesn't really give you much of a voice because we have an electoral college and you live in a state that has very different views than you have personally. Vote anyway. You need to make your voice known. And I want to encourage you when you go out and you vote to vote for candidates who, though flawed , These are men and women who are sinners, who are not necessarily Christians, and even if they are Christians, they may not be Uh strong Christians? These are flawed people on on every s every candidate is a flawed person. And is going to have certain areas in their character and conduct that are going to cause you grief and heartburn. Okay? But we need to vote for people who, first of all, care about the dignity of human life. Don't vote for someone who believes it's okay to kill a child. That's a moral tragedy. Don't do it. Vote for a candidate who works hard. Not someone who's gonna hide. Not someone who really doesn't have the energy and the stamina and the wherewithal to actually get things done. Vote for a candidate that actually works hard and it's going to work for the people. Vote for a candidate who actually believes in liberty, and that's the platform that they uphold, rather than oppression. Vote for a candidate who believes in maintaining order in our streets. The reality is praying that we can have a quiet and peaceable life. Means absolutely nothing if we're not going to vote for candidates who believe in actually enforcing the law and making sure we have word in our streets so that people are safe. We need to vote for people that will not undermine religious liberties. And we need to vote for people who are not going to lead to persecuting those Who actually believe in living according to the principles of conscience? I'm not telling you who to vote for, but what I am telling you to do is to vote. And I'm telling you you should vote for people who are going to uphold a platform that is as principled as possible And the last thing I want to say is this. Trust God to accomplish his purposes in us and in our nation through this process. The fact is, God is sovereign and he rules. But God governs through the means of the decisions that we make. In other words, God actually uses this platform of voting in America. God can choose to do whatever He wants. The truth is that what people think may happen in the next few days may not be what happens. It may be. We don't know But God works through us actually being active in making decisions. And so I want to challenge you this morning to really take this simple little section of Scripture and live in the light of it. I want to encourage you to vote. I want to encourage you to vote in a principled way. I want to encourage you to actually be a part of the system. that God uses to give us the leaders that will ultimately determine a lot about the way that we live over the next four, six, eight, ten years I hope that this has been a challenge to you this morning. Let's be out together for prayer, and I hope that you will go out and vote if you have it, and I hope that you'll vote in a principled way. And I hope that the Lord will have grace on this land that we will have peace in our land, that we will continue to have liberty And that the church will be the church and do what's right. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the opportunity to share this challenge from your word. Help us to take it to heart Help us to make good decisions. I pray that you'll use these things in our lives for your honor and glory. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen Well, it's been good to chat with you this morning. This passage was a very interesting one, especially in light of where we are as a nation. I hope you have a wonderful rest of your day, and Lord willing. We'll do our next study tomorrow. Bye now.