Let's go ahead and uh turn our Bibles to um First Corinthians chapter twelve again. And uh Lord willing tonight we're gonna finish up this little section. Um well it's actually kind of a large section, but we're talking about spiritual gifts. And uh if this is a class, uh we would um probably go even more in depth into uh answering questions, discussing this, but uh because it's more of a It's a different setting, so we're not doing that. But if it was a Sunday school class, we would dig into this even more and maybe even answer questions. How can I identify my spiritual gift? And those different kinds of things. But what we're really trying to do here is we're trying to get the main point that Paul is trying to communicate. He is very concerned that the way that the church was looking at this issue of spiritual gifts was entirely wrong. And so he's getting down to the heart of it. And by the way, what's interesting about this topic, as with so many topics, is that we could see that the principles that are being violated by their wrong use or the wrong view of the spiritual gifts, these principles go into all kinds of areas of life. And it really tells you a lot about how Paul viewed the church and what the nature of the church actually is. So we'll look at three sections. We're going to read through them. I'll remind you of a couple of basic things we talked about last week and then pick up with our last section of this text. First of all, let's look at verses 4 through 7. Here's what it says. Now, there are diversities of gifts, but the same spirit. There are diversities of administrations, but the same Lord. There are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit with all Verse eleven. But all these worketh that one and the self same spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will. For as the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body Being many are one body, so also is Christ. For by one Spirit we are all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink in the Verse 24. God hath tempered the body together. having given more abundant honour to that part which lacked, that there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care one for another. Whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it. Or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. Now, ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular. And by the way, that section we just read there is kind of where we're going to focus our attention tonight. So we summarize this passage in the following way. God designed the church to be a body. And their people are to grow in community as they display Christ's glory and they take the gospel to the world. So when we come together, God has made us all unique and he's blended us together into this body. so that we will grow together in community. And as we grow together, we are better positioned to reach the lost with the gospel. And what 's amazing about the church is that there are some people that when when we're out in the community because of your your personality, your background, uh what you do for work, um, lots and lots of different things. You're you know, what you were saved out of, what your past was like. Lots and lots of different factors. God has uniquely gifted and positioned you to reach some people that others they would really have a very difficult time reaching those. And one of the examples that really is near and dear to my heart is the influence of my wrestling coach when I was in college. And Coach Hayes was a tremendous encouragement to me. And not just me, I mean all the guys on our team. And I remember we traveled on road trips, uh, he would do these little devotionals, and uh we'd sit there and he'd you know he'd he'd give us a challenge and They had these little wrestling tracks that were designed specifically to give out to guys that we talked to or that we had wrestled and then I was a little kinda humiliating to go and try to give a track to somebody that like just crushed you in a match. Okay. Or if you just like demoralize that guy to give him a track, it might be a little challenging too, but But th there is this, there's a community there when you have wrestling. And and one of the things that was unique about it is that there were guys that I I mean they would just they would not have come in contact or they would not have been open to some of the conversations that we were able to have and it's because of that that common interest the sport of wrestling and some of that camaraderie that you have and And you know, you you watch each other in in tournaments and you kind of get to know people. That's people uniquely gifted to do that. They're uniquely positioned Or maybe a guy works on a construction site or someone's working at a college or someone's in the military. Whatever the setting. God puts you there and gives you an opportunity to be salt and light and he opens doors. And I'm not talking about us, you know, being obnoxiously aggressive in some contexts. You can't proselytize, you know, you just You just have to do your job, but as people get to know you, they're going to have opportunity to ask you questions. And it really opens doors. So that's really what the whole point is. puts us all together in the body, all having unique gifts and strengths and weaknesses, and we grow together so that we can reach lost people with the gospel. So we talked about the different categories of gifts. I'm not going to re remind you of those things. And then last week we talked about the analogy of the body. And there were several truths that we saw there. The first truth was this. The church functions like a body, one body, many members. We are interdependent, not a machine, but in fact we are a body that can have health. And when one struggles, we all struggle. When one is lifted up, it lifts up others. That is the dynamic of the church. Second truth. The nature of this body is a testimony to the power of the gospel. And I think that this is a wonderful truth. That is is it It's when people walk into a church and the church is actually functioning the way that it should. And by the way, a lot don't. I hate to say that There are a lot of people that are lost, they come into a church and they look at what's there and they're like, not interested. And the reason they're not interested is because what they're seeing is not health. It's not vibrancy. It's not the way the church is supposed to be. But when the church is functioning the way that it should, there are things that people will notice that are unique. And they'll say there's real warmth and there's love between these people. There's a working together. There is a unity, though I can see that these people they have their differences. They look different. They they do different things for work. Their personalities, their backgrounds are different, but they have something common that unites them and bonds them. And I want to know about this because there's something about this community that I don't understand. By the way, a lot of people today they're looking for community because we we are very fragmented in our society. And so the church is something that God, that body and how it functions is something God can really use. Third truth that we saw, this is in verses 15 and 17. Each member of the body serves an important function. And we talked about the difference between a foot and a hand and how each part plays a role. And then the final thing that we talked about, truth for, was that God assembles the body according to his wisdom. And so he chooses who he's going to give certain gifts to. And that's his prerogative. And the same way that a coach decides what position a person plays, and they need to fill that role so that they work together as a unit. And you can't be selfish if you're going to work together as a team. And so blocker 's got to do their job. The guy running the ball's got to do his job. The receiver's got to do their job. And and every single member on the defense, the kickers, everybody's got to do their job if the team's going to function well. In the same way, God has given each person in the church a role, a job, a position. We need to function those roles. So we talked about all those things last week. Now let's move into a new topic. And that is in verses 21 through 25. This is the last part that we read. Here's what he says, and then we're going to talk about what he's getting at. He says, the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee. Nor again the head to the feet. I have no need of thee. By the way, how does an eye tell? The hand that they don't because eyes don't talk. Okay? Just saying that. He says, I have no need of you. Nay, much more those members of the body which seem to be more feeble are necessary, and those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor. And our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness. For our comely parts have no need, but God hath tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to that part which lacked. That there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care one for another. Now, what is Paul getting at? Paul is getting at the fact that there are potential pitfalls that we can encounter when it comes to this issue of a body that's working together. And I I've I've learned this uh as I uh don't do as much activity as I did when I was twenty years younger than I do now. And um, you know, you're out there and you haven't you haven't split wood in six months Or you haven't tried to run in like a year. And so you're like, you know, splitting wood, pretty easy. uh running, pretty simple. Um I'm gonna I'm gonna move something uh uh out of my I'm gonna go you know clean up my garage or do something in the shed. I'm I'm gonna stack wood and in your head you're good. You can do this. And you get out there and you're working and you're working and you're working and you're feeling pretty good. And then the next morning you you realize that there's some sore muscles that you didn't know were there. And the reason you know they're there is because you don't you haven't worked them for like a year, okay? And then it's even worse the next day. And you know what that does? That reminds you that all of those muscle groups are important. Not just the ones that get worked all the time, but the ones that sometimes aren't getting worked. They're important too. All those core muscles and everything. It's important. And so one of the pitfalls that he gets at is the fact that there are people that will be proud about the role that they play in the church. That's what he means when he says, the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you. Or again, the head to the feet, I have no need of you. He's saying sometimes in the church people start looking at others and they go, I don't need that person. I don't need their gift. They need me, but I don't need them. What is that? It's pride. And this is something that we all have the potential to struggle with. In fact, no matter what role we get in the church, what's this was so interesting. We'll we'll get into something that we're doing and when it's not going well, we're very discouraged and want to quit. And then as soon as it goes really well Then we start like going the other direction. And we start thinking that we're like God's gift to the church and and and we have this this this incredible role that nobody could ever replace and and and Everybody needs me. You know, that's the mindset that we get. It's amazing how we fall into these two ditches. Either I 'm ready to quit because it's not going well, or it goes to my head. So what's he saying? Don't be proud. Don't let it go to your head what you're doing. Don't get in your head that you are better than other people because of what you are doing capable of or what you are doing, the contribution that you are giving to the church. There's a second possibility. And this is the other side of that pride, and that's insecurity. The idea is I feel like my gift is unnecessary. Or it's not just that it's unnecessary, it's an inferior gift. And that's what he's getting at when he says, Nay much more those members of the body which seem to be more feeble are necessary. And those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor, and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness. Now what's he getting at? What he's saying is don't be insecure or don't think that what God has fitted you to do is somehow inferior or unnecessary. This is a great danger, and I I'm going to go back to my experience when I was, let's say, in high school in youth group. And when I was going through high school, I don't know, I don't know why this didn't really hit me. I mean here I am on a pastor today, but when I was like in the ninth grade, it never even crossed my mind that I should be a pastor. Like Like people do that. I know I have a pastor, but I guess like the I the concept of being called into ministry as a ninth grader was like not on my radar at all, okay? And I remember going to this youth activity And I'm sitting there and I listened to the message and I mean I think I paid attention to it and some of the guys in the youth group, they went forward and they got up in front of the whole group of teenagers and they're like This young man's been called into the ministry. And I was like, what's that mean? Like, I don't even know what this thing called into the ministry is and and and it was like it was like this really big deal. And then like there was a point where I started realizing like people that seem to be going into the ministry, they're like another status in the youth group. And all of a sudden it went from being like oblivious that there was this thing to going like, do I want to be a part of that or what? You know? And I remember even thinking like, I don't even know what it means to feel like you're called. This is something that's kind of escaping me. And this is a great danger That when kids are growing up and they're they're in the church and they're in the youth group, that that people start getting in their head like we want to incentivize people people to go into missions, to go into pastoral ministry, to go into some kind of Christian school ministry or something like that. And it's almost like there are these different tiers of spirituality in the church growing up. And let me tell you, that's wrong thinking big time. The truth is that whatever God's fitted us to do, whether it's to do something that would be viewed as entirely secular, Or something that's viewed as entirely ministry. If you're doing it to the glory of God and you're trying to be a faithful Christian who does what is right, fulfills your duty, takes care of your family. It's honest and hardworking. You are doing your work to the glory of God, whether you're a pastor, a missionary, a plumber, a roofer, whatever it is. You're doing it to the glory of God. And so it's very important that we recognize that when we talk about these issues of gifts, we don't have people that get proud. Or people that feel insecure. We should never, never incentivize people carnally into a good thing. And so that's a little bit of a soapbox that just went on there. Third thing, being exclusive. Establishing unhealthy divisions in the body based upon people's common gifts. And it is kind of interesting that we tend to sort of gravitate to people that think and process things very similar to the way that we do. Now one of the things that I, I don't know if I'd say have the opportunity to do, but I get to do as a pastor is I get to help people resolve conflicts. Not a fun thing, but a necessary thing. And this is what I've learned many times when I'm trying to help people resolve a conflict. There are two sides, and those people they have, this is not always the case, but many times it's the case. Their values are the same on both sides of the issue. And if you could talk to this person over here, and then you talk to, and they're not in the same room, but you just you just hear them out, what you will find is they really want the same thing many times. But the thing that is lacking between them is the ability to communicate in a way the other person grabs. It really is often the case. Now I'm not saying it's always the case. Like sometimes both parties do not have the same worldview. They do not have the same values. They do not want the same things. And in those situations Whew, it's it doesn't usually go very well. But many times it it is. And so the idea is this, what I will find out is that that the way that this person is trying to communicate to this person They think that they're commu this person's not getting it at all. They're not. And it's not because they're not trying to communicate. It's because the way that they think and the way that they say is just it's different. And so sometimes what you have to do is you have to kind of explain to this person, well, having talked to them, understanding how they process things, I think this is how you need to communicate to this to them. And if you do it in this way, I think that they're going to get it. And then when you're talking to this person, you say, look, look, when they say this and they do this, I know that you don't see it this way, but this is what they're trying to communicate here. And so this is how you need to process what they're trying to do. And you're trying to build a bridge between people that they they they work in different brain worlds. Men and women, alright? Do men and women think very different? Yes. If you ask your wife how she's doing, she says she's fine. Maybe, maybe not. You don't know. So you have to learn how to work through that, guys. So the idea is this. It's easier It's easier to run with people, to work with people, to process problems with people that think the way that we do, that are wired the way that we are It's far easier. You don't have to work through it as much because you're thinking on the same wavelengths. But guess what? To become well-balanced people, we have to work through those differences. And that's why getting married, raising kids, interacting with people in the church, these things are very helpful for us. because they help us grow and they help us to become more well-rounded. So Paul is addressing those issues, pride, feeling insecurity, like it doesn't matter what I do, and then being exclusive where we kind of separate out into different groups. Next thing I'd like us to look at is how he just kind of summarizes this all together. Look down in your Bible at verses 25 through 27. What is the basic summary of everything that Paul is saying here? Here's how he puts it. The members should have the same care for one another And whether one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. Or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. Now Ye are the body of Christ and members in particular. Now, when I read this, this reminds me a lot of what it says in Galatians, where he says that we are to bear one another's burdens. And and how we are to uplift and carry and shoulder those burdens one with another. And so the idea is that we provide a support for one another. When things are going well, we're rejoicing, we take interest. When things are not going well, we come alongside, we listen, we support, we encourage, we try to help our brother or sister in Christ who's going through difficulty. We try to help them navigate that. with someone who cares and is going to point them to Christ. Not necessarily fix their problem, but it's going to be there with them through their problem. And is always going to point them to the one who is going to be their strength and that's the Lord. That's what God wants us to do. So how does this break down? Verse number 25. The members should have the same care for one another. Look out for one another. Now I will tell you, some people are wired a little bit more to notice what's going on around them. There are some people when they walk into a room, they notice who is sitting by themselves And when they see that person sitting by themselves, in their heart they say, I want to make sure that that person doesn't feel excluded. I'm going to go over and I'm going to talk to them. There are some people that's how they're wired. There's others that they walk in a room, they don't think twice about anybody around them. There could be a person over here by themselves, a person over here by themselves, person over here by themselves, and they're not even gonna notice it. And let's just say it's a guy walks into the room with his wife and and he's, you know, everything's good and so I say, Hey, you notice Uh that that guy over there he's sitting by himself, you should go talk to him. He's like, what? That guy? Oh, he's fine. I you know, you should go talk to him That couple over there, they seem like they're on their own. You should go over and you know see how they're doing, have a conversation with them. Some people are wired to notice that. Some people, they aren't. But all of us should be. We can all improve in it And I'll I'll say our church actually is pretty friendly for Maryland. I don't know if friendly for Maryland's really setting the bar too high. We're friendly for Maryland, all right? I think when people come here they they gener they generally feel pretty welcome. Back some people might even feel overwhelmed. They're like, I just wanted to kind of sit here in a corner and Just kind of not be known that I'm here, sort of a thing. And I think that it's really good that as a church we tend to be more friendly. But but the truth is this. We have to learn to look out for other people. I mean, I say this to our teenagers here. Um if you walk into a church as a 14-year-old and you go into Sunday school and you know anybody, You're gonna be like, I don't think I want to say hi to anybody. I just want to kind of stay here and be to myself. But then while you're there sitting there by yourself and nobody says it, then you're kind of like, it'd be kind of nice if somebody come up and talk to me. So here's the point. Look out for other people. The members should have the same care one for another. Think about what's going on in other people's lives, not just our lives. And our lives are busy and our lives are complicated. We have our own burdens. There's no question about it. But as a society, as a society, we are way too focused on our ourselves. Way too focused on ourselves. It's a huge, huge problem. Second thing, take a genuine interest in others' burdens. Verse 26. Whether one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. Some of you go, I would like to counter with a proverb that says, if you take a dog by the ears, A person that goes into a problem that doesn't belong to them is like someone who grabs a dog by the ears and you're like, what does that mean? You're gonna get bit. Okay? You're gonna get bit. And the truth is that when people are hurting, they say things that they shouldn't. The way that they're thinking is kind of all over the place many times. They're very self-focused, often, often. But the truth is they need people to come alongside of them and just love them. And just be patient with them. They don't need you to preach a sermon to them. They don't need you to be one of Job's supposed friends. I'm reading through Job right now and I'm like, oh man, these guys. They're just like grilling this poor guy and he's like, I am in misery and I don't even know what I've done wrong and all you can do is tell me that if I was really doing what's right, none of these things would have happened. And they're just going after them, going after them. What people need is they need someone to care. They need somebody to come alongside. They need someone to speak when it's time, but you gotta kind of figure out when it's time. You plant the seeds when it's just right. But the truth is that caring for a person that's carrying a burden is not easy, but it's something the church needs. Very, very important. You say, well, do I have to be in a completely stable soul myself in order to be a blessing to other people? The answer is no. The truth is our lives are always filled with challenges. If a pastor had to always have peace in his every time he walked up to preach, you'd start finding out that sometimes they wouldn't preach. Okay? I don't carry my phone with me on Sundays. I don't read notes that people give me on Sundays. Why? Because I have no idea what text message I'm going to get before the service. I have no idea what so that might be a thank you note. It might not be a thank you note. It might be a I'd just like to share a couple of thoughts with you this morning, kind of a note, and you're like, oh boy, here we go. But here's the point. You don't have to have everything figured out to be a blessing to someone who's hurting. Your presence matters. Be an encouragement. Third, take a personal interest in others' blessings. Verse 26: Or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. Guess what you can't do if you are rejoicing with someone who is rejoicing? You can't be jealous toward them. One of the reasons that people often do not do this is because they see someone be blessed, and the first thing that pops in their head is, well, why couldn't that have been me? Why couldn't have I had that blessing? Why couldn't I have had that opportunity that that person, oh, you got a pay raise. That's great. I can use a pay raise Oh, you got this honor. That's great. You know, we do the same thing and nobody recognized what I'm doing. And so what goes into our mind is, what about my situation versus their situation? But someone who truly loves another person, they say when they're hurting, I want to be there for them. And when that person has experienced some blessing, I just want to rejoice with them. Them. I'm not going to be self-centered. I'm not going to compare my situation to their situation. I'm going to take a genuine interest in them and I'm going to rejoice with them. Fourth, look at one another as brother and sister in Christ. Verse twenty-seven: now you are the body of Christ and members in particular. There should be something very special about the church. And what I mean by that is we genuinely love the people that are here. And we all have our challenges. We all have areas where we need to grow more than we have. Okay? We've all got them. But we should have a genuine love for one another. We say that's my brother in Christ. Despite his challenges, I love him. That's my sister in Christ. Despite her challenges, I love her. I'm going to show grace to these individuals in my life. And I'm going to care for them. And I'm going to be a source of blessing, not burden to them. That's the way that we should be. We should see ourselves as a part of the same body together. Very, very important. And I I was mentioning this to the teens today during our uh study that they had. I said, it's kind of funny, when when kids are growing up Some kids are like best buds with their siblings and then as they get older they start like classing, you know? And then if they mature in life, when they get older They actually become close again. Now it doesn't always work out that way. And sometimes you know the kids scrap a lot when they're little and some kids scrap less with each other than others. But the idea is that as we mature and as we get older and we have all this history Together, there's a an affection that we have for our siblings because that's my family. We have lived life together and we have all these things in common. And I I there are things that my brother might say or do, and because he's my brother, I just I just have a tendency to give him more grace. than I would somebody else, it's not my brother, doing the exact same thing. I don't know if he's like that with me, but I'm like that with him. Why is that? Because he's my brother. I love him. Care about him And so we need to have that sense within the church of that warmth, that affection for one another, because we're family. So, how do we apply all this? Pull it all together. Let me give you a couple simple applications. The first is this: we need to be fully engaged in the local church. Now, what I mean by fully engaged in the local church, I'm not trying to browbeat you about When some pastors back in the day, when that door's open, you're here. And I mean, I believe that we should be committed to be here when the doors open. I believe that. But the truth is, I'll give the example this past Sunday. We canceled Sunday night service. And the truth is there's a part of me that's kind of like, well, if it just rains or it just snows and it's wet on the ground, like Maybe we should be here. There's also another part of me that's like, you know, if I open those doors, there are people that they are going to feel a moral obligation to be here and it might not be safe for them to drive home when service is over. And so the question is really what should we do? I think we should err on the side of making sure people who are potentially going to endanger themselves on the roads that they are going to be safe. And that's really what it came down to. And it's a it's a tough judgment call, and uh I know that not every church, you know, handles it the same way There are times that I've made a call the other way and kind of wish I hadn't. Okay. And it goes, you know, it's a total judgment call. But here's the point. The point is this. We need to be committed to one another and engaged in what's going on. When we come to church, we should be thinking about other people, not just ourselves. We shouldn't have just this consumer mindset. This is a place where we can grow together. It's a place where we can display the glory of God as a body. It's a place where we will work together and ultimately take the gospel. Out into our community and even around the world. Application two: the diversity of backgrounds and personalities and strengths, while they can bring frustration, they are designed for our good And we have to learn to get out of our comfort zone a little bit sometimes and allow God to use the people around us. to shape us to become a more matured, a more well-rounded, a more usable person in God's service. And you know, as we're raising our children, our children are like, I don't want to do that. Well, I'm not saying we should always make them do things they don't like to do. But we do have to gently and firmly at times push them out of their comfort zone and say, as your parent, I think that you need to do this. Because it's for your good. I want to see you grow in this area. I'm not trying to be overbearing with you. I'm not trying to be harsh with you. I want you to move past this. I want you to grow past this. And so as dad, here's what we're going to do. And I'm going to work through this with you. I'm going to support you through it. But you've got to do it. Don't allow pride to take root in your heart. When you see others who seem to have lesser abilities, gifts, opportunities, don't allow yourself to swallow the lie that your presence or contribution to the body doesn't matter. insignificant. We can err on either side. Don't allow yourself to become exclusive within the body. These are my people over here, over here, not so much. You know, get to know people. Rub shoulders of people that I mean on Wednesday night when we pray together. You know, maybe pray with somebody that you've never prayed with before. Get to know them a little bit. This is a great opportunity to get to know people. And I know it's not easy. I know it's not easy to make those connections, but give it a try. God can use that. Third application. We've got to get past a consumer mentality. We live in probably the most consumer-driven society in human history. Okay. We are consumers. We are consumers. When we come to church, we should be thinking about others and how to bless them. and strengthen them more than ourselves. And I'm not saying when you come to church that you shouldn't come with a desire to grow to be fed. If I'm not teaching the word and you're not being fed spiritually, I'm not doing my job. That's a problem. But if all you're concerned about is I'm going to sit there, I'm going to get my sermon and don't shake my hand Don't talk to me. Don't ask me how my day was. I'm not going to ask you how yours was. I'm going to sit here and then I'm gone. If that's your mindset, there's a big problem. A big problem. Take a genuine interest in the lives of others. Love them. Weep with them. Rejoice with them. See them as your family. I think that's really the sense of this text. It's not about figuring out, okay, how do I categorize that gift? Where does that fit? Is that like a sign gift? Is that like a is that like a one of the ministry gifts? Like like that's really not what Paul he wasn't wanting us to work it all out in our minds. He was really wanting us to say, hey, whatever God has fitted you to do Don't be selfish with it. Don't be proud with it. Use it for his glory to bless others. You're a family. You're a body. Let's do this together. May God help us to apply this text. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, I thank you for your word. I thank you for the thoughts that we find in this text And I pray that the things that were presented this evening would be a help to all of us. We want to grow. We want to bless others. We want to serve you faithfully. And I just pray that you'd help us to look at how you have fitted us and the opportunities that you've given us. Help us to look at these things in a way that is pleasing to you. In a way that we become a channel of your love and your work in the lives of others. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen.