Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our service today at Anchor Baptist Church and hope that you've had a great week and looking forward to a service We'll really focus on the Lord. We have a couple of announcements, and then after that, uh we'll open up with our scripture reading. Good evening. This morning, following the morning service, there is a sound meeting. For those that are interested in the sound booth, getting plugged into that ministry. We'll be meeting in the double door room following the morning service. This Thursday we have the senior luncheon. We'll have an opportunity there to just encourage some of the seniors as they come in for the cornerstone as Pastor Josh gives a little devotional. Uh Friday we'll have two activities. We have the college and career at Pastor's House and then for the teens there is Nerf War. I know they have been talking and they are very excited about this. I think I heard some were already starting to round up their There are little bullets and everything for it to uh start getting each other. They're talking strategy. They're excited. This Saturday though is the men's breakfast and tree cutting. That'll be starting at 8 a. m. And then also on Saturday there is the Walk for Life. There is a little flyer at the welcome desk for those that are interested. Talks a little bit more about where it'll be at As well as it starts at uh 9 a. m. for the time. There's a life walk, toddler trots, preschool gallop, and a kids dash. A whole lot of things going on. But if you would if you're interested, there is a flyer here with a QR code to scan. And then Ms. Kathy Donolin is the one to get in contact if you have more questions. but awesome opportunity to be a part of the community. Pastor Josh. Our opening scripture reading is found in Psalm 100. We'll read the whole psalm. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness, come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He that hath made us And not we ourselves. We are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise Be thankful unto him and bless his name, for the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting And his truth endureth to all generations. Our theme for worship today is for us to be sobered by God's justice and rejoice. In his grace. Before we go to prayer, I want to mention the songs that we're going to sing in the opening. The first song is the one we started with last week, and that is uh straight out of Psalm 100, all people that on earth do dwell. And so as we sing that, it is uh to the tune of the doxology And I hope that you can really sing that out with just joy in your heart as you think about the song that is expressing the psalm that we just read, Psalm 100. And then after that, we're going to sing Rejoice, the Lord is King, and we're going to focus in on the fact that He rules and He reigns. And then the third hymn we're going to focus on is God's grace that is greater than our sin. We're going to think about the cross and how Christ accomplished our redemption. And so as we sing these hymns, um want to encourage you to really think about the words. Really sing it from your heart. And let's just praise the Lord together. And if you are visiting with us today and you'd like us to try to connect with you at some point in the week. I want to encourage you to take a moment to fill out one of the visitor connection cards that's either there in the pew or receive that when you came in. And you can just put that in the little box in the back and we'll make sure that we reach out to you sometime this week. Let's bow for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless our service this morning. Father, we're so very grateful that We serve a risen Savior. We're so very grateful that we can sing about your mercy and your greatness and your grace. And so this morning, as we think about the scriptures that will be preached on, and as we sing these wonderful hymns that celebrate the gospel, I pray that we would be sobered by how holy and how righteous you are. But that we would also be comforted by the riches of your grace. And we would think about what Christ has done for us, and that we would glory in the cross. And the resurrection and the position that we enjoy by your grace as your children. Father, please be it those in our church who are sick. Be it those who have traveled, be it those who are not able to physically be here today for various reasons. I pray that this morning you really minister to their hearts as they have opportunity to join us through the live stream. And I pray that you would just strengthen each of them as they're dealing with various challenges. Father, I pray that you'd help us to think carefully about you today. Help us to really rejoice in you as a body, and then help us to be fed through your word. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Good to have you here with us in person and connecting with us online. Speaking of connecting online, I thought it interesting uh brother Braxton 's uh mess uh announcement about the s uh soundroom. You've got to be there to be plugged in. You've got to be there personally. You can't connect wirelessly or Bluetooth, okay So you gotta be there in person. So get plugged in. All right, as we uh get started on our songs, Look up on the screen. Please stand with me as we get started. All people that on the earth do dwell to the tune of the doxology. Sing it out. Spells thought here ever and nearly when I am Amen. Now take your handle. Turn to all the way back to page one. Oh, page one in the red book. Rejoice, the Lord is King. Amen and please be seated. We'll turn to page 157 now. Grace. Greater than our sin No me pierde una guía de la mujer, pues no me voy a ir de una que no tiene miedo, porque no le dio que el cierre, no hay nadie , no, cuando le engañé en el redón. Amen. That's good singing. All right. Now we will go to our scripture reading found in Luke chapter 16. Luke chapter 16, we'll start in verse 19, and we'll read to the end of the chapter. The rich man and Lazarus. There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day. And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores, and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores. And it came to pass that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died, and was buried And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivest thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things But now he is comforted, and thou art tormented. And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed. So that they which would pass from hence to you cannot, neither can they pass to us that would come from thence. Then he said I pray thee, therefore, Father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house. For I have five brethren, that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment. Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. And he said, Nay, Father Abraham, but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent. And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead. May the Lord add his read blessing to the reading of his word. Amazing Grace, one of my favorite songs. But next week I'll have another favorite song. Kind of like I have my my life verses. I don't know if it's Galatians 2. 20. Romans 1 and 2, uh 12, 1 and 2, or Psalms 101, verse 3. Changes day by day. I'm so fickle sometimes. Love that song. Alright, we are going to for our next song go to a hymn insert In the back of our book, we have some pages in the red book. We have some pages glued in. If you go to the end of the index and turn over one page, my anchor holds. No, we have an anchor. We have an anchor. Ah! Okay, it's not we have my anchor hole. It's we have an anchor. So go to the very back and turn back a page. We have an anchor. So all right, here we go. I'm getting used to some new glasses, so they're little a little stronger, having a hard time reading. We have an acre. We're going to gr after the second verse, after the second verse, we're going to do our meet and greet, okay? So please stand with me. You can't meet and greet, well sitting down. So on the second verse, and I wanna I wanna do the format. Okay, here we go. I wouldn't go in with everyone, but I 'm going to be a little bit more than we 're going to be. Okay, let's go one more and go. You're ready on the third. All right, everybody. Okay, we're going to go to the blue book. Please say standing for me. Page 105 in the blue book. We haven't sang that song in a while. I like that. Doesn't that make you just want to storm hell with a super soaker? Oh my goodness. For me to live is Christ. Single single. Tengo la Evan , and I see a little bit of the body. For me to live his prize For me to live his prize , rescuing him my high pride For me to let me Please be seated. In the morning when I rise, in the morning when I rise. In the morning when I rise, give me Give me boss, give me boss. To my all this world, but give me And when I am alone. Oh, and when I am alone, and when I am alone. Give me Give me all you can have on this one. I can 't believe it. And when I come to die, oh and when I come to die, and when I can die. Give me dumb, you can have it well. You can have all the poems. You can have all this one. Much give me gas, give me gas. Give me a Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for your class. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Luke. And we are in Luke chapter 16 this morning. We've been working our way verse by verse through this book. And this is the 87th time that we have opened Our Bibles to the Book of Luke, and we are moving our way through. And the text in front of us is in fact a very, very important text And I think it's very improv uh the song that was just sung was very appropriate in preparing our hearts for the things that we will see in the text in front of us this morning. Again, Luke chapter 16, we're going to begin reading in verse 19, and we will read down to verse 31 together. Here's what the scriptures say. These are the words of our Lord Jesus. There was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day. And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate full of sores, and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores, and it came to pass that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. And in hell he lifted up his eyes being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame. But Abraham said, son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivest thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things. But now he is comforted. Thou art tormented. Beside all this, between us and you, there is a great goal fixed So that they which should pass from hence to you cannot. Neither can they pass to us that would come from thence. Then he said, I pray thee, therefore, Father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house, for I have five brethren, that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment. Abraham said unto him, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. He said, Nay, Father Abraham, but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent. He said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded the one rose From the dead. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer as we look at these words of the Lord Jesus. Father, as we read this text and as we reflect on it, I pray that you would help us to understand. Why Jesus taught this story from a man's life named Lazarus at this moment of great controversy with the religious leaders of his day Father, as we think about his words and we think about the intent of this passage, we think about how to apply it, I pray that you would open our hearts and help us to be tender to your word Father, help me as I handle this text to do it effectively. Help me to teach it consistent with the intent for which it was given. And ultimately, I pray that the Holy Spirit will take the word and use it in each one of our hearts in the exact way that it needs to be applied. We ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. I think it's important when we look at a passage like this to not lose sight of what was going on leading up to this moment. Now, first of all, this is a story about a real man. Out of all of the stories that Jesus taught, the parables that he often taught, he never named a person. And that's very different in this particular passage of Scripture. The fact that he uses the name Lazarus would make us think that this is someone who had probably died not a long time before he tells this story. But what is most intriguing about the story that he tells is what's going on leading up to him giving this conversation. If you remember back over the last several weeks as we've been looking at the teachings of Christ. Jesus has this building tension between him and the religious leaders. And one of the last things that Jesus taught as he was leading up to this is he talks about the importance of what we do with the material resources that we are given. And in verse number 11 of these verses, he says, He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much. And he that is unjust in the least is unjust also with much. If therefore you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust true riches? And if you have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall give you that which is your own? No man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mamma. And then in verse 14, the very next thing that we see is it says, And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things and derided him. Now it's important for us to realize that the reason that Jesus teaches what he teaches is not just because he wants to give an exposition on what happens to a person after they die. Most certainly that is what he's doing. But there's a reason that he gives us this great contrast between a man who was a beggar and had absolutely nothing and a man who was extremely wealthy, had everything that this world had to offer. Yet after they both died, the roles have reversed. Jesus is telling this story not just because it's true, and not just because he wants to warn us about the fact that we're all going to die. And we're going to face eternity, but he wants these people to recognize that their riches and their money and their view of their position was completely irrelevant to this question of what was going to happen happen to them after they died. So I'll summarize the passage this way. Two men with radically different lives face the same temporal fate which led to a shocking eternal reversal. Two men with radically different lives faced the same temporal fate, which led to a shocking, eternal reversal. As we read these verses, we're going to see that God wants us to prepare for eternity wisely. And these verses are going to help us To do that. And so the first thing I want us to notice in the text in front of us is that these two men lived radically different lives. These two men experience radically different life experiences. And we see this in verses 19 to 20. Here's what he says. There was a certain rich man, and there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which laid at his gate full of sores. Now, that is the overall idea of what is going on between these two people, but I'd like us to kind of burrow down into the details so that we kind of absorb what Jesus is saying. As I mentioned earlier, this is a story that is uniquely personal and very vivid in the way that it is presented. It is describing a tragic human experience that would have been very common in the first century. Very few people in this room know what it's like to live in a community where the people around you are begging to survive. Now I know that we have people who panhandle on the streets And I know that if we go into Baltimore, there are people who are living homeless on the streets. But I want you to realize that there are a lot of opportunities available for people in our country at this time. Our our church goes to the Baltimore Rescue Mission on a weekly basis. And people can go to the mission and they can get free uh housing and food every single night if they would so choose to do that. And thankfully in our society we have a lot of ways to help people who are in very desperate situations. The first century was not to that level. The fact is there were certain people that there was no one No one who would give them a job. There was no one who would give them a place to stay. There were people who suffered immensely and they didn't have safety nets in their society in the same way that we do today in ours. This is describing a very, very tragic situation. And the other thing we see is that in this example This is the only place where Jesus is teaching that I can think of where he names a person in the story that he's telling. Now he might talk about people, he might talk about a leader or something like that, but as he is relating a story of someone's life, he never names the per the person. These are always generic stories. This is very specific And I think the purpose is meant to really drive home a point that in fact what he's saying is reality, and you and I are one day going to face the very reality that he's talking about. Second thing I want us to do is I want us to look at this rich man in the way that he is described. The details are very specific. In verse 19, he is described as being very wealthy. He is a certain rich man. And then it says that he dressed in elegant clothing. Verse 19, he was clothed in purple and in fine linen. And then later on in verse 19, it says that he fared sumptuously every day. The idea is that this man had this overabundance of food. The way that we could maybe put it is this is a guy that when he sat down to eat every day, he had people that brought him the meal. He did not prepare it for himself. They gave him as much food as he wanted, and then they had more to spare. The man literally ate a banquet every single time he ate in his home. And then we see that he lives in a gated home. So this is someone who had money, this is someone who dressed well, this is someone who ate well, this is someone who had success. Security. He had everything that you would have wanted had you been living in his time. And had Jesus mentioned this man's name, probably there would have been gasps because they would have said, we know that guy. We remember how he lived. We even wanted to be like him. But then we see the other side. There's a second person. His name is Lazarus. He is named. And it's describing him this way. In verse number 20, it describes him as being a beggar. He is completely destitute. Not someone who's saying, hey, I'll work for food. Not someone who's saying, Could you give me a couple of dollars? This is someone who's literally saying, I'm starving. Please have mercy on me. Just give me a crumb so I don't die. That's the way this man's living. He is weak and he is sickly. In verse 20 it says he was laid at his gate full of sores. So, what that's telling you is this man was not even strong enough to walk over to the man's house, knock on his gate, and say, Can uh can you get me a job? Can I work in your household? He wasn't able to do that. He was weak. He was sickly. He was unable to work. He was living a miserable, painful existence. And in verse 21, it says, He desired to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the man's table. He lived in pain and in hunger. And the last little part that I think is interesting is in verse 21 it says that the dogs came and they licked his sores. He fought street dogs for the man's table scraps. Now if you look at these two people, I hope the first guy, you go, wow, he really had a lot. Good for him. And the other guy, I hope you say, Boy, I wish I could have helped that man. Every single person that saw him should have had compassion on him, but the fact is he probably had leprosy. That meant nobody would have welcomed him into their home. He could have never worked for someone, he could have never been housed in in someone's home because of his situation. And so when you see these two people, you see this massive contrast. In Christ's audience, there was a very common mindset about people who suffered And I hate to say this, but it's also a common mindset in people's lives today. If people have an easy life, we think they must have done something to deserve that. And if somebody has a hard life, We think they must have done something to deserve that as well. In fact, when we read the book of Job, the whole reason why the book of Job was written was to really expose the fact that suffering is not a direct result of God saying, I'm going to punish you and I'm going to make your life miserable, but sometimes The explanation as to why people suffer is way more complicated than we understand. Yet that didn't stop Job's friends in Job chapter 8. I use friends in quotes here. Says, if thou wert pure and upright, surely now he would awake for thee and make the habitation of thy righteousness prosperous. Do you understand what he's saying? His friend is saying, Job, if you just get right with God, he'd make your life a lot better. It wasn't that simple. Job wasn't suffering because of some secret sin He was suffering because of things that were behind the scenes that nobody, not even Job himself, understood. We look at the words of the disciples in John chapter 9, he says, As Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. And his disciples asked him, saying, Ask yourself if you could put yourself in their shoes. Master, who sinned? This man? Or his parents, that he was born blind. And Jesus is like, well, it's not A, B, it's C, neither. In other words, the question you're asking is beginning with this presupposition that's completely wrong. And then I think about 1 Timothy chapter 6, where Paul has to warn Timothy to prepare for false teaching. And here's what it says: if any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, Even the words of our Lord Jesus and to the doctrine which is in accordance with godliness, he is proud, knowing nothing, he is destitute of the truth. And here is the key. Supposing that gain is godliness. From such withdraw thyself. What's he saying? One of the false teachings that was common in the day and is common today Is that if life is good, that's because you earned it. And as life is bad, it's because you deserved it. He said, that's not necessarily the way that life unfolds. And so I bring this point to your attention to simply say that as Jesus tells this story, in the back of people's minds , They believe that the rich man is rich because he's good. And they believe that this man is rich because God has favored him because of something that he has done. And in the back of their minds, while they wouldn't say it necessarily, they say, perhaps this man Lazarus was poor and physically suffering because of some sin that he committed or that his parents committed, some choice or series of choices that led him down that road. That's why he is where he is And we'll see by the end of the story that they were completely wrong in their assessment. Second thing we'll notice is that these two men had an unsurprising similarity. Now the first thing we looked at is how their lives are completely different. One man suffered and one man had everything. And if you look at the man who has everything, you say, I want to be like that guy. And if you see the guy who's suffering, you say, I don't want to be like that. I would never want that to be the case. And I hope people would be kind to me in such a situation But Jesus makes the point here that it's not the difference in this life that mattered most. It's what happens in this life that no one can escape. You say, what is that? Here's what it says in verse 22. It came to pass that the beggar, what? He died. And then it says, the rich man also what? He died and was buried. Now this passage is not just about the difference between these two people in life. But it's also about the similarity. Every person in this room is one day going to face this moment Where you will pass into eternity. Nobody in this room is gonna live forever in this sinful body. No one in this room is gonna live forever on this planet as you are. We are all going to face this inevitability that we are going to die. I have done a lot of a lot of funerals in this building Because we've had a lot of seniors over the years who have passed away. And I can tell you every single time we have one of those funerals, I remind people, this is a reminder today that one day that will be us One day, people will be gathered together to remember us. Hopefully say nice things, not hard things, but they're going to remember us. Why is that? Well because death is an inevitability. We do not have the ability to escape it. Your money cannot buy you. Escaping death, uh living in a nice house, being an American, doing good things to people, it doesn't matter Nothing that we do on this side of eternity can cause us to escape that certain reality. And so in verse 22, it says Lazarus died. In verse 22, it says the rich man also died. There is no more universal experience to humanity than death. Listen to some of these scriptures. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verse 1. To everything there is a season. And a time to every purpose under heaven. Here's the very first thing that Solomon writes: a time to be born and a time to die. You say, thank you for that encouragement, Solomon. What's he doing? He's saying, you better put your life in perspective You 're born, you're gonna die. Psalm 90, verses 10 to 12, he says, the days of our years, this is Moses writing. Are three-score years in ten, and if by reason of strength they be four-score years, and some of you going, well I'm past that, so I'm really strong. Alright, that's good, right? But he's saying if you live to be 70 years or 80 years old, you're strong You've done well, that's what he say. If yet by strength and labor and sorrow it is soon cut off, we fly away. So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. What does Moses say in Psalm 90? He says, you better realize your life doesn't last forever. You need to keep your perspective on the days that you have. Then I think about Ecclesiastes 11. He says, Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart and in the sight of thine eyes, but know thou that thou shalt That all these things God will bring thee into judgment. Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth While the evil day draws nigh, nor the years draw nigh wherein thou sayest, I have no pleasure in them. Man goeth to his long home. The mourners go into the streets, then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return unto the God who gave it. You say, Pastor Joel, I didn't want to hear this very negative message. Actually, it's not going to end entirely negative. But do you want to hear the truth or not? Do you want me to just say smooth and nice things to you that are not true and you live your life as In a fantasy world, and then one day you wake up on the other side of eternity and you wish that I had told you the truth? That is the sense of a passage like this. This passage is meant to wake us up, to remind us of what it says in Hebrews 9. It's appointed and demand to die once, and after this the judgment. So we see what these people had different in this life. One man was very wealthy, and one man suffered immensely. We see that both men experienced the same thing, that is, physical death. But then we see the third part. These two men had radically different eternal experiences. Now, when I say had, I should correct that. Have. Do you realize that the story that we are reading about right now, their experience is still ongoing. You say, are you sure? Yeah, that's what eternal means. Eternal means that this is a point in time when they both died and entered into eternity, but they're still there. And so as we read these verses, it's important for us to remember Lazarus is with the Lord right now. And the rich man is still experiencing eternal destruction. In verses 23 through 26 it says, in hell He lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and he seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. Now, if I had time to preach a two-hour sermon, I would break this down into all kinds of different areas. But I want to keep us streamlined so we don't miss the main point of what Jesus is getting at. First of all, we see that Lazarus immediately goes to be with God's people in verse 22 it says, and he was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. But then on the other side it says that the rich man immediately was separated from God's people. Verse 22 Verses 22 and 23, the rich man also died, was buried, and in hell he lifted up his eyes being in torment. Do you see this great difference between the two? The scripture never even talks about Lazarus being buried because who would have buried a beggar on the streets? But the rich man, he was buried. But now they're in totally different places You know there's a verse where Jesus says that the first will be last, the last will be first, and he talks about some of these things. The way to go up is to go down, and the way to go down is to go up. He talks about God resisting the proud and giving grace to the humble. This passage of Scripture gives us this very vivid reminder that in fact that principle is true. Lazarus is immediately comforted. In verse 22, it says the beggar died and was carried into Abraham's bosom. Verse 24, the rich man was immediately tormented. He cried and said, Have mercy on me and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue. I am tormented in this flame. Do you see the radical difference between these two people? Some of them might say, well, well, Pastor, that's just a parable. That didn't really happen. Jesus just he's just a shock factor. He's just trying to warn people, you know, live your life a little bit more moderately and be cautious. Certainly this is not true Guys, Jesus spoke more on eternal destruction and the lake of fire than almost any other topic that he addressed during his earthly ministry. I'm going to give you a grossy list of examples, but it doesn't even scratch the surface of the volume of examples where Jesus gets into this topic. And the question is why? Is it because he is sadistic and he likes seeing people suffer? It's the exact opposite. He wants people to be rescued. He wants people to be saved. He didn't preach this to dead people. He preached this to living people. He preached this to people who could actually respond to the gospel and be saved from the wrath to come. And so we see that there is this definite finality in the story. Verses 25 and 26 he says, Remember, in thy lifetime thou receivest thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things. But now he is comforted and thou art tormented. And beside all this, between us and you, there is a great goal fixed So that they can't, so that they which would pass, that's their desire, from hence you cannot, neither can they pass to us that would come from that. Now what does this tell you? As Jesus relates this example, he says, their decision is set. Lazarus can't go to you. You can't go to him. Lazarus can't go back and talk to your family. You can't go back and talk to your family. This separation has taken place. There's finality. Your eternity is set. And that is the sense. I want you to hear some of the passages where Jesus addresses this topic just so that you get a sense of how much he emphasized this issue of judgment. In Matthew chapter 8, verse 11, it says this many shall come from east and west and sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. But the children of the kingdom Shall be cast out into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. What is he describing? He's describing what we're talking about right here. The rich man in Lazarus. Or Matthew 10 verse 28, he says, Fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul. Rather, fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. What's he talking about? He's talking about this passage right here. Matthew 11, verse 23, thou Capernaum Though thou art exalted unto heaven shall be brought down to hell. If the mighty works which had been done in thee had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. Is that not a stunning statement? If the people in Sodom and Gomorrah, those cities that were destroyed because of their wickedness, where there weren't even ten righteous people in that city, he says, if those cities had had access to what you have , They would have never experienced that destruction. They would have been rescued because they would have humbled themselves and they would have turned to me. Matthew twenty-three, verse fifteen, he says, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, you compass sea and land to make a proselyte, and when he is made, you make him twofold more the child of hell than yourself. See what's he saying? These religious leaders were teaching a message that was not sending people to God. They were sending them away from God. You see, that's very sobering. Listen to this last one. Matthew 25, verse 30. He says, Cast ye out the unprofitable servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all his angels with him, then shall he sit on thrones in his glory, before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divides his sheep. And he shall set the sheep on his right hand and the goats on the left. Then shall the king say unto them that are on his right hand, Come, blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared from the foundation of the world. Now, as I mentioned, this is just a grocery list of a few pieces of what Jesus said. Jesus preached on this topic over and over and over and over again. Because his desire is that not one person would face eternal wrath, but that they would be saved from wrath through him. And there's another piece that we see here that is being taught, and that is in death there is an immediate separation of the unrighteous from the righteous. When a person who has placed their faith in Christ dies, they immediately go to be with the Lord. And when a person who has rejected the gospel dies , They're immediately separated from the Lord. And I want to address this topic just a little this morning because I think it's important for us to understand this. in light of the text in front of us. This is both a simple and a complex doctrine. What I mean by simple is there are certain things that it's very easy to see. The scripture is just very plain about there are other things, I'll get to one in just a moment. That is not as clear. And that is what happens to a person after they die before the resurrection of the body? In relation to the Old Testament saint versus the New Testament saint. This is a a a topic that's slightly more complex. But let's begin with the very simple and clear first. In Daniel chapter 12, verse 2, he says this, Many that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake. Some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. You know what that tells you? The resurrection isn't just of the righteous, folks. It's of the righteous and the unrighteous. righteous. First Thessalonians 4 13, I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. But you sorrow not as those which have no hope. If we believe Jesus died and rose Again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. The Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel and the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Comfort one another with these words. What does this tell you? The resurrection of the righteous is an absolute guarantee. First Corinthians 15, he says, I show you a mystery, we shall not all sleep. But we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, the trumpet shall sound, the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall all be changed. Let me break this down to you in this way. First of all, everyone will experience the resurrection. 1 Corinthians 15, 51 and 53, we shall all be changed. This corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. Every person living after they die is going to be raised to an eternity somewhere. You understand that? This passage shows us that one man went to be with Abraham and the other man went into hell. You say, well, after the cross, how does this work? Same thing is true. Everyone is going to spend eternity somewhere. Two. There is a resurrection to eternal life with God for those who are in Christ. 1 Corinthians 15. 20, in Christ shall all be made alive. 1 Thessalonians 4. 14, if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, Even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. The dead in Christ shall rise first The fact is, if you have trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, no matter how miserable life gets between now and the day you die, you will go to be with the Lord. And that is an absolute guarantee from the scriptures. But there's another side to this. There is also a resurrection to eternal destruction and the lake of fire for those who reject the gospel. In 1 Corinthians 15, 22 it says, In Adam all die. For sake of time, I'm not going to turn to the book of Revelation, but he lays out very clearly that there's going to be a day that all the dead Small and great are going to stand before God, and they will be judged according to the things that they have done in this life, and whoever is not written in the book of life will be cast into the lake of fire. Forever. You see, that makes me uncomfortable. It makes me uncomfortable too. But that doesn't change the fact that it's true. And you know what I love about this? You don't have to end up there You can respond to the gospel even today. You can place your faith in Christ and you can be saved from wrath through Him. But this destruction is absolutely certain on the authority of Scripture. Next, not everyone is going to experience physical death, so they will experience resurrection. Now, this is where it gets a little more complicated. In 1 Corinthians 15, he says this, Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, that's die, but we shall all be changed. That's resurrection. You say, what is that? Well, there's going to be a generation who lives through God. Bring them to be with him immediately. We call this the rapture of the church. And I know I could get into a whole lengthy conversation about that, but the scripture is very clear. But everyone's going to experience resurrection, but not everyone is going to die before that resurrection. Not everyone is resurrected at the same time. 1 Corinthians 15, 23, every man after his own order. Christ the first fruits. After that they who are Christ that is coming. One of the clearest passages is in Revelation 20. Listen to what it says He says, I saw thrones and they that sat on them, and judgment was given to them. And I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus and for the Word of God. Those are people who died, okay? And they lived, that's resurrection, and reigned with Christ a thousand years. But the rest of the dead live not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. On such the second death hath no power. They shall be priests of God and of Christ and shall reign with him a thousand years. So as you can see, that this topic goes into lots and lots of different potential conversations. But what I want us to be very clear on is this. Every person Is going to spend eternity somewhere. And this passage is a vivid reminder that everyone's going to die And after this, the judgment. The fourth part I want you to notice is this. The most significant difference between these two people. The most significant difference is not how they lived. The most significant difference is not where they ended up. The most significant difference is why they ended up in different places for eternity. And the reason I say that is because that difference is something they had a choice in. You say I had a choice. I didn't see that choice. Oh, it's there. And you see it where Jesus takes this passage at the end. Listen to what it says in verses 27 to 31. He says, if they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded the one rose from the dead. Why did Jesus state this twice in the story? Because that was the difference. The difference between heaven and hell. Eternity with God and eternity separated from God, saved from wrath through Him and under eternal judgment. The difference is what they did with the gospel. The rich man pleaded with Abraham to send Lazarus. In verse 27, he says, I pray thee, Father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house. I have five. Brethren, they need to hear this message. That's what he says. What does he say? They have Moses and the prophets. Abraham affirms that the scriptures are the sufficient standard that we must be called to embrace. In verse 29, he says, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. In verse 31 he says, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead. Why do you think Jesus said that? His point is this. This generation has Moses, they have the prophets, they have John the Baptist, they have the Messiah in flesh. They're going to see him be crucified, and they're going to know he rose from the dead, and they will still reject the gospel. He said, if they're not going to hear that, Lazarus isn't going to be to help them at all. You say, what's the point? The point is, there's real power in the gospel, folks. The gospel has more power to save than a dead person coming back to life to tell you about what happened when he died. It's true. And so the question we should all ask ourselves is, well, how do we apply such a passage of scripture? By the way, I I I skipped a section up because I didn't want to talk about it, but I don't want to keep you here for an hour. So if you want the middle notes, they're gonna be on the website. You can download them. How do you apply the passage in front of us? There are three words that come to mind. The first is the word conviction. Death and judgment are inescapable future realities. You say, I don't want to think about that. I understand that. But would you rather face eternity without having thought about it? Would you like to face eternity without having received the most important message that's ever been given Would you like to go into eternity having rejected the simple gospel that says, by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, you can be saved from wrath through him? Do you want to miss that? Death and judgment are future realities. You will not escape. Second, our wealth cannot secure our future. On this side of eternity, people who are wealthy have lots of opportunities that people who are not wealthy have. That is absolutely true. That's true when it comes to the kind of medical care that you get. That comes w that's true when it comes to the the the social circles that you interact with. That's true if you want to talk about the vehicle that you drive. That's true about the community that you live in, the kind of house that you have, the kind of respect that people give you. Money gives you a lot of stuff on this side of eternity. But you know what it doesn't give you? A secured eternity. That was the whole point of this passage of scripture Here's this guy who had everything. He was wealthy. He ate well. He dressed well. Everybody respected him. And he's burning in hell for eternity. And here's a man who had nothing. And he was sick. And he laid at a man's gate. And the dogs were licking his sores. And the only reason he survived as long as he did is because of the kindness of people who said, oh, that uh uh that man, uh, I don't even want to look at this man But you know who really had everything? Not the rich man. Lazarus. Because our wealth can't secure our future. Certainly, the most important decision we make in life is what we do with the gospel. You say, well, I'd like to make good financial decisions so that I can retire at this age and boy it really makes me uncomfortable when I think about this election because I know that things could go this way they could go that way and things could be really messy in our country if they go this way versus that way. And I agree with all those things. Don't get me wrong But you know what the most important thing is? What do you do with the gospel? Because things will get really good in this life And that doesn't secure your eternity. Things get really bad in this life. And that does not exclude your eternity. The most important decision you make in life is what you do with the gospel. He died for your sins. He rose from the dead. He says, Whosoever will may come, trust me. A Savior. Depend on my death and my resurrection. Receive my righteousness. You can be saved from wrath through me. Why would you reject that? Like what thinking person would reject that? A person who's in rebellion against God. Fourthly, there's no second chance after death This passage is so clear. There's the finality. Abraham didn't say, hey, you know what? Would you like to do it over again? Let me let me send you back, and then you can make your choice and come back to be with me. He didn't do that. Because it's over. There aren't second chances. There are second chances in this life, but not second chances after. Lastly, there's nothing more powerful than the gospel preached. There are a lot of Christians, they think if we really want to see the church grow, if we really want to see the church impact our community, impact our culture, then what we need to do is we need to figure out ways to lure people in. That's just not true. Because there's only one thing in this world that changes people's hearts. You know what that is? The death and resurrection of Jesus. There's only one thing that gives people an eternity with God. There's only one thing that transforms a person from the inside. It's the gospel. And all the gimmicks that this world has to offer can never give you what you need the most. So the first word is conviction. The second word is comfort. You say, I don't see a lot of comfort in there. You don't see comfort for Lazarus? You don't see comfort for Lazarus? You say, well, I didn't think about that. I know where everybody's mind goes. They think about the rich man. They think about how he's suffering. But you know, this passage isn't just about the rich man. It's about Lazarus, too. Here's a man whose life was filled with more misery than you and I can even imagine. His health was broken. Nobody loved him enough to take care of him. Nobody respected the man. He didn't have anything. Even the dogs disrespected him. Came and licked his sores. And you know what it tells me? Life's greatest troubles at their worst are temporary. Life's greatest troubles at their worst are temporary. Lazarus, as he suffered most, was closer to heaven than he'd ever been. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? Secondly, believers who suffer will one day experience a full eternal comfort. This passage is not just about the rich man and hell. It is also about Lazarus and glory. And I know that in this congregation, and some who are not even able to be here, you suffer in life. You have physically suffered, you have financial concerns that are a heavy burden on you. You've dealt with pressures in all different kind of areas of life, and you look at your situation and you go, my situation is miserable. I don't even know how to untangle this mess. I can't like I can I can like trade in an old car and get a new one, but I I can't trade this body in and get a new one. Well, you're going to get a new one one day in glory But the fact is life on this side can be really hard and really messy and really complicated and really frustrating and really painful and really empty. But if you've got Jesus, you've got everything. And that's as much a part of the story as the first part. Comfort. The third word is invitation. If you've never placed your faith in Christ, what's stopping you from doing that this morning? You don't have to end up with this rich man in hell. You don't have to. Jesus didn't preach on eternal destruction because he loved seeing people suffer. He preached it to warn people to run from it. He preached it because he loves people and desires to save them. But they got to do something with the message. And so the invitation is if you've never placed your faith in Christ, then do it today. Say I don't know how to do that. All right, well after the service, come talk to me. I'll tell you exactly what the Bible says. We'll go through verse by verse, explain to you what Jesus did for you, how you can trust him as your Savior, and you can take care of that matter right here, right now, before you even leave this place today Second, have you lost your confidence in the power of the gospel? You say, well, how do I know if I have? Well, what are you looking to for your greatest comfort in life? Is it political? Is it financial? Is it a new location? Or is it the finished word of Christ? You look at anything but Christ, you're going to come up empty. But he is the one who can give you a lasting comfort. Third is this, are you weary in the Christian life? A lot of people are. See how do you know that? Because I'm living in this world just like you are. I see the struggles that people have. You know the struggles that you have. You know the struggles that others have. Look at our prayer sheet and think about the people that we're praying for who have major health issues. And some of these health issues, they have plagued them for many, many, many years. And the simple fact is on this side of eternity, that's not changing. It's true. There are some people that when we pray for them, what we are praying for is God 's strength till the day He glorifies them. You say, where's the comfort in that? The comfort in that is there is a future comfort in Christ. And he will sustain you every single day till the day that you go to be with him. There's a song we sing, It will be worth it all when we see Jesus. That's actually true, folks. Not just something we sing about. It's true. And this passage of Scripture ought to comfort us with that. Conviction, comfort, invitation. How do you need to respond to the Word of God this morning? Let's bow for prayer. Before we go to the Lord in prayer, please keep your heads bowed and your eyes closed. Is there anyone here that would say, Pastor, I don't know for certain that I'm saved, and I really would like to speak with you about that today? If that's you, I'm not going to call you out by name, I'm not going to make you stand up or anything like that. I just want to see your hand so that I know to try to try to meet with you today. Is there anybody that would raise your hand and say that's me, Pastor? I do need to speak with you about this issue of salvation. I'm not certain that I'm saved. Anyone at all? Just raise your hand quickly. I will make a mental note of that. And then I will try to speak with you. Anyone like that at all? Anyone like that at all? Secondly, I'll say this, you might say, uh Pastor, I'm not going to raise my hand, but I need to talk to you. No problem. Come by those doors, shake my hand, say, Pastor, I do need to speak with you. If you're a lady, I'll have you speak with my wife. If you're a man, I'll speak with you. But we want to be encouragement to you. Show you from the Bible how you can have absolute confidence You are God's child, and you're safe from eternal wrath through Him. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask God to bless His word. Our Father, thank you for the Word. May you comfort those who needed that today. May you convict those who needed that today. May you strengthen us in our firm conviction in the power of the gospel as a result of what we have heard this morning. We ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Please pull out your hymn books for our closing hymn. And that hymn is 524 saved. by the blood. We'll sing the first and the last verses as we remember that we are saved because Christ paid our sin debt in full. 524, please let's stand together as we sing this. First and last verses. Say by the one we are. I think I want to come to our define. I hope that as you're saying that, that truly is your testimony. I just want to remind you that tonight we are starting back choir, and that starts at 4. 45. We are getting ready to start our missions month. And so the last Sunday in September we have a missionary with us. And then the next several weeks we will have missionaries in so please mark that on your calendar. We have a little booklet that we will be um sending out the last uh Sunday before we start missions month so Lord willing next week we're gonna Send you home with that so you know who's going to be speaking. And I hope that each of those Sundays are going to be a tremendous encouragement to you. And also the choir will be singing several of those weeks. So uh choir is going to be doing missions month, they're gonna be singing a couple times in November and then getting ready for our uh Christmas cantata. So um if you are desiring to be a part of the choir And you don't know what's involved with that, please reach out to myself, to my wife, or to Ian, and we can make sure that you have that information. But 445, we're going to start that up again this evening, and we're excited about that. Uh please, Justin Betts, can you close us in prayer and then uh we'll be dismissed? Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for the gospel. We thank you for the sacrifice that you made. We pray, Lord, that you'll help everybody here to be Very grateful and to just to receive, help us all to receive the words that we heard today with both uh Fear of the Lord and with gratitude, Father, for the sacrifice that you made and that what you're able to accomplish to reconcile us to yourself. We pray that you'll be with us as we go about our weeks and that you'll give us safety. Uh in good health and we just thank you for everyone who came and we pray for your blessing on them this coming week. In Jesus' name, amen.