Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are in 1 John chapter 5. We're looking at verses 5 through 9. Sorry we were off for a couple of days there. One of my children was sick and we had to isolate him. So half the kids were in the basement, which is where I normally do my recording. But anyway, we're going to be continuing on in our study. 1 John chapter 5, and I'm going to begin reading in verse 5. Who is he that overcometh the world? But he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God. This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ, not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth. For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, the Holy Ghost. These three are one. And there are three that bear witness in earth, the Spirit, the Water, and the Blood. These three agree in one. If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater. For this is the witness of God which he hath testified of his son. And this passage of Scripture is an extremely important passage of Scripture because what it does is it lays out for us the uniqueness of Christ. not just the uniqueness of Christ, the really the incomparable uniqueness of Christ, but it also lays out for us the fact that it is that doctrine, that understanding of who Jesus is, and belief in the person of Christ Christ as he is, that is an integral part to our faith. It's an integral part to what actually makes us what the Bible calls overcomers. So if we don't embrace what the Bible has to say about Jesus, We really don't embrace what makes us an overcomer. We are not actually Christians in the biblical sense if we reject this fundamental teaching of who Christ is. So let me give you a simple summary statement, and then we will look at the first part of what will be an important doctrinal discussion, but is also extremely practical because It's the heart of the gospel that enables us to live the Christian life. So a summary of the passage could be this. This little section of 1 John was written to help us to understand and embrace the uniqueness of Christ, that He is. Which is an absolutely essential aspect of our faith in Christ. So we need to understand who Jesus is. If we don't understand who he is, and we don't embrace who he is and depend on who he is then we really don't have the Christian gospel. This is an essential. This is the non-negotiable aspect of our faith. And so let's look at the first part. The first thing that we'll see is this. Christ is unique because he is God in flesh. Now when we talk about Jesus, we need to recognize that Jesus is a person who had two unique natures in the same person. He's fully God and he's fully man at the same time. We can put it like this, the eternal God at a point in time took on human nature, not laying aside his deity and stopping being God, but he simply takes on humanity. So he's God in flesh. That's what we're talking about. We talk about this passage. You say, well, where do you see that? Look down in verse 5 and notice carefully how this is worded. Who is he that overcometh the world? Who is the overcomer? Now he's talked a lot about the overcomer. In fact, he's used this word quite a few times. And he's emphasizing that these believers that he's writing to are overcomers. And they are overcoming. And in a sense, they have already overcome Because God has done his work that secured their salvation. But when we talk about these people who are overcomers, what do they believe or what makes them overcomers? And here's what he says. The overcomer is the one who believeth that Jesus is the Son of God. That little phrase is so important. He believes something about a person. That person is Jesus, and Jesus is the Son of God. Now, when we talk about the word Jesus and the phrase Son of God, we need to understand that he's emphasizing two different aspects. of this person's nature. When he talks about him being Jesus, he's identifying him with a person, a human, a man. Jesus was a man who lived in Nazareth, was born in Bethlehem over 2,000 years ago. That's who he's talking about. When he talks about him being the Son of God, he's identifying that that man who walked in Nazareth 2,000 years ago was not just a man He was a man who was also fully God, God in flesh. And so this passage is emphasizing both the humanity and the deity of Christ. In fact, as we get deeper into this passage, we're going to see that he doesn't just talk about the deity of Christ. But he emphasizes the Trinitarian nature of the triune God. In other words, it's not just that Jesus is God, but Jesus is the second person of the Godhead. So when we talk about Jesus, we can refer to him as God and we should. And we should worship him and praise him as God. But when we talk about the Father, we also are talking about Him as God. And we talk about the Spirit. We're talking about the Spirit as God. Not three different gods, but three persons within the Godhead And so this is a unique, incomparable relationship between these three persons. But this is an integral part of our faith. We need to understand that we really don't have a gospel if we don't believe that God is triune. We need to understand that each of the three persons of the God had had an integral role in our salvation. The Father's plan of redemption, the Son accomplishing that plan of redemption, the Spirit regenerating us, the Spirit working in us to grow us into Christ's likeness. now that we're saved, the Spirit keeping us and sealing us until the day of redemption. You do not have a gospel if you do not believe in the Trinitarian nature of God. You don't have that that gospel message. And so when he says that the overcomer believes that Jesus is the Son of God, he's emphasizing really two things. One, the humanity and deity of Christ, and two, the uniqueness of the relationship between the Son and the Godhead. So in this first passage, or this first section, let's talk a little bit about the humanity of Christ and the deity of Christ as we see them laid out in this passage. Jesus was fully and is fully human. Okay? We need to understand that. The Son of God took on flesh at a point in human history. We talk about Jesus being a man. We need to understand that he experienced the same kinds of emotions that you and I experienced. Think about the story of Jesus at Lazarus' grave. It tells us that when Jesus was there and he saw all the people grieving, the Bible says that Jesus wept when it talks about him weeping. In other words, he felt human emotions. In fact, we see other examples when Jesus went into the temple and people were desecrating the temple and they were cheating one another in the temple. In fact, he became angry. He experienced that human emotion. Jesus loved the disciples. He was moved with compassion when he saw people that were hurting on the roadside, when he heals a blind man, or he heals a layman, or someone who has leprosy is healed. Jesus had compassion on people. Jesus felt human emotion. He is a man. Not just a man, but he's a man. Jesus experienced the same kinds of human limitations that you and I experienced. When I talk about human limitations, I'm not talking about sinful human limitations. I'm talking about the limitations of a man and a man living in a fallen world. We talk about a person getting tired. It's not sinful to become tired. But because I live in a fallen world, what happens? I experience fatigue. We talk about sickness. It's not sinful to become sick. But the reality is as a person living in a fallen world, I get sick sometimes. Jesus experienced the same kinds of physical limitations that you and I experience. Jesus, as he was in his humanity on earth, was only in one place at one time. Okay Yes, God is omnipresent, but in the person of Christ, Jesus was in one location at one time. Okay? And so we see these kinds of things. In John chapter 4, when Jesus is by Jacob's well and he he interacts with the Samaritan woman, it says that he sat down because he was tired. He was wearied from his journey. We see the physical limitations of Christ. Jesus had a human mother. In John 19, when uh Jesus has died and now he's risen and Some of the disciple ladies did not realize that he had risen yet. They're going to the tomb. And one of the people mentioned was his mother Mary So we see the humanity of Christ. It's fully on display. And this is a very important aspect of Christian doctrine. We have a high priest who knows what it was like to be tempted in all points like we are because He took on flesh and he dwelt among us. And we can go to him in time of need and ask him for his grace. So we see his humanity. But we also see his deity. He was called the Son of God. This is referring to a position within the Godhead. In fact, the Bible has a lot to say about the deity of Christ. You cannot be a Christian and reject that Jesus is fully God. It's not possible. It's an essential aspect to the gospel. Let me give you just a few of many passages of Scripture that teach that Jesus is God in flesh. In John 1. John writes, in the beginning was the word. And that word word is referring to Jesus, the second person of the Godhead. In the beginning. In other words, he's before time. When time began, he already existed. It says the word was with God indicating his relationship within the Godhead and the word was God indicating his Nature, in other words, in essence, he is God. Everything that makes God God, Jesus possessed those things And so it says the same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him. Without him was not anything made that was made. Jesus is the creator of everything. He's not a created being. He is the creator of everything. In verse 14 it says that the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we held beheld his glory. The glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. So when we talk about Jesus, we're talking about the God man, God in flesh, the eternal creator of all things, taking on humanity at a point in time. In John 8, we see this discussion about Christ. And it says that as Jesus is discussing different things with these men, they say, Art thou greater than our father Abraham? And Jesus goes on to say, Abraham rejoiced to see my day and was glad in it. And they say, how is this possible? And Jesus says, before Abraham was I am. And these men understood that Jesus was declaring, he is the eternal God. He existed before Abraham. In other words, when he was born in Bethlehem of Judea, that was not when Jesus began to exist. Jesus simply took on humanity. and entered into his creation as God in flesh at that point in history. But his existence is eternal. It predates all of those things. In Hebrews chapter 1, this is what the writer of Hebrews says, God hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son. by whom he made the worlds, being the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person. When he talks about him being the express image of his person, he's saying What makes God God, if you can see it, you see it in Christ. He is the exact representation of the Godhead in physical form. You see God when you see Jesus. Okay? That's basically what he's saying. He possesses all that a person must possess in order to be called God. He is God. And he goes on to say that he upholds all things by the word of his power. In other words, he is not just the creator, he's not just the sovereign, he is the sustainer of the creation. Jesus upholds all these things. He's the one who guides and works in human history. He's talking about the deity of Christ. It says again, he bringeth in the first begotten into the world, and saith, Let all the angels of God worship him Unto the sun he says, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever a scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom And thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundations of the earth, and the heavens are the works of thy hands. The Lord Jesus Christ is the eternal. God, the eternal creator, the eternal sustainer of all those things. And so when we talk about Jesus, we need to recognize that he is unique because he is God. in flesh. Lord willing tomorrow we're going to talk more about this. We're not just going to talk about the fact that Jesus is God in flesh But we're going to talk about the fact that he's fully God, yet he is in person different than the Father and the Son. And we're going to talk about that unique relationship. All three persons of the Godhead Being fully God, one in essence, yet distinct in person. And we need to understand that this is an essential aspect to the gospel message. If we reject this teaching, then the entire story of the gospel falls apart. And we need to recognize how important it is. I want to remind you with this one very simple thought. Who is he that overcometh the world? He that believeth. Jesus is the Son of God. I want to ask you, do you believe that Jesus is the Son of God? Have you embraced the gospel and are you trusting in the finished work of Christ? If you haven't, I hope that today you'll do that. And I hope that this will have been a practical discussion for you. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. And then Lord willing, tomorrow we will continue with our second part in this little series. Father, thank you for the opportunity to discuss some extremely important Bible doctrines, doctrines that are integral to our faith I pray that each person that has been able to listen and those who will listen later will be encouraged and strengthened by these things. I pray that you would help them to see clearly what the Bible teaches about the Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray that we would grow in our knowledge of him and grow in our love for him and grow in our gratitude to him for what he has done for us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning, and we look forward to getting to go through the rest of this later on this week. Have a great day. Bye now.