Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that this week has been a very helpful study for you. If you're joining us for the first time, we've been in Luke chapter 9. And we're reading verses 20 through 26 together. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. It's all turned together to the text. We'll read it through, and then we're going to pick up where we left off yesterday. Here's what it says. He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answering said unto him, The Christ of God. And he straightly charged them and commanded them to tell no man that thing Saying the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected the elders and the chief priests and scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day And he said unto them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. For what is a man advantaged if he gain the whole world and lose himself or be cast away? For whosoever shall be ashamed of me, and of my words, of him shall the Son of Man be ashamed, when he shall come in his own glory And in his fathers and of the holy angels. Now this passage of scripture is a very important part of us understanding how we're supposed to live as Christians now that we are in Christ and what we should anticipate or expect because we are identified with Christ. And if you remember back over the first couple of lessons, we There's some introductory points talking about the fact that this is not explaining how you become a Christian. Rather, this is what you should anticipate because you're a Christian. That distinction. is very important. Then we talked about the significance of the cross. And there was a lot of implication for us to consider. The fact that it shows us God's holiness and his wrath against sin. The weight of his love for us, the hatred of the world for Christ, the fact that Christ finished the work that was accomplished on our behalf. So we talked about the implications of the cross. And then from there we talked about the implications of being identified with Christ or being a new creature in Christ. Well this morning what I'd like to do is I'd like us to go beyond that and look at what I would call the necessary implications of someone who follows Christ. Because we are new creatures in Christ, because our disposition has been changed, our thinking is being conformed. to the thinking of Christ, because our nature is different distinctly, and we are identified publicly with the the finished work of Christ and his death and resurrection because of that identification. There's going to be some necessary downstream effects that are part of that association with Christ. And so what I'd like us to do this morning is asked the question, what happens when a person's life is radically transformed by the gospel, and now all the people that they had once been very close to, it could be their spouse It could be their children, it could be the buddies that they used to hang out with, people that they worked with. How do they respond to this change that takes place in the life of the Christian? Well, the simple fact is they're not going to know how to make sense of it. They're going to know that there's something very different about this person. It's not the same person that they once knew. They can see that right away. And there's really going to be one of two potential responses. One is that people will be drawn to the truth because they will recognize we could say the the desperateness of their own condition. They they can recognize how dark and what the implications are of living a life that is inconsistent with the purpose for which God gave you. And they can see the emptiness of their life. God can use that to draw people to himself. But that is not the only potential response. The other response, potentially, is that people become angry They don't like having this person's life, you could say, exposing their own sin. When they come in light or into the light, And they come in contact with that light, it makes them uncomfortable. They feel like this person is judging them or being judgmental. Even if the person says absolutely nothing, that difference of thinking can speak tremendous volumes. And so I want us to focus in on that for just a few minutes this morning. How the world responds to Christians who are distinct and living consistent with their position. and an ashamed of their identification with Christ. To put it very simply, the world is going to hate What the Christian represents. Listen to what it says in Romans 8:7. It says, the carnal mind is enmity against God Another word for enmity is at war, fighting, and rebellion. At enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God. Neither indeed can be. And the reason for that is because a person is a slave to their passions rather than submitted to the Lordship of Christ and in conformity to God's will and expectations. This person doesn't have the presence of the Holy Spirit in their life. This person doesn't have that new nature, and so they are a slave to their passions, and he says those who are in the flesh cannot please God Well, if that is the way that the individual within the world is thinking and acting, what happens when a whole bunch of people who do not know God and are rejecting his authority? What happens when those people come in contact with it. Well that's the response of the world. Matthew 5. 10. Blessed are those who are persecuted. For righteousness' sake. Blessed are ye when men revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. They they persecuted the prophets which were before you. You are the salt of the earth. The reason that Jesus speaks in these terms is because when a person who rejects the light comes in contact with the light, There's going to be a response, and that response will not be love and affection, but rather it will be anger and resistance. John 15, 18, it says this. If the world hates you Ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you are not of the world, and I've chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hates you These things they will do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that set me. Jesus spoke very plainly to the disciples. uh in the in in in the upper room discourse before he goes to the cross to prepare them for what they were going to experience. First John chapter 3, verse 11. This is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of that wicked one and slew his brother. Wherefore slew he his brother? Because his own works were evil and his brothers were righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. So the scriptures could not be any clearer. The same world that hates Christ is going to hate those who are associated with Christ. And the world may use s statements like, peacefully coexist. And we need to be affirming of all people and all backgrounds and all viewpoints. But the simple fact is you can look at the anecdotal evidence. The world does not have space for the exclusiveness of the Christian faith. The world does not have space for the exclusiveness of Christian values. They want everyone's values except the values that say there is one and only one means of salvation, that is the redemptive work of the Lord Jesus Christ, his death, his burial, his resurrection, his righteousness. We are sinners who need to be redeemed to to to God through the work of Christ. The world doesn't want that. They want everything but that. And that should speak volumes to us. In many ways it shows you the distinction between the light and the darkness. The world is willing to accommodate anything that will accommodate them. But this message says there's one and only one way. And so it reminds us that one of the necessary implications of following Christ is that persecution on some level can and most likely will be the the the thing that the Christian is going to experience. Let's remember they crucified the Lord of glory, and we are salt and we are light and that cannot be hidden. Our thinking is different, our values are different, our disposition is different, our allegiance is different. If the world rejects Christ, it also rejects those who are associated with Christ. The world does not want the biblical Jesus. And the only thing that can change that is the miracle of salvation. It's God working in the heart through the preaching of the gospel to humble a hardened soul and turn them to himself so that they are born again. That is the only remedy. the preaching of the gospel for this issue. And so let me leave you with a couple of simple implications that Lord willing tomorrow we will be able to kind of develop in greater detail. Here's the first implication Being a Christian is something that fundamentally shapes us in a way that cannot be concealed. Now we may feel compelled because of uh fear because we don't want to face the repercussions of being identified with Christ. We may be tempted to conceal that, but it cannot be concealed. If you're a Christian, Your conscience is not what it used to be. Your thinking is not what it used to be. You're a different person. Secondly We will face pressure from the world that tempts us to conceal our identity and the distinctiveness of that identity. Now, temptation and sin are not the same thing. Temptation is the invitation to sin. So the fact that you and I may experience pressure, an internal turmoil When we find ourselves in these situations, does not necessarily mean that we have compromised. It means that we are leaning towards compromise. We need to process temptation and respond properly to temptation. But when the world pressures us. It is going to be a temptation to kind of soften or conceal or divert attention away from the distinctiveness of who we are as Christians. The temptation to hide that distinction is ultimately rooted in a self-centered desire to advance our own personal interests. and our own personal comforts at the expense of our Savior's glory. Let's just call it what it is. Now I know that sounds very harsh, but that's true. I would rather feel comfortable and I would rather advance my own interests temporarily than give glory to God in that situation. And so we need to see it for what it is. Choosing to try to conceal and be unwilling to stand firm in the position that we have is something that as Christians we absolutely should never, never do. And when we are tempted to compromise, we need to look beyond this temporary moment and think about the fact that one day I will stand before my Savior. And I will give an accounting for the way that I used the position that God gave me by his grace alone, and the way that I served within that position, and the way that I used or didn't use those gifts that he gave me. And and I will feel a sense of grief or shame if in fact I've not been faithful in these duties. That is not talking about whether or not we're saved. We're talking about whether or not we've been faithful in the way that we've used the gifts that God has given to us. And so my encouragement to you this morning is let's prepare ourselves mentally and spiritually for the necessary implications of following Christ. If you are a Christian, you are different than you were before your conversion. And if you are A Christian, you are in the midst of a spiritual battle, spiritual struggle. If the world hates Christ, it's going to hate those who align with him. May the Lord give us the strength and the wisdom and the grace and the courage. to stand consistent with our position when we are put in difficult places. Hope that you have a great rest of your morning. I'll be praying for you today. As we together as believers try to do exactly what this encouragement has been. Have a blessed day by now