Take your Bibles and turn to the book of John. We're in John chapter twelve this morning. And uh that was a beautiful and sweet and uh calming song. Hosanna. Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. I'd like us to uh look at that in the perspective of the text in front of us this morning. Because I can assure you that when they said Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, they were not singing it like that. In fact, they've had some things in their mind that were probably a little bit different than what you and I have in our minds when we think about Palm Sunday. So John chapter 12, we're going to look at verses 12 through 19 together and then try to work our way through taking that particular moment in history and trying to put it into perspective and seeing exactly what was going on and why it matters to us this morning. John chapter twelve, verse twelve. On the next day, much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was come to Jerusalem, took branches Of palm trees, and went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass sat thereupon, as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Sion, behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass's colts. These things understood not his disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him. And that he had done these things un that they had done these things unto him. The people, therefore, that was gone with him, when he called Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead, bear record for this cause The people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle. And the Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing. Behold, the whole world is gone after him. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, as we have just read this text, I pray that you would help us to appreciate what is going on in these verses. Clearly, this moment in history was a defining moment in the story of Christ ultimately going to the cross. dying for our sins so that we could be reconciled to you. And so I pray that as we work our way through this story and we unpackage so many significant and I would say fascinating details. that we would appreciate this moment in history so much the more. And ultimately you would be glorified. We would be encouraged as your people. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. First thing I want to do as we look at this passage is I want to talk to you about the setting of what was going on. And really, there are several layers to the setting of this story. There is the story as it's unfolding historically. There's also the way that John chose to lay this out in the book of John. We have four different gospels. We have Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And if you read those four different accounts, you will notice as you work your way through those accounts that there are many different details that are laid out, say in John, that are not talked about in Matthew. or in Mark or in Luke, or there may be some details that are talked about in Matthew or in Luke that are actually not talked about in John. And you might say, well, well, why in the world does John seem to be presenting the same story with a lot of details that are very different than the other places. And the answer to that is that John is presenting a very succinct story with a very definite purpose. In fact, the way that the book of John is laid out is laid out with a very careful ordering of details. For instance, from John chapter 1 to John chapter 11. John gives seven miraculous signs that Jesus performed and the conversations that were around those signs, those miracles, that were meant to convince people that Jesus is the Christ. The way that he orders those events, some of the things that he talks about, they're not talked about in the other gospels. And the reason is because John has a very definite purpose that he's trying to lay out. An important thing for us to note here is that in these verses, we have what's almost like a hinge between the two portions of the book. The first half of the book is seven signs. Here we have the Passover week. In fact, you may not realize this, but really the rest of the book of John is almost entirely devoted to just a couple of days of Jesus' ministry. This is the beginning of that week. There's a building tension in the way that he presents each of these priests. For instance, we see the first miracle that's performed in Cain of Galilee this miracle is done at a wedding. And when Jesus performs this miracle, almost no one that was at the wedding understood what was going on. He did it privately. His mother knew what was going on. The disciples knew what's going on. A few people that were hosting the event knew what was going on. But the rest of the people at this wedding did not know that Jesus had performed a miracle. And what's fascinating about it is it says that when he's talking to his mother, he says, My hour has not yet come. You say, my hour? What's that talking about? We're going to come back to that. Think about that. Keep in the back of your mind. But by the time we come to the end of this section, that seventh miracle, he performs a miracle that is so public It is so significant that everybody that was going to come to Jerusalem during that Passover, which was just a few weeks after that miracle, everybody knew about it. Isn't that amazing? This first miracle is quiet, nobody knows about it except for a few people. And then he performs this miracle that hundreds of thousands of people Would have heard from first-hand account witnesses that Jesus did this. And you're like, well, where do you get that from? I'm coming to it. That's why we need to talk about the importance of Bethany, not a person, but a little village on the eastern side of Jerusalem, right before you come up to the Mount of Olives. Because Bethany was like the last little village that people would have come to as they were taking their pilgrimage from the northern king, the northern portion of Galilee in those regions. As they're coming down to Jerusalem and they're ascending up into the mountains, one of the last places they stop is Bethany. And here is this little village. That's right at the base of the Mount of Olives. And if you go up on the Mount of Olives and you look down, you'll see this valley, the Kidron Valley. And then you could see an ascent up into the city, Jerusalem, and there is the temple. And so this little town, Bethany, plays a very important role in the story we're talking about this morning. Jesus had some very dear friends who lived in that town. One of them, his name was Lazarus. Mary and Martha. And so throughout all of Christ's life, he has gone up to Jerusalem, and at some point along the way, he becomes friends with his family, and he stops through their home, and this is one of those stopping places. In fact This becomes the base of operation for Christ this final week of Passover. So each of those days as he goes down into the city, or up and then down and then up, as he goes into the city As he does what he does and says what he says there in the city, he goes back up to Bethany and he spends the night there. And so here, thousands upon thousands of people would have passed through this village. And there was something that was being talked about a lot because this man Lazarus had died. And everybody in the town was claiming that Jesus raised him to life. Isn't that amazing? Now, when I say they claimed it, the Bible records it for us. It happens. And so here are these thousands upon thousands of people coming up into the city, and there's this buzz in this little town. about something that had happened. And this man Jesus who's been preaching all over the regions and he raised this man to life and he's staying here in the village and he's going into the temple and there's been a lot to talk about in this coming. Can you feel how there's something moving going on in this passage of Scripture? But there's a building tension. Palm Sunday is really an event within a story. And so we step away from what how John is recording these details, and we just think about historically what was taking place as we look at all the different gospel accounts. We see the story of Old Testament prophecies made. All throughout the Old Testament, we have these promises that God is going to send a Savior. Think about Isaiah. He talks about how the Savior is going to die and our sins are going to be laid on him. We have all of these messianic prophecies all throughout the Old Testament, and they're pointing to an individual. Who is that person? It's Jesus. And then a man comes whose name is John and he's preaching the gospel. Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. There's someone coming. I'm not even worthy to unlatch his shoe. And one day as he's baptizing people who are coming to the Jordan River, confessing their sins, we need a Savior. We're looking for the Savior. John says, Do you see that guy right there? He's not over there, kids. Oh, the kids are out. That guy is who I'm talking about. He's the Lamb of God that's going to take away the sins of the world. And from that moment, many of John's disciples leave him and they start following Christ. And they listen to what Christ preaches and they see the miracles that Jesus performs. And they're amazed, and they say, truly, this is the person we've been looking for. With each of these miracles, people had to make a choice about what they believed about Jesus. And we're really going to see this come to a head in the text in front of us. There were some people who wanted a national hero who was going to lead triumph over the Romans. We're going to see that in these verses. Some people felt threatened because they were concerned there was going to be instability. If Jesus comes and he overthrows the Romans and he establishes rule, they're going to lose the position. And the the really comfortable place they had with that with the Roman authorities there in Jerusalem, they're very threatened by it. There were some people that understood exactly what was going on, and they express it. And this really comes to a head in the text that we just read at the beginning of our service. John chapter 12, verses 1 through 11. So look down in your Bibles at John 12, 1 through 11, because this really sets the tone. And kind of links the first half of the book to what's going to take place in the coming chapters. On the Friday evening before Passover, Christ comes to Bethany and gathers with friends. He's in the home of a man named Simon the Leper, and the guest of honor is Lazarus. And there is Christ, and they are the center of attention. And notice How this story unfolds. In verses 1 through 11, the first thing that we see is that Jesus is eating with his friends And here is Lazarus. It says in verse number one, then Jesus, six days before Passover, came to Bethany, where his friend Lazarus was, which had been dead. Whom he raised from the dead. By the way, if you look at chapter 11, it tells you what happened. So this is a very important part of this storyline. And then something very interesting happens as Jesus is sitting there and all these people are having a meal. Mary, the sister of Lazarus, comes into the room and the Bible says, then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly. Now you and I have a hard time appreciating the value of that ointment. We're talking about the equivalent of an entire year's pay for an individual. So think about all the money that you make in one year that you spend on almost everything except for putting it in your bank account, all right? Car payments, house payments. insurance, that's killing everybody, right? And and and and fuel and food and all those things. All of that money that just like siphons out of your account every single month because of all the cost of living She managed to save all of that. And she purchased this ointment And then she takes this ointment and she breaks it there in that room and everyone can smell the aroma. And she begins to wipe Christ's feet with her hair. And people are like, what in the world is going on here? Like you ever been in a room and it's like something very awkward is happening here and nobody wants to say anything about it, but everybody's like, What is going on? You couldn't get away from it, it was right there. And so what is the point? Here is Mary who takes this moment and she says, my brother died and you raised him to life. And I have no idea on how I can thank you other than to say, I'm going to do this. And she understood something about what Jesus was coming to do as well. So Mary takes this moment to show this extravagant, humble, sacrificial worship. But how do the disciples respond? Maybe the way some of us would have responded. What are you doing? Do you not realize the value of that? This is so awkward. What are you doing here? It says, then said one of the disciples, Judas Iscariot, why was not this ointment sold for 300 pence? And given to the poor. Now, Judas, in the text it tells us didn't really care about the poor. He was greedy. In fact, shortly after this moment, within a few days of this situation, Judas is going to go to the chief priests and the scribes and say, I'm one of his followers, but I'm ready to give him over to you. And so what's the cost? I'm willing to do this. Jesus turns or Judas turns on Christ after this moment. But here's what Jesus says. Let her alone. Against the day of my bearing hath she kept this. Jesus defended her action. Even celebrated it. Maybe that was even the turning point for Judas. Like you just rebuked me in front of all these people? And you know what? I'm tired of dealing with you. Maybe that's the moment. I have no idea. But the simple fact is that these events are very significant in leading up to what we're going to talk about today, this triumphal entry. But then there's one last little detail I want you to notice in these verses. And that is what it says about the chief priests. It says the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death, because by reason of him many of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus. And so you can see that there's this building tension. There is a tension that's building in somebody's household. There is a tension that's building within the disciples themselves. There's a tension that's that's building there in that little community of Bethany. You can see that there is a tension that's building even within the city where the people who are in charge of the religious practices They're trying to figure out, do we kill Christ? Do we kill Lazarus? We've got to deal with this person. But we have the Passover coming on, and we don't want to do it at that time because We have hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of thousands, maybe even a million people in the city. And this is going to create a huge uproar. You see the building tension that's in these verses? So what do we see ultimately? We see division. And this division is what led to the cross. For instance, look back in your Bibles at John 11, verse 45. It says, many of the Jews which came to Mary and had seen the thing which Jesus did, what does it say? They believed on him. Some people, when they saw these miracles, when they heard Jesus teaching, they made the connection. The Old Testament prophets said this would happen, and now we're seeing it firsthand. We believe it's true. We have the example of this woman Mary who is humbly worshiping Christ in John chapter 12, verses 1 through 3. She takes this ointment. and it's very costly. And she wipes his feet with her hair and this ointment. We see that worshipful, that extravagant humility. And displayed in these verses. We see masses of people who want a national hero. In verse number 12 of chapter 12, he says, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, What did these people do? Well, they went and they gathered up palm branches and they went forth to meet Jesus. You say, well, palm branches? What was that all about? You know what's really interesting? There was a time at this moment in history we're talking about the generation or two before it, that those palm branches became a symbolic way of saying, we want to overthrow the Roman rulers. We're going to rise up as our people and we're going to take what belongs to us and we're overthrowing our leader, our our we could say our oppressors, I'll use that word, not leaders. And whoever is coming in to do this for us This is the symbol, the palm branch. Interestingly, they even used it when they were minting coins around this time to be a symbol of the people rising together as a people, overthrowing their rulers, their oppressors. And so many people believe that this was the moment that Jesus would do this. And you can only imagine how many people felt that he was a threat. Look down your Bibles at chapter 11, verse 46. Some of them went in the way to the Pharisees and told them the things that Jesus had done, then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees of council and said, What do we do? This man doeth many miracles. If we let him alone, all men will believe on him. And this little statement is so, so important. The Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. So what's funny is you had some people they rejected Jesus on religious grounds. They said he's disrupting our beliefs about God in practice. And so they hated him. Some people were jealous that people are following him instead of following us. So there was a personal dynamic. Some people said, you know, we have a really good place here. We we make a lot of money. Our families live lavishly. It's true the Romans are ruling over us, but we have kind of worked out an agreement, and as long as we don't make them upset with us, they're good with us. And we can actually we can benefit from this situation. And so they were very comfortable to be in that place. Some people said politically, we don't want Jesus to disrupt us. Whatever the motives of the people in the big picture, they all contributed to the ultimate outcome. And that was the cross. We have one of his disciples who's betraying him in verses 4 to 5. We have that this treachery Is going to lead to the crucifixion. Look in your Bibles at verses 49 to 51 of chapter 11. This is fascinating. One of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, It is expedient for us that one man die for the people, that the whole nation perish not. This spake he not of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation and not for that nation only. but that also should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. You know what that tells me? This man didn't understand what he was saying. He didn't get it. He's saying one guy's got to die so we have peace. And God's saying, true. It's called peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And he's thinking peace with Rome because we don't have to deal with him anymore. Now what does that show you? It shows you that God in his providence can use whatever he wants to accomplish his purposes. It's a pretty amazing thing to consider. But what is the height of this tension? Verses 12 through 19. You know, I want to make this observation very quickly. History is very dynamic, it's not static, it's not just sitting here. People make choices, and those choices lead to outcomes, and people have to live with those choices. And so as all these people are responding to Christ in the various ways that they are, it's actually moving in a direction. And as it's moving in a direction, you can't stop where it's going. There's a side to history where you can't stop what's happening You may make sense of what's going on. You may understand the things that you're observing and say, you know, I I I I I studied, you know, World War I history, World War II history, the American Revolution. I I've studied different periods in history and I I understand how people respond to one another when there's tension between leaders and all those things. You may be able to put your mind around some of these things, but guess what you can't do? Stop where it's going. You really like about that? You can't. You can complain about it. You can argue with people about it. But very few people, for sure in this room, are going to have a whole lot to do with where history goes. God in heaven moves events where he wants them to go. And this is a perfect example. And so the height of this tension Is these people coming in Jerusalem for this Passover? Just to give you a little perspective, do you realize how many people would have been in Jerusalem during the Passover? Josephus records that in one of the Passovers that he was cataloguing, over 250 Passover 250,000 Passover lambs were killed in the temple on that week. And just remember that a Passover lamb was for a family, not a person. So that's telling you that there were probably over a million observant individuals in the city at the time. It's pretty stunning to think about. Not a large plot of land, might I say. There's a reason that Jesus was coming back and forth. Lots of people were coming back and forth. And so here are these people coming to celebrate Passover, and Jesus comes down from the Mount of Olives into the Kidron Valley. And then we see what happens in these verses. Look down in your Bible again at verse number 12. It says, On that next day, much people that were come to the feast. When they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, they took branches of palm trees. They went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. As Jesus is coming down from the Mount of Olives, he is coming down to the day, and this is very interesting, to the day. According to a prophecy given in Daniel chapter 9. I'm not going to work it out in this context. But the reality is from the day that Cyrus sent people back to the lands, Who were in captivity to rebuild Jerusalem, to the day that Jesus comes down from the Mount of Olives, that moment was predicted in history. By the prophet Daniel. You say, how do you know that? Um because God gave him that revelation? It was to confirm this moment? There's something else about this that's very interesting. There was this great irony, a tragic irony, in what the people were saying. As they say, Hosannah, blessed is he, the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. Do you realize that they were quoting from the Old Testament Psalms? They were quoting from Psalm 118. And there was a reason that Psalm 118 was on the minds of the people at this time. Because as they would come into the city and they would set aside this lamb, the Passover lamb, and then they would kill it on that day, and they would roast it on that final day that they ate the Passover. And then they gathered together. One of the things that the people would do is they would gather and they would read from the Psalms. They would read Psalm 113, Psalm 114, Psalm 115, 16, 17, and 18. Those are the Psalms they read. These are the psalms that were being sung as they come to worship there in Jerusalem. And the first part of those Psalms were read at the beginning before the meal was eaten, and these all pointed back to the Passover when God delivered the nation out of Egypt thousands of years before that first Passover night. But the second series of Psalms that were written, the one we're focusing on this morning, those were read at the end of the meal. And you know what's interesting about those Psalms? They didn't point back, they pointed forward. They pointed to the fulfillment of the Passover Lamb. Listen to what it says in Psalm 118, verses 22 to 25. This is what they're quoting from. It says, the stone which the builders refused. Is become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it, save now. That's the psalm that they're quoting from. But they didn't quote the whole psalm. They lived the first half, they quoted the second half. You say, well, what are you getting at? Let me kind of lay it out like this. This psalm tells us that the Savior was going to be rejected. That's what it means when it says The stone which the builders refused has become the headstone of the corner. Peter talks about this, and this is a very important piece of this story, as as there are people that are plotting behind closed doors to kill Jesus. As one of his own disciples has gone to the religious leaders and said, I can deliver him to you for a cost. As that is happening, the people are saying, save us. Save us. But what they don't understand is the means through which such salvation comes. This rejection would culminate in God accomplishing his will. He says, this is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. So who put Jesus on the cross? Well, it kind of depends on which angle you're looking at it. If you're looking at it from a strictly human perspective, we can say, well, the Romans are the ones who crucified him. That's true. But if you want to ask who delivered him to the Romans, well, that would be. The religious leaders there in Jerusalem and Judas himself, and that's true as well. If you say, well, who was motivating Judas to do what he did? Well, it says that Satan entered into his heart, and that was what was Making him bold to go and take the action that he did. That is also true. But if you want to ask the question, how did this come to pass as it did? In the providence of God, the answer is God put him on the cross. Do you get that? It was predetermined before the foundation of the world that God would send his son to the cross so we could be redeemed. And in history it all played out through all these different meanings. If you just walk away thinking about that the rest of the week, that's a lot to process. And so what I would say is this, who put Jesus on the cross? The answer to that question is a little more complicated than one word, a little liner. Because everybody was involved. In fact, we could say we did too, because he paid for our sins. And so the whole point of Psalm 118 is that salvation comes after. He is rejected, and God accomplishes his purpose. It says, this is the day which the Lord has made We will rejoice and be glad in it. I was asking my kids this week. I said, I quoted that verse and I said, what's that verse talking about? I got two different answers. One was, well, it's talking about today being a day that God created. I said, well, he did create today. That's true. But when he says, this is the day that the Lord has made, we'll rejoice. What is he talking about? Oh, he's talking about the cross. That's what he means. In other words, all of history hinges on that moment right there If it didn't happen, every one of us would be lost and continue in such a position. But because Christ did what he did, we can be saved. And so how does the Psalm Andy say, save now? Save now. The irony and the tragedy of those people that were gathered on that hillside as Jesus comes down and then up. The tragedy is they wanted salvation without the cross. They wanted a salvation that didn't need a cross. They wanted physical human deliverance that would take place for 5, 10, or 20 years. And Jesus said, I've come to give you eternal life. I've come to rescue you from eternal destruction. I've come to give you something that nobody in this world can give you but me. And that's the irony, that's the tragedy of this moment. Even as his disciples failed to understand the psalm, he is accomplishing his purpose. Verse 16 of chapter 12, it says this: These things understood not his disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. That's really amazing. Even the disciples, as they listed, they did not understand what God was doing. They did not understand the significance of every single piece of this story. They didn't get it in the moment. They understood after the fact. So how does this story resolve itself? Well, the answer is very simple. God accomplished what he promised at the right time through these people. That's the resolution. Though they were rejecting him in rebellion, they unknowingly participated in the unfolding of God's plan. It's interesting, in verse 23 it says, the hour is come. You say what hour? Doesn't that sound different than what he said at the beginning? Uh at Cain of Galilee says, he says, Woman, my hour has not yet come. And now he's saying the hour has come and now is? What's the difference? The difference is this was the right time. This is the time God had appointed to accomplish redemption. In fact, in the book of John, he highlights four different Passovers that Jesus participates in. The first one in John chapter 2, this is when he performs that miracle at the cana at Cana of Galilee. Jesus said unto his mother, Woman, what have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not yet come. After the third Passover in John 7, verse 30, they sought to take him. No man laid hands on him because his hour was not yet come. John 8. 20, these words spoke Jesus in the treasury. They that taught in the temple, as they taught in the temple, no man laid hands on him. His hour was not yet come. Passover 4, the one we're talking about, John 12, 23, Jesus answered, the hour is come that the Father should be glorified. John 16, 32, he's in the upper rim. He says, Behold, the hour cometh and is now come. John 17, 1. These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come. Glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee. Do you see how it wasn't an accident? It wasn't just random circumstance. As all of these pieces were moving in a direction, God in heaven was working through them to accomplish his purposes. And that's how God governs the world. I mean, this is the greatest example of it. But he's always at work. He's always working in history. Even when we don't get it. Through the cross God demonstrated his righteousness and made salvation possible. I I think I can't think of a a more clear text that explains this than Romans 3. 24. Listen to what it says. It says that we are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. That's what we're talking about. God set forth Christ to be a propitiation through faith in his blood. To declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God, to declare at this time his righteousness. That he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Christ. That is the gospel. God was not just ignoring sin when he said, I forgive you and I make you my child. God is just and the justifier because of what Christ has done for us. And I want to tell you that God's grace was available. In this text, it's all about God's grace. What's interesting about the rest of the book of John is he highlights several people's failures. He highlights Peter's failures. In Sunday school this morning when Justin was talking about Peter. I mean, that is highlighted in the book of John. For instance, in John 20, verse 19, after the crucifixion, it says, the same day at the evening, being the first day of the week when the doors were shut, the disciples were assembled. Why? Because they were fearful of the Jews. And do you blame them? They're like, they kill Jesus, maybe they'll kill us next. Or Thomas, Thomas uh John chapter 20, verse 27, then said Thomas He says to Thomas, reach hither your fingers, and behold my hands, and reach your hand, and thrust it in my side, and be not faithless, but believing. And Thomas answered and said, My Lord and my God. Now why did he say that? Because Thomas said, I'm not going to believe that Jesus is risen unless I can take my hands and put them there in the palms and I can see that there's a hole right there And Jesus said, well here I am. Let's do it. Go ahead. Touch my hands. Take a look. I'm alive. And Thomas is like, all right, I believe. I believe. Or Peter. It's interesting. If you read John's account, John takes a lot of time to give details about Peter's saying, I don't know this man. There's a lot of detail in John. Things like when John and Peter come there and they're in the judgment hall, John goes inside and Peter kind of s. stands on the outside and John goes to one of the people that knew the high priest's family and says, hey, he's with me. Let him in. Peter's like, ah, I don't know. And they said, you're one of his guys, right? I don't know him. I don't know him at all. And then he's standing there by the fire and he's wearing himself and they're like, hey, you're the guy that cut off my cousin's ear. I don't know what you're talking about. For sure he didn't want to talk about that one. Three times Peter says, I don't know this man Yet, what does John do to close out his gospel? In John 21, he says, Jesus goes to Peter and he says, Do you love me more than these three times? Wow. Because he's highlighting the disciples failed, Thomas failed, Peter failed, and God restored. That's what he's emphasizing. God even pursued those people who rejected him through those individuals who stumbled. Think about that. The disciples that were hiding. The guy that said, I won't believe unless I can put my hands on the scars. The guy that said, I'll never deny you, and then he says, I don't even know this guy. Those are the people God used to preach to the mob that crucified Jesus. Think about that. Is that not incredible? At Pentecost, 3,000 people who once rejected him embraced him. Acts 2. 36. Let the house of Israel know. that God hath made that same Jesus whom ye crucified. I mean, you want to talk about appointed sermon. Woo! Hey, he was stepping on some toes that day. You crucified Jesus. Now, when they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts and said to Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Peter didn't say, too late, buddy. He said, repent. Be baptized in the name of Christ. You know what that tells me? He gave second chances to people that stumbled, and he gave second chances to people who said, crucify him. You know what that is? It's grace. That is our God. Think about the example of Paul. I mentioned this last week. I highlighted it last week. Here is Paul going to Damascus. And he is probably the greatest enemy in Jerusalem to the church. In 1 Timothy 1, it says, Christ came into the world to save sinners of whom I have chased. I was a blasphemer, I was a persecutor, but I obtained mercy. When Peter was standing there, or when Paul was standing there before the leaders in Acts 26, he says, My manner of life from my youth. Among mine own nation at Jerusalem know all the Jews, which knew me from the beginning. Many of the saints I did shut up in prison having received authority from the chief priest, and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them. I punished them often in every synagogue. I compelled them to blaspheme. I exceed I was executed Exceedingly angry against them, I persecuted them, even to strange cities. You know what that tells me? God can save anybody. It tells me God can use anybody. I mean these guys were not great candidates to be saved or to be used in ministry. They were all terrible candidates. But the truth is all of us are terrible candidates. Because God knows our frame. He knows our strengths. He knows our weaknesses. He knows our stumblings. He knows our sins. He knows our thoughts. He knows our attitudes. He knows all of those things. Yet he does his work in the world through people like us. And this story is one of the greatest examples of that in all of Scripture. So that leads me to the final question. How do you apply this? How does this passage call us to action? First thing it does is it shows us that it is impossible to be neutral with God. If you've never placed your faith in Christ alone, you can't say, well, I'm okay with Jesus, but I don't trust in him. It's all or nothing. You have to make a choice. You have to choose a side. You say, well, I'm neutral. Neutrality is not a possibility with Christ. Either you're going to embrace him as the Savior, or you're going to reject him and say he's not. And so I don't know, maybe there's someone here this morning or somebody on the live stream that's that's that's watching this, that you've never placed your faith in Christ. This text shows you that Jesus is the Christ. He calls himself to Christ. He says he's the one and only Savior, and you have to turn to him. There's no other way. So do it. Second, is this it shows us the incredible beauty of God's grace? In fact, it's beyond our comprehension He graciously pursued those who stumbled and rejected him. He didn't say, I'm going to go find me another Peter, and I'm going to go find me another Thomas, and I'm going to go find me another John and Andrew. No, he didn't do that. He went to them as they were hiding in that room, going, We're next. And he's like, I'm here, I'm alive, I rose from the dead. And I'm gonna send you out. He goes and he tracks down Peter and those disciples that are out there on that boat, catching nothing. And I tell you, fishing and catching nothing is misery. Especially if you're trying to feed your family with it. And what does he do? Same miracle that he performed on the day that he called Peter. And he says, Peter, do you love me more than these? Well feed my sheep. Three times. Why? Because he's a God of grace. No matter where you've been in life, you can turn to Him. No matter how you've stumbled in your Christian experience, you can get back up, and God can use you. Don't believe the lie that He's not a God of grace. Don't believe that lie. Thirdly, it shows us the incredible precision of God's care. Against unimaginable obstacles, God wove together to the very day every detail of this plan to provide salvation. We're talking about all these messianic prophecies. We're talking about Daniel's prophecy. We're talking about the Passover and the picture there. Even the psalms that they sang and they quoted and the discussions that they had about those psalms. All of this is woven together for a very, very definitive purpose. God is not a God of accident. He is a God of precision. He's a God who, when he puts his word on the line, he does it. Even when it doesn't appear that he that he can or will. I mean, we think everything has to unfold in a perfect way. Life doesn't work that way. But God knows the beginning from the end and he accomplishes his purposes through all that is going on in our lives. Trust him to take care of you with the same kind of care. Your life is being upheld by this great God. It's being shaped by His hands. He's your Father. He loves you. Last thing I'll say is it shows the completeness of what God has revealed. I think one of the things that to me is so amazing I mean I preach on Palm Sunday every Palm Sunday, so you know there's only so many texts that talk about Palm Sunday. And what's amazing about the Bible is when I go to these texts Every time I study them, I just find more and more detail. I can't even begin to go through all the things that, you know, you begin to recognize as you dig into the word. And it's always been there. It's not like it got zap there one day. You know, it wasn't there last year when I read it, but it is this year. It's not that at all. It's that I'm seeing it this year. I didn't see it last year. Or it's hitting me in a in a different way than it did last year. The truth is the same, but the Spirit of God's taking the word, and as we chew on it, year after year after year, what does he do? He opens our understanding a little bit more and he presses a little bit deeper into our heart. It changes us. I gotta tell you, you should love the Bible. This book It's not just a guide for life and to tell you who God is and how you can be reconciled to him. It's an incredible book that demonstrates his precision and his care. Things that people scoff at, and something that that you know is just a little point of discussion or debate is actually a thing that has incredible beauty if you dig into it. And so don't neglect the word of God. God's revelation is so complete. Study the Bible carefully, attentively. Delight in the care that He communicates. And realize that this is the God that we walk with and will for all of eternity. May God help us to be richly blessed by this text of Scripture. Let's bow for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed before we close in prayer, just a simple question, is there anyone here this morning that would say Brother Joel, I've never placed my faith in Christ. I know that really wasn't the primary focus. It wasn't an evangelistic sermon, but the gospel was touched on quite a bit. Particularly Romans 3. If you've never placed your faith in Christ, you're uncertain. If you were to die today, you'd spend eternity with the Lord. I don't want you to leave this place without having an opportunity to talk to somebody. So I'm not gonna ask you to come forward, not gonna ask you to stand up, but I'm gonna ask that in the quietness of this moment, if you need to speak with me, please just quietly raise up your hand so I could see that. I'm not gonna call you out, not gonna make a point. I'm simply gonna take note personally. Because I want to make sure I can speak with you. Anybody like that? Anybody at all? Say I need to speak with you, Pastor. You might say I'm not raising my hand, but I I probably need to. Well come on, come on back after the service and shake my hand and say, I want to chat with you about that. I want to be a help to you. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to take these things and really cement them into our hearts. Our Father, we thank you for the word. You know every heart. You know the burdens that are being carried in this room. And I pray that as we process this amazing unfolding of a story, and really just a portion of it, we we really have so much more that could be said. I pray that we would chew on this truth and ultimately you would use it to challenge us, encourage us, and strengthen us. Help us to be the people you want us to be. Help us to live like the Christians that we are. Or if there's someone here that doesn't know you as Savior, I pray that today would be the day that you prick their heart of their sin and their need for a savior and that they would turn to you you place their faith in Christ. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.