Good morning. Mike to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and uh we're excited to start a new week, week number eight. And uh we're looking at the same passage that we looked at this past Sunday morning, and that is Luke chapter 8, verses 1 through 3. So if you have your Bible, I want to encourage you to take it. And let's look together at what is a very simple passage. It doesn't maybe when we first read it, you might say, I don't think there's a lot for us to uh to dig out of that, but there's actually a lot that we can talk about. So Luke chapter 8, verse number 1, this is what it says. And it came to pass afterwards that he went throughout every city and village, preaching and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him, and certain women which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom was sent seven devils. And Johanna, the wife of Chizza, Herod Steward, and Susannah, and many others, which ministered unto him of their substance, when much people were gathered together, And were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable. Now you might go, Pastor, what in the world does that passage have to teach us today? Well, I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts to lay out our study this week. And we're actually going to dig out a lot of very, very important foundational truths. that, believe it or not, are just casually mentioned in these verses. So let me first of all kind of give you a summary of what we're talking about and then talk about those introductory matters. This is how I would summarize the passage of scripture we're looking at. These verses, though seemingly ordinary, as a transition between Simon's dinner and the parable of the sower, provide a simple reminder of the astonishing depth and the power of the gospel. You say, well, where do you find that in these verses? Well, let me give you two introductory thoughts. The first is this. We need to be very careful that we don't miss the riches that lie buried under the surface when we're reading a passage of scripture. This reminds me of Proverbs chapter 2, verses 4 to 7. If a person wants wisdom, they're going to have to work to get it. Here's what this is what Solomon taught his boys. He says, If thou seekest for her that is wisdom as silver, and searchest for her as for hidden treasure Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord, and then shalt thou find the knowledge of God. For the Lord giveth wisdom Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding, he layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. Now the illustration that immediately comes to my mind is that of mining. He actually borrows from that. He says you need to search for it like you would search for a hidden treasure. I want you to think of it this way. Let's say that you were walking uh in Botswana You're going through this area and you look around and it just looks like a a wilderness area. There's no trees, it's just these scrubby little bushes, uh, there are no villages. Doesn't seem like a place that has a lot of value to you, but what you don't realize is that under the surface of that wilderness area is a massive vein of diamonds. And if somebody began to dig in the ground and and excavate under the surface, they would discover through that hard work that under the surface there's lots and lots of very very valuable memor minerals that can be uprooted from the ground. Or think about a person who's wandering in the desert in Saudi Arabia, and as they look around all they see is sand, they don't see anything green, they don't see any water, and they say, what What is valuable in this place? What they don't understand is right there below the surface in that lifeless Saudi Arabian desert. lies this vast reserve of petroleum that if they were to put in wells and they were to start pulling out that petroleum and pumping it out and selling it, it could make people extremely, extremely wealthy What's the point? What you see on the surface is just the tip of the iceberg. It's just the beginning. And if we want to see the truths that are there, we've got to work for them. We've got to dig into them. We're going to find out that in these verses if we're willing to dig just a little bit, we're going to find some very rich truths. The second uh uh encouragement that I want to mention is that we need to be careful that we don't miss the infinite expanse of the riches that we find in Scripture connected back to the gospel. We're going to talk about that this week. In Ephesians chapter 3, verse 16, this is what But this is what uh Paul was praying for the church at Ephesus. He says, I'm praying that he, God, would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might by the Spirit in the inner man. That Christ would dwell in your hearts by faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints the breadth the length, the depth, and the height, and to know the love of God which passeth knowledge, that he that that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. That passage of scripture is telling us that Paul was concerned that when he prayed for this church, he was saying, I want them to not just have a surface understanding of God's character and his ways, especially as they're rooted uh into the gospel, but I want them to appreciate the depth of the riches that are found in Christ. Well in order for us to do that, we have to recognize that you've got to observe the text. Very, very carefully. I use this illustration. We know that uh Elon Musk is currently one of the richest men in the world. It probably depends on the value of Tesla stock. But let's just say for a moment that That Elon Musk, he's driving his pestilence, one day it dies. So so what does Elon Musk do? Oh I know what he does. He calls his mom and says, Mom, I'm out of money. My my Car just died. Can you give me some money so that I can buy a new Tesla? No, he doesn't do that. Oh yeah, he calls a person and says, I'd like to apply for a loan. Or he likes to uh to go look at his books and say, I've got a plan how I'll be able to buy my next Tesla. That's not what Elon Musk does. Elon Musk just buys a new Tesla. In fact, I don't even know if he'd have to buy a new Tesla. He owns the company. He'd just go pick the one that he wants. The point is that because he has this virtually inexhaustible resource at his disposal He just goes ahead and gets what he wants. He just goes ahead and he buys the car. And it doesn't it doesn't really affect him almost at all. Where he just goes, he owns the company, he picks the car that he wants The idea is that a person who has inexhaustible resources is a person that that when when they have a problem, they don't even think think about these things. Whereas if you and I had a vehicle uh and the tires are dry rotted and we need new ones, we might have to actually budget for that item because we don't have as much uh expendable income as somebody like uh an Elon Musk would have. Well the reason that I bring up that illustration is to simply say this. A lot of times when we read through the Bible There are some very rich truths that are there and they're just almost casually stated. It's almost like it's an aside. This is just a passage that connects from one story to a parable. But the fact is those very simply stated truths under the surface are very rich. They're very significant. And I want us to look at those things today. What ultimately we want to do is we want to learn how to take these ordinary passages of Scripture And observe carefully what they're actually saying so that we don't miss the little details that we find in these passages. I want to give you a couple of examples of passages where We quickly read it. There's a lot that can be unpackaged there, but because we don't pay attention, we miss it. Here let me give let me give an example. In fact, I just read this the other day in my devotions. Genesis chapter 50, verses 16 and 17. Here's what it says. This is after Jacob's uh died, and Joseph's brothers uh sent a message to him, and this is what it says. It says, They, that's Joseph's brothers, sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying Thy father did command before he died, saying, So shall ye say to Joseph, forgive. You might say, well, pfft, what is what's the big deal there? Well the big deal is Joseph forgave his brothers several years before this event. What it shows you is that his brothers And his own father, before his father died, began to discuss what's going to happen when Jacob dies. When Jacob dies, they were afraid that Joseph was going to turn on them and he was going to somehow be vindictive against them, which wasn't true at all. But but by noticing this little detail, Jacob actually told his sons when Joseph dies, appeal to him So that he will forgive you. What it shows you is that even at the end of Jacob's life, he had some questions about whether Joseph was really going to follow through. And you know what it does? It gives us a lot of insight into the way reconciliation looks in a fallen world. Even where there's been this incredible display of grace, this incredible display of kindness and forgiveness. There are these people who have been forgiven in the back of their minds they still wonder, is this true? Is this legit? Just a small little detail. But it's an important thing that sometimes we miss. I'll give you another example in Job chapter 1, verse 5. We did this a couple of weeks ago as a bonus episode on a Saturday. And again, this was a passage of scripture that I was reading on my personal reading, and there's a little detail. I notice here's what it says. It says, It was so when the days of their feasting were gone. Let's talk about Job's children. That Job sent and sanctified them and rose up early in the morning, and he offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually And you go, well, what's the significance of that statement? That little statement at the end, he did this continually. It says something about the way that Job is thinking. It's showing us that Job had a disjointed worldview, and we talked a lot about that. But the point is this, a lot of times when we read a passage of scripture like this, We just blow right through it. We don't consider those details. We don't consider the implications that are behind them and we miss some valuable truth I'll give you one final one and this is the passage that I preached uh s probably a couple months ago, but I really, really love this uh this psalm, Psalm eighty four. Here's what it here's how it starts. It says, it's a psalm of th for the sons of Korah. And later on in the Psalm it says, I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. Again, there are some very important details that we need to know, questions we need to ask if we're going to appreciate what's being communicated in Psalm 84. The sons of Korah, who were singing this song, were assigned by God to be doorkeepers in the tabernacle before the temple was built. That was their job And their forefathers, Korah, led a rebellion against Moses and Aaron because they believed that it wasn't feared it wasn't right that Moses and Aaron had the responsibilities that they had, and the sons of Cor had the responsibilities that they had. And in this psalm, they express, you know what? It would be better to be a doorkeeper, what God's assigned to me, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness, like our forefather did. Again, what it shows you is that we need to be willing to embrace what we're given rather than fretting about what has been forbidden from us, what God has not given to us. The reason I bring up those three examples is simply to say as we're reading through the scriptures. A lot of times we miss important details. It's because we're lazy, it's because we're in a hurry, it's because we're tired, it's because we've not developed the skill of researching and reflecting on the scripture and those are skills, those are disciplines that we have to develop. And if we're willing to put in the time and notice the details, it'll be amazing the pieces you'll begin to put together and as you start understanding the text as as it is communicating to you, as you see exactly what it's saying, the intent of the text, those details that are so important, all of a sudden the Holy Spirit will take those truths. that are there in that text that we're often missing because we're not reading carefully. And he'll press those on our hearts and he'll give us a fuller appreciation. a more personal appreciation for what the scriptures are saying. And then we're encouraged. So that's our introduction to this passage of scripture. Let's just not blow through these simple verses that don't seem to give us a lot. They've actually got a lot to say You say, well, what is the application? I give you three simple thoughts. The first is this. We need to be attentive to details. When we read the scriptures, we've got to pay attention. Second application is we have to take time to ponder and to consider the implications of what we're reading. Rather than just getting it done We should read it to feed and nourish our souls. We need to engage with the text itself. We need to know what the words are saying. We need to know what the context is, and we need to pick out those little details that are an important piece to understanding what God is saying to us in His Word. And then lastly, we need to recognize that the gospel isn't just a story about how we get our sins forgiven. The gospel is the richest, deepest, most astounding message that has ever been given to mankind And we can grow for the rest of our lives and for all of eternity in a greater appreciation of the depth and the goodness of what God accomplished for us and what God is accomplishing in us as a result of this message. That's what I want to leave you with this morning. I'm really looking forward to looking at uh at uh I almost said Psalm Luke chapter eight And I hope that this passage and the truths that we will talk about that are unpackaged that will unpackaged from this passage, I hope that they'll be a great encouragement to you. Have a great rest of your day, and we'll see you, Lord willing, tomorrow. Bye now.