Good morning, like to welcome you back to our second episode uh on Anchored in the Word from uh Luke chapter eight. So if you have your Bible I'd like you to Uh take it and let's all turn together to Luke chapter 8. We're going to read the first several verses together and then we're going to focus in on uh the first truth that we find in these verses that I think will be very helpful to you. We're going to unpackage that truth. and uh and really examine it and reflect on it together. Luke chapter 8, verse number 1 says, And it came to pass afterward that he went throughout every city and village, preaching and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him. And certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom was uh set sent seven devils. And Johanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod's steward, and Susanna and many others which ministered unto him of their substance, when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, He spake by a parable. Now yesterday we talked about the fact that this passage is uh kind of a connector between the story that we looked at last week where Jesus goes to Simon's house and uh he is Confronted with a very delicate situation, Simon obviously doesn't understand his own sin and uh the value of Christ, and there's a woman from the street who is a very sinful person and she sees Jesus and she's grieved by the way he's been treated. She understands that he's the Messiah. She recognizes that redemption comes through this man And uh she shows this very humble display of gratitude to the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, between that story, what we looked at last week And the parable of the sower a very familiar parable that we'll look at, Lord willing, the following week, is this little connection piece That has a couple of little details, almost casual asides that are stated, that when we unpackage them, they're full of very rich truth So today what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at the context of Christ preaching. Where was Jesus preaching? Well the answer to that is found in verse 1. Here's what it says. He went throughout Every city and every village. That means that Jesus went to places where large groups of people were living, thriving, industrious locations. And places that would have been little hole-in-the-wall villages where there were just a handful of people, he went to every village and every city. You know what that tells me? That tells me that the gospel that Jesus was proclaiming was something that was to be proclaimed universally all over the place. It was going to hit all different s uh people in society and Jesus didn't care. He spread the gospel indiscriminately. By the way, when we get into this parable of the sower you're going to see this concept coming out that Jesus spread the gospel indiscriminately. You say, well, why is that? It's because the gospel is for everybody. And I want to kind of dig into that principle, that truth, for just a little bit this morning. to to help us reflect on the universal appe appeal of the gospel, how it is it is spread indis indiscriminately in large cities and small villages. All throughout the world, every single culture, rich and poor, the gospel is available and is for those people. So let's break it down this way. First of all, Christ died for all people Here's what it says in 1 John 2 verse 2. He is, Jesus is the propitiation for our sins. John is speaking of himself. and his believing audience, and then he makes the next statement, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. When I take the gospel and I give it to a person, I can say with absolute confidence, no matter whether this person is rich or poor, whether they are from a religious background that is Christian, quote unquote, but not gospel-centric, or whether they're from another faith, or whether they're a complete skeptic. It doesn't matter the person's situation. I can tell them with absolute certainty, Christ Died for your sins. What that tells me is the gospel is available to everybody. Doesn't matter who they are, it's available. The second truth that we see is this It's not only that Christ died for all people, but he desires all people to be saved. The Lord Jesus Christ wants people to be saved. He doesn't want to cast them from his presence for all of eternity into the lake of fire. Now that doesn't mean that he's just going to accept everybody. This is not a universalism. There's a difference between universalism saying Christ died, everybody saved, and the universal appeal to the gospel that Christ died for all people and that it is available to them and it is preached to them, but they're responsible to believe it. Here's what it says in 2 Peter 3, verse 9. It says, The Lord is not slack concerning his promise as some men count slackness. But his long-suffering to us were not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. In 1 Timothy chapter 2, when Jesus or when Paul tells us we need to be praying for kings and all who are in authority, he says it is so that we might lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness, for he Desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. What's the point? It's the desire of God to save sinners Not some sinners, not most sinners, all sinners. It's his desire that they be saved. And so he's really saying the reluctance of God to judge in time is an indication of his Patience and his kindness and his desire to see people saved. Again, that doesn't mean that he's he's he's he's just going to forego judgment, he's going to deal with people in justice, but he is slow to anger, and he desires them to be saved. The third the f third principle we're going to mention is that God doesn't target a group of people because of some arbitrary quality that's in them Sometimes we get in our minds, oh well the reason that person saved is because they just had a better heart than the other person. Or they were a little bit smarter when they heard the gospel. They understood it, but this person doesn't understand it When we talk about the appeal of the gospel, God brings the gospel to people, not because of something in them, but because he is good good and he is gracious and he has set his love upon them. Now out of all the examples in the Bible of a people that we would be tempted to say, oh, these are a people that God has treated differently than everybody else because of something good in them. It's the nation of Israel. Now The fact that we might be inclined to think that way does not mean that inclination is correct. The fact is that as we read through the Old Testament and we look at Israel's history, we recognize that Israel was, for all practical purposes, not a whole lot different than the Kingdom. nations around them. They were prone to the same sins and the same rejection, the same idolatry. Though they were they were privy to far more information. God gave them the law and God gave them the prophets and He gave them so many opportunities to hear the gospel. But I want you to hear it for yourself from some of these scriptures so that you can see that God did not set his love on Israel. Because they were a stronger, nobler, more upright people. Here's what it says in Joshua chapter twenty four. Joshua speaking. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, your fathers dwelt on the other side of the flood in old times. They served other gods. And I took your father Abraham from the other side of the flood, and led him throughout all the land of Canaan, and multiplied his seed, and gave him Isaac. In Deuteronomy chapter seven, verse seven, it says the following. The Lord did not set his love upon you, nor choose you because ye were more in number than any other people, for ye were the fewest of all the people, but because the Lord loved you. That's a great statement. God did not set his love upon you because of something good in you. He set his love upon you because he is a benevolent God. It's because of his goodness, not because of your goodness. In fact, it says in Romans chapter 5, when we were without strength in due time, Christ died for the the ungodly. God commended his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. When we were the enemies of God, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. God didn't set his love on us when we were noble and in this great position. He set his love on us when we were enemies. We we we we continue. He says, but because the Lord loved you, because He would keep the oath which he swore to your fathers, hath the Lord brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you. But out of all the passages that probably articulate this the clearest, it's Romans chapter eleven, verse five. Listen to what it says. It says, At this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of the next word's very important. The election of grace. That word grace means unmerited favor. Let me continue. If it were by grace, then it is no more of works. Otherwise, grace is no more grace. But if it be of works, then it is much more uh but if it be if if it be of words, then it is no more grace. Otherwise work is no more uh other otherwise work is no more work What is Paul saying? Paul is saying it's very simple. The reason that there are believing Jews is because God in His grace has drawn them to Himself It's not because they earned it, it's not because they deserved it, it's not because they were better than anybody else, it's because of God's pure, rich love and grace. When we talk about God reaching people and bringing them and drawing them to himself, it is a matter of his pure, rich, free grace. not something in us that makes us merit such an action. Very, very important. He died for all. He desires all to be safe. And he does not arbitrarily go after people because of some quality in them. It's all of his grace. I'll also mention this. There is no message in all the world that more equalizes humanity than the gospel. Listen to some of the scriptures that talk about this concept. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 11. He says, remember that ye being in times past were Gentiles in the flesh. At that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel. and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus ye who some time were far off, have been made nigh by the blood of Christ. For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us having uh abolished in his flesh the enmity, to make that he might reconcile both to God in one body by the cross That's a pretty powerful statement. What basically Paul is saying is, I know that there is this huge Jew-Gentile distinction, and this has created a lot of contentions and a lot of problems in the church. But let me tell you something. If you're a Jew or you're a Gentile, you have been brought into the same body where God doesn't make that distinction any longer. He's removed the enmity that is between you. The gospel is the equalizer. Or for instance in Galatians 3:26, same concept. He says, You are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. There is neither Jew nor Greek, bond, nor free, neither is there male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. What's he saying? He's saying the things that in the world are the arbitrary distinguishing things that give one person status and one person authority and one person privilege and one person opportunity. He said, you know what Those distinctions are brought down, and what is brought to the surface is what we now have together in Christ. So in the early church, during the first century, when people are living there, if a person was a Jew or a Gentile, that immediately separated them. If a person was a man or a woman, it gave them very different status in the first century world. A servant or a master gave them this huge distinction in society. One person has rights, one person has power, one person has opportunity, and the other person is dependent. and has no rights and no opportunities and does not have power in the Roman world. And you know what he says? Now the master and the servant are on an equal plane. their brothers in Christ. Now the husband and the wife have equal access to God the Father through Jesus Christ the Son. Now the Jew and the Gentile who One was a part of the people of God and one was excluded from the people of God as a Gentile and alien to the Commonwealth of Israel and the covenants and all those things. Jew and Gentile brought together into the same body, what does the gospel do? It takes all those distinctions and it limits them and it elevates their position in Christ. That's what it does. Colossians chapter 3 verse 10. He says, put on the new man which is renewed in the knowledge after uh renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. There's neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian Synthian, bond nor free, but Christ is all in all. God doesn't favor men over women or women over men. God doesn't favor one ethnic group over another ethnic group. God doesn't favor the rich over the poor or the poor over the rich. He values them as creatures made in the image of God for whom the Lord Jesus Christ died and who has been purchased by his blood, who is accepted in the beloved, and there's nothing that can be done to strengthen or to diminish the position. that they have in Christ. That's what it's saying. You know what the gospel does? It's the equalizer. So that goes back to what we saw here. The context of the preaching shows the indiscriminate nature of the gospel because these principles are true about the message that Jesus was proclaiming. So here's the question. How do we how do we apply the passage? Let me give you three th simple thoughts. First of all, the gospel loudly proclaims the dignity and the value of every single person. And the message that is being proclaimed is unlike any other message that's being proclaimed ever been preached in the world or ever will be preached in the world. There is no message and there's no group that can bring such an equalization as the gospel itself because it deals with our greatest fundamental problem and it deals with what we all have in common and it gives us a A common position in Christ. Very, very powerful. Number two, it gives hope to people whose lives are in misery enslaved by sin and dealing with a difficult consequences of living in a fallen world. Number three, it radically shapes how we view other people. I hope that that's been an encouragement to you today. When we talk about the gospel, we are talking about the richest most glorious message in all the world. I hope that today's encouragement will be something that you think about throughout the day. Have a great rest of your day and Lord willing tomorrow we will continue with our reflection on Luke chapter 8. Bye now.