Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church this morning and hope that you've had a great weekend. Looking forward to our service this morning. Pastor Chris will come with some announcements and then we'll open up our service. All right, if you grab the bulletin, you'll notice that there's quite a bit going on just within the next twelve minutes. week. So half of my sheet that's highlighted is just one week. And uh we'll be starting out even today with some uh important things going on. We got our Sunday school workers meeting uh after the AM service. That's for Sunday school workers and for junior church workers. So if you You're on the schedule for junior church. Uh please plan to be there. And then tonight our teens is after the PM service. So we'll be heading over to the the the snows home uh tonight with the church band. So teens after the service uh head out over to the fellowship hall and we'll load up the van there We also have our community canvassing this Saturday, and I want to encourage you to come out because we've had some really good conversations with folks and people are definitely willing to to talk about the gospel uh to us and it's it's encouraging. And then the 27th, uh, or excuse me, we have a welcomers meeting on the 27th. And I don't want to forget that because if you're involved with either Ushering or the Welcome Desk, we'll have a quick but an important meeting over here on the piano side after the morning service on the 26th. So please plan on being in that if you are in the welcomers ministry. And then our mother of littles is the Monday after that on the 27th at 10:30. Also, our youth group, we have a change of date for the Nerf War from the 3rd to the 10th. So it's going to be on March 10th at 6 p. m. Remember to bring your own Nerf gun, your ammo, some safety glasses. Uh safety glasses, please. I've seen some of the Nerf guns already and uh you're gonna need them. And remember to bring a Bible because we will have a devotional. And then our men's breakfast is on the 11th. Please remember to sign up for that if you plan on coming. And if you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a very long time We want to warmly welcome you. I don't know if you received a welcome packet, but we have those at our welcome desk and in that there's a little connection card. And uh if you'd like us to reach out to you and uh just make a connection and uh just answer any questions you have about the church or just find out how to be a blessing to you, please fill that out and put that in the little offering box in the back. And we will reach out to you during the week week. If you have your Bibles, I want to encourage you to take them and let's turn to the 96th Psalm for opening scripture reading. The 96th Psalm. Here's what the scriptures say. Oh sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory amongst the heathen, his wonders amongst all people For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods, for all the gods of the nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before him Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. This morning, as we open up the scriptures, we're going to be in Luke chapter 8, and we are going to be looking at the power of the gospel. And so as we focus in on that very important topic, and as we look at several very rich truths that are connected to the power of the gospel. Our prayer is that the Lord will really impress us on our hearts this morning and help us to respond biblically to them. Let's bow for prayer and ask the Lord to bless our service. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together as a body of redeemed people, people who are forgiven and cleansed and who are righteous in Christ. We are saints not because we are sinless, but we are saints because of Christ's imputed righteousness and the position we have in Him. Father, we are spiritually alive and we can walk in newness of life because of the very rich blessings that we enjoy in Christ. I pray that this morning as we open up the word, that our hearts would reflect and revel in these wonderful truths. I pray that the things that are said would be presented with clarity. And with simplicity, that the Holy Spirit would take these truths and impress them upon our hearts. Father, I pray that you would move within our midst, that the Holy Spirit would awaken our conscience and help us to understand these rich truths. And just be overwhelmed with gratitude towards you, and that we would be convinced of our need to walk as we are in Christ. I pray that you would bless every aspect of this service. We pray for those in our congregation who carry heavy burdens. We have many who have gone through physical affliction, those who have had surgeries, those who have had to go to the hospital, those who are dealing with Heavy infirmities, I pray that you would minister richly to them. Use the word this morning as it's presented to minister to them as they join us on the live stream. And I pray that as your people we would minister one to another and that we would be strengthened because of the things that we hear this morning. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Morning, Anchor Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Those of you that are Joining us on live stream. Welcome. Got a beautiful morning out there, and so looking good in here. We're going to start off the morning service Singing service with page 416. Page 416, if you'd stand with me. We'll get the air circulating and the blood circulating in those legs. Page 416. My faith has found a resting place. Sing out. Alright, page 459. Page 459, and we'll sing all three verses of leaning on the everlasting arms. Sing out They went to the wrong one, we didn't, we come here, I 'm not. При ними. Go ahead and have a seat while we turn back to page 371. 371. Both verses of a passion for thee. Slack in mind , you're calling the linear command , all the time. If we are still answering that we 're not done, all I need for my blood will be. But we don't really equate it. Far for the way and we were And the water life being my baby No , we uh we put it on the thing. Amen. Amen. Now for this morning's scripture reading, as Pastor said, we're going to be in Luke 8. We're going to read the first three verses of Luke 8, verses 1 through 3, and the scriptures say And it came to pass afterward that he went throughout every city and village, preaching and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God, and the twelve were with him. And certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils And Joanna, the wife of Choseah, Herod steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto him of their substance. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Pr Well, amen. I hope you enjoyed that ensemble. I think uh I think they're worth their pay, huh? Amen. Okay. Ah, blue book. We're gonna go to the blue book this time, page 146. In our blue book in front of you there, or follow along with me on the on the screen. All four verses of Christ is sufficient. Nothing I've done in the face. Nothing I'll do in taking it away. I have one home. In my family, I have been holding my price. Light we meet since Jesus has died , Justice was really nice and I can find. I'm free to get All right. Now you're gonna have to follow along on the screen. The song is not in our blue book or the red book. We're we're gonna go to page five 599 for instrumentalists. If you've got it, before the throne of God above. I think we're familiar with it though, so we're going to sing all Three verses of Before the Throne of God above. Please stand with me. No time. No time we have speech. All my sin , the other thing with me and die. My simple soul is free, for God and just high. In the glory of God heaven hard to me. In the world of God, heaven margin. No instruments on the last. Let's sing a cappello. Thy king of glory and not grace, one is his proud mind, and I die, my glory, by his blood. Live Christ my Savior and my God Live Christ my Savior and my God Amen. So Who else commands all the hosts of heaven? Who else can make every king bow down? Who else can whisper and darkness trembles? Only a holy God What other beauty demands such praises? What other splendor outshines the star What are the Majesty rules with justice? Only a holy Cry holy forever, a holy God, come and worship the holy God Oh , What other glory consumes like fire? What other power can raise the dead? What other name remains hinders? Only all we got. Come and be all him, no one and be on me. Cry that thing holy forever a holy God come and worship the holy God Uh Who else could rescue me from my family? Who else would offer his only sign? Who will invise me to call him Father? Only a holy God, only my Holy God. Um land be all him, though and the only Cry dancing holy forever a holy God come and worship the holy Cry and sing holy forever a holy God come and worship the holy God. Okay, well our children who are in junior curse can be dismissed to the back. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the book of Luke. And we're in Luke chapter 8 this morning. The passage of Scripture that we're going to be reading through and looking at will probably not be one of your top ten favorite portions of the Word of God. But it is actually a passage that is full of some very rich and significant statements that are really stated as almost incidental. connecting a passage that is a favorite, that is the woman who came in and is wiping the feet of Christ with her hairs and her and her tears. And then the parable of the sower, packed between those two very, very familiar passages of Scripture, passages that are full of so much instruction. is this little transitional passage that I hope that as we walk away this morning we'll say, there's actually a lot there. Let me read you the text. Luke chapter 8, verse 1, it says this. And it came to pass afterward that he went throughout every city and village, preaching and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him, and certain women which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities. Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils, Johanna the wife of Chezah, Herod Steward , And Susanna, and many others which ministered unto him of their substance. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to see some very rich truths that are almost incidentally stated in this text. Father, I thank you for the word. I pray that this morning as the word is opened and as we look at many, many scriptures, That are full of rich, rich truth, that we would recognize the astonishing power of the gospel. A message that says absolutely nothing to kings save turn to Christ and place your faith in his finished work. A message that equalizes all of humanity. Men, women, rich, poor, Jew, Gentile, it doesn't matter a person's station in life, this message is for them. I pray that you'd help us this morning to recognize these wonderful truths. Help me to communicate them with clarity. And we pray that the Holy Spirit would take the word and move in our hearts so that we might understand the word more clearly and by and we would be gripped by the truth this morning. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The following passage before us is a very ordinary transition from Simon's dinner to the parable of the sower. But they provide a simple testimony to the astonishing power of the gospel. In these verses, God is calling us to freshly examine this astonishing power. And in order to do that, before we look at those details, I want to make two simple introductory thoughts. The first thought is this: don't miss the riches buried under the surface Don't miss the truths that need to be unpackaged when we read God's Word. In Proverbs chapter 2, it says the following. If thou seekest her, and he's referring to godly wisdom, if you seek for her as silver and searchest for her as for hidden treasure, Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God, for the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. I want you to imagine with me that we were to get on an airplane and we were to fly over into the Middle East and then we were going to get dropped off in the middle of a barren desert in Saudi Arabia. Everywhere you look, you see sand, and there's nothing blue, and there's nothing green, and there's nothing that appears to be alive except for you standing in the sand. All you see is a barren wasteland. But what you don't know is that under the surface where you are standing is a vast resource reserve of petroleum. And if you had a well and you were to own the land And you were to get that well going, you could become a billionaire, potentially, and own one of these major football teams if you could actually use the resources that were under the ground. You know what the problem is? You don't know it's there. Or think about a person who is wandering in a vast region of Botswana, and as they look out, all they see is a scrubby little plants all over the place. It's a flat barren wasteland. They see animals that roam around, which is a little bit fascinating. But what they don't realize is that under the surface of that barren wasteland are deep veins of diamonds. And if they had the ability and the knowledge, they could go down under the surface And they could mine out all of those diamonds and they could cut these beautiful, beautiful diamonds, and they could actually use them and sell them and enjoy their beauty. What's the problem? Well the fact is that when we come to the Word of God, a lot of times, because we don't pay attention to what's there, because we don't pause and ask, what does that word mean? And what is really In that concept right there, a lot of times we just we blow through passages of scripture and we don't see those things. But perhaps the most significant thing about this passage Is that the incidental nature of this passage shows you how deep the truths of Scripture actually are In Ephesians chapter 3, verse 6, this is what Paul prayed. He said, I pray that he, God, would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might by the Spirit in the inner man. That Christ would dwell in your heart by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love, this next statement is so so key, may be able to comprehend with all the saints the breadth and the depth of the and the heights, and to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge, that ye might be filled with the fullness of God. You know what that passage tells us? It's easy for us to miss the depth of the wonderful truths that are buried under the surface of the scripture. And this morning, I want us to take just a moment to dig. Just a little bit. And by the way, if we were to dig to the extent that I wanted to, we'd be here all day. But don't worry, we will not be here all day. The truths that we will look at, we're going to move through them and hopefully reflect on them to some level of depth to appreciate what is here. The first thing I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at the content of the preaching in these verses. Here's what he said, or the context of the preaching of Christ in these verses. It's just a simple little statement. But it's a very fascinating statement. It says this in verse number one. He that is Jesus went throughout. What's the next word? Okay, what's the next word? Every city and village. Jesus went to every city and village Now that's actually a really significant statement. What that tells you is that if somebody lives in a massive city in Israel like Jerusalem in that in that time period, They would have interacted with Jesus at some point in his earthly ministry, actually several points in his earthly ministry. If they lived in some incidental little village. in the backwoods of some uh place there in that's in that region, a place where nobody would have known about, nobody would have seemed to care about it. They would have at some point in the ministry of Christ Come in contact with him and his disciples. In fact, not only did Jesus go through places like Jerusalem and all these little villages around Galilee and in the in J and in Judea. Jesus also went up into Samaria, the region that the Jewish people had no contact with because of intense prejudice that they had towards the Samaritans. You say, why does the word every city and village actually matter? It matters. Because the method that Jesus used was different than the method that most people who are trying to move people and establish authority and establish power, people who want to get things done, that's not how they operate. The way that people who want to get a political movement going operate is they look for the connected people in society They look for the wealthy people in society. They look for the educated people in society. They look for key places in a in a city, and they establish their connections And then at some point, then they're going to start working their way to the average person. But the average person isn't going to come in contact with somebody who's trying to make a political movement take place. Why is that? Because their strategy. That's not the way Jesus operated. He interacted with everybody. He interacted with people that were poor and people that were rich. People who are educated and people who are illiterate. People who were Jews and people who were Gentiles. People who lived in large cities and people who lived in villages. It tells us something about the Lord Jesus Christ. His method was different than the logic of the world. 1 Corinthians 1. 27, God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. and the weak things of this world to confound the things which are mighty. God's ways are different than our ways. We have a person, the Lord Jesus Christ, who should have been unknown in all of human history because of where he was born and where he lived and the circumstances involved, yet he is the most known person in all of human history. And he made no effort to spread the word the way that most of us would expect someone to do that. He didn't go To the masses and the places you would think. He didn't prioritize his appeal to build to build a political movement. He didn't network the way the world builds movements. He went to everyone. everywhere, the downcast, the broken, the vulnerable. And he also went to the rich and the educated and those who had connections. Not because of something he could get from them, but because he valued their souls. Because rich or poor, you're going to spend eternity somewhere. Jew or gentile, you're going to spend eternity somewhere. It doesn't matter what your background is and what you've experienced. experience in life, in the eyes of God, you have the same need fundamentally, and it's the same solution fundamentally. It's the gospel. The gospel is universally available because, or it is indiscriminately proclaimed because it is universally available. Let me give you a couple of thoughts to ponder for just a few moments. First of all, Christ died for everybody. He didn't just die for people living in the first century He didn't just die for Jewish people, or just for certain Gentile people, or for Western people, or African people, or Asian people. He died for everyone. Listen to what it says in 1 John 2, verse 2. He is the propitiation for our sins Our sins stand between us and a holy God, and God the Father poured out his wrath on our sin So that we could be brought into fellowship with him. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not ours only, but also the sins of the whole world. What a statement. That's why he sent the gospel to everybody. He desires everyone to be saved. 2 Peter 3, verse 9. The Lord is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Think about what the scripture says in first in 1 Timothy, where it says we're to pray for kings and all who are in authority, that we might lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness, because we all know God wants us to have an easy life. No, that's not what it says. Because God desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. And it is through having a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness That we have the ability to openly proclaim the message of salvation. In other words, the motivation for prayer isn't an easy life. It's the expanse of the gospel going out. That's what it's all about. He desires all men to be saved. He doesn't target people because there's something good in them or something beautiful in them. And he goes, Oh, I'd really like to have this person because If I could save that person right there, I'd get a really good deal out of it. That's not why God saves people. Listen to what it says. In Deuteronomy chapter 7, verse 7. When he talks about the Jewish people, him choosing them as a vehicle he would use to give us his word, to give us the prophets, to give us the Messiah. Listen to what he says. The Lord did not set his love upon you nor choose you because ye were more in number than any people. But because the Lord loved you. You see, what kind of an what kind of a reason is that? He chose you because he's good. Not because you're good. Not because you have something to give him in your intelligence and in your strength and in your money and in your commitment. He loves you because he's good. That's what it means. Romans 11, verses 5 to 6. There is a remnant according to the election of grace. And if by grace it is no more of works, otherwise grace is no more grace. What does that mean? That means the reason that there are Jewish people saved today is because of God's grace. The reason that God took that group of people is because of his grace. It's not because they earned it, it's not because they deserved it, it's not because of their strength, it's not because of their power, it's because of his grace. And that's the same for you. And that's the same for And there's a reason that Jesus went all up throughout the regions of the Dea, every city, every village, because every person needed to hear this message. There is no message more equalizing in all the world than the gospel. None. You know, the thinking of the world is that, oh, you know, Christians, they're high and mighty and they're better than everybody else, and and they have this This system of thought that makes them in their minds morally superior. The gospel doesn't do that to people, folks. The gospel takes people who despise each other and makes them brothers in Christ. People who have unequal lives when it comes to power and money and experience, and he makes them brothers and sisters in Christ. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 11 he says, You were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants of promises, having no hope without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who sometime were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. He hath broken down the middle wall of partition. He hath abolished in his flesh the enmity. He has made in himself two, one new man, making peace that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross. There is no group of people in history that may have felt this tension more thoroughly than the Jews and the Gentiles in the first century. And the apostle Paul didn't say, you know what, let's be pragmatic. Let's have a Jewish church over here and let's have a Gentile church over here. Because obviously these people they have different customs, they have different mindsets, they eat different foods. There's absolutely Absolutely no way this uh bridge uh gap could be bridged between them. It's not what he did. He said, you're one body. Amazing statement Galatians chapter 3 says, You're all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. There's neither Jew nor Greek, neither bond nor free, male nor female. You're all one in Christ Jesus. What is he saying? He's saying the distinction that separates you in society and puts people in different places and gives you different opportunities, boom, they're removed just like that. Because the cross says everybody's a sinner. Not just poor and miserable people, not just rich and proud people. Everybody's a sinner There aren't two ways to heaven. Well, there's the way for people from this part of the world, and there's the way for people from this part of the world. It's the same message, it's the cross of Christ. It's the death of Christ on the cross and what he did for us. So many scriptures that reveal the simple fact God doesn't favor one group or another. He died for all. And he calls us to turn to him and to trust in him. The gospel loudly proclaims the dignity and value of every person more than any message in all the world. You will never hear a message preached and proclaimed in this planet that is more equalizing than the gospel. Never. You will never find it. I don't care what people tell you, what they champion, only the cross of Christ can do this. Second thing I'd like you to see is the content of his preaching. Verse number one. It says he was preaching and he was showing the glad tidings of the kingdom. The first thing that we see is that it was good news. It was glad tidings. And the reason that there are there's good news that needed to be proclaimed, the reason there was good news that was proclaimed is because of the brutal reality of the human condition. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1 says the following about humanity. We were dead in trespasses and sins. We walked according to the course of this world. in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And we were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. This morning in our Sunday school class with the boys, we were talking about where temptation comes from. It comes from us. The reason that we experience temptation is because we are inherently sinful people. And that sin nature has affected every aspect of who we are as a person. And the only thing that can free us from the bondage of our own depravity is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 12, it says, you are without Christ, having no hope, without God in the world. That's the bad news. People say, I don't want to face that. I don't want to believe that. Well, whether you believe it or not, it's true. Doesn't change the fact that it's true. You may not like the way it's proclaimed, or who proclaims it, or how often you hear it, but the fact is it's true And if we paused and we actually thought about this for a moment, we would recognize in the center of our conscience that in fact what the Bible says about us and what it says about humanity is true. You don't look out into the world and see goodness and moral perfection everywhere. Where do you see? You see evil. Education hasn't removed all of the tensions in the world. You know, people naively thought after World War I we'd never have another conflict like that again. And then, well, a few decades later, it was far worse than World War I. Some of the most horrific atrocities in human history took place in that time period. Education doesn't change human nature. That's bad news. It's truth. But there's a second side to this. There's a glorious message of forgiveness. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 4. But God, who is rich in mercy for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you're saved, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are you saved through faith that not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. This message, but God, is the gift of God key. That's the good news. Doesn't matter what you're dealing with this morning. Doesn't matter how you feel. There's no no God would ever accept me because I am a very miserable and broken person. No God would want me because I'm a miserable and broken person. Folks, the Bible speaks plainly about our brokenness, and it also speaks Very, very clearly about what's available to us. The grace of God. Grace isn't something we earn, it's freely given It's paid for entirely by the riches of God and what he did for us, not what we do for him. Not of works. No man can boast in it. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 13. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometime were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ, for he is our peace. What a st Statement. He's our peace. The message that Jesus preached was good news. Second thing I'm going to mention is that it was about the kingdom of God. It says it was a good news of the kingdom of God. This isn't a random chance world. There is order to the creation, there's order to God's governance. There's good and bad. God 's world, not random chance. It's not a world that's made in our image. Lots and lots of people think they're the center of the universe Well, I guess you get 50 to 80 years to think that, but at the end of that, you'll find out that's not true. You are not the center of the universe. I'm not the center of the universe I have life by the gift of God's kindness. And our lives are sustained by the gift of God's kindness. This isn't our world that we control and we own. It's not a random chance world. It's not Satan's world. He doesn't own this world. He wreaks havoc in it to the extent that God allows him. But there's going to be a day that God says enough is enough. Satan will be judged forever. This is God's world. I remind you what it says in Revelation 21. Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself will be with them, and be their God. God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. There shall be no more death, neither sorrow, no cry, neither shall there be any more pain. The former things are passed away. Behold, I make all things new. Right, these words are true and faithful. Who said that? The Lord Jesus Christ. How does he have the ability to do that? It's because it's his world. He owns it. He purchased it. He redeemed it. He's going to rule and reign over it forever. This is his world. And as Jesus preached good news, he preached about God's authority and his kingdom. And how people who are sinners and have no right to be a part of God's kingdom can become a part of God's kingdom through the work of redemption. The third thing we see is the word preaching. This emphasizes the authority of the message that Jesus proclaimed. In Acts chapter 17, verse 30, it says, The time of this ignorance God winked at, but he now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. Because he hath appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. Folks, the point of what Jesus was doing was not saying Hey, I'd like to provide for you a way that you can take if you'd like. It'll make your life a lot more happy, and it'll make your life a lot more easy. And I just want to let you know I love you, and I I hope you'll choose me. That's not what he was saying. He said, I'm the God of creation. I'm going to the cross to redeem a people. I'm going to come again and establish eternal righteousness. And there's no place you can go if you reject me. That's what he says. That's authority. People say, I don't like that. Like it or not, it's true. It's preaching. There's persuasion. It's pointed. There's an argumentative side to what he's saying. Here's the truth. You must accept it. You must face this reality. You have a decision to make. Turn to Christ. Trust in what He's done for you. That's what He's saying. He preached this message. And then the next statement is fascinating. And he showed. Now that word is actually the Greek word young. And the idea is he's a proclaiming the good news. But while preaching emphasizes the authoritative aspect of the message, the next statement showing the good news is emphasizing the impact of what's going on. When a person hears the message, believes the message, embraces the message, it transforms them. I think about what it says in 1 Thessalonians. Paul says, our word came not to you in word only, but in power. What does he mean by that? You embraced it. It took effect It softened your heart. It convicted you of sin. It showed you the work of Christ. You embraced the work of Christ. He says You turn to God from idols to serve the living God. These people were idolaters. It was a very pagan world. The fact that people would embrace this message is an emphasis on its impact, its power, not just its authority, but how it changes the heart and it changes the disposition. It literally changes the person from within. Matthew 5. 13, you're the salts of the earth. Matthew 5. 14, you're the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Second Corinthians 5 17, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature, old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. You know what those things emphasize? They emphasize that when a person understands the gospel, they place their faith in Christ. They are forgiven, they are cleansed, they are declared righteous, they are called holy saints. And their life begins to demonstrate the evidence of transformation internally. It's a wonderful thing to believe, to recognize. 1 Peter 3, verse 15. He says, be ready always. To give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you. Why would people ask you that? It's because they see evidence that the way that you process life is very different than the way that they process life. Or if they're going to see because of the way you dress, doesn't say that. They're going to see because all the high standards you hold. Doesn't say that. They're going to see how it has transformed you internally. The way you think about life, the way you process hardship, the way that you look at other people The way that you view yourself, the way that you do your work, the way you resolve conflicts, they are all the strong demonstrations of the fact that you are a different person than you were before you came and met the gospel. They're going to ask you the question. He says, whereas they speak evil of you as of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ Jesus. Do you realize that this message of the gospel literally transformed the Roman world? It didn't transform it with a sword. It didn't transform it with new laws. It transformed it because it conquered the hearts of people. The preaching of the gospel. When it caught the hearts of people, and they were softened by the preaching of the word, and they submitted themselves to what it says. Turn to me, place your faith in Christ. All of a sudden, these people So many of them coming to faith in Christ and gathering together as a body of believers, it was changing the way people did their work. It was changing the way people function in society. It was transforming internally from the hearts of people. It was affecting society. Read the stories of missionary biographies who went to some of the most pagan , most abject places in human history. Cannibalism, human sacrifice, constant warfare, oh, there's no world like that. Folks, that's the way the world's been throughout most of human history. And missionaries came. And you know what they did? They took over the legal system. No, they didn't. They didn't have a legal system. They preached Christ. And when they say preach Christ, you know what happened? People's lives were transformed. As people's lives were transformed, you know what happened? Those people started being they were in positions of authority in their s in their societies. And you know what they started doing? They started living different. Why? Because the gospel Changes people. And we see that. He preached and he showed the good news. Number three , I want to elaborate just a little bit more on the power of the gospel. Verses two to three says, A certain and certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils, Johanna, the wife of Chezah Herod Stewart. And Susanna, many others which ministered unto him of their substance. You might say there's not a whole lot to say there. Every person's name mentioned had a story to tell. Every person mentioned had a story to tell. I think about our prayer list. You know, you see a name, you see, like, you know, pray for them, they're having health challenges. But that statement, health challenges, might mean they've been to the ER a couple times this week. That health challenges might mean that they have some really challenging Medical decisions they have to make. We just see a little statement, but behind it is a story. And if you knew all the stories, you go, wow Mary Magdalene had a story. Johanna had a story. Her husband was Herod Stewart. Herod was a really nasty person. He's the guy that had John the Baptist's head cut off. And uh we know the story as to why he was motivated to do that. What a terrible person. A very corrupt individual. People whose lives were dominated by evil and infirmities. Those names have stories. Folks, in the ancient world, women were not treated the same as men. They were not. Not even close In fact, one of the things that is so significant about the New Testament is that when we read the Gospels, we see that some of the most prominent witnesses to the resurrection of Christ are women. And you don't realize this, but in the ancient world that wouldn't have carried a lot of weight. Why did God make a point of doing that? It's because he elevated the value of women. He did. The power of Christ's preaching transforms so many areas of life. It elevates the dignity of women, certain women. It rescued and transformed the broken, healed of evil spirits and infirmities. It redeems people who are enslaved to evil, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom was seven went seven seven devils. It reached into places you could never imagine it would penetrate. Johanna, the wife of Chazah, Herod Stewart. But this is just a little bit of the example after example after example that we see in Scripture of how the gospel's power transforms people. And how God's ways defy the logic of our ways. Would you have picked Thomas to be one of the twelve? The guy who said, unless I can I can take my hand and stick it in the hole in his hand and thrust it in his side, I'll never believe that he's risen. I don't think I would have picked that guy. Jesus He did. Why? Because he bears testimony to the fact that this is true. Think about Peter. He was a fisherman. I like to fish, but I don't think I'd want to make a livelihood off of fishing. And I certainly wouldn't want to go back 2,000 years and live the life that Hay did, making a living off of fishing He was obviously an aggressive person who was quick-tempered and was very irrational in the way that he thought about things. You know, wouldn't you have picked someone who was gentle and calm and peaceable and very thought-provoking? No, he Jesus picked Peter. And Peter was the most prominent disciple preaching at Pentecost. I'm sure his preaching was something to behold. Jesus picked him. Think about Nathanael. We named our son Nathaniel. But when his brother comes to tell him, We found the Messiah, he says, Where is he from? Nazareth. Really? Nazareth? What good thing can come out of Nazareth? Do you get the impression that Thana might have been a little bit prejudiced toward the people from that area? Yet Jesus chose them. And there's Levi. I mean, Levi had abandoned his family. He was collecting taxes for the Roman government. He was cheating people while he did it. He was living in luxury while people that were his brothers, Jewish brothers and sisters, were suffering. And that guy is who Jesus said, come and follow me. Absolutely stunning. Oh, he also called this other guy named Simon a zealot You know what zealots did? They took up arms against Rome. They wanted to overthrow the Romans. And you're sitting there going, hold on, hold on, hold on. So Jesus has has Peter, the fisherman. And Nathaniel, the guy that doesn't like people from the hometown that Jesus grew up in. And Levi, the guy who's a traitor to his people, and Simon, the guy who wants to kill people who are traitors to his people. What is Jesus doing? He's demonstrating the power of the gospel. Nobody could ever call those people together and have them function as a unit. Say by the power of God and the gospel. Nobody could. But the greatest example of all is Saul of Tarsus. This is a man who hated Christianity. He plotted to destroy the Christian faith in its infancy. He was very influential and powerful. In the Sanhedrin of his day. Jesus and Paul Saul of Tarsus would have probably been very similar in age. He was somebody who is rising to prominence in Judaism He was a person with authority. He was a person with passion. He was serious about this. And he was literally going to Damascus So that he could drag Christians back to Jerusalem and ultimately he could have them executed because they had rejected Judaism and embraced Christianity. That was his mindset. And as Paul, Saul of Tarsus, is going to Damascus, Jesus confronts him. In fact, what's so amazing about that story is that when he is sent to Ananias, Ananias does not trust him because he knows what kind of a man this man was. It's hard for us to get an appreciation for this. Let's say you live in Baltimore City, and there's a very notorious person that lives in your area, and you know he's notorious because he kills people. If he didn't like you, you're gone. He ain't gonna do it, but he'll make somebody make sure somebody does it for you. And then your pastor comes to you one day and says, I just want you to know that this guy has become a Christian. And uh I wanted you to to disciple him. And you're like, all right, hold on a second. You don't have anybody else that you don't like very much that you'd like to disciple him? This is the way this man felt When Paul came back to Jerusalem, the Christians didn't want to accept him. Why? Because they feared him. They didn't believe him. And you don't blame him. Why would they have believed him? Barnabas intervenes. Here's the point. The gospel changes people. God's ways defire ways. Folks, the bottom line is the gospel has an astonishing power And this morning I want to remind you of that very simple truth. You see, how do I apply it? Have you personally experienced the transforming power of the gospel? As you sit here this morning or as you sit here on the live stream, have you come face to face with your sin, the reality of it, your inability to come to God through your own righteousness and your own works? And recognize Christ paid it all. He died for my sins. He rose from the dead. If I'll simply trust in his work of redemption. I made me his child. Have you experienced the power of the gospel? Is your life built on this foundation? Have you taken lightly the incredible depth of this message? I want to encourage you, if you've never placed your faith in Christ, do it today. You say, do I have to pray a prayer with you, Pastor? No. With a heart one believeth unto righteousness. That's what it says. A person who understands the gospel and trusts Christ, save like that. You don't have to pray with me or anything like that. Oh, you may want to talk to me if you if you want clarification, you want to work through this. No problem, that's fine. If you don't know for certain that you've placed your faith in Christ, I pray today you would make that decision. And if you are a believer, and I know that's the vast majority here, let's together glory and the grace of God a little more today than we did yesterday. We're gonna have all of eternity to learn a little more about it, to appreciate it more thoroughly. The gospel is astonishing. Let's pray. Before we close in prayer, if there's anyone here, I'd like to give you an opportunity if you're here today and you say, I don't know for certain that I'm saved. I'd like to at least make contact with you so that I can maybe meet with you after the service or at another time. So before we pray, all eyes are closed except mine. Is there someone here who might say, Pastor, I don't know for certain that I'm saved, but I want to talk to you about this? That's you would just quietly raise up your hand. I'll give you just a second. I'll just kind of scan over. You might say, Pastor, there's no way in the world I'd raise my hand, but I do need to talk to you. No problem. Send me a text. Send me a message. Send me a an email, shake my hand after the service, say I need to talk to you. We can talk. I absolutely want to be able to take the word and show you what God has done for you. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so grateful for this rich message of salvation. It is free to us. Yet it costs the Lord Jesus his life. Life. He suffered, died , bore the wrath that our sins justly deserved, so that we could be freed and forgiven May we not get over this glorious message. May we be so thoroughly and richly convinced of its power May we appreciate it and glory in it more and more each day till we see you face to face. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. In just a moment, we're going to have a baptism. And so I'm going to ask if my song leader, Doug, can you come up and lead us in 355? Jesus Paid It All. And then I want you to make sure that you stay close because after the baptism, we're going to sing to Gabi the glory, and I'll have you lead that as well. But uh while we're getting ready, uh go ahead and lead them through that, please. Page 355. I'll get there in just a second, since I can't see the screen. All right. Jesus paid it all. All four verses. Stand with me. Stretch your legs. While we're waiting on the baptism, you can't do that. I'll hear the Savior today, Thy strength in me is lost, and the weakness was break I may need all in all. She 's a great mo And they knew the three side and the heart of See the pain of my hood, Princess Sing Where am I breaking? I was my garbage. It 's well that can be fair. And will we for the pro See the guy who is over there, my men sweet the baby all the way. Oh you remember a precious day. Okay.