I'd like to welcome you to Acre Baptist Church this morning, and I want to wish you a Happy New Year. 2023, I actually Almost hesitated to say what year it was, thinking I might mess it up. But it's good to see each of you and uh so thankful that we can start this year uh in the Lord's house and the Lord's day. And I hope that today's service will be a tremendous blessing and encouragement to you. Pastor Chris has a couple of announcements, and then we'll open up with our scripture reading. I hope you had a chance to grab a bulletin. We have a few things going on even this month, starting with our SOS luncheon on January 7th at 11 a. m. So um If you're starting up to be SOS or is that even open to to incoming SOS people? All ladies. All ladies? All ladies are are welcome to to come into the SOS luncheon that day. And then January 8th, next Sunday, we'll have our second round of directory photos being taken by Kimberly Hutcheson. So if you would like to have your picture taken, whether for the directory or just to have some family photos, please be here next Sunday and be ready for that after the AM service. That same evening, January 8th is our next teen sting after the PM service. And then the following Tuesday, January 10th, is when we'll have our visit to the Baltimore Rescue Mission Please let us know if you plan on joining us for that. We'll be going both to the kerosene, the lady side, and to the men's side for their services. January 13th is our first teen activity for the new year. We'll be going to our annual ice skating. And you have the time there is 6 p. m. That is a tentative time. That might be later depending on availability. But as it stands, we do plan on going the evening of January 13th with the cost of it being $14 for admittance plus four dollars for skate rental. If you want to round that up to cover the cost of food, please feel free to do so. And then January 14th is our first men's breakfast. of the year. So if you plan on being with us for the men's prayer breakfast, please do sign up in the back and uh let us know how many you have joined with us. I do really encourage our men and our young men to to be a part of that. There's a great time of fellowship and um it's got food. So uh please do plan on joining us for that. And Pastor has one one further announcement. I don't want to forget this, but um our poinsettas, if you uh placed a poinsetta this year and you would like to take the poinsetta, uh please do take that. Um um after the morning service and um they have limped their way into the new year. We have done the very best we could um tenderly caring for them and they also survived a very, very cold night in our church. when we had no power and no heat. So these are basically like miracles this year that they made it. But if you are planning to take your Poinsetta, please do take that after the morning service. And uh it's been uh nice to have them up this year. Also wanted to mention that starting uh on January the 14th, we're gonna do this twice a month, uh, but on the Saturday that we have our men's breakfast We will also have door-to-door canvassing evangelism after that. And then also two weeks later we'll do that. I know during our winter months the weather can be a little bit dicey and so Um obviously there's a tentative side to that, but uh please do uh come to that. We're looking forward to that also. Um we'll have some little sessions before um to talk about what we're doing. And so if you can plan to do that, it's not just for our men. Anyone can come and do that. And we really look forward to that. If you could, let's take out our Bibles and turn to our opening scripture. Our opening scripture is Lamentations chapter 3, and we'll be reading verses 19 through 25 as we prepare hearts for our Morning worship service. Scripture says, Remembering mine affliction and my misery, the wormwood and the gall, my soul hath them still in remembrance, and is humbled in them This I recall to mind. Therefore have I hope. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, saith my soul. Therefore will I hope in him. The Lord is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him. You know, this past year, uh maybe for some of you it was your your your best year ever. Uh for others, it may have been the most difficult and trying year that you have experienced. But I want to remind you of something very simple. It's God's mercy that's gotten us through the year. And it's God's mercy that will sustain us every single day in the new year. And we should be very thankful that God has sustained us in this past year. And we should pray for his strength in the coming days. So let's bow together for a word of prayer and just commit ourselves to the Lord this year. commit this service to the Lord, that He'd really use it to strengthen and encourage our hearts. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this passage before us that reminds us that it is of your mercies that we are not consumed. That your compassions do not fail, and that every single day they are new. I pray that you'd help us this year to go day by day, drawing upon your grace. and your strength. We thank you that you are a merciful God, that your compassions do not fail. Father, I pray that you'd help us in this new year to live With a renewed vigor, a renewed energy that is drawing upon that daily grace and that daily supply of mercy that you give us Father, I pray that as we open up the word this morning, that our hearts would be attentive to the intent of the scriptures before us. Help me to communicate this passage with clarity and simplicity. May the Holy Spirit take the word and powerfully use it in our hearts. Father, as we sing these wonderful hymns of praise that will exalt you as you should be exalted. That will draw our attention to your providence and your power, the way that you rule and reign in the world. I pray that our hearts would be uplifted in praise that we would be strengthened as we dwell on these mighty truths. Father, help us to dwell in the light of the position that we enjoy in Christ and the strength that you give us. May this service be a rich blessing to your people, both those that are here this morning in person. And those that have joined us or will join us in the live stream. We ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Happy New Year's. We've come racing in. We're already Ten and a half hours into it, and so far so good. Hope it uh keeps going that way. We're gonna take our hymns. We're gonna turn to page six or follow along with me on the screen. We're gonna sing all three verses of I I sing the mighty power of God. Please stand with me. Page six I sing the mighty power of God that made the mountains rise, that spread the blowing sons of Christ. I built a lot of people. People like the Hey man, we're gonna turn a few pages back to twenty-six. Page twenty-six. And we're going to sing four verses, all four verses of Praise to the Lord the Almighty now. I go ahead and have a single page fourteen and sing both verses of worthy of praise. Amen and Amen. Page fourteen. Yeah, well the way you 're going to be able to do that. What they 're For the rest of the walking. Yeah. Well, all right. I want it to be noted that I made it ten 'm hours and forty-five minutes before I made my first mistake in the morning. So supposed to have scripture reading before the before So let's go to our scripture reading. Okay, I got that out of the way. The rest of the year is good. All right, we're good. So, alright, we're going to chapter or to the book of Luke. We're going to go to the book of Luke, chapter 7, verses 1 through 10. And so Scripture says, Now when he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum, and a certain centurion servant, who was dear unto him Was sick and ready to die. And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant. And when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying that he was worthy for whom he should do this, for he loveth our nation, and he hath built us a synagogue. Then Jesus went with them. And when he was not now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him , Him, Lord, trouble not thyself, for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof. Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee. But say in a word and my servant shall be healed. For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth, and to another, come, and he cometh. And to my servant, do this, and he doeth it. When Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him and turned him about And said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. And they that were sent, returning to the house, found the servant whole that had been sick. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his message work. Okay, now we're going to go to page eighty-one. Page eighty-one. And Sing someone's favorite song, A Mighty Fortress is Our God. All four verses. Now we're back on the chart. Amen. For the next song. Before the message, we're going to go to the blue book, turn to the back, page 151. Or again, follow along with us on the screen all three verses of I Run to Christ. But we are on this final song. Yeah, no, but the problem is people , all right. No, that makes me a little bit. I know I'm highly doing better as well with me to go on to the body. Maybe maybe see Well, our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for junior church. And the rest of you, I want to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Luke. I do also want to remind you that this morning we are participating in the Lord's table, so if you are planning uh to partake, please make sure that you go during our opening prayer before the sermon. And that'll be a time when you can go get that if you have not been able to do that yet. What I'm going to do is I'm going to read the text And then we're going to bow together and ask the Lord to really help us to see some wonderful truths this morning from God's Word. Luke chapter 7, verse 1 says this. Now, when he had ended all these things in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum, and a certain centurion servant who was dear to him was sick and ready to die. When he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant. When they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying that he was worthy, for whom he should do this. For he loveth our nation, he hath built us a synagogue. Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends unto him, saying unto him, Lord, trouble not thyself. For I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof. Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee, but say in a word, and my servant shall be healed For I am also a man set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, go and he goeth, and to another come and he cometh. To my servant, do this, he doeth it When Jesus heard these things he marveled at him, and turned him about and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I've not found so great faith, no not in Israel And they that were sent returning to the house found the servant and had been sick healed. Let's bow together for a word of prayer this morning. Father, the text in front of us is such a profound text. As Luke was writing these events down for Theophilus to strengthen his faith as the Spirit of God was moving him. He took time to record details about a servant who was healed. And Father, I pray that this morning as we open up the Word of God, We would understand why that is such a profound thing. Why that is so significant, why that matters so much, not just to a man who was healed 2,000 years ago. But to us today. And especially as we enter into a new year, help us to understand the weight of the truths that will be laid out before us. Help me have to have clarity of thought as I present these truths. I pray that the Holy Spirit would open our minds, convict and convince and strengthen our hearts. Help us to have minds that are ready to receive the word. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. You know, when we come to the first Sunday of the year, a lot of times pastors really challenge people with resolutions for the new year. Isn't that a pretty common thing? Well, this morning I'm actually going to do the exact opposite of what a lot of pastors do. I'm really not going to challenge you to do anything for God. What I'm going to challenge you is to think different about him in the new year. Now it may not be extremely different how you're going to think about him in the new year. It may actually be that as you look at this passage of scripture, you'll recognize that there is some drastic repentance that needs to go on in your own heart, that there are thinking changes that need to take place when it comes to how we think about our relationship to God. You know, at the beginning of the new year and the end of the old year, we have a tendency to reflect a lot. Maybe not everybody has this tendency. Uh but many of us do. We reflect a lot and we ask, well, what do I need to do different in the new year? What do I need to do better? Why am I having these poor outcomes? How can I improve those things? We tend to think a lot in terms of self-improvement. What we're going to see in this text is that God is going to relate to a man not based on his ability Not based on his money, not based on his discipline, not based on his ethnic heritage. He's going to basically relate to him on the basis of grace and grace alone. I want you to see that. And I want you to see that from the text in front of us, the man that he treats so kindly was thinking correctly about how he should relate to God. And the people that went on his behalf, their worldview was completely twisted, yet still very prevalent in their day. And I would submit to you that it's pretty prevalent in our day as well. And I think that this is a great thing for us to reflect on as we partake of the Lord's table the very first time in the new year as a church family. Let me first of all give you a summary statement for what's going on and lay out a few introductory thoughts that I think will help you to appreciate what is going on in these verses. Christ is interacting with a Roman centurion in Capernaum, and this interaction gives us insight into both his authority, his compassion. And a very common misunderstanding about the way that God relates to people. As we read these verses, we're going to see that Jesus is going to demonstrate he is the fully authoritative Son of God. He has the power over life and death. He has the power to heal. He has the power to do whatever he chooses to do. We're also going to see that he is full of compassion. And mercy and kindness. And it's really going to come out in the passage. But really, the thing that the passage emphasizes, I think, more than anything else, More than the authority of Christ and more than the compassion of Christ, it's that people tend to believe they deserve or don't deserve God's good hand of favor. And they live their life really trying to prove to God that they're worthy of some good thing, or they live in despair that they're unworthy. And what these verses are going to show us is that that's not how God deals with people. First of all, I want to give you some introductory thoughts. as we think about the passage. The following passage serves a very important function in Luke's presentation of Christ to Theophilus. Now When we read each of the Gospels, we have to recognize that when those Gospels were written, yes, they are given to us by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. So this is God's word 100%. But it's also important for us to recognize that each of the individuals that God used to give us his word came with a very specific intent. For their presentation of Christ. For instance, Matthew is a very Jewish-oriented book. And so he takes a lot of time to establish things that would have mattered to the Jewish people. He goes off into the Old Testament and to many, many of the Old Testament-fulfilled prophecies. When we come to the book of Luke, we see something that's actually quite a bit different. Luke has to explain a lot of things to his audience that he wouldn't have necessarily had to explain to a Jewish person. He records a lot of interesting interactions. and teachings that some of the other gospel accounts do not give us, not because they didn't happen, but because it was not a part of what they were trying to communicate. We have to remember that Luke is writing to a Gentile individual. Many believe that Luke himself was a Gentile. And so because he's writing to a Gentile, there were certain interactions that Christ had that he believed would be very helpful to Theophilus to strengthen and undergird Theophilus ' faith. In Luke 4, 7 through 8, he related several miracles and conversations that would strengthen this man, Theophilus' conviction of the certainty of those things wherein he had been instructed He would be giving interactions like the words of Simeon recorded in Luke 2 that tell us that Christ is God's salvation. Which he prepared before the face of all people. But then he makes a very interesting statement. A light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. Why that little detail will lighten the Gentiles? Because Theophilus is a Gentile. And Theophilus has placed his faith in Christ. And so ultimately the meticulous care that Luke is taking to record is not just to say the gospel is true, Jesus is the Savior, but he's saying not only is the gospel true, Jesus is the savior. But the gospel's available to you, Theophilus. It's available to you, a Gentile. This is not just an exclusively Jewish gospel. This is a whosoever will gospel. That's really an important part of this story. So, with that in mind, let's begin by looking at the first set of details, and that is that a dear man, a man's dear friend, is sick. In verses one and two he says this. Now, when he'd ended all of his sayings in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum, and a certain centurion servant who was dear unto him, was sick and ready to die. Now, we can read through this and we could actually miss a lot of very important details that I think will help us to appreciate the weight of the passage. First of all, let's talk about what's going on. There's a man who has a servant. He's very sick, so sick that he's at the point of death. Now this same this same uh situation is recorded for us in Matthew. And in Matthew, Matthew gives us a little bit more detail than Luke does about the person. And Matthew 8, verse 6, it says, Lord, my servant lieth at home sick of the palsy. He is grievously tormented. Now in Luke he just says that he's sick to the point of death. Matthew tells us how he is sick, what's going on. Well that phrase he's sick of the palsy and he's tormented and he's lying on his bed. Tells us that this is a person who is probably paralyzed and they're laying in bed and they're very close to the point of death. What's also very interesting about this person is that when he is referred to by the man, he's referred to using a term that would have been talking about someone like they were a son to that person. So this servant is not an elderly person. The servant is probably a young man Who would have been like a child or like a child parent relationship to this centurion? So in my mind, this is a person who's probably maybe 20 years old. And if a person is in such a condition, one would have to assume probably something very bad had just recently happened. In my mind, here is this person who this centurion loved very much, who is young and strong and vibrant and has served his master very well. And he's had a terrible accident. Something horrible has happened. He's laying on his bed. He cannot move. He's about to die. And there's nothing the centurion can do to help this person. So what do we know about the servant beyond those details? What's also very unique to me about these verses is that every time he is referred to by Matthew or by Luke, they talk about him as A servant, and the word used is the word doulos. The word doulos means it's someone who is a servant in bonds. In Roman society, this is a person who had no legal standing in society. But what's also very unique about this young man is that whenever the centurion refers to him, he doesn't call him a doos. He doesn't say this is my servant in bonds. He calls him a pidas, which is a son to me. So when we talk about his status in society, he had no rights. When we talk about his relationship to the centurion, he was a son to him. He was someone that he loved very much. You say, well, why is this problem so very significant? There's nothing unusual or uh uh uh life-shattering about a person getting sick. A lot of people have gotten sick in the last couple of months. There's nothing earth-shattering about people having injuries that ultimately lead to their death. It happens all the time. These are human experiences that are very normal in a fallen world. But here is what's very unique. What's very unique is the person who comes to Jesus. The way that he goes to Jesus. The fact that Jesus takes any time to actually talk to this man and ultimately heal his servant. The fact that Jesus cares about this man's servant is extremely significant, and it's extremely significant that Luke would record it to this person, Theophilus. What do we know about Roman centurions? Roman centurions were people who were extremely wealthy. In fact If you go back and you look at Roman history, what you'll see is that a centurion managed a hundred infantrymen. All of those infantrymen, each one received Essentially double the normal wage of a person working in Judea in those days. The centurion was paid the same amount of money as the entire hundred soldiers that he managed. What that's telling you is that centurions were pretty wealthy people. And that also explains why this man had the money to build a synagogue for these people there in Capernaum. Another thing we know about centurions is that they didn't get into that position without a significant cost. If someone was a centurion in the Roman army, they were someone that rose to that level by distinction. They were someone who was known for valor in battle. They knew what it was like to see people die They knew what it was like to stand their ground and be triumphant. Many of these people had experienced the wounds of those kinds of military conflicts. And so these people were often very harsh. They were very arrogant. And by the way, when a centurion was a master, the people that were in his household were probably the spoils of war. That he had received in battle. Now, knowing that, what that tells me is it's amazing that this man was so compassionate He was so kind. He was so concerned about this servant. It was like a son to him. And he was willing to go to Christ. That is so significant. In fact, what's also intriguing to me is throughout the book of Luke and Acts, many times, whenever the scriptures talk about centurions, it's almost always in a very positive context because the details that Luke records are about people who came to faith in Christ. Christ. People whose lives were transformed. People who were very different than their peers that they interacted with on a daily basis. He was an unlikely person to be loved by the Jews. He was an unlikely person to be known for his kindness. He was an unlikely person to come to Christ or to have Christ's attention. This man's story would have resonated. With Theophilus, a Gentile. Second thing I want to draw your attention to is what the man says to Christ. It's simply a humble appeal for mercy. In verse three, it says this when he heard of Jesus. He sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant. Now, a couple of important details to notice about this. The first thing is that the man did not go directly to Christ. We're going to find out why he didn't go directly to Christ later on. It's because he believed he was unworthy to go to Christ. He sent Jewish representatives who he thought might cause Christ to consider his request. Later on, after Jesus starts coming, he sends friends who are very dear to him and he says, I want you to go to Christ and appeal on my behalf and tell him he doesn't even need to come to my house. Not only did he not go directly to Christ, but he said, Don't come into my home. Now he wasn't doing that because of some animosity that he had towards Christ. He was doing it as a statement of his humility. The Jews and the Gentiles did not, under normal circumstances, sit down and have meals together These were not people that had warm relations. Remember, the Romans are basically they're ruling over Israel and Jerusalem as foreigners. They're taxing these people. The Jews didn't like their presence. And so as a form of humility, as a self-abasement, he says, don't even come to my house. In fact, think about John chapter four when Jesus is referring, uh speaking with the Samaritan woman. This is what she says. She says, How is it that you being a Jew, ask us drink of me, which is which am a woman of Samaria? The Jews have no dealings with the Samaritan. This woman understood Jews and Gentiles don't mix, Jews and Samaritans don't mix. And this centurion understands Jews, Gentiles, they don't mix. All of this points to one simple thing. Unworthiness. His request had three simple qualities. He made it from a position of I'm not worthy He made it with a conviction that Christ has the rightful authority and the power to heal my servant. And he made it as an appeal to Christ's mercy. That last little statement is extremely important. That moves us to a very important scripture, and we read this this morning. Lamentations 322, it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Because his compassions fail not, they are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, saith my soul. Therefore will I hope in him. The Lord is good unto them that wait for him. To the soul that seeketh him, it is good for a man that she he should hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the Lord. This man, no matter what his understanding of Christ was, understood, I need mercy. He understood he was under the authority of Christ. He wasn't entitled to what Christ could give him. He says, I need mercy. Psalm 86, another passage that emphasizes the same concept. The psalmist writes, Be merciful unto me, O Lord. I cry unto thee daily, rejoice. The soul of thy servant. Unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. For thou, Lord, art good and ready to forgive, and plenteous in mercy unto all them that call upon thee. Give ear, O Lord, unto my prayer, attend to the voice of my supplication. In the day of my trouble I will call upon thee, thou wilt answer me. Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord, neither is any work like unto thy work. Psalm 103, 13, like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are dust. I want to pause and ask a question. Do we think about ourselves the way that these scriptures describe how godly people think about themselves? Do we think about ourselves the way that the centurion, a man who had money, a man who had power, a man who was known for his valor, a man who had a lot of things going for him? The way that he viewed himself before Christ. That moves us to the third section of what I'd like us to notice. And I really think that this is the heart of why Luke records these details. There is a contrast of worldviews that is recorded for us in verses four through eight. I'm going to read it and then I want us to notice the difference between the way the people thought who came to Christ on behalf of the centurion. And the way that the centurion thought about himself. And verse 4 it says, when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying that he was, what's the next word say? Worthy for whom he should do this. For here's the reason he loveth our nation, he hath built us a synagogue. Then Jesus went with them, and when he was not far from the house, the synagogue Centurion sent friends unto him, saying unto the Lord, Lord, trouble not thyself, for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof. Wherefore neither should I myself find I myself worthy to come unto thee, but say a word, and my servant shall be healed. I also my man said under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one go and he goeth, and to another come and he cometh, and To my servant, do this, and he doeth it. You probably saw it. They come to Jesus and they say, He's worthy. And here's why. He sends someone else to Jesus and says, I'm not worthy. I didn't come to you because I'm not worthy. Don't come to my house. I'm unworthy of your presence in my home. There is a contrast of worldviews. The religious leader said He is worthy. He loves our nation. He built us a synagogue. In their minds, because he's a good man, you owe him something. Now let's just kind of flip the script on the other side. If the Jews had this mindset, because he's a good man Because he's done good things, he deserves good things, then what would they say on the other side? He's not a good man, he deserves to watch his friend suffer. He deserves to experience this hardship. In other words, in their mind, when you experience good, it's because you earned it. When you experience bad, it's because you earned it. Is that not the way so many people think? But that's not really what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that we all deserve bad. And he deals with us in grace. They said he's worthy. They attempted to establish a basis to prove to prove he's entitled to this favor. But what does the centurion say in verse 6? Trouble not thyself, I'm not worthy. Neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee. The people he sent say, he earned it. He said, give me mercy. Now here's my question. Which of those two mindsets most represents the way we think? How many times do we think in terms of God should crush me because I've messed up, or God should bless me because look at all the good things that I'm doing? And there are many, many people that, frankly speaking, when it comes to the New Year, they're going to establish New Year's resolutions because they want to prove themselves worthy of something good. I'm not saying all of those things. I'm not saying that you know it's it's a bad thing for us to reflect on maybe you know poor health decisions we're making or or or dangerous patterns we have in our life and saying, I really want a purpose To eat different, to exercise more, to get more rest, to make different decisions. I'm not saying those things are wrong at all. The question is why? What's the motivation? And how does it relate to God? Centurion sends his friends, he tells the Lord, Don't trouble yourself by coming, I am not worthy. He made no attempt to establish a basis to prove his entitlement to the favor. In fact, if anything else He actually undermined a basis to say I'm worthy. That's what he did. So what's the point of this whole matter? One believed that God was indebted to them, while the other saw that God owed him nothing. Let me say it again. One believed that God was indebted to them, the other saw that God owed him nothing. How many times do we get on our knees and we pray and we say, God, do this for me, and let me show you why you have to, because of what I've done for you. How many times have people made deals with God and they say, Hey God, I'll do this for you if you do this for me? That's the wrong mindset. That's exactly how these people were thinking. One said, God owes me something, the other one said, He owes me nothing. One attempted to build a case in his defense, the other saw there's no case to be made. One believed they could manipulate God. The other saw that their only hope was God's sheer mercy. Now listen, this mindset, this contrast of worldviews, it really comes to a head when it comes to the giving of the gospel. You know how many people when you when you ask them, do you know for sure you're going to heaven, they'll say, Of course I know for sure I'm going to heaven. And I'll say, okay, well then why? What have you done That makes you worthy. And they'll give you twenty things that they believe make them worthy of God, accepting them. I've been baptized, I go to church, I read the Bible, I give, I pray. I do good to my neighbor and they do all these things that I've done for God. I've kept the Ten Commandments. I'm like, really? Let's talk about that for just a minute. But they list all these credentials. That they're building up to give to God, to say I'm worthy. What does the gospel say? Grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. Alone, your works matter nothing. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, according to his mercy he saved us And so for a person to become a Christian, they have to come face to face with the reality that all my righteousness is a filthy rag. All the things that I want to give to God, they cannot earn his favor. They're dung And that's what Paul describes in Philippians chapter 3. He says, the things that I counted as gain, these I saw as loss for Christ. I count them but dung that I might be found in him not having my own righteousness, which is through the works of the law, but the righteousness which comes from God through faith. However It's not just a worldview problem for people who are unsaved. We know theologically, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. There's no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. There's nothing that can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord, who can lay any charge to God's elect. It's God who justified. We understand that we are secured in Christ and nothing can take us out of the Father's hand. But somehow, while we can lay out those theological points when it comes to our disposition toward our Father, we think like we did when we were lost. We've got to prove to God our worth so we can stay in good health. So that we can get the job that we want. So that we can have a little bit better financial prosperity. For whatever reason, human nature can put all kinds of things in that little place. We have this worldview mindset that yes, I'm in this position by grace, but God's happy with me on the basis of what I do. And is that not why the book of Galatians was written? I mean that's exactly what the book of Galatians was all about. You don't just get into the position by grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone, you grow by the grace of Grace of God alone. al And so, the point of the passage is very simple: God owes you nothing. There's no case for you to build in your defense. Your only hope is God's mercy. That's the point of the passage. But why don't you notice how Christ responds? In verses 9 and 10, it says, When Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him and turned him about and said unto the people that followed him: I say unto you. I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. They that were sent, returning to the house, found the servant whole that had been sick. Now, I don't know about you, but I I kind of uh in my mind's eye start thinking that there were a lot of people sitting there going, You mean to tell me that a Roman centurion living in our community has greater faith than any one of us? You mean all these people that go to the synagogue on on the Sabbath day have less faith than the guy who built the thing? Is that what you're telling me? They might not have taken that too kindly. In fact, there are very few places where the Bible says that Jesus marveled. It's almost like he looked and said, Wow. That was the result. Wow. This man got And he made a point to everybody that was there, he gets it and you don't. Christ is so good at that. He gets it and you don't. So what did he do? He commends the man's faith to the people. He graciously heals the man's servant. And I love this next thing. He never tells them why. He doesn't say, hey, you know what? It's true. He did build you a synagogue. It's true. He really loves and he's very compassionate towards the servant. He treats him as his own son. You know what? I agree with you. I'm going to go ahead and heal him, just like you said I should. He doesn't say that. He gives no explanation. Because there was no basis outside of his mercy. That's really what it is. The sheer good pleasure of God. His kindness, his mercy, his compassion. It was not earned, it was not merited. It wasn't like the case was built, and he said, Hey, you know what? You're right. I'll go ahead and I'll do this for this man Well, why does this matter? Well, it shows us God is no respecter of persons. As Theophilus is read this, can you imagine how this would have strengthened and encouraged him? He says, yes, the centurion is the one who really has faith in the passage. He's a Gentile. He's a Roman. God loves me too. Can you imagine how it shows us how much He cares for the unlikely? One of the things that really stands out to me about God is how truly compassionate He is on Someone in the church the other day gave me a book about the life of Corey Tenboom. The book is about the last five years of her life. About twenty pages from the end of the book right now. It's a great thing to read on, you know, New Year's Eve, right? The last five years of her life. It's the story of the woman that lived with her and took care of her after she suffered a series of strokes and lost her ability to speak. What's really amazing about this book is that when this woman, she was the third of the caretakers that came to live with her, when she came to live with this woman, she was a I think she was eighty six Years old, and she was a vibrant woman. She was very strong. She traveled internationally. She had a very full schedule of speaking engagements. She was writing books. Her doctor was telling this poor young woman that she needed to somehow calm her down and and not not have her travel as much and get get the rest that she needed for heart and all those kinds of things. She was a vibrant Focused woman who loved the Lord. Everything that was written in that book about her was so very, very rich and positive about that. But then One day she suffers a terrible stroke. And she's laying in her bed and she she can't move her face. She can't roll over in bed. She's lost all these abilities And really, for the next five years of her life, she lives in a somewhat similar condition. But but the story tells you how God used her life at that time. To continue to richly bless people. It's a very powerful book. And one of the things that isn't, it just shows you how God's grace comes into these situations. His mercy strengthens people. God is a God of tremendous compassion. When you are in your lowest moments He comes in and he strengthens. In fact, I hope that tonight you will come back because we're going to look at Psalm 84 and we're going to look at that very concept. It's a very rich concept. Shows he cares about the unlikely. It shows what genuine faith actually looks like. A genuine faith is that look what you owe me. I deserve nothing. It's all of your grace. I depend entirely on your strength and your work and what you've done, not what I do. It demonstrates Christ's authority and leaves us a compelling reason to trust him, but more than anything else, it describes the mercy of God. And so here's the question: how do you apply a text like this in the new year? I think the first thing we need to do is ask ourselves which worldview really represents how we think. A lot of the struggles that we face as Christians. Really boil down to the fact that I'm afraid of what people think because I have more of their mindset than his mindset. It's true. It's all about perception. It's all about building a case. And I go, why? We're all made of the same stuff. We're all sinners saved by grace. I'm not saying we should be in genuine that we should be hypocrites or that we should just live however. What I'm saying though is that while we should be consistent people, we should also be humbly Recognizing day after day that we don't deserve the position we have and we don't deserve God's good gifts. We need to ask ourselves which of these do I do? When it when it comes to prayer and how I appeal to God, that comes out And you see, I think about on the Sermon on the Mount when when Jesus is talking about prayer, and he says, if your father isn't going to give you a snake that bites you when you ask him for uh you know for For pe for a fish, I mean, your heavenly father is good too, you know. And and if you ask him for a piece of bread, would he would uh would your physical father give you a stone to chew on? The answer is of course not. He says, then go to God like a good father. That's the idea, not he's gonna crush me or I've got to earn his favor. He loves me scared. Which of these really represents our own worldview? In the coming year, we might need to rekindle that conviction that, you know what, we are unworthy. If I really believe that and I live like it, it really changes how I relate to my kids, to my wife , how I relate to other Christians who are going through struggles and burdens. People who do me wrong, people that I have conflicts with. When I recognize I'm unworthy, it really shapes a lot about the way that I approach people in situations. He has the right to rule as he sees fit. Since when did God have to answer to you and me? Since when did we become his boss? But that's the way we often think. He has the right to rule as he sees fit. We must rest in his power and goodness. One of the reasons that we're so anxious and worried and troubled in life is because we don't live like we believe God is good. Now, we will tell you we believe he's good, but we don't live like we believe he's good. We will tell you we believe in his authority and power, but we don't live like we believe in his authority and power. We'd humbly appeal to his mercy and glory and his daily kindness. You know, one of the reasons sometimes we're ungrateful is because when we get good things, we don't see them as gifts. We believe we've earned them. We believe we're entitled to them. We believe that God doesn't have the right to remove that thing or just disrupt that plan that I have. Or to not allow something to come to pass the way that I desired for it. And we get angry at him because we don't see that these things are gifts. We believe we've earned them. We believe we have the right to them. And we need to humbly appeal to his mercy and glory and his daily kindness. We also need to recognize that there is a compelling reason to trust Christ, not only with eternity, but also with today. These verses are about establishing Jesus is God in flesh. He came to die for your sins. This is true, and it's for you. That's really what it's all about. There's a compelling reason to trust Him today. I want to encourage you. More than any other purpose in the new year, purpose to walk with God day by day by day. Just do that. Purpose to walk with Him. My prayer is that God would give us a renewed sense of His power and kindness, that we would live in the light of this power and kindness. in the new year, that our thinking would reflect the thinking of the centurion, not the Jewish people that appeal on his behalf. Bow for prayer. Our Father in heaven, we think about the text in front of us. It is both convicting and so very comforting. Help us as your people to recognize how good you are, to glory in your power, to recognize we're entitled to nothing Father, as we're about to partake of the Lord's table in just a moment, may we reflect very richly on what Christ did to give us that position. The weight of his sacrifice, the fact that we enjoy all these benefits in Christ because he died and he rose triumphant and his righteousness is impeded to us. We ask that you would take the text we've looked at, this time of remembrance, and use it to shape our thinking in the coming year. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Just a moment, we're going to partake of the Lord's table together. I'd like the uh instruments to drop out on the final first as we sing together. Let's stand, please, and sing Grace Greater Than Our Sin, 157 But lifting up on this class. Here we go. Let's break it. Bree all. When there's no women , pray straight off. Praise the water and wishing praise, praise , come on , praise. Great song, isn't it? Wanna remind you uh if you would like to pick up a poinsetta, uh because you placed one uh earlier, please do that uh after this morning's service. And uh we will leave whatever is left tonight and then uh Um there won't be any more there um next on Wednesday, so um but uh please do get that and uh also hope that you can make it back tonight. We're gonna look at Psalm eighty four and uh the psalm is I think around really, really practical one. And uh there's a lot of really rich truths that I'm looking forward to uh laying before you tonight with that. So looking forward to that. Um Scott, can you close in prayer please? And uh good to see each of you out this morning. Lord, uh you are so good to us and we are thankful to it. Uh we pray That we might live in the light of the truths that you brought forth this morning, that we might uh be a beacon in the in the world that uh would show Show forth your light and your love to others. Pray, Lord, for your blessing upon us the rest of the day and that you would bring us back at the appointed time. And that we might glory in you. And just thank you for your grace and your mercy in Jesus' name. Amen.