If you have your Bibles, take them please and turn to Revelation chapter 6. Revelation chapter 6, and the section of scripture we're going to look at is dealing with the next section. in our revelation study. In fact, we're going to look at the entire chapter from verses 1 to 17. I'm not going to read the whole section right now as we read our text, but we will refer to this entire section. Revelation chapter 6, verse 1 says this. And I saw, when the lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard, as it were, the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts sang Come and see. And I saw and behold a white horse, and him that sat on him, had a bow, and a crown was given unto him. And he went forth conquering and to conquer. And when he had opened the second seal, I heard a second beast saying, Come and see. Then I want you to skip down to verse number nine This would be after the sixth seal is opened. It says this. When he had opened the fifth seal, sorry, the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God. God and for the testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them? That dwell on the earth. And white robes were given unto every one of them, and it was said unto them that they should rest yet for a little season. Until their fellow servants also in their brethren that should be killed as they were, should be fulfilled. Now we're moving into a very important part of the book of Revelation, a section that really begins with the first section of the tribulation time. And what I want to do as we're looking at this passage of Scripture is I want to begin by kind of talking to you about how the book is structured from this point to the end. And so if we were in a classroom setting I'd have like a chalkboard or well, we're past chalkboards. Have a PowerPoint here and we'd have pictures and we'd talk through it. But I want you to kind of understand the layout of the land. I want you to understand that because when you're Reading the book of Revelation, not everything in the book is written in a chronological way. Now some of it is, and I'm going to explain to you what is, but then some parts, some of the chapters are not, well, here's the next event, but they're actually looking back at what was just talked about, and they're giving us a fuller understanding of some of the So if we were to look at verses 6 to 19, here's how I'd summarize it. This section gives us details of the tribulation time period. Now the tribulation time period is a seven-year period that is talked about in the book of Daniel. It's known as Daniel's 70th week. The book of Revelation never tells us that the tribulation is seven years long. We get that based on what we read in Daniel. Being a week, a seven We could say period of time. And that week is really seven years, or so we believe. This period is broken into three classifications or three different kinds of sections of events that will fall in a chronological order. The first classification is this. There are seven seals that are going to be broken. And we see those seven seals broken in chapter 6. And that's what we're talking about tonight. Now I want to take you back till last week and kind of explain to you what we mean by these seals. We've seen into the throne room of God, and there in the throne room of God, we see that someone cries out and says, Who is worthy to open this document, this scroll, this book? That scroll or that document was something that had writing on the inside and you couldn't see what was there. But what it was is a legal document that was giving the title deed to all of creation. Now we talked a lot about God's providence today. You know, God is sovereign. He rules over all. But the reality is that the way that God governs the world today is not how he's going to govern it forever. There is a sense in which God allows a lot to go on in this world and he doesn't stop it. He allows people to make really bad decisions. He allows people to hurt themselves. He allows people to hurt others. God guides and God governs. His hand is involved in what's going on, but he's not ruling in the same way that he will during the Millennium and for eternity. The fact is, God says, thou shalt not, and then there's a whole lot of list of things he says, don't do. That's his will, but guess what? He lets people do those things. Okay. So he's not ruling in the sense that he's going to stop you from doing everything that he says not to do. He allows you to do those things. But then he's going to hold And so basically, what we have is this picture of Christ is going to take that title deed and he's going to say, I'm now going to govern the world the way that it should be. I'm the king. All those living under my creation are going to be righteous and holy, and it's going to be put right the way it was supposed to be. That's really the sense of what's going on. on. And so that angel cries out, who's worthy? And they say nobody's worthy. And then those elders say, there is someone worthy. It's the Lord Lord Jesus Christ. So as the Lord Jesus Christ takes that document to open it, he's got to break all those seals. And so basically what you have is he is taking steps to open the document, to establish himself as the king as he ought to be, and these are the events that will unfold during that time. So those seven seals as they are broken, we will see what transpires in verse chapter 6. Then we move to the second classification. And those are the seven trumpet blasts or the seven trumpet judgments. The seven trumpet blasts are actually a part of that seventh seal. So when that seventh seal is broken. There are going to be seven trumpet blasts, and when those trumpets blast, there'll be things that take place. Those events are described in chapters eight and nine. You say, well, what happened to chapter seven? Hold on, we're going to get there just a second. Then we move on to a third classification. And that's the seven bowls. Now when we say bowls, uh sometimes it's trans Translated vials, but basically the idea is you have uh something that holds liquid and it's poured out, and when that that bowl is poured out, then what we're gonna have is some events that will unfold. And we find those events described in chapter 16 to the end of chapter 21 So you see, well, what happens in chapter seven? What happens in chapters ten to fifteen? What happens in chapters seventeen to nineteen? Because in chapter sixteen we have the bowls poured out, in chapter six we have the seals broken. In chapters 8 and 9, we have the seven trumpet blasts. What about those others? Well, those are actually explanations. In fact, we find something very similar to this style of writing when we go to the book of Genesis. In Genesis chapter 1, what does it do? It tells us about the seven days of creation. And then in chapter 2, what does it do? It explains day six. Uh because day six is an important day. So chapter two is not day eight of creation. It's going back and explaining, let me tell you about what happened on day number six. God created man. And here's what he said to the man when he created him and here's how all this unfolds. It's explanation. That's exactly what we have here. So chapter seven, ten to fifteen, and seventeen to nineteen are explanations of what goes on during the seven seals, seven trumpets. and seven bold judgments. So what I wanted to do is begin with kind of this explanation so that when you read the book of Revelation, it helps to remove a little bit of the confusion. Not all the confusion. Because it's a complicated book. But removes some of the confusion. Now I want to move to section two, the seven seals. I'm going to take them one at a time and we're going to look at what is actually written in the text and I'm going to comment on those things. And I do want to say this. I'm not one of those end times prophecy gurus who's going to talk through all these different things that are going on in the news and going on in the world today, and this is what it's talking about right here I I'm not gonna do that. Because the reality is the technology is constantly changing and uh if the Lord tarries for another twenty years, whoever's in the pulpit twenty years from now with that kind of a mentality is gonna be talking about things that that we don't even know exist. We don't even know it's possible. Maybe a couple of you in here might know about some of these things, but most of us wouldn't know about them. So first of all, we're going to talk about these seven seals. The first seal is mentioned in verse number two. It says this, and I saw and behold a white horse. And him that sat, or him that he had a bow, and a crown was given unto him, and he went forth conquering And to conquer. Now, when we see this first seal, I want you to understand that the first seal is really the beginning of Daniel's 70th. week. Or this is the beginning of the tribulation time period. And when we come to the second and the third seals, they're happening a little bit later on after we are into the tribulation, kind of around the mid Who is this individual that is on a white horse who has a bow in his hand, an instrument of war, not so much one that we use today, but most definitely one in those days? Who has a crown on his head and has a lust for power. Well, this individual is someone who's a lot like people who've lived all throughout human history. If you love studying history, you've heard about Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, you've heard about some incredible, powerful warriors throughout human history. And setting their lives is very interesting. Well, guess what? This guy is going to be a lot like those guys. He has power. He's got the crown on his head. He has the bow in his hand. He is a mighty warrior. And he loves power. In fact, this individual, when we study the Bible, is someone And by the way, that is what major dictators Throughout human history have always desired. You know, World War Two is what stopped Adolf Hitler from conquering the world. And once we stopped Adolf Hitler, what did we have? We had the same kind of thing going on in Japan. The entire Pacific Ring was conquered by the Japanese. God's intervention keeping the world from coming under the one power of a person like Adolf Hitler. Or one of these other dictators. The fact is, there's people living today who have the same hunger. If the events worked out in their favor just Right, they would rise to power and they would be just like this individual. I have no idea. If Christ comes today, this guy's living, and he is in a position of power, and eventually He's going to quickly rise to the power that is stated here, and he's going to rule the world as a very strong dictator. In fact, in Daniel chapter 9, it talks about this individual versus 24 and following it says this seventy weeks are determined upon thy people, upon the holy city, to finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, to make reconciliation for iniquities, and to bring in everlasting righteousness. He says in verse 25, know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and rebuild Jerusalem unto the Messiah, the prince shall be seven weeks and three score and two weeks. Verse 26, after three score in two weeks shall Messiah be cut off. Now all of those statements are dealing with prophecy related to the timing of Christ's coming. And I think I mentioned this in another message. That when the wise men, the magi, came to Jerusalem, the reason they came to Jerusalem when they did is because they understood that this prophecy talked about when the Messiah would be born. Their timing was correct because they did the math and they understood the prophecy. But the reality is that this prophecy does not just talk about when the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ, would be born. And would die for our sins. But it's talking about the totality of his work, how he's going to come back and he's going to establish his kingdom and he's going to And so it's not just talking about his first advent, it's coming all the way full circle to the second coming of Christ. And that's where we get into the details of the tribulation. Because he says this Messiah will be cut off, and then it says this, and the people of the prince Shall come and destroy the city and the sanctuary, and their end thereof shall be with a flood. And unto the end of the war, desolations are determined. He shall confirm the covenant with many for one week. In the midst of the week, he shall cause the sacrifice of the ablation to cease. And for the overspreading of the abomination he shall make it desolate even until the consummation, and that determination shall be poured on Now what's really interesting, what he's talking about, is the fact that there's going to be an individual who is a Gentile And he's going to have a lot of power. And this Gentile is going to come to Jerusalem and he's going to destroy the city. But before he destroys the city, they're going to think he's a good guy. In fact, he's going to enter into a covenant, an agreement with the Jewish people, and they're going to think that they're safety, and for a period of a year, he's going to hold fast to his side of that promise. But there's going to be a point when he says enough is enough. You know, study history. How many times did very powerful dictators who are being appeased by other world leaders Make an arrangement. And they held to that arrangement for a period of time. Some of you are thinking about, you know, pre-World War II here And all of a sudden, that lust to take that land, which was probably already the intent, and had been for a long time, they take quick, decisive And they come in with ruthless force and they catch people unaware and they establish their rule. That's exactly what this man's going to do. And this man, you know what's interesting? This is not a judgment from God on the world. This is a powerful man doing what many powerful men have done throughout human history. And this is setting the stage for Christ to come back and establish his rule. But what this man's going to do is he's going to step into the temple, and he is is going to desecrate the temple. Now it's interesting in A D seventy we had events that were very similar to this. And there were some Christians at the time, uh uh in the early first century. you could say, who believes that that's basically was the fulfillment of this particular text. What I would say is this that was a partial or we could say that was sort of giving you a Little bit of a taste of what will happen during this tribulation time period. partial Jerusalem was laid waste, the temple was destroyed, and I believe it was Titus came in in eighty seven. seventy and he desecrated the temple. Believe it or not, this will happen again. And as history repeats itself, it will happen in that seven years. We move to the second seal. And we see in verse 4 it says this another horse that was red. Power was given unto him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, that they should kill one another, and there was given unto him a great sword. This is a person, I believe it's the same individual, but now he is turning his sights on bringing tremendous destruction. This is a person who is going to create tremendous In fact, in Daniel chapter eleven it talks a little bit about this individual. Daniel eleven, thirty-six to forty-five, is a complicated passage. I'm not going to read its entirety. kind of give you a little taste of what's there, and I'm going to encourage you to read it and study it a little bit yourself. Here's what it says. Thus shall he do in the most strongholds with the strange God. God, whom he shall acknowledge and increase with glory. He shall cause them to rule over many and shall divide the land for gain. At that time at the end shall the king of the south push at him, and the king of the north shall come against him like a whirlwind with chariots and with horses. And with many ships, and he shall enter into the countries and shall overflow and overpass them. And he shall enter also into that glorious land, and many countries shall be overthrown. Now it's interesting if you go to the book of Ezekiel, there is a battle that's described, and that battle is called the Battle of Gog and Magog. In fact, the details are very, very similar to what we find in Daniel 11. Some argue that that's the exact same battle. Others say that that's not the same battle, but it's very similar. I'm not sure to be very honest with you, but I will tell you this is what's going to happen. When that second seal is broken, and we're now getting close to the midpoint of the tribulation. There is going to be a great battle. That battle is going to be because the people in the north, whoever they are, it's kind of And the people in the South are gonna decide they don't like this world leader. They're gonna overthrow him. fight him. And so people from the north, people from the south, they converge on this issue, on this, on this individual. And basically what you're seeing is a description of that terrible battle. Well, you can imagine what kind of bloodshed there will be at a time like that. I mean, think about how warfare has developed over the centuries. Used to be hand-to-hand combat. You could only kill who you could touch. You understand what I'm saying? And then as time developed, we had greater technology. You didn't have to necessarily be face to face with someone you could kill them from a distance and today you could be in another country you can push a button and that's That's the end. The reality is that as technology develops, the ability for there to be unbelievable mass carnage and Increases. We talk about things like weapons of mass destruction. Folks, they're not gonna go away. At a time like this, they're gonna be used. And you can only imagine The tremendous destruction that's going to take place. But I want to remind you of something. It's not God's judgment on the world. You know what that is? That's God removing his restraint and saying, go ahead and do what you want to do. That's what he's doing. In other words, God hasn't stepped in and said, I have decided to personally judge you. He says, I'm going to let this man rise to power. I'm gonna let him be like so many others, but I'm gonna let him go further than those could go. I'm not gonna restrain him like I restrain some of these other words. World dictators. He's not going to be a Nebuchadnezzar who finds his end here. He's not going to be an Alexander the Great who dies in his thirties. Bunker. He's gonna rule the world, and he's gonna have tremendous ability to create havoc. We come to the third seal. And that third seal is found in verses 5 to 6. It says, And lo, a black horse, and he that sat on him, had a pair of balances in his hand. I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts saying, A measure of wheat for a penny, three measures of barley for a penny. And see that thou hurt not the oil and the wine. Now let me kind of, you know, shed light on something that we see. In fact, it's it's going on today in the world. Look at a look at a country like Venezuela. I'm not Venezuela's not in this text, okay? I'm not talking about it being in this text. But this is a country that 15 or 20 years ago was extremely wealthy And prosperous. When I was in high school, Venezuela was pumping oil all over the world. It was a very wealthy nation. Today, that nation Is in a desperate situation. There are people who are dying and starving, not because they don't have mineral resources, not because they have an inability to make food, it's because their leadership is literally Literally making decisions that are causing people to die. You know what's interesting in situations like that? As your common person struggles Working a day for a piece of bread. Okay? We don't know what that's like in this country. We really don't. In fact, there are very few countries in the world today where people are that desperate. Very few places in the world. But what's going to happen is that people will work for an entire day so they can have a little bit of bread to eat. He talks about the week. A measure for a penny, that's a daily wage. He then goes on to say this: a measure of barley. Now barley isn't as nice as wheat. You can eat it, you can survive, but it's not very nice. In other words, he's saying it's getting so desperate that you'll pay a day's wage for something you don't like, but it's gonna keep you alive But he said, Don't touch the wine and don't touch the oil. The fact is, while the common man is struggling and starving, there will still be people who Live in tremendous affluence. They can eat whatever they want, they can have a good time. And by the way, you study history, you see it over and over again. Again. As a civilization is crumbling, and as the leader is losing his grip, he still lives in luxury to the very end. That's what's going on in this particular Passage. You say, man, God's judging the world. God isn't judging the world. He's letting the human heart have a little bit more space. He's letting people do what they want to do. The fact is this: when your heart is not kept in check, it's very self-destructive. It's very harmful to other people. And we see that playing out in this particular text. We then move on to the fourth seal, verse number eight: a pale horse. His name that sat on him was Death. And hell followed him, and power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth to kill with the sword, with hunger, with death, and with the beasts of the earth. You ever wonder what the world's population will be when this takes place? A quarter of the world's population today would be the elimination of an entire nation like China or an entire nation like India? Or how about Canada, the United States, Mexico, and down into Central America? You say, well, how is that going to happen? It's going to be a desperate time. People are going to be struggling to survive because they don't have the food that they need. There's an oppressive regime. As a man is seeing his power crumble, he fights harder to maintain it. And a quarter of the world's population is going to die. You say God's judging the world. Not yet. He's not yet. He's letting people Have the space to do what they want to do. Number five. Verse 9, it says this When he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God. And for the testimony which they held. And they cried out with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? Now some of you might say, Well, God's judging the world right now. No, he's not. And they understand that. In other words, there are going to be people living during that tribulation. And we've talked about the rapture. I do believe that the church will be raptured out. They will not take place. But there'll be people who still have access to the gospel. There'll people be people who still place their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. They're going to be saved during that time period. In fact, large numbers of people As we look at one of these little sections that kind of gives a little bit of detail, here's what goes on during that time period. You're going to see that many, many people get saved during this time. But they're going to get saved and pay a tremendous price and suffer a lot because of the guy who's in power. He's going to hate the cause of Christ. He's going to do everything in his power to make the lives of those people miserable. And they're going to suffer. Many people, it says, are going to be slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. Again, this is something that has happened many times in history. We can go back to the early church living in Rome and how many, many Christians were thrown to the lions. In the Colosseum. Are you a Christian? If you say yes, death to you. If you say no, we'll let you go What are you going to do? It's been going on from then until today. And it will be very intense during the time of the tribulation. And these people who have died and are now in the presence of God, they look at what's going on on the earth and they say, God, why won't you judge those people that are doing this. Why won't you pour out your wrath and vindicate your people? And he says the time's not yet Yet. I've only gotten to the fifth seal. There's two more to go. We still have the trumpet blasts. We still have those bowls. I still have to come. There's gonna be a mighty battle and people think they're gonna to be able to overthrow my authority. be The time has not yet come. That fifth seal is basically the lament and the mourning of God's People saying, When will you step in and deal with these people injustice? The sixth seal is this, verses twelve to fourteen. When he had opened the sixth seal, lo, there was a great earthquake, the sun became black as sackcloth of hair The moon became as blood, and the stars of heaven fell upon the earth even as a fig tree cast her untimely fix. When she is shaken of a mighty wind, and the heavens departed in a scroll when it was rolled together, every mountain and island were moved from the early. Now again, a lot of times people will say, This must be judgment on the earth. Have we had earthquakes throughout human history? Absolutely. Earthquakes that have devastated major cities. Have we seen solar eclipses? Absolutely. I've seen a solar eclipse before. How about blood moon? You know what a blood moon is? Tori? I think we just had a couple of them recently, right? When he's talking about this, he's talking about things that that do naturally occur in a fallen world. Earthquakes. Solar eclipses, the moon, stars falling from heaven. What's he talking about? He's talking about meteors coming and hitting the earth. There are places you can go out west. You can find huge Craters in the desert. Where'd they come from? Meteors. What's really good there wasn't a city there when that happened because that city would have been decimated. It's True. But what's to stop that from happening? God holds things together. What happens when he lets it go? What causes an earthquake? Is it because God touches the earth and it just Does that thing? No, because there's tectonic plates that are constantly going back and forth. And they're under tension and all it takes is just one little thing and it moves. And it causes a The fact is what keeps those things from happening and causing destruction is God's hand holding it all together. But when he steps back and says, Go ahead, it can happen now. This This is what we find. These terrible events. We then come to the seventh seal. This is not in chapter six, but I'm just going to mention, we'll get into this the next time. It's the trumpet. So we've seen these seven seals, one after another as they are broken, and each time one of those seals is broken, what does it indicate? Christ is about to come, open this thing, and he's about to take his position As the ruler, as he's supposed to do it. That's what it represents. But what is practical about this passage? I want to draw your attention to two responses that we've find in this text. Two different great groups of people that are seeing the things that are going on, that are experiencing them or have experienced them. And I want you to see how their responses are so different. Chapter 6, verse 10 to 11, this is what it says. The Redeemed cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? You ever been there? You're looking at a situation, looking at a set of circumstances, and you say, God, why won't you step in and stop this? Why won't you deal with this person? Why won't you deal with this individual? Why will you allow this to happen? The redeemed question Why. You know what God tells them? My time hasn't come yet. But it's coming. I made this statement this morning and it's still true. Justice denied. Or a just now. Justice Justice that's delayed is not justice that's denied. The fact is, though God is going to delay To bring that justice doesn't mean he won't do it. On the other side, you have seen people living on the earth that you would think would say there's a God in heaven. I'm going to meet Meet him and I better be ready to meet him. Look at verse fifteen. The kings of the earth, the great men, the rich men, the chief captains, the mighty men, every bondman, every free man, they hid themselves in the dens in the rocks. The mountains. And you know what it says? They said to the mountains and the rocks, Fall on us, hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne. From the wrath of the Lamb. The great day of his wrath has come, and who shall be able to stand? These people realize that they're about to face Christ. And instead of turning to him as the Savior, you know what they say? We want to die so we don't face Him. That's what they want. And folks, the practical implication is this. When somebody is redeemed and struggling, they need to turn their eyes to God and say, God, how long? And when He's says, my time's not yet, they accept that. And they're patient and they trust God. They continue to be faithful and they continue to persevere. That's where we need to be as Christians. And I want you to remember something. It doesn't matter how bad it gets on this earth, there will still be people who look God in the face, not literally, but But figuratively, and they say, I don't want to meet you. I'd rather kill myself than stand before you. Rebellion. The fact is, folks, when the scriptures say in Psalm 2, why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? That's what it's talking about right there. When Christ comes to establish his rightful rule, there's going to be intense resistance. Folks, we need to be prepared to face The Lord. We need to live in light of eternity. We need to draw upon his grace. We need to trust him in circumstances. Hey, I'm glad I'm not going to be on the earth when these things Go on. But I'll tell you, it does remind me that Christ is going to come back. He's going to establish his rule. rain and the world as a whole is not gonna want it. God's purpose to reclaim his creation, it can be resisted But it will not be overcome. And may that be the thing that sinks into our hearts as we go throughout our week. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, as we think about this very sobering passage, I pray that you'd help us to realize the reason we don't see these terrible things happening every day. It's because there's a God in heaven who holds back and restrains the evil within men's hearts. Father, there There are so many people who love to be dictators and conquer the world and be ruthless and rule with a rod of iron and evil. You resist these people. You allow them to rise to prominence, but you bring them back down. But Father, during this time, you will allow me And I pray that you'd help us to remember how important it is that you hold things together. Help us to Rest in how you govern and help us to glory in the fact that though men will resist your coming rule, it cannot be stopped. You will come. Your kingdom, and we as your people will be able to enjoy this creation as it was intended, in your presence, with glorified bodies. We will serve you forever. We thank you for that great comfort. We ask that you'd help us this week to walk circumspectly, strengthen us in each way that we will walk Today and throughout this week in Christ's name, amen.