All right, good evening and welcome to our midweek service, which is the conclusion of our services with Morris Gleiser. He said, I think it was in Sunday school, it will go fast. And it did. I can't believe it's here already. Our final service with him. Hopefully it's been a blessing to you. It's been a great encouragement to me And we have one final opportunity just to allow God to work through him as he uses the word of God and the Spirit of God in each of our hearts and lives. So We're going to pray towards that end, but first we're going to open in our scripture reading in Proverbs 2, starting with the first verse. The word of God says, My son If thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee, so that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom and apply thine heart to understanding Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou search seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures. Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord, and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord giveth wisdom. Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. He is a buckler to them that walk uprightly. He keepeth the paths of judgment and preserveth the way of his saints. Then shalt thou understand righteousness. And judgment and equity. Yea, every good path, when wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul Discretion shall preserve thee. Understanding shall keep thee. To deliver thee from the way of evil men and from the man that speaketh proward things Who leave the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness, who rejoice to do evil, and delight in the forwardness of the wicked, whose ways are crooked And they froward in their paths, to deliver thee from the strange woman, even from the stranger with flattereth with her words Which forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the covenant of her God And our focus for this evening is his wisdom. And we need God's wisdom to avoid certain things and draw us towards others. I will go to this open up a word prayer. Father. We are privileged to gather, to pause in the middle of our week, to set aside this time To expose ourselves to the truth of your word, that the Spirit of God would use the Word of God as you've given us this messenger this evening. Would we apply the wise words which are heard, which are preached? Would we take heed to them? Would we hold them near and dear to our hearts to change the way we live our life the way that we think, and rely upon your wisdom for the strength to live right before you this day. And that we would be continually guided by your word, which is a lamp into our feet and a light into our path, and that can start as a result of being tender and open to what you have for us this evening. And we do thank you ahead of time for what you will do to the honor and to the glory of our Savior Jesus Christ, in whose name we do pray. Amen. All right, well good evening. Looking forward to our song service. Let's go ahead and stand together and turn to our first hymn. Give me a second, please. 83, guide me, O thou great Jehovah. And uh we're focusing in on how God is a God of wisdom, infinite wisdom. And so let's sing this together as we think about God's wisdom. I am weak, but thou art my we 'll be when I walk. Leave me till I want no more Leave me till I want no All the crystal founders when I give these areas. Be never be all my goodness , ever , we have to watch and see. Sun is not me say what can sound. Good singing. You can be seated. And the next song we're going to sing is 390, I Surrender All. This is one we tend to sing during invitation time. I think it's a great song for us to sing, not just during those times. But also, before we open up the Word of God, whatever God has for us tonight, we need to surrender all, put it before Him and say, God, whatever you have for me. I'm willing to do it. Your word is the authority, and I'm going to submit to it. So let's sing this together. I surrender all. Verses 1 through 4. Yes, we are only mad Jesus take me now. Hello! All right, I'd like it to sing one more before we uh go to the Lord in prayer, and then um Brother Gleischer comes and preaches, and that is 371 of Passion for thee. Let's stand together. Please one more time and we'll sing 371 A Passion for thee Bumpsy And a person for my God In the My Fair. For that cover in part, not can be sure, but you have me with All it helped with my spirit and be closer and the more Christ had remote himself. Seat me to follow It's helpless of Israel Give now I know and I know what he does And after it's for my God. Lord, hear that my prayer for thy sugar, but in prayer. You can be seated, and I hope that that is your prayer. That we would surrender all to the Lord, that He would guide us, and that we would have a passion for Him. That's good stuff right there. We haven't even gotten to the preaching yet, all right? I do want to remind you of a couple things. I know this is normally our our prayer meeting time. And uh we're not going to have our normal prayer meeting after the service, but we do have our prayer sheets back there. So please do uh pick up one of those and uh take some time to uh to pray over uh uh the great needs that are in that that prayer list. And so uh remember folks uh remember Clio tomorrow she has a procedure and uh she really would covet your prayers on that. She if she hears this she'll just She'll probably be glad I said that. But uh please keep her in your prayers. And uh just a lot going on. So let's remember those things. Also, uh each night I've I've tried to remember to mention this, but um we have an evangelist come in and preach. One of the ways that we say thank you is um we we give to support the work that he's doing. And it's a faith ministry. Um his work is traveling to churches, preaching the word of God, stirring up believers. encouraging them in the Lord uh preaching the gospel so people will be saved. And so um if you'd like to participate in that offering please make sure that you put uh a check there in the back and we'll make sure that that he receives that. uh as part of a love offering when uh when he heads out. And uh it's been great to have him. It's been great to get to spend time with him. It's been great to hear him open up the Word of God. And it's good for you to hear other voices, other people preaching the word , not just myself and Pastor Josh and Braxton, but to have someone come in outside and preach the word as well. Let's bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to quiet our hearts. Help us to focus in on his word and that he would really speak to us as Brother Gleiser comes and preaches the word. Father, we're so grateful for this week and the opportunity that we've had each night to have the Word of God open before us. And I thank you for the way you have guided Brother Gleiser and the text that he has presented. And as the Holy Spirit has worked in our hearts. I pray that we would respond correctly to it. I pray that tonight we would have a tender heart, you would guide us, that we would have a passion for you That we would surrender to you if that's what we need tonight. I just pray that you would do the work that we need tonight in our midst. And we ask all this in Christ's name, amen. Yeah. Well thank you, Pastor, and thank you folks for being here uh tonight. It uh I told you on Sunday these days will go quickly, and they have. Here we are on Wednesday evening and and uh I has been a uh a quick set of days, but I am very thankful for some new friends and for the reacquaintance with folks that I've known uh from previous times that I've been privileged to be here at Anchor Baptist to meet your pastor. How long have you been pastoring now here? Six years. Six years. And uh I uh I'm grateful uh that he gave me the invitation to come. I appreciate so much uh Pastor Porsche and his heartbeat for you and for the Lord's work and cause. And uh I love it when a pastor uh is involved with uh uh leading the singing because he does do a little preaching along the way as he's uh leading the songs and I think that's always helpful. I really do. I think we need that from time to time. Great. Hey, good to see you. If we've not met, I hope to meet you after the service. I try to say hello to you beforehand, but uh you're coming in and Those of you who have little munchkins, you're trying to deliver them out in the back and um and and uh get situated and that sort of thing. So Uh uh maybe just in a quick way we didn't get a chance to say howdy very much, and so uh we can do so afterwards. Some of you, I've not seen you, except Uh maybe you were here Sunday morning. Then again, I understand maybe there were some who were uh on a little getaway vacation or whatever, and you're You're back home. I'm not sure who that is, so I'm not looking at anybody. I'm just glad you're here, thankful that you've come. We do need a note from your mother as to where you've been. So if you could You remember those days when you had to go to school and you had to bring a note? I've been sick, you know, that sort of thing. I'm so glad you're here. I'm thankful that a church like Anchor Baptist still believes in the importance of God's people having a focused time for a set of a few days. It's not many, but a few days, just to center their thoughts on some Bible principles for the Christian life to be reminded of Bible-principled living. Not that you never get that instruction. You get it week after week after week. And can I just remind all of us We can never get enough preaching. And I don't mean that because I'm a preacher. We need it. I need it. I need the teaching and the proclamation and the exhortation of the Word of God. And I hope that you understand that importance. It's taught throughout the New Testament. This is sermon number one. All right. This is not my real one for tonight. But I I hope that you'll always put yourself in a position to hear the word of God and to be here for uh all the services whenever they come. And you do know what tomorrow night is, don't you? It's Thursday night. Come on, man. This is Wednesday night. Tomorrow's Thursday. And we're not having a service tomorrow night. But the most important service will be on Sunday. So I hope that you'll plan to be here and uh be here as I've Yeah, I've tried to always recommend the next night to be here. Let me just remind you to be here on Sunday. Be in your place. The Bible verse that I want us to go to, the passage tonight is Matthew chapter 8. I say verse, there'll be a set of verses that we'll look at together tonight in Matthew chapter 8. As we go there, I want you to uh uh put yourself in the position of where we are here in chapter 8. Let me make a remarkable statement that if you're listening, this will astound you. Matthew chapter 8 comes After chapter 7. Now that right there might be worthy of writing down so you don't forget. But the main thing I really want I've tried to tell you all weak, the humor is pretty weak, and I get it, I know, but it's the best I got Chapter 7 is the conclusion of actually the Sermon on the Mount, as we've called it, Matthew chapters 5, 6, and 7. This mastercrafted message that the Lord Jesus proclaimed. A message in which he laid the explanation of the foundation of his own personal ministry. But I believe honestly It was a message that he was giving to his true followers, his future church builders of that day and of that first century. and of future generations like those who sit in this building tonight. He lays the groundwork and the foundation of Bible principles that We need to hang on to and uh get a good grip on them as Jesus declares so many wonderful principles and truths. And maybe you've studied the Sermon on the Mount and you've gleaned great truth from it. So Jesus has preached this sermon. And we turn to what you and I call chapter 8. Don't allow a chapter division to cause you to forget the context and the setting within which you find yourself in the Scriptures. This is not several days later. This is not a week later. This is not a year later. This is after he has preached his sermon. We see in chapter 8 these words. Follow it along. It says in verse 1. When he was come down from the mountain. Okay, we've called it the Sermon on the Mount, the Sermon on the Mountain. When he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. And behold, there came a leper. And worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. This is remarkable. And Jesus put forth his hand and touched him, saying, I will. Be thou clean. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. And Jesus saith unto him, see thou tell no man But go thy way, show thyself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded for a testimony unto them. That is the priest. This is a remarkable truth that we're going to seek to understand and study tonight at the conclusion of this masterful sermon that Jesus has preached. Something remarkable takes place. And Matthew tries to get us to see it, and I'll draw attention to it in just a moment. Have you ever traveled somewhere uh and been maybe I don't know maybe in a in a big area of a downtown city, a big major city, a Baltimore, a D C or or somewhere else, or f have you ever flown, been in an airport somewhere, or some other means in which There were a lot of people, a lot of interaction with people. Have you ever seen somebody considered famous? You seen somebody that is uh uh oh I I know that guy I know that I know that couple. I know that lady. I know, you know, they may be a politician. They may be a newsmaker of one sort or another. They may be a news reporter that you're familiar seeing on a national news level I I tend to see sports people. That's kind of been the world that I've been around in my life. Or maybe an entertainer of some sort. You've seen those people I had too. Um I uh I I I uh uh rode on a plane. W I don't often ride first class. In fact, let me say the word rare that I would ride first class. But a man years ago who worked for Delta Airlines got me a ticket to ride first class on a plane out of Los Angeles. And uh I was flying back uh to uh our uh destination in Florida with a layover somewhere, but nevertheless he told me, he said here's he got it all arranged for me, and he gave me a call before I left. I was out there for a conference and he said Hey, Brother Morris , he said, you're going to be riding on the plane with Ron Howard. You know that name? Think Opie, all right? Think think uh uh Mayberry, okay? Uh uh think about uh uh little Opie or as the years went by Richie Cunningham today He's uh doing quite well as a Hollywood director. And uh very he's been in that world for the time of his childhood years, okay And my friend said he's going to be riding on the same plane, first class with you, and I've arranged your seat. You're going to be sitting in front of him. sitting right behind you. I said, okay, thanks. So I was ready for him. We all got on the plane. Now my wife will tell you, whenever I see somebody that's well known I don't know why, but I just feel a a need to go over and and enter and say something to him. I don't know why, but I do. And so uh I was sitting there, we were almost completely boarded when all of a sudden At the very last, with the collar pulled up and with a hat on and trying to be incognito, up in walked Ron Howard And uh he had to walk right by me. I was ready for him. As he walked right by, I said, How you doing? He looked down at me and he said, I'm doing fine. How about you? I said, I'm doing great. He sat down. We got real close. In that just a couple of moments there. I'm just telling you, we we shared phone numbers. No, we didn't do anything like that I uh I saw an NFL quarterback one time on the plane. He was up there in first class. I was back there in the in the squeeze them in section. I I b before the plane took off, I got up and I walked up there. I'd heard that he was a believer in Jesus Christ, and I wanted to thank him for his testimony. I walked up there and these poor people, they get attacked by people all the time wanting autographs. I didn't want an autograph. I just wanted to say hi and thank him for his testimony. So I walked up there and I I said hello. And I called him by name, used to quarterback the uh a little bit for the Dallas Cowboys, my team. And uh also the Denver Broncos. And uh so I thanked him for his testimony. He said, Well what do you do for a living? I said, I'm a pastor. I work with teenagers back in uh in a such and such town where I was and he said that's great. He said, I just got through speaking to the Fellowship of Christian Athletes on the National Group. I said, that's wonderful. And so we had a good little talking tonight. I went on back there, squeeze myself in where I belong, you know, and that sort of thing. Um I uh you ever heard the name And don't act like you haven't. Hulk Hogan. I rode on the plane with him one time. You say did you talk to him? Nope, I didn't. I didn't want to. I didn't want to I I had no appeal to go to him. He was putting on a show and he was flexing around and so forth and he was thinking so highly of himself at that time. And uh after we got off the plane he was he was hovering around, headed we were all going to the baggage depart claim department and he was He was looking around like is everybody noticing me? I tried my best to let him know I'm not noticing you. I don't care. I don't want to build up your pride anymore. I didn't want to take off my shirt and show off either. So I just kind of let it go with that, you know. I uh also saw a basketball, an NBA uh coach, who coaches uh a very he he at that time a a very successful ball team. He was simply one of the rudest men I've ever met in my life. I went up and said hi to him. I wasn't asking for autographs. I didn't want to do anything. Didn't want to bother him. But he was so cold. I'm telling you, he was brutally indifferent and cold as if he was saying, get away from me. Just the other day, I'll tell you one more. Just the other day, I was in Minneapolis and I was going to the airport and uh into the Minneapolis airport there went a guy that uh had many years on him. He's in his eighties now, but all of a sudden when I saw him, he was sitting in a wheelchair I saw that smile on his face and boom, I was a little boy all over again. I watched him play baseball for the Minnesota Twins. He's a Hall of Famer. His name is Tony Oliva. He's a Cuban-born ball player, one of the first ones to ever play in the major leagues. I saw him, and as we went through the security, I I went up to him and I said, Mr. Oliva. Uh, I said, uh, how are you doing? I said, I just want you to know I watched you as a as a kid growing up. Oh, he said, thank you. A big old smile. I just recognized his smile. And uh I said I said, I know people bother you all the time, but I said, can I just snap a picture of you so that I can show my two boys? Because we're all baseball fans Can I do that? He said, no. I said, oh, oh, okay. I'm sorry. He goes, no, no. He said, you come over here. Stand by me. He said, take one of those selfie things, you know, that you do. He said, let's get us both in the picture. I said, yes, sir. I'd love to do that, you know. And so nicest guy in the world, just the gracious, gracious guy. I suppose most of them, many of them and famous people would be kind. Many of them are very uncaring and unapproachable and not interested in talking to you. You say, Morris, what is the point? Did you not notice something very special in the passage we just read? Jesus was very approachable. Look what Matthew says in verse 2. It's as if he's trying to grab us by the lapel of our coats or shirts It's as if he's snapping his fingers, clapping his hands when he says the word, and behold. I know we read the word behold in the New Testament and we're so used to that word it's almost like a Shakespearean, a Shakespearean Elizabethan language, and behold. That's not supposed to be like that, like that. Matthew is say, hey, pay attention. Sit up. It's what's probably going on out with the little children right now. Everybody sit up. Listen to me now. Quit bothering with your neighbor. Don't get distracted. Look at me. It's like what a wife says to her husband, are you listening to me? Every husband's heard. And he says, yeah, he's over there flipping the channels between a couple of ball games. And she says, then what did I just say? Uh Well have you already forgotten what you said? Why are you asking me? You know, bury yourself in the backyard, mister, because you're not going to live through that one. The point is, Matthew is saying, let me have your attention. Don't miss this. Behold. What I'm about to say is is huge. It's big front page news for those who still read a newspaper. It is the biggest font that you could find Behold! What is it, Matthew? What is it? There came a leper and worshipped him. There came a leper to Jesus. Folks, let me tell you something. Lepers didn't approach anybody. It was illegal. Not only in the common law of the day, it was illegal according to the Mosaic Law. You could go back and read in Leviticus 13 and 14 that people who had leprosy were to carry a rag around because they had to keep their breath from going out because leprosy was extremely contagious. Secondly, that rag was to catch all, I'm not trying to, I don't want to be too out of line here tonight, but all the blood. Lepers bled a lot. Their fingers would curl up, their toes, their extremities would curl up, and actually their flesh would begin to peel off. People would tell us that their person's nose and ears would begin to cave off of their faces. It's an ugly making disease. You knew a leper. You could tell a leper. In fact, when Luke referred to this story, you know what Luke said about this guy? He said he was full of leprosy So don't get the picture he just had a couple of splotches on his arms or face. No, he was covered from head to toe. He was a leper. And it was obvious. That's why Matthew is saying, everybody paying attention, Matthew said. Are you catching this? Jesus had just preached this sermon, and behold, there came a leper. I can just imagine mothers were grabbing their children and started to shriek in horror because it was a very contagious thing I imagine some of the disciples screamed at that leper and said, Get away, Jesus, come here, come here, stay away. I mean, put yourself in the equation. I need to back us all back up to verse 1. Because I need to ask everybody tonight this. It says when he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. I suppose you know this, but in that group of multitudes, great multitudes, probably an innumerable amount of people, there were some people who knew him to be the sent one, the messiah. They were true believers. But there were some people that were casual observers, who were acquaintances with others that were around the religious world. But they weren't all in with this Jesus. Oh, they enjoyed some of the things, the benefits that you could get from him. They enjoyed the show. They enjoyed some of the miracles. They enjoyed some of the giftings of things that he would do. And can I just say that crowd is still with us today? There are people who just go to church because they've always gone to church. But they're not all in. There are people who carry a Bible, but they're not in it on a regular basis. This great multitudes of people. These were the you basically had two crowds of people. You had believers and unbelievers. You had people who were literal followers trying to get as close as they could to the Lord Jesus and couldn't get enough of him. And then there were some who were just There for the fun of it and for the thrill of it and because it was the thing to do. I meet people a lot who who who they just come to church because grandma went to that church. Because their dad and mom were members of that same church. Dad was a deacon, mom was sang in the choir, and and uh they were born and started going to that church. They planned on being buried someday by the reverend pastor, and that was it. Their heart wasn't in it. Which crowd are you in? Which part of that crowd are you in? Great multitudes followed him, and then all of a sudden, there came a leper And Matthew is saying, folks, Jesus was approachable. And so people probably tried to grab Jesus and pull him away because of the contagiousness of that leprosy. As people yelled at that leper to get away, the leper said, I know who you are. And says he worshipped him. And he called him Lord. We're going to break it apart in a moment. And he said, I know if you will, I know you can. Heal and cleanse me of my disease. And the most remarkable thing in the world was that Jesus said, I will. Matthew was saying, folks, this is big news. Jesus was approachable. He was accessible. He was able. And he responds in great power. He responded to the man's appeal. He responded to the lowly, needy, humble, leper. And he responded according to his own choice. I find that fascinating. Jesus said, I will. He could have said, I suppose, no, I'm not going to heal you. But he said, I will. And in his willingness, in his volitional choice, you see his eagerness to bring healing to this leper. Now can I say this and move on? Leprosy in the Bible is always a picture, an image of sin. It is a picture, it is a metaphor of a person's condition before they come to know the Savior. It is a picture of someone who comes humbly before the Savior and says, I am dirty with sin. I am in deep wickedness of heart. And I need a Savior. You see, you don't add Jesus into your life. No one's going to get cleansed of their sin till they admit that they're spiritually dirty. No one's going to get healed of their sinful condition in their soul till they admit, I need healing. No one's going to get free from the guilt of sin in their life till they admit I'm guilty. I hope that everybody that's listening to me tonight would say, Morris, I can tell you point blank, there was a time that I humbly fearfully in a reverential way approached the Lord God and said, I don't deserve salvation. I am a wicked sinner and I know that's what I am But I know that you are the one and only one who can bring eternal life to my life and save my soul. I'm not going to do my part and then add your part in order to get to heaven. I'm trusting you and you alone. That picture is demonstrated here in the picture of this leper. And I believe we'll see this leper in heaven. But now come up close to your Bible and don't miss this tonight. This is a story that also shows us as believers how we can and how we should. I love this. How we should and how we can approach the Lord. With the biggest needs, the most difficult and deepest needs of our life. I'm talking about prayer. Oh, you said so that's where we're going. You know, it's an amazing thing how Satan will do everything he can to distract and deter and keep anybody from listening on on any teaching from the Word of God. But I think in particular Especially the subject of prayer. It's as if the devil would love to say to any of God's people, you trust your intelligence. You trust your personality. You trust your education. Trust your uh your uh your family heritage. Trust your financial strength. Go ahead and trust the government that you're a part of. Go ahead and trust that. But don't ever get serious about seeking God. Because it's as if Satan begins to tremble when God's people get serious about prayer. What do we learn here? Matthew says, folks, don't miss this. Jesus was approachable. This is big news. Is it still big to you? Or have we, do we have to have a deep, difficult, dismal disease literal or symbolically into our life before we ever get serious about prayer. Do we have to have a family breakdown before we ever get serious about prayer? Do we have to have a physical setback before we ever get serious about seeking our Lord? Do we have to have some kind of a financial uh uh uh difficulty that is extreme in our life before we ever get serious about prayer. Matthew says, folks, this is a big thing, and he's trying to tell us that God The Lord God, and I hope you hear this, he delights in answering our prayer A man by the name of Philip de Corsi once said, prayer, based on this story, prayer is not overcoming God's reluctance. It's grasping his willingness to not just hear us, but to answer our prayers. Our most difficult and our deepest needs. Can I ask you a couple of questions? Do you pray? Do you have a season of time every day in which you speak to with the Lord? I don't mean just driving down the road. There's a place for that. I don't mean just when When you've got to have a uh a talk with somebody on the phone and you you ask God to help you in a quick way. There's a place for all those shots of rockets of prayer to the Lord. I get that. But do you have a season of prayer? Do you pray Do you ever live with expectancy? Can you not see this leper? He had a look probably of expectancy. We'll see him a little bit better in a moment, of I know that you can if you Well, you can heal me. Do you ever live with expectancy? Do you pray and then I can't wait to see what God's going to do? It might happen today. The answer might come on the next email. It might come through the next text. It may come through a phone call. Do you live with expectancy? Do you ever irritate the devil because you've gotten serious about prayer? Let me just say to this, God's people need to recognize That if we're ever going to see God come down in a mighty way in our nation and in our churches, we've got to get serious, genuinely serious about seeking God. Do we have deep needs in America today? Yeah. And you know it. Instead of throwing a pillow at the news reporter on television and getting headline hysteria and getting all upset. I get all that. I understand it. Maybe we ought to just say, oh God, you can change this. Instead of uh being upset with the the condition of our m our country and the and the agenda of one group over another and the cultural, moral meltdown that we see in our nation, maybe we ought to recognize our God can change the and bring about miracles that that there's no explanation for. He's the one who can do it. Would you notice, first of all, the lepers appeal? Look at our text, look at verse 2. And behold, there came a leper and worshiped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt Thou canst make me clean. Notice that his approach, his appeal was first of all, he came earnestly. This was not some sacheting into the presence of Jesus. Friends, he had an earnest, desperate, bold need. Are you catching it? He had something in his life that no one else could solve. I tend to think that maybe, and I don't know this, I tend to think that he was standing far away, but he could hear Jesus as Jesus was preaching. And maybe he heard Jesus say, When thou prayest, ask and you will receive. Seek and you will find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. And the leper was over thinking, Do you suppose Maybe you heard Jesus in that sermon say, but thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut the door, Pray to your father which is in secret, and your father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. And the leper maybe was thinking Do you suppose? He came earnestly. Could it be that we have to have something major and big? and out of our uh control that we can't solve in our own way. We can't figure it out by another phone call or another credit card. uh usage. We can't figure it out any other is is there is there gonna have to be some desperate thing happen to us before we say, oh God, I know you can If you will. He was asking for a big thing. He was asking for cleansing from leprosy. As I said to you, Luke says in chapter 5 and verse 12, this man was full. of leprosy. Mark says he was a leper and he came beseeching the Lord Jesus. The word beseech there means urgency. He came earnestly What's your prayer life like? Is there a beseeching quality to it? We live in a day of self-made men. I know. We try to do everything on our own strength. I can solve this. I can figure this out. We live in a day of self-made people. We live in a day of very busy people. I'm in a room of very busy people. I cannot imagine all the things you've had to do even today. And this week and the rest of the week. We live in a day of very busy people and we think I don't have time for prayer. We live in a day of very tired people. And we've become diminished in our prayer life. He came earnestly. Prayer can do anything that God can do. And God can do anything. Friends, can I just tell you something? Nothing is seemingly discussed more, sung about more, written about a lot, and practiced less. than earnest prayer. It takes work. We have time for shopping. We have time for online social media observ observation. We have time for emails. We have time for any number of other things. Do you have time for prayer? You say, Morris, you're just beating me up with guilt, not intended. I'm preaching more to me, I guess, than anybody. This ought to be a statement of encouragement tonight as you see. See, Matthew was trying to say to God's people, folks, behold, get this. Here came a needy man, a leper, and he approached Jesus, and Jesus didn't say, get him away. He was approachable. He was accessible. He was available. Can I just say that when we remember the one to whom we are approaching When we remember the one to whom we are approaching, it should cause us to become more bold in our prayer life and say, God, I know you can. If you will. Lord, I've got this loved one who's not saved, and it doesn't look like they're going to ever come to no use. I know you can if you will We've got this son, this daughter who's away from you, and we don't know their spiritual need. Their marriage is collapsing or Lord, I've got this employment situation, this circumstance. with my own children, with school, with work. Lord, I don't know if it's ever going to change. It's huge. I know you can change it. if you will. He came earnestly. Secondly, he came reverently. Look at our text. Look at verse two. And behold, there came a leper, and, notice this, worshipped him. Now what does that mean? Does it mean he broke into song? No, and then there's no emphasis here that he started singing. Don't get the idea that worship is only singing songs. That's a part of it, but worship is a work of the heart. It's recognizing, don't miss this, it's recognizing the one to whom you're speaking. Look at what he calls him. Lord That's why I believe we're going to meet this leper in heaven. The word Lord is the word curios, which simply means this, friends. It means you are in charge of me. You own me. You get the picture? The leper fell. In fact, let me tell you what these other guys said. Luke said the leper fell on his face Mark said, kneeling down to him. Matthew says, he worshiped him, saying, Lord. He was saying this, I know who you are. I know you're the Son of Almighty God. I worship you. And I know what I am. I am a needy leper. You say, Morris, okay, what's the point? The point is this. He came reverently. He came earnestly, but he came reverently. You again do not sachet with a laissez-faire spirit into the presence of God in heaven in your prayer life and just start start snapping your fingers and say, I've got several things on my list I need to give to you. Friends, there is a spirit of hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done. Just like it's done in heaven, so it is here on earth. There is a reverence. to God. There is a sense of I know who you are. You know what you and I often do? We gaze at our problems and we say, Lord, would you would you please? I mean Lord This marriage is falling apart. Lord, do you not see the pain that we're going through? Come on, Lord, can you see Okay. How patient my Lord is with me. You know the way it needs to be ought to be reversed. Glance at your problem. And gaze at your God. Worship him and say, oh, I know you can. I got a problem over here If you will. Oh, I adore you. I sing songs to you. I love your words. I praise your name. Do you reverently approach the Lord? He came earnestly. He came reverently. Martin Lloyd Jones said, prayer is beyond any question. Highest activity of the human soul. Man is at his greatest and highest when he's upon his knees and he comes face to face with God. Lloyd Jones also said the subject of prayer is such a big subject. He said, I would never even think about writing a book on the subject of prayer. He said, it's so huge in the Word of God. He came earnestly. He came reverently. He also came definitively. Look at our verse. Look at verse 2 It says, and behold, there came a leper and he worshipped him, saying, Lord, now here it comes, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. He came definitively. You say, what do you mean? Oh come on. He came specifically. He had a specific request. He didn't speak in general terms. He didn't say, oh, I know who you are. And I know I don't deserve it. Please lead, guide, and direct in my life, and please put your blessing on me. What? What does that mean? Nothing wrong with those words. But so often we hear other people say, I don't know about you, but I had found myself sometimes praying for people that I love and I'm burdened for. And I had found myself saying, Lord, be with that church and be with that pastor and be with that missionary. He's already with them. What am I asking for? Lord, I ask you specifically, help them. They're going through a real trial that that ministry there across the globe and I'm burdened about them as I read their newsletter. Lord, I'm burdened about that church and Father, I pray for that marriage that I understand. My family member is going through grief. And Lord, I am asking specifically for that doctor's report that's coming out soon. He came definitively. What did he say? I know you can cleanse me if you will. I need you to. He came with specific requests. You say, Morris, I think that's a little too bold. Really? Well, what about Paul? What did Paul say? He said, be careful, anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer. And supplication with thanksgiving. Ready for this? Let your requests be made known unto God. And the grace of God, the peace of God, which passes all understanding, will keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. When Jesus said ask, he also said, hitherto, in John 16, 24, he said, hitherto, or up to this point, have you asked nothing in my name? Ask. That you may receive, that your joy may be full. There is a definitiveness. Come on. What parent says to their kid at Christmas, what you want for Christmas? What kid has ever looked at their parent and said, Father, mother, I just ask that thou would bless me. with whatever thou choosest to bringest my wayst in your own time and in your own frame just to be in your presence that kid doesn't exist It's like that that kid would be weird. I mean honestly that that is not normal. What does a kid say? He says, I'm glad you asked, Dad. I got several things written down here. Let me talk to you about some things here and they just pull it out, you know. I need this, this color. And and don't worry about the price, you can handle it. And uh they just kind of go through the list. Why? Because you're you're the Father. Jesus said, When you pray, say Abba like a child, Father, hallowed be your name Recognize the person to whom you're speaking. You don't come and just being afraid to express things in a specific way. Be specific. He came earnestly. He came reverently. He came definitively. And he came confidently. What did he say? If thou wilt, I know you can make me clean. What do you call that? Friends, that's faith. He said, I don't know what you're going to do, Jesus, but I know you can. I know you're powerful enough to change me. I know you can heal me. You can cleanse me. You can take away this leprosy. He came confidently. You say, Morris, I don't have a lot of confidence in my needs. You know, someone has said that if we knew what the Lord knew, it would change our prayers. But we don't know what the Lord knows, and so until we make it makes it clear to us, just keep on praying. And come with confidence and say, now Lord, I'm just going to come to you with the words that you've given from your word. And here's what you said. And I'm going to hang on to those words. And so, Lord, here we go. He came confidently. You say, well, what if he doesn't answer the prayer? I'm going to tell you something. Many times he may detour your request to something else that's far better. Go ask the Apostle Paul. He asked three times for the Lord to take away his thorn in the flesh, and the Lord said, No, finally after the third time of asking, he said, Paul, I've got something that's better for you, and you're going to learn about my power and you're going to learn about my grace, and it's going to be far better over here. And so until the Lord changes that desire or God changes uh the answer to your request, just keep on praying. Many times, friends, it's not a detour, it's a delay The Lord is saying, I've got it for you. It's just not time yet. And I'm working all things together for good. Just keep loving me and talking to me. He came confidently. You see the leper's appeal. Secondly, you see the Lord's approachability. Now I've already covered a lot of this, so let me just say it. He was approachable. You say, what's the point? The point is, friends. The days in which Jesus walked in this earth, they were not too far removed from the Grecian Empire. You know, they were under the Roman Empire at this time. The Grecian Empire was still being uh uh effectively felt in some pockets of uh of this area. You say, what's the point? Okay. Did you not w were you not uh suffering through what you had to learn in public school uh years ago like I did did, having to learn about the Greek mythological gods? You know, Zeus, Neptune, Sophia, Hermes, Aphrodite , Leroy, I think he was in there. I mean, did you ever have to you ever have to learn about those guys? It was uh Aristotle, I think, who said that the great gods were the unmovable ones. And he meant this. They will never lower themselves to humanity, simple mankind. They will never listen to man's needs. They were the unmovable ones. They were the great ones. And you put yourself around the Judea area and you'll see that there were a bunch of Pharisees who walked around in their garments. And they expected people to move out of the way and people did, and they got the chief seats in the synagogue, and they were the big dogs, and they kept thinking that when the real Messiah comes, He'll be too much of a big uh fella. He's gonna be too important and uh uh and he we will we he will be just like us. He will be someone that we will all uh be uh uh afraid to get around and he they said to the disciples This Jesus, he spends time with sinners. He even eats meals with them. Jesus was approachable. He was not the way they expected him to be. Why was he approachable? Because he cares. This is our Lord, friends. Is he all powerful? Yeah. Did he speak and all things came to be? Absolutely. And he approachable. Did you look at the eclipse just a couple of days ago and were you in awe as I was at the fact that I know the Creator? Who did all this? I have a knowledge that's beyond science. I know my God who did this. I'm growing in my knowledge of him. He spoke, and all that came to be. And we can talk to him. He cares. He's compassionate. He's gracious. Meaning it's not because of your merit or my merit that we can approach him He listens to your burdens. He alone has the power to change everything. Jesus is the one who said, ready? He's the one who said, come unto me. And I will give you rest. It was Jesus who said, How much more will your heavenly Father, which is in heaven, give good things unto them that ask? It was Jesus who said, be not afraid. Only believe. It was Jesus who said, but you, when you pray, enter into your closet and when you shut the door. Your Father will see you in secret and will reward you openly. It was Jesus who said, Him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. You say that has to do with salvation. It does, but friends, it has to do with the ongoing relationship with him In fact, the words I will in no wise, it reads this way, I will not, not cast away. It's a double forceful emphasis. It's two negatives for literary forcefulness. You say, what's the point? The point is, he's not just trying to tell us a divine decree, he's telling us the divine desire. You come to me. I will no no no no no no no no I will not cast you away. Just come to me. Wrap your brain around that tonight. And I get a little closer to the truth that Matthew is saying. Behold There came a leper. And Jesus was approachable. I don't know of anything that might have meant more to that leper besides being cleansed, just to have the warm touch. Of a human heel , a clean hand touching him. He hadn't felt that. Maybe ever, or certainly for many years. The Lord's approachability. And then finally, let me make a loving application. What's that? Well, I think you can make your own application. The Holy Spirit hopefully has already talked to you. Let me give you a couple of three things. What's the loving application? First of all, God can change, ready, the hardest of situations. God can change the impossible, what we call impossible. I mean this leper had no hope, humanly speaking. What's the application? Matthew's trying to tell us our Lord can change the hardest of situations. Or there's some things you've stopped praying for because you don't think God's, I mean, this is impossible. This situation's never going to change. Are there some things you've never prayed for? Because in your mind it's like, this is beyond the realm of normalcy. It's just not going to change. God can do the impossible. The Lord sent his messenger to a teenage girl, her name was Mary, and said, Mary, you're going to be the mother. of the Messiah. And Mary said, how can this be? I don't even know a man. I mean how can this be? And the messenger of the Lord said this. For with God, nothing shall be impossible. Abraham, look around. You're going to have all of this land. And your heritage is going to be more than the sand of the sea. And Abraham said , okay, I believe you. But it seemed impossible, especially as he got older and older without a child. And the Lord reminded him: nothing is impossible. Jeremiah looked through the bars of a prison and He said, Lord, all this has been created by thy great power and thy outstretched hand, and there's nothing too hard for thee. And a few verses later the Lord said to Jeremiah, That's right, so call upon me. And I will answer thee and show you great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Number one, the Lord can answer The hardest and change the hardest of situations. Number two, approach him with confidence Boldness, eagerness, and expectancy Approaching. I ask again, do you pray? I feel silly asking people of Anchor Baptist, but I need to ask Because of the busyness and the schedule and the discouragement of the past and the and the weariness of the daily regime of your life, do you pray? Behold, there came a leopard. Approach him with confidence and with boldness, expectancy. And thirdly, you already know this. The Lord cares for you and your needs. He's so approachable. He cares for you. He always has cared for you. I'm not trying to give you the power of positive thinking. No, this is Bible truth. You can't wander from God and not get away. You can't wander from God and not feel His His disciplined hand. That's his love, his care. But if things are right and cleaned up in your heart and life, he cares for you to meet the cries of your heart. He always has. And he always will. You said, but Morris, I've had things I've prayed for and God hadn't answered it. I've already covered it, but just keep on praying until he changes the desire of your heart or he shows you that something else is better, but just keep on praying and Watch what he can do. You don't have a burden he cannot carry. There's not a problem he cannot solve. There is no heartache he cannot heal. There is no hardship he cannot alleviate. There is no disturbance he can't remove. There's no wayward Christian he cannot restore. There is no trouble, he cannot ease. There is no fear he cannot remove. There is no storm He cannot calm. There is no sin. He cannot forgive. There is no sickness. He cannot heal. There is no door he cannot open. There is no life he cannot change. I don't know about you. But I'm personally praying for some things that would be in the category of miracles. And I'm asking God to break through. I read stories like this and I say, I know you can. If you will. The name George Mueller is probably not a strange name to most of us in this room, but maybe it is. George Mueller started five orphanages in Bristol, England in the late 1800s. He was in ministry for, I think, over 60 years, or at least 60 years. He started all of those orphanages by faith, believing God to perform miracle after miracle to feed everybody. He never asked for a donation, never asked for help. One of my favorite stories of George Mueller was a story of the day that he came downstairs, it was time for breakfast, he came downstairs in one of those orphanages. The workers had put the plates and the cups and the silver and everything, but there wasn't a crumb of food on the table, and they said, Mr. Mueller, we have no food. And we have no money to go buy food. Mr. Mueller was concerned for the children. He turned and he looked at all the kids who'd gathered for breakfast and he said, Children, I know that you're about to go to school and you need to eat before we go. So he said Let's pray. They tell us that he lifted a hand and his head up and he simply said, Father, the children need breakfast. Would you please provide us with the food for the day? We know that you can. We thank you for what you're going to do. When he finished his prayer, this is remarkable. A knock came to the door He went over and opened the door, and there standing at the door was the local baker who knew Mr. Mueller. Mr. Mueller knew him, and he said, Mr. Mueller Do you need some baked goods? He said, God woke me up at 2 o'clock in the morning and told me to start baking for you and the children. Mr. Mueller said, we do. He said, well, I got bread and baked goods. He said, help me to get it in. They brought it in the door and they all put it out there. And then as they got it all out there, another knock came to the door. They opened the door. This man was not known. He was the local milkman in the days when they delivered milk to people's homes by Whatever. Trucks, but in that day it was just simply a uh uh a mule, a donkey with a cart They're standing at the door was the milkman. He said, Mister, he said, I just broke down out here in front of your orphanage He said, I broke an axle. He says, I got to get underneath there and repair it and lift it up. And he said, but I got all he says my my my cart is filled with cans of milk. And he said It's going to spoil. I can't get it repaired in time to make my deliveries. He said, can you just take the milk off my hands? He said, we'd be glad to And I hear that story and I think about it. I think to myself, what did those children think? How big were their eyes when they saw what God could do and did again? How about those workers? What were they like? What was Mr. Mueller like? What about us? Do we let a story like that astound us when we have an account right here that Matthew's trying to say, folks Behold, there came a leper. He came earnestly. He came reverently. He came definitively. And he came confidently. Your Lord is approachable So don't forget it. Do you need the Lord to come into your world tonight? Has your prayer life kind of slowed down? May God help us to begin to realize our God can change the hardest of situations. Would you bow your heads with me? Father, help us in the remaining moments of this service. to recognize what you're trying to revive and awaken in each one of us. Lord, what a great truth. You are approachable With our heads bowed, would you just stand with me all over the building? If you can physically join me, would you just stand with me I told you on a night or two ago, I think, I'm not interested in just going through the motions of another church service and checking it off and saying, okay, we've had a meeting. We need God to do his work in our heart in a special way. I'm not asking you to show me or tell me of anything that you're going through or something that you're bothered with or burdened about tonight. But whether you've known the Lord for just a few weeks, months, or you've known the Lord for a long time, I don't know of any of us that don't need this reminder. I'm going to pray briefly. Then our musician will begin to play. If you need to sit back down and lean over the pew in front of you, I encourage you to do it. And maybe it would be something like this, Lord. I need a miracle. I need you to move in my life, in my home, in my being. God, I need you to work. If you want to get on your knees, feel free to find that place to get on your knees, whether it could be here at the front or somewhere near your place right now. You do what you need to do, okay? I'm not the Holy Spirit. I'm not going to arm twist you. I've said at every service. But don't ignore what the Lord's telling you. And bring that burden and concern to him tonight. Father, encourage your people in their prayer life May we all begin to see your mighty hand like never before. May Anchor Baptist see a work of God take off in not just in numbers, but Lord, in lives that have been Dramatically changed. Do a work of ministry that only you can do here in this place corporately and then individually in the homes represented. So Lord, I need to be quiet so your people can seek your face. As we seek your face, help us to be like that leper, expecting to see you do what only you can do. Our heads are bowed. As she begins to play, would you find that place to pray right now? You do what you gotta do. That's right. I'm gonna get on my knees. You do what you gotta do. Thank you for that encouragement. Sometimes we need to be reminded that we think of God of God's greatness and the word is transcendence. Yet he's also so compassionate. He is a loving, uh God full of loving kindness. And that word mercy means he sees us in our misery and he loves us. And he's compassionate. And I think it's great for us to be reminded of that. The song I want us to close with tonight is 431, I Must Tell Jesus. This is what Morgan was playing. I want us to sing the first and the last verses together. Then after that, we'll close in prayer. And our evangelists will be in the back. You can come by and greet him. And don't forget, if you'd like to contribute to the love offering, the box is in the back. And just share how the Lord has worked in your heart this week. 431, I must tell Jesus. Let's sing it together, please. I must tell Jesus all of my I cannot help me told if I can track me, I mean the world. I must have eat us, I must have eat us. I cannot ever get the Lord I must help Jesus I must help Jesus Jesus can Oh crowdful, he calls me, go from my name. I must tell me And he will tell me all the work on victory to win. I must not be dust, I must not be thus, I cannot bear my burning the more. I must tell Jesus, I must tell Jesus, Jesus can help me, Jesus. Let's bow together. Ask the Lord to continue this work that He started in our hearts. Father, we thank you for the reminder we've had tonight of how you're such a compassionate God We can take our greatest burdens, we can lay them at your feet. We can share the darkest and most difficult issues that we have dealt with and lay them at your feet. And you come and you deal with us in great compassion, love. And I pray that when we lift up these requests to you, that our hearts would be filled with strength. As we rely upon your wisdom and your goodness and your strength. And I pray that as we lift up the requests that are even in this bulletin, that we have on Wednesday nights that we would come to you with great confidence and with comfort, and that we would be very specific about our requests and that we would see you. working mightily in in these situations. Thank you for our church family. I pray that you'd uphold us this next week as we finish out this week. Help us to finish strong. And as As we come back on Sunday, pray that our worship together be very sweet and Christ-centered, uplift those who are who are burdened and dealing with heavy uh issues. I pray that you will be Be with those who have physical issues, be with those who have procedures this week as well. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.