Ecclesiastes chapter ten is where we are tonight, and we've been working our way through the book of Ecclesiastes for quite a while. I have this is Sermon 35, and I know a couple of them were like two and three parters. We've been going through the book of Ecclesiastes for a while. But this is a really practical study. I hope that you've enjoyed it. I hope that you've learned a lot. The book of Ecclesiastes is a book that a lot of people don't like to go to because it seems like it has a very pessimistic flavor to it, but the reality is that the book of Ecclesiastes is really giving us tremendous wisdom, tremendous insight in how to live in a fallen world. And one of the things that's a major theme in the book of Ecclesiastes is that if it wasn't for God, and if it wasn't for eternity, and if it wasn't for the gospel, the fact is that living in a fallen world would be a complete tragedy. And so because we do have the gospel, and because we do have eternity, and because God is sovereign and He does rule and reign. It's because of those things that we recognize, yes, there are complicated situations we deal with in life. Yes, there are challenges. Yes, there are things we can always make sense of, but God uses them, and He's going to bless us for our faithfulness. This passage is verses 10 through 13 we'll look at tonight, and I titled it The Inescapable Importance of Preparation. Or maybe another way to put it is, we need to prepare for what we purpose to do. Here's what it says in verse 10. It says, If the iron be blunt, he that doth not or if the iron be blunt and he do not wet the edge, Then must he put more strength. But wisdom is profitable to direct. Surely the serpent will bite without enchantment And a babbler is no better. The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious, but the lips of a fool will swallow up himself. The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness. The end of his talk is mischievous madness. Now the passage in front of us is going to emphasize three different specific ways that we need to prepare when we set out to be involved in some kind of a duty. So with that in mind, let's first of all give a little summary statement for what we're looking at tonight. Here's what it is. The following passage teaches us that success comes through a combination of hard work and the diligence or the discipline of diligent preparation. Let me say that again. The following passage teaches us that success comes through a combination of hard work and the discipline of diligent preparation. What we're saying is that if we want to be successful in a matter, it's not just the skill level that we have. It's not just how much effort we exert in the matter. There are certain kinds of preparations that are absolutely essential in order for us to be fully prepared and for us to do well in any kind of endeavor that we venture out on. God wants us to be a people that work effectively, and He wants us to be wise in preparing for the best use of our energies. Before we dig into this very practical topic, I want us to kind of think about this concept of work from a biblical worldview. The the reason that a Christian works is not just because they're hungry, or not just because they want to be wealthy, or because they're trying to establish themselves and to be respected in society. The reason that we as Christians work has a theological side to it. The reason that we work has something to do with the fact that God created us to work. And the work that we do, if it is honorable. And if it's honest and if it's done with integrity, whatever that work is, it honors the Lord. And so I want us to look at two scriptures that are Very important in us understanding this concept of a biblical view of work. I think this is a really important introduction for this issue of preparation. Because this is the ultimate motivation. Why do I need to prepare for a matter? It's because the work that I do matters to God. And by the way, it's not just the work that I do as a pastor in preaching the Word of God or giving a tract to someone or some kind of spiritual work. The fact is, all the work that we do, if God's called us to it, it matters. It's important. It's valuable to God. So the first passage is Colossians chapter 3. Here's what it says in Colossians chapter 3 verse 22. It says, servants obey in all things your masters according to the flesh. Not with eye service as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God. And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily as to the Lord, and not unto men. Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance, for ye serve the Lord Christ Now what's very interesting about this word servant is that we have to recognize that when he's writing to these people The way that we would think of a servant in those days wasn't an employer, okay? This is a person who was a servant in bonds This was someone who might have been a domestic servant who worked in someone's house. That means that they hauled water, that means that they cleaned dishes, that means that they cooked, that means that they did a lot of menial tasks Things that in our society we don't like to do. Well, in that society, people who owned massive homes didn't like to do the work either. So there were people that did that work for them. These are the kind of jobs that we don't think of as having a lot of dignity and a lot of value. That's the way that we tend to think of these kinds of jobs as Americans, Westerners. We don't think of them as having a noble purpose. Yet notice the way that God refers to the work that even a servant who was doing menial tasks in a household. Listen to the way he describes it. He says, to obey according to the flesh, not with eye service as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God. That means that as a person was cooking or as they were cleaning or as they were washing or as they were hauling water or whatever the task was That they were required to do. A task that had no spiritual value in the eyes of a noble Christian. Actually, they were doing it out of service to God. That means when they did their work heartily, they were doing it to the Lord and not just unto man. He says that they are to recognize that from the Lord they would receive the reward of the inheritance because they serve the Lord Christ So in other words, a person that was in this kind of a context, they were actually, when they worked hard and they did their work honorably and honestly, they were serving Christ. And God was going to reward them for their faithfulness. You know, there might be some folks that say, well, man, all I do is I do, I'm an electrician or I'm I'm a plumber, or I work on computers, or I'm doing whatever. And that doesn't seem to have a lot of spiritual value to it. And I asked the question, did God give you that job? Is that what he's called you to do for this season of life? Well then when you're faithful in that work, you're honoring God as much as I'm honoring God when I study the Word of God and I get up and I preach the Word of God It's of the same value to God. In fact, it's possible that you might benefit from a message that I could have spent a lot more time on. I should have been maybe a little bit better equipped at What's the idea? The idea is that God commands faithful labor. It is a sacred duty. The second verse I want you to see is Ephesians 4, verse 28. Here's what it says. Interesting passage. He says, let him that stole steal no more. But rather Let him labor working with his hands in the thing which is good that he may have to give to him that needeth. Well, there's a second aspect of work that we kind of see in these verses. When someone steals, what they're doing is they are working in an illegitimate kind of a way. Let me tell you, thieves work. They do. Someone that can break into your house, well, they had to plan and they had to take risks and They had to work the system to in order to do such a thing. They took the mind that God gave them and skills that they have developed and they've used them for sinful purposes to take things that don't belong to them. What Paul's basically saying is instead of stealing, use your brain and use your body for the good of others. And so don't steal from them. Work with your hands and do it in a way that blesses them or benefits them. And so what we see from these verses are a couple of things about work. One of the ways that we demonstrate that we love other people Is that we take our mind and we take our energy and we take the skills that God has given us and we use them for that person 's goods. So when you do honorable work, you are benefiting somebody else. It is a form of lusting that person, believe it or not. So you're not just serving the guy that gives you the paycheck. You're actually serving the person that needs the service. The ultimate end of our daily labor should be faithful service ultimately to God. Now, I'm not going to tell you that we always think this way. I mean, I I worked as a roofer for a couple of years, and there are some days that it was just it was a daily drudgery. I'll just be honest, it really was. But on those days, you know what I needed to do? I needed to remind myself, you know what? As I drive these nails and as I haul this material and as I do the, as I tear off this roof, I can do it to the glory of God. Why? Because I'm working hard, I'm being faithful, and I'm serving somebody that has value to God That's what work is supposed to be. In other words, there's a theological side to it. So walking in wisdom in the fallen world recognizes that work has value, but work also has a frustrating side. side to it. This is Yes. It's true. Wha what's amazing is you can have something that you're doing and there's a sweetness to it. Well look what's been accomplished. Well maybe you don't feel that way all the time when you do your work. But you you have the frustration and you have the sweat. You kind of have both of those things together. That's what it's like working in a fallen world. Because we live in a fallen world, we're going to need to sometimes Encourage ourselves to remind ourselves what we're doing. We're always going to need to remind ourselves that what we're doing has eternal value because God has put us in this role. And so what these verses are going to do is they're going to remind us how important preparation is so that we'll be faithful in our duties. And so in the background of this, let's prepare to be faithful workers and let's do our duties effectively, at the back of this is the idea, because our work matters to God. That's really what it's all about. Let me give you this illustration. Anybody here like to paint? Anybody here hate painting? Okay, ah, we got more haters of painters. Uh not haters of painters, haters of painting, loving painters because they do the work for us, right? Well, I don't know if you're like me, but if I'm gonna paint a room, I'm gonna I'm gonna go to the store and I'm gonna be like, okay, what is the absolute cheapest way To get the work done. Anybody like that? Okay. Alright. Being honest. Alright. So what's the cheapest way that I can do it? So I'm gonna, you know I'm gonna I'm gonna get like the minimal amount of paint. I'm gonna I'm gonna put it on a real thick so I don't have to do three coats and all that kind of stuff. And you know guess what? When you get done it doesn't look too good, does it? Or it might look okay at you know after you do it, but then you start having problems as time goes on. If you want the job to be done right, you've got to do a lot of things In preparation for the painting of the room. I'm going to go off of not my own experience, but what I saw professional painters do here, all right? Mr. Gentry, he does a great job. Well, he does all kinds of preparatory work. He would go and he would spackle little scratches and holes in the wall. He would like go around, he'd do this little pencil thing and he'd he'd circle all these places. And then after he spackled and it dried, he'd he'd sand it down. And then he'd get this thing called primer. What a waste of money. Who needs primer, right? Well, apparently it's something that you need sometimes. And so he'd get that that primer and he'd he'd prime all the walls. And then and then not only would he do that, but he'd put these things called drop cloths down on the ground and he'd get this this tape and he would tape everything where he was going to paint. And then he wouldn't just do one coat, but he'd do one, he'd let it dry, and then he'd come back the next day and he'd do a second one and he might even do a third one. Like, what a waste of money and what a waste of time. Now that's what you got to do to have a good job done, right? And the point is, all kinds of preparation goes into that. So the difference between somebody who does great work and a person that does work that you've got to redo, it's all about preparation. These verses are going to talk about preparation. So here's the first truth we find in these verses. Very interesting. Truth number one: we need to take physical preparation seriously. Verse number 10. This is such a simple illustration. I should have brought in an axe so that we could see it, but but I didn't do that. If the iron be blunt , And he do not wet the edge, then must he put more strength. But wisdom is profitable to direct. Let me give you the simple layman's explanation of that. If you try to split wood with a dull axe, you'll be forced to waste valuable energy to accomplish the same amount of work. And by the way, you won't just spend more energy. You'll probably wear your hands out. And you'll probably wear your back out. And in the end, you're going to do way more work, and it's going to take you way more time than if you would have just sat down at the beginning of the project and you would have ground down that that accent so it was nice and sharp. So that it would do the work for you. Now that's just such a simple little thing, but it's huge. If you don't take that step of Physically preparing. You're going to tear your hands up. You're going to have to work a lot harder. You're going to have to work a lot longer. You're ultimately going to waste a lot of energy. And you might even endanger yourself in the process. It might be more dangerous to have a dull axe than a sharp one. Because the reality is that you're going to get more tired and you're going to get more sloppy, and guess what happens when you get tired and sloppy and you're working with something sharp That's w you bleed. You might have to pick things up. You might have to sew them back. All kinds of things like that. That's where problems lie. And you know what's really interesting? If you look a couple of verses ahead in verses eight and nine, here's what it said. He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it, whoso breaketh an hedge a serpent shall bite him. Whoso removeth stone shall be hurt therewith, he that cleaveth wood shall be endangered thereby. I think there's a connection. The idea is if you don't take precaution and you don't prepare yourself well, you end up having a problem. So when you go to the job site, you need somebody that, well, he's like a quality control person, right? Like, oh no, you can't do that. You gotta actually wear that harness. Oh come on, I'm not gonna fall off. Well it only takes once. Just one time. One misstep. That's all it is. Physical preparation. And the reality is that this principle that is illustrated by something as simple as just sharpening an axe, it applies to literally every area of life. Like let's say that you're gonna do a job. You've got to prepare the job site. Let's say that you're gonna bake a cake or you're gonna you're gonna cook a meal, you have to you have to plan out and get all the ingredients that you need. You have to make sure that you have everything necessary to make the work happen. Let's say that you're planning a project and you want it to be built well. You don't just, you know Go along with the project and learn and shoot well I've done that a few times. A couple of us maybe done that. But the better way to do it is say, here's what I want. I'm gonna sit down I'm going to plan it out. I'm going to see what it costs. I'm going to see what materials I have, what tools I have, what I need, and then I'm going to go and do the work. Planning. Making sure that we have the funds that we need to finance a project. Nothing more frustrating than telling your kids I'm gonna I'm gonna build you a tree house and at the end you go your wife says I think that's gonna cost a little bit too much they're like well it's half done Got a plan. If you want to complete a project, you have to consider the process that's involved. And so I asked this question. Are you the kind of person that is willing to prepare on the front side? Or are you the kind of person that looks back and says, Man, I wish I would have done it differently? And here and here. And now we gotta we gotta rip that we gotta rip that carpet up again. We gotta rip that floor up again. Hey, we gotta paint that wall again. It's all about preparation. And ultimately, you know what it is? It's laziness. I know it sounds blunt, but it's true. It's laziness that keeps us from physically preparing for what we need to do. Then he comes to a second, a second one. Truth number two. We must take skill development seriously. Have you ever gotten into something that you realized was like way over your head? And then you had to call in somebody that could do it for you? I've been there. Okay I've hired people before that I started realizing that it was over their head, and then I needed to go find somebody else to do the project for them. We need to be people that develop the skills that are necessary to do the work that we are called to do. Here's what it says in verse number 11. This is really interesting illustration. Probably not one we're used to seeing here in America, thankfully, but uh it's one that they understood there. He says, Surely the serpent will bite without enchantment. Now I know that, uh Morris, I know that your uh son had a video online uh many years ago where there was a cobra and they were um they were like Yeah, they're hypnotizing the cobra and he actually went out there and I guess got involved in the uh the excitement a little bit. Well, these verses are giving just a very simple illustration. If you've got a cobra in front of you and you don't know what you're doing, guess what happens? He bites you. And when he bites you, guess what happens? You're in trouble. You may not recover. That's the point of this simple statement. In other words, if you get in over your head with a with a matter, it's going to cost you. And once you get in over your head, you might not be able to recover from where you end up Putting it very simply, if you get into something that you're not prepared for or you don't have the skill to perform, it will be to your detriment. The snake charmer who didn't really know what he was doing gets bit. And once they get bit, it's too late You say, well, where does this kind of a uh a principle apply? Again, it applies in so many different areas. I think about career pursuits. Let's say somebody wants to go into law. Do they just walk into the office and say, hey, would you like to hire me today? No. Let's say somebody wants to become a doctor. Do they walk in and say, hey, you know, I'd really like to apply for that surgeon thing. It looks really cool. I I'd like to wear the little mask and the little hat and I mean those those those are some really interesting looking tools that I'm not afraid of blood. I think I can handle this. Not a chance. If you're going to be a surgeon, you're going to go to school for a decade. And not only are you going to go to school for a decade, but you're going to sit under doctors and You're going to assist in procedures, they're not just going to turn this over to you in a little bit. It's a long, tedious process. If someone's going to become a lawyer, what are they going to do? They're going to go to school for a decade Even somebody that wants to go into ministry or be a pastor. The reality is there's a lot of time of preparation, studying the Word of God, going to seminary, sitting under a pastor's tutelage. Getting, you know, assistant roles, those kinds of things. These are very, very important. Why is that? Because if you're going to take on one of these pursuits , There's a very heavy cost involved on the front side so that you can actually do these things. Because if you're practicing law and you don't know what you're doing, guess what? People are paying a lot of money to you and they're making they're you're making them real angry. If you don't know what you're doing, you're performing a surgery on someone, guess what? Somebody's gonna have to come and they're gonna have to clean up whatever happened, and you're probably gonna get sued for medical malpractice. If you're in ministry and you're preaching and what you're saying isn't true, you're hurting people's lives. Think about something like relational pursuits. I hope our young people want to get married. Well man, if you want to get married, then you probably ought to prepare to be a good spouse. Lots of people are so concerned about, well, I want to marry the right kind of person, and I go. Well, if you're not the right kind of person, the right kind of person isn't going to want to marry you. They would be foolish to marry you. The reality is that if we want to be a successful spouse, we want to be a successful parent. We want to be a successful employer or employee. We have to develop skills that will be used in those capacities. Even something as simple as raising kids. Our children, when they're in our home, are developing, if we are actually proactive about this, they are developing skill sets that are going to help them when they become parents. someday. They're going to help them to work through problems someday. It's very important that our children develop these skills. Even something as simple as the church. When a missionary goes to a foreign field, their goal is that the work that they're doing is essentially preparing a generation who's going to take that ministry and they're going to be able to move out of the way eventually. That's what we talk about when we talk about an indigenous work, a a self-supporting work. A missionary is training a generation so that that generation can do the work in their absence. This principle of taking the development of skills seriously is a big time important principle. for us to learn in our lives. And so I asked the question, what are the skill sets that we need to be actively carefully trying to help our children develop when it comes to them just being a wife someday, a mother someday, a husband someday, a father someday, somebody who's going to work and not get fired. Someone who's going to be able to actually get a job and pass through the interview. Someone who's not going to be a horrible boss and difficult to work for. Somebody's going to be a faithful church member. We've got to begin developing those skills in our children. The third truth that we're going to see tonight is actually the heaviest of all of them. We've talked about the importance of physically prep preparing. We've talked about the importance of developing skill sets that are very important, but the third truth is this. We must take character development seriously. The fact is, there are a lot of people in life that can work really hard and they have tremendous skills, but they do not have integrity. Because they do not have integrity, guess what? They can't hold the jobs that they're given. Or they don't follow through with the task that they're given. They are intelligent. They have skills. They have prepared themselves in so many ways, but character deficiency destroys them. And this goes into every single area of life. Notice what he says in verses 12 to 13. Listen very carefully. He says, the words of a wise man's mouth are gracious. And the lips of a fool will swallow up himself. Let me read that again. The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious. But the lips of a fool will swallow up himself. The beginning of the words of his mouth are foolishness, and the end of his talk is mischievous madness. Now as I was reading these verses, this is a lot of interesting things to try to process and try to think through. So I want to kind of break it down a little bit to what Solomon is communicating. Because really what he's doing is he's going to spend the most time, not on the physical preparation, though it's very important, not on the skill set preparation, though that's extremely important. But on the character development, being a godly person, being a wise person, being a just person, a righteous practically kind of a person. So here's a simple explanation. Dealing with people takes character. If you don't have that character, you'll create huge, unnecessary problems for yourself, and I'll even add, for them too Not just for you, for them. Character matters. And when we talk about character, we're talking about godly character. You know, it's really interesting. We read the book of Proverbs and we read the book of Ecclesiastes, the words wisdom and just, they're kind of interchangeable many times. You know why that is? Because a person who has real wisdom is a person who walks uprightly. It's a person who is positionally righteous in Christ and practically growing in righteousness, sanctification. So when the Bible talks about foolishness, a lot of times it talks about people being unjust, talks about them being unwise, it talks about them being scorners, being fools, uses these words uh not entirely interchangeably, but they're all they're all very much connected. Wisdom and folly are matters of character, not skill, not strength, and not opportunity. You could have two people that have the same strengths, or the same skill sets, or the same opportunities, and the one who is Wise and the one who is foolish, they aren't going to end up in the same place when it's all done. They just aren't You can give a wise man, you can give a fool $10,000, and at the end of it all, guess what? They're not going to do the same thing with the $10,000. They just won't. You might have two people that have very similar skill sets. But in the end, what happens? The person who has real character and real integrity, they're going to go far beyond that other person. Why? Because integrity matters. Character matters. Listen to some of these verses. Proverbs 127. The book of Proverbs was written to know wisdom and instruction, to perceive the words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, judgment, and equity. And by the way, that word equity is not the way people think of it today, okay? You know, let's let's give everybody equal outcomes, and that's not what he means by that. He's talking about treating people justly. To give subtlety to the simple, to the young man, knowledge and discretion. A wise man will hear and will increase learning, a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsel. He says that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. When he talks about a person being wise, he's connecting it to their relationship with God. When a person is a fool, he's connecting it to their lack of a relationship with God, their unwillingness to have a relationship with God. Proverbs 9:12, he says, if thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself. If thou scornest, thou alone shalt bear it. The idea is that if I walk in wisdom, I'm the beneficiary of that. If I don't, guess what? I bear the consequences of that lack of wisdom. Proverbs 418, the path of the just is as a shining light that shineth more and more to the perfect day. The way of the wicked is as darkness, and they know not at what they stumble. Folks, wisdom matters. Character matters. Integrity matters. And in these verses, it tells us what the fundamental difference is between the wise person And the fool. You know what it says is the ultimate difference? How they speak. It's really interesting, isn't it? So a person may tell you they're wise, but they can't control their mouth. Guess what? They're a liar. I know that sounds blunt, but it's true. If a person uses their words to destroy people, to undermine people, to be dishonest about people, that person is not wise. Notice what he says in these verses. He says, wise people are people who have gracious words. Very interesting. A wise man is one who uses his words and they're full of grace. So here are the words that I would use to kind of describe what he means by gracious words: kind, honest. Encouraging, edifying, gracious, pouring out kindness You know, anybody can be harsh and anybody can be manipulative and anybody can destroy with their words, but a wise man can control his mouth. A wise person can use their words to build up and to strengthen and to encourage and to bless people. Fools just go with what's easy. They go with the flow. Fools use their words in very self-inflicting ways. In fact, it's interesting the way that he puts it is he says, the wise man's mouth is gracious, the lips of the fool swallow him up. And you go, what does he mean by he swallows him up? Literally, he's destroying himself by his words. He'll say things that he doesn't mean He'll say things that aren't true. He'll say things he's got to walk back later on. He'll say things that he regrets. What does that do? It destroys the person that speaks. A person that's got wisdom doesn't have to deal with that. You don't have to walk back everything you say. Why? Because you think about it before you say it. You don't have to correct everything because what you say is true. You don't have to clear up all the wounds that you've created because you build up and you edify and you treat people with dignity and respect. Fools use their words in self-inflicting ways. So instead of words like kindness, honesty, encouragement, edifying, it's words like cruel, dishonest, inconsistent, discouraging, destructive. You want to see the difference between a wise man and a fool? Look at how he speaks. This is what the text says. When we don't use our words with grace, we have one of two problems. And listen to what it says. The beginning of the words of his mouth are foolishness, the end of his talk is mischief. Now let me put it in kind of layman's terms. The beginning, meaning you hear a person who is foolish in their words, this is what you do. You roll your eyes. You go, are you kidding me? Come on. When people roll their eyes because what they're hearing is nonsense, that's an indication that a person is speaking foolishly. But let me tell you this. When a person is unwise, you might roll your eyes at what they say in the beginning, but you won't roll your eyes forever. There's going to be a day when you sit down, you wring your hands and go, what in the world am I going to do to cross this issue? Because here's what he says. The end is that this person, the end of his talk is mischief and madness. Literally, people will be wringing their hands trying to figure out how to deal with the trouble that has been inflicted and brought on them because of this man's folly. When people are fools, what they say seems funny and nonsensical, and it doesn't make sense, and you just kind of blow it off. But listen, folly destroys people. Absolutely destroys people. You have somebody in a working environment who is very foolish. You roll your eyes until they absolutely destroy the environment that you're living in. It's true. Happens in so many different contexts. And what's so interesting is he almost kind of gives you these illustrations with the person cutting the wood and the snake turmeric. It's like this. In the physical illustration We'll have to work a lot harder because we'll have to repair all the damage that's done. Or like the snake charmer, we're not going to be able to repair all the damage that's done because it's already done. What's the point? The point in these scriptures is very simple. Prepare before you work. Prepare yourself physically. Prepare with skill sets. And you know what? Number one? Prepare with godly character. We need to be men and women who have godly character. I'll conclude with a couple of simple practical thoughts. God wants us to work effectively and wisely, to do the very best we can with what He's given us. So let's be motivated to be faithful Godward stewards. Let's be diligent to prepare ourselves for the tasks that God has called us to embrace. Let's not be lazy in our physical preparation by cutting corners. I remember when I was a kid, my dad always said, Joel, you're cutting corners here. I gave you a job. Don't cut corners. He tell me this all the time. I remember this very well. And you know what it was true? I did. Don't do that. Let's not fail to diligently develop the skills that we need to accomplish the work that God has called us to embrace. Those skills matter. It takes time. There's nothing wrong with recognizing, you know, I'm a little clumsy in some areas. That's okay. I can develop in those areas. That's part of maturing. And lastly, let's be godly Christians who have the character to embrace the opportunities that God has given us. Out of all those preparations, the most important one is character. You could teach a person to work a little harder. You can help people develop skills many times, but you cannot put in their heart integrity. You just cannot. God develops it in them when they have a heart that wants to walk with him. And so it's very, very important. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to help us with these. Truths. Father, thank you for the text in front of us. So practical. I pray that we would apply it. Help us to be diligent in our preparations. Help us to be faithful in our stewardship. And help us always to be focused on you. Father, help us to walk in your ways, to love you supremely. I pray that you'd help us to be a faithful, godly church, faithful, godly husbands, faithful, godly wives, faithful, godly servants in the church, diligent in our work. May you be glorified in our lives, we ask it in Christ's name, Amen