Turn with me together to the book of Luke, and we are in Luke chapter 20 this morning. Luke chapter 20, and we're looking at verses 9. through nineteen together. And uh as Braxton was mentioning, a big thank you to our parents who work with the kids. Um I can say that in my house, if it wasn't for my wife keeping track of all those verses, my kids probably would not have gotten their awards. So especially whichever parent is the one that stays on the kids to make sure that they do it. I hopefully in every family we're working together as a team, but um I would just say a big thank you to those parents who really uh make sure that your kids do their devotionals, uh go through those uh those passages with them and teach them those concepts. It's very, very important. So a big thank you. Luke chapter 20, beginning in verse 9, it says the following. Then began he to speak to the people this parable. A certain man planted a vineyard and led it forth to husbandmen and went into a far country for a long time. At the season he sent a servant to the husbandman. And they should that they should give him of the fruit of the vineyard. But the husbandmen beat him, sent him away empty, and again he sent another servant, and they beat him also, and entreated him shamefully. And sent him away empty, and again he sent a third. They wounded him also and cast him out. And said the Lord of the Vineyard. What should I do? I will send my beloved son. It may be they will reverence him when they see him But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned amongst themselves, saying, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him that the inheritance may be ours. So they cast him out of the vineyard and killed him. What therefore shall the Lord of the vineyard do unto them? He shall come and destroy these husbandmen, he shall give the vineyard to an ut to others. And when they heard it they said , God forbid He beheld them and said, What is this then that is written? The stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the head of the corner. Whosoever shall fall on that stone shall be broken. But on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder. And the chief priests and the scribes at the same hour sought to lay hands on him, and they feared the people, for they perceived that he had spoken this parable against them. This morning we're going to focus our attention on the sufficiency of Christ as the only only way of salvation against all substitutes. And so let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we're going to dig into this passage together this morning. Our Father, as we think about your word this morning, I pray that you would open our understanding. Help us to see these truths very clearly. Help us to step into the context and consider what was going on in that moment so that we will understand fully why Our Savior said the things that he did, why the people responded as they did, and ultimately why the religious leaders responded as they did. Father, help us to see as we work our way through this passage that in fact, even the anger of men against the Son Served a great purpose that ultimately led to redemption. And so I pray that you would help us as we dig into these truths to understand your purposes through the eyes May we see it as you see it, at least a little better this morning, because of this text. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin with a couple of thoughts and introduction. Well, there are many differences amongst the numerous theistic religions of the world, and I know that I'm making a very broad statement here. It's not like I'm analyzing every single religious system out there, but as a generalization. All of those differences are secondary to something. That is a principle that governs all of them. And that principle that they hold in common that is most significant. Is that at the center of salvation in whatever way they look at it, the center of that system to secure salvation is what people do. How good they are, what they give to God, their actions, their righteousness, their good deeds, the system that they have submitted themselves to the religious rituals that are a part of that system, salvation comes through the work and the efforts of people. And as a result of that, something that flows out of that kind of a worldview is that people will inevitably begin to compare themselves to those around them. and compare themselves to those outside of that system. And the result is going to be one of two things. Either one, people will begin to despair. Because as they see themselves compared to others, they're going to see all their shortcomings and they're going to realize that they fall short and they fall short and they fall short. There's going to be despair to the introspective. Or there's going to be arrogance for those who do not look at things introspectively. It will always be me against them. I'm better than them. I'm doing better than them. I'm further along in this journey than they are. It's always going to lead to either pride or despair because at the center of it is human effort, what we do. But unlike those systems, the gospel stands in complete contrast. We are not brought to God through our righteousness. We are not brought to God through our good deeds. We're not brought to God through this system of rules and regulations. We don't come to God because of how people perceive us or how we perceive ourselves. We come to God through the work of Jesus alone. His work, his righteousness, his sacrifice, it's all about Him, not us. And that is the great contrast between the systems of the world and the one true faith, the gospel. Pride and self-righteousness are, we could say, very logical to flow out of the systems of the world. Very inconsistent with the biblical worldview. None of us have the right. If we are consistent in how we look at these issues, we do not have the right to look down on the people around us and say, I'm better. I'm more righteous, I'm further along. We don't have the right because we do not come to the Father through our efforts, but rather the righteousness and the sacrifice of Jesus. That's it. And what's very interesting about this is what we're seeing in the text in front of us is a clash of worldviews. Now, it's very interesting because The people who are in this passage of Scripture who are interacting with Christ are people that had tremendous access to the Word of God. They have been reading their entire lives the exact same Old Testament that you and I read. All of those passages that when we see them, we see redemptive promises, prophecies that are fulfilled in Christ. They had access to all of those things But in their thinking, in their system, they were not depending on the one to come. They were depending on the system of rules and regulations that they had built into what used to be and what was supposed to be. A system that points to Jesus alone. This passage highlights this great contrast. And it sheds light on God's perspective of dead religion that rejects Christ as the one and only sufficient substitute. And so let's dig into this passage together. I would summarize the passage in the following way. The religious system that rejected Christ would ultimately be destroyed and replaced by a new way built entirely on Christ. As we dig into this passage, we're going to see that what God wants us to do is rejoice in his redemptive purpose. And he wants us to see this through the eyes of God, not ourselves. And this is something that's very, very important. A lot of times when we come to the Bible, we have to step back and go, what biases do I bring to the text in front of me? And what I need to do is I need to let the Bible speak for itself, what Jesus is saying here, why he's doing what he's doing, how they responded, how he responded. All of this is to inform us, to give us his point of view, his perspective, not ours. And so in order to do that, I want to move through this piece by piece. The first thing we're going to notice is the catlass that brings this parable to the forefront of the text in front of us. Look down in your Bible at verses 5 through 8. It says, and they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say from heaven, he will say, why then did you believe him not? But if we say of men, all the people will stone us. For they are persuaded that John was a prophet, and they answered that they could not tell whence it was. And Jesus said unto them, Well neither tell I you by what authority I do these things Now, this is what we dealt with last week, but it would be helpful for us to kind of go back and work through a couple of those details because it's very important for understanding why Jesus says what he does and why the people respond the way that they do. So what we're looking at here is the following day of after Jesus has cast the money changers out of the temple. And you can only imagine how explosive this would have been. So Jesus comes down from the Mount of Olives. He goes up into Jerusalem. He sees what's going on in the temple. He goes back to Bethany that night. And the next morning he comes back into Jerusalem. He goes into the temple and he overthrows the money changers. And he says, You have made this place a den of thieves. Well, as Jesus teaches and as these people are responding, you can only imagine that they're going to process this all night. Because Jesus has done something very provocative and he has made some incredible claims. And so the next day, as Jesus goes back into the temple and as he is teaching, they come to him and they confront him. In verse 1 it says, as he taught the people and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came upon him. Which has the idea of they confronted him with the elders. So here Jesus is teaching, and they say, hey, we have a question for you. Actually, we have a couple of questions for you. And they ask his question, and then Jesus says, well, how about you answer my question first In verse 2, they say, tell us by what authority you do these things, or who is he that gave you this authority? In other words, they demanded that Christ justify his right to act as if he owns the temple. And so what does Jesus do? He counters with a question. I will also ask you one thing and answer me. I demand that you answer me. That's what he's saying. And what did they do? They refused to answer. Verses 7 and 8. It says, They answered that they could not tell whence it was, and Jesus said unto them, neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. So this is a very confrontational, a very tense exchange between Christ and these men. He is teaching He's been interrupted. They demand that he say, what right do you have to say and do what you do? He says, I have a question for you. They don't ask his qu answer his question, he says I'm not answering your question. And he goes right back to what he was doing before. Can you imagine how tense that would have been? I mean that's that's really tense. It's almost as if Jesus says, alright, back to what I was doing before. And so what we're going to look at now is the context of the parable What's interesting about this parable is that Christ is not speaking directly to the religious leaders at this point, but they're still standing there. They're listening to everything that he's saying. They're processing what he's saying. But his primary focus is to the people he was speaking to before he was interrupted. Verse 9, then began he to speak to the par the people this parable. Literally, Christ is picking up Where he left off. You see him starting in verse 1. You see him picking up in verse number 9. He is not directly addressing the leaders. But here's what's very interesting about this passage that we're going to break down in just a minute. When Jesus said the things that he did, everybody understood what he was saying. Now that might not seem very significant to you, but it's extremely significant because when Jesus taught in parables, this is the consistent statement that we see in the Gospels. They did not understand what he was saying. Over and over you go through the parables and ask yourself how many of those parables Did the people immediately understand? And the answer is if you work through the book of Luke, you won't find one of those parables that the people immediately understood. In all of those situations, they had to ask for clarification. They had to ask him to expound. Or they simply walked away because they were uncomfortable and they did not want to consider the implication of what was being stated. But in this passage, it states that they understood what he was saying. In verse 15, it's very interesting. It says, What therefore shall the Lord of the vineyard do unto them? And when Jesus quotes And says he's going to destroy those, the people say, God forbid, let it not happen. What does that tell you? Their understanding That Jesus is talking about something that's about to happen to the generation that's going to put their hand against the Messiah. And then in verse number 19 it says, they perceived That he spoke this parable against them. The religious leader said, we know Jesus is talking about And that's a contrast from all the other examples in the parables. The context of this parable is that Jesus is speaking directly to the crowd. secondarily to the religious leaders, and both the crowd and the religious leaders understood exactly what he was saying. Third thing I want you to notice is the content of the parable. And I rarely do this, but I actually alliterated this morning. You probably didn't even catch that. I had to tell you this because I never do things like this. But here's the content of the parable. It starts in verse number nine this way. Then began he to speak to the people this parable. A certain man planted a vineyard. He led it forth to husbandmen, and he went into a far country for a long time. Now in order for us to appreciate the parable, there are two things that I want to do before we look at some of these details. The first thing I want to do is I want us to understand something in general about the leasing arrangements that would have taken place at this time. And then from that, I'd like to kind of highlight the individual pieces of this story. Who are the people that are a part of the story? So first of all, What is the arrangement of leasing of vineyards? So take yourself back to the ancient world and think about the system that's going on at the time of Christ. You have the Romans who are ruling, but you also have the Jewish people who are trying to govern themselves according to the Levitical system. So if we go back to the Levitical system, we see that when God gave the land to Abraham's descendants, the Jewish people, they actually divided up each section and they gave it to families. And those families were given a piece of land that was to stay in their family for generations But as time goes on, there was a time where they were ripped from the land, and then they came back, and you have all kinds of controversies about the land that they're living in. And the truth is that there were many people that were living in Israel at that time, Jewish people, that owned massive tracts of land in an agrarian society, and you had a lot of other people that had pretty much nothing. And so the question is, how do those who have nothing survive when you have all these people have massive tracts of land? We also have a concentration of interest in these cities, and so people who own those Large pieces of property many times did not manage them personally themselves. And so they have these arrangements where someone who owned land would let it out to people who would farm the land. And as they farmed the land, the land was put to good use, all of the pro produce were brought in, the people who worked the property could participate in some of the benefits. But they didn't own the property. And they had to give the vast majority of the produce that came from their labors to the owner of the land. But there is a shared interest. We see that the owner of the land has interest And he benefits. We have those who are living on the living on the land. They don't own the land, but they have a benefit. And so there was this blend of the Jewish system and the Roman system working together in a little bit of a messy way, but that's what they did. Well, the reason that I bring this up is to simply say this. In the analogy, the man who owns the land is entirely in the right. It is not wrong for him to demand what belongs to him. The people who are managing the property for him are entirely in the wrong. They had no right to say you can't take what is rightfully yours. Now, in the way that we tend to think of things, I don't know how you process this, but that's the way that it would have been in those days. And so as we work our way through this passage, we're going to see that the character and the actions of each of the people that are mentioned in the story are going to shed light on some but on some people that Jesus is kind of talking about, you might say. Jesus isn't speaking directly, he's speaking parabolically. The first person, obviously, is the landowner. The landowner has the rightful, he is the rightful owner of the property He rightfully expects to be given his rightful share of the crops. And by the way, he's good. He's not evil. His response is not irrational or wrong. It's appropriate. Interestingly, in this parable, the landowner represents God. That land belonged entirely to him. And all of those people that were there managing the land were managing it under his authority, not ultimately their own authority. The second group we see are the tenants. These men are described as very evil people. They failed to recognize the owner's right to his own property, and they miss the opportunity to share in the profits of their labor. They mistreated, they murdered the landowner's son and his servants. The question is, who is Jesus talking about in the parable of the tenants? He's talking about the religious leaders of the day. These are people who had been entrusted with the Word of God. Their responsibility was to teach the scriptures. was to manage the temple, was to govern the synagogues. It was to make sure that the people knew God and they followed his ways. And if they were doing their work well, they were looking for Messiah If they weren't looking for Messiah, if they're establishing all their rules and their rituals and they're rejecting the one who is to come, they're completely missing the point of what has been given to them. The third would be the landowners' servants. These people were unjustly beaten They were disrespected. And when they came, they did not come under their own authority. They came under the authority of the one who had sent them. The rightful owner of the land sent them, and they needed to be heard by the tenants, because they bore the authority of the true owner of the land. And the question is, who are these servants representing in the story? They're representing hundreds of years of prophets that God sent to his people. People like Isaiah, people like Jeremiah, people like Daniel, people like Ezekiel, people like those who lived through all of that history in 1st and 2nd Kings and 1st and 2nd Chronicles. All of those true and faithful prophets of God who were sent to kings and they were sent to the people in their rebellion, who are mistreated, thrown in prison, scorned, mocked, those are the servants that were sent. And then we have the fourth, and he is the most important one in the story. That is the son. Who is the son? He is the rightful heir to the estate. He is coming to represent his father. But even more than representing his father, he's coming as the one who will ultimately take the land as his own because he is rightful heir. And so when he comes, the response of the people should have been to welcome him, to reverence him, to treat him with the same respect they would treat the person who had sent him. But that's not what happened. And so I want you to notice the flow of the story. In verse number nine, it says, A certain man planted a vineyard and he led it forth to husbandmen. He went into a far country for a very long time. This obviously is the setting of the story. And shortly after the story is set, there is an initial conflict. In verse number 10 it says this At the season he sent a servant to the husbandmen that they should give him the fruit of their vineyards. And a thubin, you're not there, wrong word there on my part, and the husbandmen be him, send him away empty. That is the initial conflict. The question is, how did the rightful owner respond at that time? The answer is that he held back what he could have done. He could have very easily come to the land on his own with soldiers and said, what you did was wrong. I'm going to remove you. I'm going to take what belongs to me. And he could have been extremely confrontational about it, but that's not what he did. What you see is that there is a building contention because he has been forbearing rather than aggressive with these people. In verses 11 and 12 it says, and again he sent another servant, and they beat him also And they entreated him shamefully, and he sent him away empty, and again he sent a third, and they wounded him also, and they cast him out. And so rather than this person who owns the land going and taking them out, he chooses to send a second servant He chooses to send a third servant. And by the way, if there was a fourth one, he's saying, please don't send me, because I do not want to be beaten up, and I don't want to have the same problem as the guy that went before me. And guess what? That's what God did with these people. From the time of Saul and then David through the divided kingdom all the way to 586 BC. When Jerusalem was destroyed by the Babylonians and the temple was ruined by the Babylonians, that chunk of period of probably 500 years of history, God was patient with the people. He sent them prophet after prophet after prophet. There are a couple little places where there are uh we could say repentance and the turning to God and Some short little revivals from time to time, but for the most part, nothing in the northern kingdom and very few in the southern kingdom. They come back from the captivity and for a period of time Several hundred years again, we're talking four or five hundred years, five hundred years basically. What do you have? The same thing Not that God is sending them their prophets during this last chunk of time, but God is being patient with them. God chooses to be forbearing with them. And guess what? They ignore every warning. While God gives them time, what do they do? They build a system. Of rules and regulations that replace the truth. That's what they did For hundreds of years, rather than turning to God, they built a system that was not centered on the Messiah. And unsurprisingly, when he came, they couldn't see it, and they didn't want it. So what happens? Well the story climaxes with this. The landowner comes up with an idea. And in this idea, we see his grace again. He could have come with his soldiers, he could have come with his army, he didn't do that. And in verse 13 it says this: Then said the Lord of the vineyard, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. It may be they will reverence him when they see him. That's what he did. He said, I'm going to send one more person. This person is the closest representative I could ever send. My own son. Yet what we see is the shocking behavior of the tenets in verses fourteen and fifteen. When the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned amongst themselves, saying, This is the heir, let us kill him, that the inheritance may be ours. So they cast him out of the vineyard and they killed him. Do you realize that's exactly what was going on in Jerusalem at the moment Jesus gives the parable? Here are these religious leaders who are debating amongst themselves and are saying, what do we do with Jesus? If he takes this position, he's going to remove us from what we have. We don't want to lose our place with the Romans. It's necessary for one to die for the people so that we can be spared of this and we can keep our position and so out of spirit. spite out of covetousness with this understanding fully of what they were doing, not what it would accomplish, but they knew they wanted to get rid of Jesus. They said, let's kill him. What is Jesus saying? I know exactly what's in your heart. I know exactly what you're going to do. And then we see the resolution. Verse 15, what therefore shall the Lord of the vineyard do unto them? He asked a question. Now, I can almost see this long pause there Jesus asked these questions a lot. Baptism of John, was it of God or of men? Silence. Crickets Talk amongst ourselves. If we answer this way, it's gonna happen. If we answer this way, it's what's gonna happen. He does the same thing. What should the Lord of the vineyard do to these people? They have mistreated all of his servants. They have killed his son. What will he do? This is what he says. He will come and destroy these husbandmen and give the vineyard to others. That's pretty sobering, isn't it? He's not going to show forbearance anymore. No more grace. No more mercy. Justice. Why? Because they rejected the Son. That's the parable. The question is, what unfolded after Jesus made these statements? What unfolded is very interesting. We see the controversy that ensues. The people understand the parable and they push back. Verse 16, it says, When they heard it, they said, God forbid. So here are these people who the parable's been directed to them. This is not We could say the religious leaders, these are the people who have listened to Jesus teach. They say, Jesus, please don't say that. May this never, never, never happen. What are they saying by that? They understand he's talking about the nation. In fact, interestingly, we're not going to deal with this today, but as we work our way through the rest of this Luke section, we're going to see that he's going to get into the olive discourse and he's going to talk about God's judgment. on that generation. And he's going to talk in very terrifying terms. He's going to explain exactly what's going to take place. They get it. Please don't do this. Please don't do this. How does Christ respond to that pushback? He goes to Psalm 118. And listen to what he says. What is this then that is written? The stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the head of the corner. Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be broken, but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will be ground to powder. Now this this to me is really fascinating that Christ goes to Psalm 118, and here's the reason why Just a couple days before, as Jesus is coming down from the Mount of Olives, riding on a donkey, the people said. Save us, Lord. Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. What is that a quote of? Psalm 118. They wanted salvation. But there's something they were missing. How the salvation comes. There is one way that salvation comes. And Christ has been so explicit in this. The Son of Man must be betrayed and delivered into the hands of sinful men. The Son of Man must suffer and die and rise again. There is no way that salvation comes to the people outside of the cross. And outside of the resurrection of Christ. And so Jesus goes back to Psalm 118 and he says, there's a part of the Psalm that you did not quote. And it is pertinent at this moment because it explains what's about to happen on several different levels. We're looking at this explanation of the why, and this explanation of the how and this explanation on the what about after the fact. It's all being explained in Psalm 118. Psalm 118 talks about the goodness of God. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord. He is good. His mercy endureth forever. It speaks about God's salvation. In verses 25 and 26, save now, I beseech you, O Lord. I beseech you, send prosperity. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. But there's something that's stated before that in the Psalm. You know what it is? Verse 22. The stone which the builders refused has become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. Did you catch that? This is the Lord's doing. You do not have salvation without the builders rejecting the cornerstone And then we see in verse 27 that this is all about sacrifice. Verse 27: bind the sacrifice with cords, even the horns of the oil. What is the point? The point that is being made in this passage of Scripture. Is that if you want salvation, it has to come with a cost. And the cost is going to be served to Christ. The religious leaders understood what Jesus was saying to them, but they didn't understand all of the implications of that statement. What did it say in verse 19? It says this. The chief priests and the scribes that same hour saw to lay hands on him. They feared the people. They perceived it had been spoken against them. So maybe just pause and ask a question. What was the fundamental problem in the thinking of these religious leaders? Why were they rejecting Christ? I think there are two pieces that are very glaring when we think about the religious system. The first was who has the right to authority? These men had set themselves over the Word of God as the final authority. When Jesus says, you've heard it said of old, but I tell you this, you know what he's saying? Your rabbis are teaching you this, they're wrong. Here's what it really means. That's what he's saying. But there's a second piece to it. We see this in a Sermon on the Mount as well, and that is the issue of righteousness. He says, unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of God. So their fundamental problem came into two parts, authority and righteousness. They had put themselves over the Word of God. They were striving to establish their own righteousness. as they rejected the righteousness of the one true Savior. In fact, Paul talks about this in Romans chapter 10. He says, My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel. Is that they might be saved. They have this zeal for God that's not according to knowledge. Those who are ignorant of God's righteousness are going about to establish their own righteousness, and they have not submitted to the righteousness of God's So what was the problem? Authority, righteousness. When Jesus says you have no right to say that because God's word trumps your authority, they said, we got to get rid of this guy. When Jesus says your righteousness doesn't cut it, they said, we've got to get rid of this guy. Why? Because they did not want to come to God through the means He had provided for them. Their ultimate solution was to plot and kill Christ so that he could not disrupt their power and status. And there's a great irony in what they did. The irony to their solution is that through Christ's death, the Old Testament system With sacrifices and the Levitical priesthood would become entirely obsolete. Because Christ, according to the book of Hebrews, fulfilled it all. Once he has died, once he has paid the price, there is no more need for this system. So as they put their hand against them and kill the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, they are literally saying the system is no more necessary. It's pretty ironic if you think about it. Secondly, through their rejection of Christ, they would justly incur God's severe punishment. God was not going to turn a blind eye to this severe calculated. Arrogant rejection of Christ. They would be punished. The third thing is this, and this to me is perhaps the most mind-blowing of the others, of all of them. Both pieces fit nearly together in the providence of God. Isn't that amazing to think about? God used the willful, hardened rebellion of those men. To get Christ to the cross. And through Christ on the cross, he eliminated the system That was only for a time. And he established a one new and living way to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's pretty amazing to think about. Only God could come up with such a plan. I couldn't have. I don't think you could have either. Only God. So how do you apply this? First of all, I'd say this. The passage reveals three fundamental truths. The first is this, the system that rejected Christ would be both destroyed, and that destruction would be righteous and certain. The emphasis of this passage is those who reject him, they will face wrath. They will face judgment. Those who fall on the stone, they'll be crushed. Those whom the stone falls upon will be ground to powder. You cannot reject Christ without consequence. Secondly, that system would be replaced by a new way built entirely on the one who had been rejected. As this old system is replaced, it's replaced by what it pointed to: Christ alone. He has established the one and only way to the Father through his own shed blood, through his death on the cross, through his sufferings. Christ established the one and only way to the Father. Thirdly, this rejection and judgment are necessary and will ultimately accomplish God's good redemptive purposes All of those pieces are a part of this story. And so when I say we need to step back and get God's perspective, as we see all the drama that's unfolding, all the hatred, all the plotting. All the terrible things that happened, we should step back and realize God's doing something that we don't see until it's over. By the way, God does that in our lives too. A lot of times what God's doing isn't very apparent to us while we're in the middle of it. But when we step back and we see it from his perspective, we could see it differently. But this situation is one of the greatest examples in all of history of that principle. Secondly, the passage should drive us to some very practical implications. I'll give them to you quickly. We must examine God's purpose from his perspective, not ours. When I think about the cross, when I think about the suffering of Christ, when I think about the injustice that was incurred. When I think about all the pieces that are there, I think about Judas. Boy, it's a lot to process, isn't it But we need to see it through the eyes of God. Because what you and I think about doesn't really matter. That's what he thinks about it. We have to conform our thinking to his purposes and his way of looking at it. Secondly, there's no acceptable alternative to a worldview built outside of Christ alone. There are no alternatives. In fact, the way that it's put in the epistles is if righteousness can come through the law, then Christ has died in vain. If you think you can come to God in any way outside of Christ alone, then you are telling God Jesus died for no reason. Thirdly, those who labor to build alternative systems are going to ultimately disregard him and his righteousness. One of the reasons we have to be so committed to the scriptures is that in the scriptures alone, we find the truth. When we start adding all of our ideas into the scripture, and we start building all of our little, we could say, things around us, all of the trinkets that get people's attention are so beautiful and so nice. You know what they do? They distract from the truth and they become the focal point eventually. And so what we need to recognize is anything that is built outside of Christ alone disregards him. Fourthly, God will judge every system that falls short of Christ's alone. It doesn't matter how sincere a person is. If that sincerity is built on a lie, it's the same as if they had been an absolute rebel. I hate to say that, but it's true. If you and I believe something very passionately, we dedicate ourselves very diligently to it, but it's a lie. There'll be a day. That that will come to be reckoned. And while our attitude may have been very sincere, it doesn't change the fact that we trusted in something that wasn't true. But there's a final point I want to leave you on. Even though all of this took place at Pentecost, 3,000 people were converted. I don't want you to miss this. I'm not going to go to the passage and read through it. I'd encourage you to do this on your own time. But as Peter is preaching at Pentecost. His sermon comes to a head, and the people say this. What do we do? Why do they say that? Because Peter was so pointed, he says, you crucified the Lord of glory. You turned over a criminal. And you gave over the Lord of glory, the righteous one. You gave him over to be crucified. You said, His blood be on us and our children. And they say, what do we do about it? He said, repent. Turn to him. That's what they said. Repent. Be baptized. You can be saved. Recognize that that rejection needs to be turned from, and you need to embrace him as the one and only Savior. And you know what the Bible says? 3,000 people were converted at that day. 3,000 people said we were wrong, and they trusted Christ, and they were baptized and they identified with the gospel message and they said, We believe on Christ. The question is, how many of those people had said crucify him? Well, they obviously said what do we do? Because they knew they were in trouble. But there's another little piece that I think a lot of people miss. Jesus said, or excuse me, Peter says, save yourselves from this untoward generation. You know what he was saying? It's not just your eternity on the line. It's also this coming judgment. This coming judgment. The reason I end on that point is this. Even though there is a large group of people that were there in Jerusalem at that time that did not understand before the fact. That were even a part of a mob that had rejected Christ. You look at the Apostle Paul, guess what? There were people in that group. That turned humbly to him and were converted, and their lives were transformed by the gospel. And so, even though this passage is in fact a very heavy passage, I want to remind you. There is grace available to those who will turn to Christ. Might be somebody here this morning. You need to turn to Christ. Why would you sit there in complacency? Turn to Him. Well, there's time. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we think about this text of Scripture, it is so heavy. It is so pointed. But I'm also reminded that of out of all the apostles, the most prominent was a man who was a vicious opponent of the gospel before his conversion. And secondarily, the greatest apostle to him was one who three times denied that he knew the Lord And so, Father, when we think about the heaviness of these passages, may we be reminded that there is grace available to those who will humble themselves and turn to you. If there's someone who's not done that, may this be the day of salvation for them. And may all of us who have placed our faith in Christ rejoice in the sufficiency of Christ May we glory in his perfection, his sacrifice, his wounds, his willingness to die for us, that we could be redeemed to the Father. We ask that you would stick this in our hearts and that it would grip us for the rest of our time together. And we ask it in Christ's name, amen.