If you could take your Bibles, please, and turn with me to Luke chapter 24. Luke chapter 24, we'll be reading verses 13 down to verse 32 this evening. And then really what we'll be doing is we'll be looking at the conclusion of really the entire story. And one of the things that I've really tried to do during this Easter season as we reflect on the resurrection of Christ is I wanted us to focus on the storyline. In fact, when we were looking at the book of John, we saw that nearly half of the book was dedicated to the final week of Christ's ministry, where Christ is entering into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, and then a lot of the book is really spent listening to conversation between Christ and his disciples. as they're there in that upper room. Really, the bulk of the book of John is focusing on this final week of Christ's public ministry. And so what I've tried to do during the season is just tell the story. But not just tell the story, explain why the story is important. Not just those little details along with the events that flowed up to the cross and the resurrection, but I want us to understand why those details were so important. Why was the cross important? Why was the resurrection important? And why do these writers take the time to record all these specific details? And we saw this morning that the reason that John writes all of these details was to drive home to this very important point that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ. the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life through his name. In other words, the entire book of John is really a gospel appeal. It's John saying, here's what Christ did. Here's who Christ is. And this storyline, this conversation about the life of Christ, is a compelling story that calls you to repent and believe in the finished work of Christ. Tonight we're really going to look at the summation of everything that we've talked about. And what we're going to do tonight is we're going to be able to be the witnesses of a conversation that Jesus had with two men. To pick up where we are, let's begin in verse 13, and then we will pick up in the middle of this conversation that Christ is having. Luke 24, 13. Behold, two of them went the same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about three-score furlongs. And they talked together of all these things which had happened It came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. He said unto them, What manner of communication are these that ye have one with another, as ye walk and are sad? And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering, said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem? Hast thou not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? He said unto them, What things? They said unto him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people How the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and have crucified him, we trusted that it had been him which should have redeemed Israel Beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished When they with them early in the sepulchre. And when they found not his body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said he was alive. Certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it even so, as the women had said, but him they saw not. Then he said unto them, O fools. Slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken, ought not Christ to have suffered these things, to have entered into his glory? Beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. The purpose of this passage that is before us is Lucas taking his record of all the events that took place That final week of Christ's ministry. And he's really bringing it to a head because the night after Christ has risen from the dead, later in that first day of the week, before evening Jesus is going to have a conversation with two men. These men don't understand what has taken place, why it's significant, what the full weight of all these truths are. They doubt that Christ has even risen from the dead. They're perplexed, the passage says. But Luke records these events. the flow of them as they transpired, so that we would understand that Christ's work, his death, and his resurrection were the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. All of these prophecies related to the Lord Jesus Christ were accomplished in Christ to bring about redemption. In fact, as we look at these truths, we will see that God wants us to see his unbelievable care, the care that he took, to reveal and to complete his plan of redemption. When we talk about the gospel, a lot of times we take the gospel and we kind of boil it down to a short conversation with a couple of verses from Romans. And I know that we can give the gospel to someone in about four or five verses. But the reality is tonight we're going to see that the gospel is those four or five verses expanded in the storyline of Christ. How can we appreciate the care that God took to accomplish redemption for you and for me? Well I want to begin with this first section talking about the chronology of events that led up to this Emmaus Road conversation And so as we look at Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, we see a record of all these various things that took place during that day when Christ rose from the dead. And what I'd like to do is give you kind of a basic storyline of what took place. The first thing that we see is that there were people, the first people to learn about the resurrection were a group of faithful women. who went to the tomb early in the morning to anoint Christ's body. In fact, the scripture tells us the names of some of those women. One was Mary Magdalene, one was Mary, the mother of James, who actually would have been Christ's mother Mary. There's another lady named Cleop another lady as well. There are probably four or five, maybe six ladies that went, we don't know for sure. But when these ladies came to the tomb very early in the morning, they saw that the stone was rolled away. And they ran quickly to tell the disciples what took place. We read about that in Luke 24, 1 to 9. Immediately after seeing this empty tomb, they ran and they told the disciples, but when the disciples heard the message, you know what they did? They dismissed it. In fact, we see in verse number eleven it says, their words, the words of these ladies, seemed to them as an idle tale. They believed them not. In other words, the way that the disciples looked at Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and these other women that came is they say, we understand that you guys have gone through a lot of trauma. We understand that you want Christ to be back. You want him to be alive and with us. And so what you want, you've seen. We don't believe it. In fact, to them it was an idle tale. But some of the disciples said, let's go check it out. And so while these disciples doubted the testimony, it was compelling enough that Peter and John said, let's go see what the ladies are talking about. And as they ran down there to the tomb, the Bible says that Peter ran into the tomb, and John looked from the outside, and they saw it was empty. Not only was it empty, but those clothes that had had wrapped the body that were lying there in the tomb. And that napkin that had laid on the face of Christ, it had been folded neatly and set to the side. And the scriptures tell us when John saw those things, he believed. That Christ had risen from the dead. We actually don't know what Peter thought when he saw those things. The scripture doesn't tell us. But what we do know is that some time later, after Peter and John were gone, Mary Magdalene came back to the tomb. And when she came back to the tomb, she was weeping. She was perplexed. She was troubled. And there in the tomb, she meets two angels, and they said, Why are you weeping? What are you looking for? And she says, I'm looking for my Savior. And they said he's not here. He's risen. Just as he said. And as Jesus as as she is having this conversation with these angels, she hears someone coming behind her and she looks and as she's weeping, she sees a person, she doesn't recognize him. She doesn't know who the person is, but that person standing before her is the Lord Jesus Christ. She says, Where have you taken my Lord? And you know what the scripture tells us? Jesus spoke to her and said, Mary. And immediately she understood who it was. It was Jesus. In other words, the very first person that saw the resurrected Christ was not Peter or John or one of the disciples, wasn't even Jesus' mother, it was Mary Magdalene. Well, that leads us up to the storyline that we're looking at tonight. The disciples at this point are doubting. They're perplexed. They're troubled. For all they know, somebody has stolen the body. They are not convinced at this point that Jesus has risen from the dead. To them, the case is not yet clear. And so later on it says that there were two disciples, one whose name was Scleopus, and another whose unnamed that decided to walk to Emmaus. Now Emmaus is about seven miles from Jerusalem. And so if you were to think about how long it would take to walk seven miles, probably we're talking about a two and a half, three plus hour walk. These two individuals are walking down that road, and as they're walking down that road, they're in the midst of an intense conversation They're troubled. Emotions are high. And they're saying, how could the people have done this thing to Jesus? We thought he was the Messiah. And now the tomb is empty. They're in the midst of conversation. They're so troubled. In fact, this is late in the day. It's drawing close to evening. It's not yet dark, but as they walk, a person draws up alongside of them. Person that they didn't immediately recognize. And as they're talking, this is where the story picks up. Verse 15 says, It came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near. And went with them. But their eyes were holden that they should know him. In verse 17, the first thing that Jesus did when he speaks to them is he says, What are you talking about? Verse 17, what manner of communication are these that ye have one with another as ye walk and are sad? In other words, Jesus was was walking with these men are like we just celebrated Passover in Jerusalem. This is an exciting festivo occasion. Why are you troubled? It says that they were shocked, that this stranger walking from Jerusalem did not know what had taken place during the Passover. Here's what they said in verse 18 Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem? Hast thou not known the things which are come to pass these days? It's like they're saying, how in the world can you be leaving Jerusalem at this time and not be aware of the unbelievable things that have gone on in Jerusalem? Jesus Christ, the one who traveled all over Judea and up into Nazareth, the one who preached the gospel of the kingdom, the one who performed miracles The one who they said, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, as he enters into Jerusalem the week that they're going to celebrate the Passover. That Jesus was crucified in shame and in agony. And it's because the religious leaders hated him, and we followed him. We believed maybe he was the Messiah And now these ladies who were so troubled came to us and they said, He's gone, he's not in the tomb. And even some of the disciples went and checked it out and they said, It's true, he's gone, he's not there. And even one of the ladies Since she saw Christ. They don't understand. In fact, in verse 19 it says, the things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet Mighty indeed before God and all the people. In other words, everybody knew about this. Our chief priests and our rulers delivered him up to be condemned. This is an unjust act. They contrived together in the night, and he went from one person to another on trial, and they had him crucified, and it was a wicked, evil, horrible thing that they did to him. He then goes on and says, We trusted that it had been he who would have redeemed Israel. Beside all this, it's the third day since these things were done. Certain women of our company made us astonished. They found not his body. They said that they've seen a vision of angels, which say he's alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it, just as the women had said, but they saw him not. Now, I want you to notice carefully what they said and what they didn't say. They said, it's true he died, it's true he was buried. And it's true that his tomb is empty, but we have no explanation as to why. The reason they were so troubled The reason that they were so frustrated and concerned is because they weren't convinced that Christ rose from the dead. They didn't believe it. They weren't convinced that it was true. They didn't understand the Old Testament prophets that foretold of Christ's death and resurrection. These two disciples who had walked with Christ, eaten with Christ, sat in his presence, seen miracles, heard him teach, didn't believe he rose from the dead. So how does Christ respond to this? Listen carefully to what Jesus says in verse 25. He says, O fools! Now this is a stranger to them. This is so they don't know they don't know who this person is. Their eyes have not been opened. They don't realize they're talking to Jesus. Here's this man who walks up and says, Why are you troubled? And the next thing, as they pour out their soul to him, he says, You're a bunch of fools. Oh fools, slow of heart to believe, and listen carefully to what he says. All the prophets have spoken. In other words, he doesn't talk about the fact that they disbelieved that the empty tomb meant that Christ rose from the dead. He actually goes back to the scriptures. In other words, from Christ's perspective, these disciples should have been thoroughly convinced because of what they read and studied in the Old Testament. Because of what they heard Christ say over and over and over again throughout his earthly ministry, connecting the prophecies of the Old Testament to his coming and his sacrifice and his resurrection. He said, you should have known and understood and believed on the basis of what God said in his word. And then he says this: Ought not Christ have suffered these things? In other words, it's not just that you should have believed, but why are you surprised? In other words, the Old Testament told us this would happen. You shouldn't be shocked. You should say, God did what he said he'd do. Ought not Christ have suffered these things, to have entered into his glory, and then beginning at Moses and all of the prophets He expounded unto them, and listen carefully how he puts it, in all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. That's a lot of scripture that the Lord Jesus Christ covered that night. That means that the Lord Jesus Christ went to the book of Genesis. And he went to the book of Exodus, and he went to the book of Leviticus, and he went to the book of Numbers in Deuteronomy. It means that he went through the Psalms. It means that he went through the prophets. He went through Daniel. He went through Isaiah. He went through Hosea. He went through Micah. He went through all All of these prophecies of the Old Testament, one by one. And he laid them out and he said, here's what the scriptures say. Here's what Christ did. Here's what the scriptures say. Here's what Christ did. He went to all those scriptures and he laid it out for them. And let me tell you, seven miles of walking might have taken quite a few hours. Can you imagine what was going through the mind of these two people? They were troubled. They were discouraged. They were doubting. And now this stranger is taking the Old Testament and he's laying it open to them in a way that they've never seen and understood. And he's doing it so that they'll understand that Christ had to die. He had to rise again to fulfill the prophecies of the Old Testament. I want to move to a second section. That's this, the life of Christ fulfilled every detail of the Old Testament prophecy concerning his earthly ministry. You know what's interesting in all of the gospel accounts, only Mark and Luke mention this conversation. And the way that Mark mentions it is this. He says, and two of our disciples met him on a road. Luke goes further and he says, he opened unto them from Moses and through all the prophecies the things concerning himself. But the truth is, we don't know all of what Christ said to those people. We know that he spent a long time. We know that he went to lots of places. And for your benefit tonight, I'd like us to just for a moment Walk into this conversation and think about the kinds of things that Christ would have said to them. We know for a fact scriptures he would have gone to because they're included in that all scripture of things concerning himself section. So let's think for a moment about three key moments. In Christ's earthly ministry. Three key moments where he made statements that at the time didn't seem to be a big deal. But today, as we look back, we see how important they were. The first statement was at the beginning of Christ's ministry. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 17, he made this statement Think not that I'm come to destroy the law. Now, if you'll remember in Matthew chapter 5, Jesus is giving the Sermon on the Mount. And he said, You've heard it said of old, but I say unto you , In other words, what Jesus does is he says, the law states. You've heard it taught, but let me tell you the intent and the heart behind the law there. And Christ goes and he basically says, You've heard you're not supposed to kill somebody, but I tell you, if you hate them, you've committed murder The scripture says you're not to commit adultery, but I tell you, if you've looked on a woman to lust after her, you've committed adultery already in your hearts. Why does he do that? Because he wants us to understand that it's not just what's stated, it's the principle behind the law, it's the heart of the intent of the law. It's the character of God revealed in the law that ultimately is the purpose behind the law. And as Jesus is laying this open in his teaching, some of the people wrongly concluded that Jesus has come to take the law and just set it to the side. It's of no consequence now. He said, that's not true. Let me explain to you what I'm doing. I didn't come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am come to fulfill them. Verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, listen carefully. One jot or one kittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled. Jesus is basically saying this: the law will be kept in its perfection in me. I'm righteous and I will live out the law perfectly. And not only will I live out the law perfectly, but all those prophecies of the Old Testament, I'm going to fulfill them in their fullness. Not one jot, not one tittle , not one portion of those commandments and those prophecies will fall to the side. Every single one will be fulfilled in its entirety. You know, when Jesus made that statement, I doubt the disciples understood it like they did on this day. We then come to a second conversation that Jesus is having. And this is that final week of his ministry. This is when he's preparing to go to Jerusalem. He's going to take his disciples there. They're about to experience the triumphal entry, the Palm Sunday experience. And as Jesus makes his way to Jerusalem in Luke chapter 18, verse 31, it says this. Jesus said to his disciples, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and don't miss what he says. All things That were written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. In other words, Christ was saying, I know completely What I'm going to Jerusalem to do during this Passover season. I know everything that the Old Testament says must take place. And I'm telling you, it will happen. Then we come to John chapter 19, verse 28 to 30. And this is a picture of Christ hanging on the cross. Christ has been hanging in agony for hours. And now he's come to that moment where his sacrifice is fully complete. This is what Jesus says on the cross. John writes, after this, Jesus, knowing that all things were accomplished. Do you understand the significance of that statement? We go back to what Jesus says in Luke chapter 18, we go back to what Jesus says in Matthew chapter 5. Everything that was written about him concerning his death was complete. Knowing that all things were accomplished, that the scriptures might be fulfilled, he saith, I thirst. This is the final thing that Christ will do on the cross before it's finished. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. He bowed his head, gave up the ghost. Say, Pastor, why do you take the time to mention those three passages? Because those three passages are very important for us to understand something. Christ was living out the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecy. When we look at Christ's ministry and we go back and we read the Old Testament, we begin, as we look back, knowing what took place, we begin to see all kinds of places. Where the prophecies of the Old Testament are pointing to Christ and were fulfilled in what he did. But then I want us to come back to the story of the conversation Jesus is having. Imagine with me for a moment that you're walking alongside Jesus and these two people. What are the things that Jesus would have said to them? Let me share with you a couple of thoughts that could have been stated. For instance, do you remember Do you remember after the fall, when God promised Adam that he would send a redeemer? A redeemer who would triumph over sin, death, and the fall. Genesis chapter 3 verse 15 says, I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head, thou shalt bruise his heel. Do you realize that that's talking about the cross? Do you realize that that's talking about the cross of the Messiah? When God, his son, the seed of the woman, would be nailed to that cross, but in that process would crush the serpent's head. Think about Isaiah chapter 7, 14. The nation of Israel is in a time of tremendous rebellion. And God wants to give hope and encouragement. That he's going to send a redeemer and he's going to establish a kingdom, even though his people at that point in time are in rebellion. He says, I am going to save my people. But there's a way it has to happen. In Isaiah 17, 14 he says that the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. That little statement is very important. A virgin will conceive. That's going back to the statement in Genesis 3. 15 where it says, the seed of the woman. Will crush the serpent's head. And oh, by the way, the name of this son is going to be Emmanuel, which means God with us. This woman will give birth through a miraculous conception, and her child will be God in flesh. Do you remember back in Micah chapter 5, verse 2? When Micah wrote, O Bethlehem, Ephrata , though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of these shall come forth unto me that which will be the ruler of Israel. Whose going forth has been from of old, from everlasting. Where was Jesus born? Jesus of Nazareth wasn't born in Nazareth. He wasn't born in Jerusalem. He was born in Bethlehem. And why was he born in Bethlehem? Because in God's hand of providence, he put him in that place at that time. He was born in Bethlehem. Hey, do you remember when the prophet Isaiah wrote in Isaiah 40, verse 3, the voice of him that cries in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make straight the desert, a highway for our gods. Do you know who Isaiah was talking about when he wrote those words? You remember that man named John? That prophet? The one who was the son of Elizabeth and Zecharias in their old age, the one who was the nephew to Mary, the one who gave birth to Jesus of Nazareth. Do you remember John, the baptizer? That passage is talking about him. And remember carefully the way it puts it. Prepare the way of the Lord. Capital L O R D. Who is he talking about? He's talking about God in flesh, make straight in the desert, a highway for our God. That man, John, as he preached in the desert, was preparing the way for Messiah. God in flesh. Do you remember what he said when he was baptizing in the Jordan River one day? He's been preaching, repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Prepare the way for the Lord. And he sees a man coming. You know who that man was? That was Jesus of Nazareth. That was his cousin. And when he sees Jesus coming, do you know what he said? He said in John 1:29, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. You say, what in the world did he mean, the Lamb of God? What do you mean he's going to take away the sins of the world? Well, think about some pictures in the Old Testament. Think about that ram. You know the story of Abraham? When God told him you need to take your son Isaac to the land of Moriah, and there you need to offer him as a burnt sacrifice, and Abraham says, I'm willing to do it. And when his son asks, Dad, I see the fire and I see the wood, but where's the sacrifice? He says, My son, God will provide himself a lamb. And that day, God stopped Abraham, and he provided a lamb to die in the place of his son. That's a picture of Jesus, the Lamb of God, who would take away the sins of the world. You know, every single time a person brought a sin offering into the temple, into the tabernacle, and they offered that sin offering, and they put their hand on that sacrifice, and they confessed their sin, and they watched that animal die because of their sin as a burnt offering in the place. Of them every time. It was a reminder of someone who would come, who would take away the sins of the world Think about the firstborn in Egypt whose life was spared from that terrible plague because a lamb was killed. And the blood was spread on the doorpost, and the the angel of death passed over the house because a lamb had died at the place of the firstborn. When John said, Behold the Lamb of God. That's what he was talking about. And then he says, remember in Isaiah where the prophet writes, he was wounded for our transgressions and he was bruised for our iniquities? All we like sheep have gone astray, we've turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see a seed. Prolong his days and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He'll see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. He shall bear their iniquities. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many? Don't you understand that when he says, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world? We have all those Old Testament pictures pointing to Christ And we have the prophet Isaiah writing about how he will be crucified. He will die and bear our sins so that he can justify us. He's describing the cross and what was accomplished on the cross. And then, oh, by the way, let me mention to you what the prophet Daniel said in Daniel 9:24. Messiah will be cut off. And here's the reason why you'll be cut off. To finish the transgression, to make an end of sins To make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up the vision and prophecy, and it will not be for himself Don't you see? Christ had to die. And he had to die in this way. And he had to die to fulfill all those prophecies And he had to die in that way because it was through that sacrifice that God finished transgression, makes an end of sin, he reconciles us to himself, though we are sinners. He brings in everlasting righteousness. He had to do this. But that's not all. In Psalm 16, David writes. Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell. Neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. Do you know what that passage is telling us? It's telling us not only did Christ have to die, but he had to rise from the dead. And not only did he have to rise from the dead, he would rise from the dead. Folks, these are just a few of the places That the Lord Jesus Christ must have most certainly taken these two disciples that day. It says he went to all of the scriptures concerning himself. I have little doubt in my mind he would have gone to Genesis and talked about the first mention of the gospel. He would have talked about those analogies and those pictures in the Lamb dying for the sins of mankind. That he would have gone to Isaiah 53, that he would have gone to the location where he would be born, that he would have gone to the fact that his mother would conceive him without human father. That there would be a forerunner who would announce, prepare the way of the Lord, make straight a path for our God. That Messiah will be cut off to make an end of sin. Folks, when we come to this conversation on the Emmaus Road, what we see is the entire story laid out for us to understand. Christ had to die. Christ had to rise from the dead. And he did. You might say, well, Pastor, that's a wonderful story But how does this apply to me in a practical way tonight? Let me share with you some very practical and helpful ways that we should respond to what the text is telling us. The first is this: the story of the gospel reminds us that God is fully trustworthy. Can you imagine that over the course of thousands of years, God in heaven laid out commands? Promise, prophecy, picture over and over and over again for his people. And over the course of the events of human history, God works in the details to bring every single one of those details to to pass. God is trustworthy. In fact, we think about the wicked king that was ruling at the time that Christ was born. How he wanted to kill those little babies so that Christ would be killed with them. We think about the governor who wanted to tax and he wanted to have all the people registered, and so he says, You gotta go back to your hometown. This strong, forceful response to the people. And that is what God used to put Jesus in Bethlehem when he was born. Look at all these details that were completely outside of the control of Christ to make them happen. And what does God do in his providence? He works every single detail to accomplish what he said he'd do. God is fully trustworthy. There's absolutely no reason for us to doubt God's goodness, his wisdom, his power, and his willingness to accomplish what he says he'll do. Number two, from the fall to the cross, God promised and followed through with every detail of his promises. When we read the Bible, we are reading God's story of redemption. From beginning to end, God's promises, God's completion, and our future hope. We see thirdly that God's work of redemption is the greatest series of events in human history. Yet here's what's so shocking. Many fail to see what is so clearly revealed. Here are two men, disciples of Christ. They followed him. They came in with so much opportunity to understand the Old Testament prophecies. Can you imagine the Lord Jesus Christ expounding the Old Testament to you? Could you imagine having been able to see all those miracles? Hearing all of that teaching? Yet they doubted. They didn't understand. You say, what does it take for a person to understand these truths? It's the grace of God. It's God opening their eyes to see the weight and the significance. It's about God through the teaching and preaching of the gospel, bringing people to repentance and faith, where they recognize that they're sinners. And that because they're sinners, they deserve God's wrath and justice. And that there's absolutely nothing that they can do for God or give to God that can remove their sin debt. But that God sent his son who died on the cross for their sins and removed the penalty for their sins. And he rose from the dead. He triumphed over sin and death. And through that cross and that empty tomb, we can be saved from our sins. It takes the grace of God to open our eyes to understand these truths. Him convincing us of sin, of righteousness and judgment. Him bringing it all together where we see it and we understand it and we trust in it. God does that. Folks, the scripture says that faith comes by hearing the word of God. Every person who comes to a point of repentance and faith, trusting in the finished work of Christ, is a testimony to God's grace. God working through his word to help us to see the truth where we can be saved. Fifthly, there's no rational reason To reject the gospel because God has given immense, sufficient confirmation that these things are true. You know, as I stand here today as a minister of the gospel, I say this. There is no logical reason for you to reject the gospel. And I'm not saying that you feel that there is no logical reason for you to neglect or reject the gospel. I know that there are many people who are skeptics and say, I don't believe that religious stuff. I don't believe Jesus came and he died and he rose from the grave. I reject it. I know there are lots of people that come to that conclusion. But I want you to know something. There's no rational reason for you to come to that decision. Because God has made it abundantly clear what is true. True. How in the world could God do all these things and you walk away and say, I don't believe these things? I want to conclude with this final thought. God wants us to make a personal decision to respond in a personal way to the gospel. There are many people listening this evening, and who will listen later on because this service is going to be online for who knows how long And when you hear this message and you think about these things, you have placed your faith in the finished work of Christ, and these truths resonate in your soul. They strengthen your faith. They encourage you. They build you up in the faith. And they remind you that no matter what takes place, I have an unshakable foundation in Christ. And this message will have further reinforced that conviction and further encouraged you in that conviction. And I want to say, praise God for his word. We worship him. We bow down in his presence and we acknowledge his greatness and his power and his love and his goodness. But there may be others tonight who are listening or who will listen in the coming days, who have no confidence, no assurance that when they die, they're going to heaven. Now I want to speak to you just for a moment in a very personal and practical way. There is no rational reason for you to walk away from the gospel and say this isn't true. There's no reason. I'm not saying that you can't. God doesn't force you to believe. He calls you to believe. He commands you to believe. He wants you to believe. But you have a choice to make. Will you embrace these truths or will you reject these truths? You might say, I want to embrace these truths. I want to be saved I don't want to be the skeptic anymore. I don't want to be the one who's going on in my sins, ignoring the gospel message. I want to be saved. How does that happen? Folks, it's a very simple message. And here's the message. Number one, you're a sinner. You say I'm a sinner. Yes, you're a sinner. We are all as an unclean thing, the Bible says. All of our righteousness. As a filthy rag. Not only are we sinners, but we have no ability in and of ourselves to make ourselves right with God. We fall short of his glory. And that's all of us. That's me, and that's you. There's not a just man on earth who does good. And sins not. And not only are you and I sinners, but the reality is this, because we're sinners, there's a consequence for our sin. The Bible tells us in a very simple and direct manner, the wages of sin is death. You and I deserve to spend eternity separated from God because we've sinned against his holy laws. Folks, there is nothing you can give to God. There's nothing you can do for God to remove your sin down. It's an absolute impossibility. And folks, that's why there's a gospel. That's why we read the Bible that gives us the story of how we can be saved. The good news is that when you could not save yourself God did everything for you so that you could be saved. That's why Christ went to the cross. He became sin for us, so he knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. God commendeth his love toward us that while we're yet sinners, Christ died for us. Folks, Christ died in your place. I deserve to hang on that cross. You deserve to hang on that cross. There is absolutely no reason why you and I should be able to enter God's presence, but Christ died on the cross so that you could be safe from your Sins. And he rose from the dead, demonstrating that the sacrifice was acceptable, demonstrating his power over sin. Demonstrating that he conquered the grave. And folks, there is but one thing you need to do to be saved. And that's to repent and trust in Christ. Repent means that you have to think different about yourself. You're a sinner. You're unrighteous. You can't save yourself. You have to see your sin as an offense against the Holy God. You have to acknowledge and recognize who Christ is. He is God in flesh. Repentance and faith. Faith is simple trust in the finished work of Christ. The Bible tells us with the heart one believes unto righteousness The Bible says that faith comes by hearing the word of God. And the Bible says whoever will call on the Lord shall be saved. Tonight, as you sit there in your house, as you hear this message, if you're uncertain of your salvation, if you understand what the Bible says about you. And understand what the Bible says about him and what he did for you, then you need to call on the Lord to save you. You need to trust in the finished work of Christ. If from your heart you depend on the work of Christ and you ask the Lord to save you on the basis of what Christ did for you, he will save you. I want to ask you this evening, if you don't know for sure that you're saved, don't walk away from this series of messages that has laid out the story of the gospel. I want to encourage you tonight, if you've never trusted Christ, that you do that while there's hope, while there's time. We do not know the day or the hour we will stand before God, even today there are people who have entered eternity, and you have no idea when your name will be be called. I want to encourage you if you trust Christ as your Savior tonight, please let us know that. I want to encourage you if you don't know for sure that you're saved and you say I need more information, I need to talk to you, please reach out through email. Through Facebook Messenger. You can call our church office. I want to encourage you, don't leave without eternal life from God. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Our Father, we are so grateful for the gospel. We are so thankful for the story of your fulfillment of every promise you made in your word. We thank you for Christ's death and his resurrection. We thank you so much that we can have eternal life by grace through faith in the finished work of Jesus. Father, I pray that you'd help each person that has listened to this message. To take to heart what has been stated, that they would see that this is not just my opinion or the opinion of a church. It's God's word. It bears his full authority and weight. I pray that through this preaching of your word, there'll be people that will come to repentance and faith in the finished work of Christ. Christ. Father, we thank you so much for the privilege we've had over these many days to reflect on the gospel. May you be glorified in our lives, and may your people be encouraged. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Say Amen