Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And looking forward to continuing our series as we're dealing with The Parable of the Good Samaritan. Yesterday, if you joined us, we just took a brief survey of the way that Jesus was addressing this issue. And one of the things that I said is that Jesus taught in parables because it was a way of drawing a person's attention to the truth so that they could see it for themselves and respond correctly. But in order for a person to understand a parable, they had to stop and they had to think about it, they had to reflect on it. And that's what we're going to try to do this week as we dig into this very memorable and familiar parable. So Luke chapter 10 is where we are. I'm going to read verses 25, and I'm not going to get all the way into it Because I just want to focus our attention on the beginning part before we get into the main parable. Here's what it says. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? The answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind. and thy neighbour as thyself. And they said unto him, Thou hast answered right, This do , thou shalt live. But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbor? Great questions that we see going back and forth between Jesus and this legal scholar. He is a lawyer. And so what I want to do this morning is look at the problem that this man had. And his problem was multifaceted So we're going to take it piece by piece, kind of analyze the questions that he asked Jesus, the motives behind what he was asking Jesus, how Jesus responded. I want us to kind of digest all of those pieces. So the first thing that we'll notice about this interaction is that there is clearly a connection between the conversation that Luke's recording here with a lawyer who Jesus gives the parable of the Good Samaritan to, and a statement that he made a few verses earlier in verse 21. I'm going to draw your attention to that just to remind you of what Jesus said. He says, in that hour Jesus rejoiced in his spirit and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth. that thou hast hid these things from the wise and the prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight. Now, if you remember when we talked about that statement that Jesus made, what we were saying is that Jesus was reflecting on the fact that the people that were embracing this message and actually understood the gospel of the kingdom and were trusting in the gospel of the kingdom, were not the people that were the most educated the people that had the greatest access to the information, the legal scholars, the religious gurus of the day. Those were not the people that were embracing the message. The people that were embracing the message were fishermen, were common, ordinary people, like Peter, Andrew, James, and John. And so Jesus reflects on that in his spirit. Well, what we're looking at is a clear example of what Jesus was seeing when this man comes to Jesus. And his problem was not that he had a lack of access to the truth. When it says that he was a lawyer, we have to recognize that legal disputes in that era were legal disputes about the interpretation of the Old Testament law, the Mosaic Law. And so when the scripture calls him a lawyer, we could say he was a Bible scholar. He was a person who rigorously dug into the scripture. So his problem was not a lack of access to the truth. It really wasn't even a basic a lack of a basic understanding of what the scriptures were actually teaching. It's like a person who writes a commentary. He has all this access to the truth. He understands all this background information. He can explain to you what the text of scripture is saying But he has a deeper problem than access or understanding in a general sense what is being stated. You say, well, Joel, what was the problem that he had? Well, there were four aspects to it, and I want to draw out them one by one. The first problem that this man had was his attitude towards God himself. We could say that his attitude was one of pride or even arrogance. And I know that when we use the term arrogus, that seems like such a strong word. But notice what it says about the man in verse 25. It says a certain lawyer stood up and he tempted Christ. That word tempted has the idea that he wanted to trap Christ with his questions. He believed that legally he was more scholarly and knowledgeable than Christ And his desire was to undermine Christ before the disciples that were being drawn to him. And so the reason he speaks up is not because he wants to learn, not because he has a genuine question where he wants to understand the truth. His question is rooted in the desire to trap Christ That's pride. That's arrogance. The second problem that we see is that his view of self was entirely misguided. And in verse 26, he says. . What shall I . do to inherit eternal life? We see that there's a rich young ruler who comes to Jesus and he says, Good master, what good thing can I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus was often asked questions like this. And the question begins with a presupposition, an assumption. And that presupposition is that salvation is something that we earn by our good behavior. through our righteousness, through keeping the law, through establishing a righteous basis in ourselves to be able to enter into the kingdom of God. And so his second problem was not just his arrogance toward God, but it was his misguided view of self. He was a self-righteous man. It reminds me of what Paul says in Romans chapter 10. He says, brethren, my heart's desire in prayer for God, to God for Israel, is that they might be saved. He says, they being ignorant of the righteousness of God have gone about to establish their own righteousness and have not submitted to the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law to everyone that believeth. And so his question begins with the misguided view of self that somehow he was good enough or he could become good enough to inherit eternal life through his works and righteousness. The third problem that he had is that his interpretation of the scripture was clouded by a personal bias. And I think we have to be so cautious when we read the Bible that we recognize we potentially bring baggage to the scriptures and we may very likely interpret the scriptures incorrectly not because we don't have the ability to read and to reason and to think, but because there is another dynamic that is causing a blind spot for us. And we see this in verse 27. It says, He answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself Jesus says, thou hast answered rightly. Do this and thou shalt live. The next statement is very revealing. He says, but he willing to justify himself said. What does that tell us? What it tells us is that though this man understood what the scripture said , He did not understand how it applied to him directly. And the reason is that his judgment was clouded by personal bias. His pride did not allow him to make the connection that God 's standard of righteousness is perfection and I do not meet it. And I have a great problem. So the man was unable to make the connection personally because of his pride and his bias against the truth. When we talk to someone who is religious and doesn't understand the gospel, is by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone, and they somehow believe that salvation is is earned by our labors, it's a reward for our hard works. When a person does that, yet they have a knowledge of the Bible, it's because there is this personal bias that has clouded their ability to see the personal implications, the ramifications of the text in front of them. He did not want to admit that the scriptures condemned him, they did not justify him. And then the fourth of his problems that we'll mention. is that he believed that there was somehow a loophole or an exception that allowed him to excuse his sin. In verse 29, he says, well, who is my neighbor? His question revealed that he knew he was guilty and he wanted to ease the burden that was plaguing his conscience as Jesus is speaking to him. It's as if his conscience was awakened in this conversation, but he did not want to come to face the terms that were in front of him. He was suppressing the truth in unrighteousness. His desire to justify himself was leading him to say there's got to be a loophole, there's got to be an exception. You might say, well, well Joel, what's the takeaway from all of these things? Well the takeaway is this. It's easy for us to see when a person has an arrogance toward God and they are misguided in their view of self and they have a blind spot because of this personal bias that is within them. And it's easy for us to see when other people are looking for loopholes and exceptions that allow them to excuse their sin. But it's really hard. For us to see that sometimes we do the same thing. And so I asked this question this morning for you to consider. Is there an area in your life right now where you have the same kind of thinking pattern that this man who came to Jesus had. I'm not saying that you are the man, okay? I'm not saying that you're unsaved. I'm not suggesting that at all. I am suggesting that we should take personal inventory this morning and ask the question, am I like him? Am I looking for a loophole to justify my sin? Is my interpretation of the scripture clouded by a personal bias? Is my view of self misguided? Am I relating to God with a degree of pride by the way that I think or the way that I act, the way that I conduct myself? Those are the questions that I'm encouraging you to ask yourself this morning. And if the Lord pricks your heart in an area, my encouragement is turn to him, confess it. Forsake it. Ask him to strengthen you to resolve to walk in a way that is consistent with the word as opposed to what is so so so easily our natural inclination. I hope this gives you something to think about this morning. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to continue our series. We're going to get into the content of the parable that Jesus tells. And so I'm excited about that. Have a blessed morning. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.