Okay. If you have your Bibles again, please turn to Proverbs chapter three. Proverbs chapter three, and we're going to be looking at a section of Proverbs three. We're actually going to look at Proverbs 3. in three different sections. Tonight we're going to look at verses 1 to 12. And Proverbs 3 is broken down into three basic sections. The first section, verses 1 to 12, is kind of like a lecture, maybe not in the sense of a teacher in a classroom, but it's a father lecturing his kids. about wisdom. And then the second section, verses 13 to 20, is actually like a song or a poem, and it's basically celebrating wisdom. Then we move to the second section of lecture. That's verses 21 to 35. And what's interesting is that first lecture is really focused on man's relationship to God. The second section is focused on man's relationship to other people. And I want to comment on that in a little bit, but with that in mind, let's turn to verse number one and let's read it together. This is what Solomon writes. My son, forget not my law, but let thine heart keep my commandments. For length of days and long life and peace. Shall they add to thee. Let not mercy and truth forsake thee. Bind them about thy neck. Write them upon the table of thine heart So shalt thou find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding And all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Be not wise in thine own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. It shall be health to thy evil and marrow to thy boast. Lord, with thy substance, with the first fruits of all thine increase, so shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out wine. My son despise not the chastening of the Lord, neither be weary of his correction. For the whom the Lord loveth, he correcteth, even as a father, the son. If I could summarize this section, I would summarize it with this statement. Solomon wants his children to understand that a right relationship with God is the starting point. to right living and good human relationships. Let me say that again. Solomon wants his children to understand that a right relationship with God is the starting point To living and good relationships. God wants you to be right with him. And if you're not right with God, you won't be right with the people around you. You know what's kind of interesting? We're living in a day where people see that maybe their marriage is in trouble, or maybe their relationship with their kids isn't good. Maybe they're having trouble with the people that they live around or the people that they work with and they're frustrated and they want to see a change. They want to see that their relationships that are so broken can be made right. But you know what they try to do? Rather than putting God at the center of their life and rather than having Him be their focus and everything else, they go ahead and they try to do it all on their own terms. They try to do it without God. They don't want God to be a part of the equation. And what we see in this passage is that God not only has to be at a part of the equation, he has to be the starting point. He has to be where everything flows from. And so we see the structure of this section. The lecture on a right relationship with God, a hymn of celebrating wisdom. And then the importance of right relationships with your fellow men. And that is where it starts. Starting with God. Then understanding the beauty and the glory of having godly wisdom and then living it out in the relationships you have with other people. That's what we see. So let's begin with this thought. Right living always begins with a right relationship with God. And a right relationship with God will always produce right relationships with the people around you. If you're right with God, it helps you resolve issues with other people. people. Now that doesn't mean that everybody's going to treat you fairly. It doesn't mean that every moment of those relationships is going to be rosy. You're going to go through conflicts and difficulties. But the reality is that if you're right with God and you're walking with Him, you're going to have the tools that you need to resolve those issues correctly. You're going to have the perspective to deal with those things correctly. I tell you, if there's anything that I learned in my time overseas as a missionary, like one of the most prominent lessons that I learned. Was that when I neglected my walk with the Lord, it really affected how frustrated I got with people, how terribly I would handle situations. How I would make things worse by my reaction than helping to resolve issues. I saw that repeated over and over and over again. Oh I mean I don't want to give you the impression that everything was horrible, but but the fact is when I had problems with people, I can always go back and see that it's because I was neglecting my walk with the Lord and that affected my perception. perspective. And that does the same for you and for me. In fact, it's interesting if we turn to 1 John 4. I'm not suggesting you turn there, but I just want to read to you so you can kind of see the parallel thought there. In 1 John 4, 7 it says this, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. Now, when we get to this passage in our 1 John study on Sunday mornings, I'm going to really develop this point, but I want you to notice the way he words it. Love is of God. And everyone who loves is born of God one and knows God too. So he's basically saying that if you're watching a person and they really are living out biblical love, then you can mark it down. That person is a Christian, and that person is more than just a Christian. Christian, he's walking in fellowship with God. He knows him personally. He has that kind of relationship. And so the world who does not know the Lord does not have the capacity to have biblical love as the scripture teaches us. He then goes on to say this if we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Do you see the connection? How the starting point is our walk with God. He then goes on in verse 17 to say this Herein is our love made perfect, that we have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. If you take that section and you read it carefully, what you see is that John's basically saying the ability to love comes directly out of the new birth and walking in fellowship with God. And that is really what Solomon is trying to say in an Old Testament kind of a way, in a Proverbs wisdom kind of a way. You start with God. If your relationship with Him is right, it'll affect the other relationships. We see responsibility. We see ability. There, there. So let's begin looking at the content here. Let's start with lecture one. Chapter 3, verses 1 to 12. We're just going to walk through and read each verse, and I want to comment on those verses and try to develop them a little bit so that we understand what Solomon is saying. The first command that we find in this section of the lecture is in verse 1. Here's what he says: My son, forget not my law. Now I want to ask you a question. How many times, when you're raising your children, do you have a problem that you have to address? You sit your son down, you sit your daughter down, and you ask them, why did you do this? And they say, I don't know. Have I ever told you not to do that? Yes. Why did you disobey? I forgot. Anybody ever heard that one before? Daddy, I forgot. Oh, really? You forgot. Well, we're gonna have to remind you, okay? But the fact is that as parents, we have to repeat things over and over and over again. And eventually it gets to the place where our children have heard this so many times and that's been reinforced so many times that it begins to establish patterns in them that they don't leave. It stays in them. But he says, don't forget my law, the first commandment. The things that I'm teaching you, you've got to remember them. Don't forget them. Don't let them slide to the side. And we talk about something like forgetting. We're talking about someone who's just being careless, not necessarily malicious, not necessarily trying to be rebellious. When you're rebellious, you remember the law and you go and do it anyway. When you're careless, you forget, and then you do it. And he says, don't be careless. Remember. He says this, but let thine heart keep my commandments. Now it's interesting. He's not just looking that they do what he tells them to do, but he's going beyond action and he's going beyond words, and he says, I want your heart. to keep my commandments. You know, when we talk about a right relationship with God, a relationship with God is not so much about the steps we take, the things that we say, or the perception we give to people It's about what's going on inside of our hearts. If our heart is right, our steps will follow. Our words will follow. The patterns we establish will follow. But we can fake it for a while. And so what Solomon is basically saying is, I want your heart to embrace and to keep and to hold fast to what I'm telling you. I want your affections. I want the internal part of you to hold fast to my commandments. And by the way, Solomon's commandments were God's law. It's kind of interesting. We learned this on Sunday, but the king had a unique knowledge of God's law beyond that of the average person, because the average person did not have his own copy of the scriptures in those days. But the king was different. Not only did he have his own copy, he had handwritten his own copy. If I was the king, I wouldn't be able to read it because my handwritings were off. But they had actually taken that and they had written their own personal copy and they were to read it regularly. The king had more knowledge of God's law than anybody else. And so when he says commandment one, don't forget my law and let your heart keep it, he's saying, Let what I'm teaching you and God's word be the thing that's in your soul. Why? Here's the answer in verse 2. For length of days and long life and peace Shall they add to thee. Now hold on a second. I think a lot of people don't believe that by keeping God's word in their heart, that's going to happen. I think a lot of people believe that if I keep God's word in my heart and I obey God's word, I'm going to be frustrated in life because I'm going to feel like My style is cramped and I can't do what I want to do and it's going to hold me back from the the fun life, the carefree life. I'm always going to have a guilty conscience and I'm always going to be bothered. And that's the mentality that people tend to have about God's law But notice what he says. It's the exact opposite. Do you want to live a long time? Do you want to have a life of peace? Do you want to be a person whose soul is calm and steadfast? Then the word of God has to be your delight. The Lord of God has to be something that you don't forget. It's got to be in your heart, in the innermost per part of your person. He says, God can shorten or lengthen your days. We have examples in the Bible of people who made bad decisions, and you know what God said? I'm going to shorten your life. It's almost as if God says, I was going to give you 80 years. But because you made that decision, it's going to be 60. Kind of tough, isn't it? Basically what he's saying. Or God could say, I was going to give you 80 years, and you know what? I've decided to extend it another ten. Now some of you might think that's great, and some of you might go, uh I don't know if I wanna I don't know if I want to live another ten years in frustration The fact is, though, that when we look at Solomon, you realize Solomon didn't live to be a very old man. Solomon probably died when he was 60. You know, sometimes I wonder why is it that Solomon didn't live so long? Perhaps it's because the knowledge he had was not necessary He had a lot going on inside, but he didn't necessarily live in light of it. And God cut his life shorter than it needed to be In fact, it's interesting. He talks about peace. You know, when we hear the story of Jacob at the end of Jacob's life, he says, I've lived a long time and it's been real hard. I remember I was talking to somebody one day about life and and those kinds of things, and he said, I kind of feel like Jacob sometimes. Jacob said, I lived a long time and it was real hard. Why was it so hard? Because Jacob made terrible decisions. When you make terrible decisions, you're bringing a lot of unnecessary pain and grief into your life. And so what Solomon's basically saying is, if you want to live long, you want to have peace, keep God's word in your heart and live in the light of it. We come to a second commandment, and that's found in verse number three. And this is a really important one. Let's not miss it. He says, Let not mercy and truth forsake thee. Bind them about thy neck. Write them upon the tablet of thine heart. Mercy and truth. You know what's so interesting? As we go through life, obviously we uh we deal with conflicts. Some of them it's because of the way we act towards other people. Some of it's because you know it's we live in a sinful world. We live with sinners and we have misunderstandings, all these things come along. And we all have a tendency towards one of two of these extremes. Some of us are people who tend to be very emotional and when we see someone who's in trouble because they've done wrong, we just want to give them the benefit of the doubt. We want to show them kindness and We want to show them mercy. We don't want to see them experience the consequences. We want to let them go. Some of us have that kind of a tendency. Anybody like that? Mercy people? Okay, Scott, you're the guy one around me when I get in trouble. Nobody else seems to feel that way, right? No, there are some people, they are mercy people. Sometimes it's just their disposition, especially when people have gone through a lot of heartache in life, when they've gone through, you know, they've made bad decisions They tend to be more merciful towards you so they say, hey, I I've been down that road and I know what it feels like. Let's give this person you know, let's let's be gracious towards them And that's how some people are. And there's others who are the exact opposite. They want justice. They want it now. They want it harsh. They want to prove the point. If you want to talk about a political example, look at something like the border. Okay? We have this incredible divide in our nation. Some people in our nation say, these people, they need help. Let's show them kindness. Let's let them into our country. Let's give them health care and let's give them benefits and let's let them get on their feet. And there's so much mercy and kindness. And there's others that say, we got a border, folks. We don't know who they are, where they're coming from. We need to have safety in our country. So build that wall, don't let them in, and if they're here illegally, send them back. That's really where the divide is. Well and then there's some people that are kind of exploiting the situation. They're really not mercy people, but they want votes. So let's get them in and maybe they'll vote for us down the road. But you see that divide. You see mercy, you see justice. The fact is we need justice. If we don't have justice, one of the things you learn in life is that people who make bad decisions who need a justice and they don't get it, a lot of times they make the same decision again. And they hurt people down the road again and again and again. Sometimes we also see in life that there are people that they're treated a little bit too harshly. And if they'd have been shown some mercy in that situation, they could have bounced back. They could have corrected their course. They could have had a very positive experience. One of the things that we see about God is that God shows mercy in many situations. God also shows justice. You know what's interesting about God? God knows when to show mercy and when to show justice. And when God demonstrates his justice, it's after a period of tremendous mercy. One of the things that Solomon is basically saying in this passage is this son you need to be a person who doesn't forsake mercy or justice you need to be a person that is like God in the sense That you understand there are times to show mercy and there are times to show justice. And you have to know when and you have to know how. So don't let mercy and truth forsake you. His second command is that we need to be people who have the right balance of Mercy and truth. When we speak the truth without mercy, it's sort of like going into a field that's got weeds and just cutting it. Everything down. We got rid of those weeds. Yeah, you got rid of the corn too. You got rid of everything that was there. Scorch earth policy. You got rid of the weeds and you got rid of the good stuff too. And so when we act without mercy at all, we're like that. When we act in mercy without speaking the truth, it's like a person who looks out in the field and it needs to be weeded and he says, Oh, just let the weed stay. They'll be okay. And guess what? It chokes out your crop. The fact is you have to go and pull out The weeds. And you also have to do it in such a way that you don't damage the crop. When we speak the truth in a merciful way, that's exactly what we're doing. We remove the debris in the weeds so that the plants can thrive. We have to be people who have that boundary. May the Lord help us to do that. You say, how in the world can I have that balance? I'll tell you how you have the balance. Walk with God. When you begin to realize God's ways and you see the balance of the mercy and the truth, you begin to have tremendous compassion on people even when they've stumbled, and you also realize at times that this person has to face consequence. And you strike the right balance because You understand God's ways. You have that perfect balance that God has. That's what we need. We then come to the reason why. Verse 4. So shalt thou find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and man. Now, this section is primarily focused on our relationship to God. If you want to have the balance of mercy and truth, you've got to walk with God. When we are too much to one side, it's an indication. We have lost a healthy walk with God. We are not being consistent. Because we have deviated to one side or to the other. But it's interesting what he says. You'll find favor and understanding with God and man. God's going to look down, he's going to be really pleased with what he says. He is going to delight in how you handle issues. So will other people. There'll be people who realize when you're showing them tough love. And they'll say, they're showing me tough love, but that person has been very kind in the tough love they've given me. On the other side, you're going to see that they say, I could have been crushed, and this person showed me incredible kindness, and they helped me get back on my feet. And they pushed me in the right direction and they walked alongside of me and you see it and it brings you tremendous delight. What an amazing statement. We see so many examples of that in the Bible. We then come to a third commandment, and that's this. Very popular passage, you know it. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Here's what it says. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him. And he shall direct thy paths. Be not wise in thine own eyes, fear the Lord. and depart from evil. Let's take a couple of the statements that are there and kind of break it down a little bit. The first thing that he mentions is this. We need to be concerned with God's will and depend upon him as he has revealed it. He uses the term trust He uses the term lean not. He uses the term acknowledge him. Notice all of these things are basically saying there's a place not to trust and there's a place to trust. Where are we not supposed to trust? We're not to lean on our understanding. We're supposed to trust in the Lord with all of our heart. We're to acknowledge Him in all of our ways. And let Him direct our paths. And we're not to lean on our own understanding. We tend to do the exact opposite. We trust in our own s our own ways, in our own heart, and we kind of ignore God's ways. Well we look at God's ways and we say it too hard, I can't do it. I did the best I could, I tried for five minutes, that's okay, I'm done now. It's sort of like you send, you know, a children illustration here. Go clean your room. Okay. Fifteen minutes later you come up there and they're playing. Did you clean your room? Daddy, I tried. Really? That's what that football book is. It's you trying now. Oh, I tried I don't want you to try. I want you to finish the task. Okay? I mean I want you to try, but I want to go beyond that. Fact is, we're like that with God a lot of times. We'll try his way for just a little little bit. And if it gets a little bit too hard, if we feel a little bit too much pressure, we say, ah, forget it, I'm going to do my own thing again. You know, the world tells us to trust our own heart This passage tells us the opposite. Don't lean on your ununderstanding. Third commandment is Serious. The Lord is in an exclusive position. He alone is the one we're trusting. And we're trusting in what he's revealed, and we're trusting in how he works. And it's kind of two things. We talk about what he's revealed. It's he says this is right, he says this is wrong, I'm gonna do this, I'm not gonna do this. That's what he's revealed. But his ways, that's a different matter. Because really he doesn't tell you what his ways are. You can look at the Bible and you can read the stories of how he's worked in people's lives. And you can say Joseph trusted him. Jacob not so much. Abraham trusted him. Isaac trusted him. Moses trusted him a lot of the times, but some of the times he didn't. And you go through the examples and you say, look at how faithful God is. But when it comes to your life and your situation , And what you have in front of you right here, right now, guess what? His ways, you can't see them. It's only when you look back and you see where you've come from. And so we have to trust in his word, and we have to trust in his ways. We then come to this statement in all thine heart and in all thy ways. The idea is we can't be divided. You know, how many times do we have a kind of a half-hearted allegiance to God's ways. You know, we want we want to be able to walk down God's path, but we also want to be able to kind of keep our foot over here just in case. Got a little backdoor situation here just in case things don't work out. It's like we just leave a little foot in the door. We can't do that. It's like you stand on the side of the pool and you know it's gonna be cold. your decision. You just gotta jump. You know what I'm talking about? You gotta take the plunge. It's you're all in. When it comes to dealing with God, you have to trust him in Entirely. You can't be half and half. You play that game, you will never experience what it's like to trust God, because you're really not. He's just kind of your sidekick. Makes you feel good. It's kind of a little bit of a patronizing relationship. Not trusting in God. They're different And then he makes the statement of why. He will direct your paths. The idea is he's going to make them smooth. He's going to make them straight. The Bible is full of so many examples. People who trusted God, and then God worked in details. Genesis 50. Joseph's talking to his brothers, and they were afraid of him. They thought he was going to come and crush them. And what does he say? You thought it for evil? God meant it for good. Good. The idea is that God was working behind the scenes. Psalm thirty-seven it says this the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Though he fall, he should not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholdeth him. with his hands. I've been young and now I'm old, yet I've never seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. He's ever merciful and lendeth, and his seed is Blessed. Talks about the fact that God is the one who is ordering this man's steps. Romans 8:28, we know that all things work together for good. Good. To them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. The fact is, if we'll trust God, trust his word, trust his ways, walk in obedience to him, he's going to direct our paths. And we can enjoy those blessings. If we're halfway, full different scenario. We come to the fourth commandment And that's verse 7. Be not wise in thine own eyes. Fear the Lord. Depart from evil. I don't know. There's a whole lot I need to say about that We look at the book of Judges and what does it say? Every man did what was right in his own eyes. We see total chaos. Some of the most disturbing passages we read in our Bibles. And there's some real disturbing ones in the judges. But the ones that you probably wouldn't want your kids to read for devotions when they're like, you know, eight, nine. Well let them read it when that's a little older. You read that story and you go, how in the world could people think that way? How in the world could people act that way? He says, don't be wise in your own eyes. Fear God and depart. Charles Bridges writes this: the person who is wise in his own eyes, the person who leans on a wisdom that is foolishness, and I like the phrase, self -delusion. Self-delusional. Why? Verse 8: It'll be health to thy navel and marrow to thy bones. You know, when people obey God, it's good for them. It's actually good for their health. I can tell you, there are times in my life when I was deliberately doing things that I knew weren't right, and I can tell you it made me sick tomorrow. Maybe you felt that way before too. David did in Psalm thirty-one. He says, Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I am in trouble. Mine eye is consumed with With grief, yea, my soul and my belly, my life is spent with grief, my years with sighing, my strength faileth because of mine iniquities, and my bones are consumed. You know what he's basically saying? I'm living in sin. I know it. I feel guilty. My heart condemns me, and my body literally aches because I will not do it. Deal with my sin. In Psalm 38, he talks about this. In Psalm 581, verse 8, he says, Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. And we see this concept. If you want to be a contented person, to be happy, to have joy, to have a clear conscience, walk in God. God's ways. If you want to be a person who's overwhelmed by guilt, whose life is complex, who has problems that you don't know how to deal with, throw off your restraint and do what you want. That's the two ways that Solomon's telling his son are there. We then come to two final ones, and I won't spend much time there. In verse nine he says this Honor the Lord with thy substance and with thy With the first fruits of thine increase. So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine. belongs to him. Now let me tell you something. The world says if you get your paycheck and you give that amount to your church, you lose that amount. I mean technically that's true if you look at the books, okay? But here's what they can't they can't deal with. What about when you get sick? You can't work? What about when you get sick and you got a huge medical bill What about when something breaks down and all of a sudden you're behind and you're like, I didn't have, I have no idea how this happened. All of a sudden, the math's a little different, isn't it? And basically what Solomon is saying is this you put God first, you give him what is rightfully his, and he'll take care of you. He'll meet your needs. He won't just meet your needs, but he'll bless you beyond your strength. You hold it back, you will not Now that doesn't make sense in the eyes of the world. But listen to what he says, what God says to his people in Haggai chapter 1. He says this, thus says the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. You've sown much, you bring in little, you eat, yet you have not enough. You drink, yet you're filled with drink. You clothe you, but there's no warmth. You've earned wages To put into a bag with holes. In that particular passage, basically what God's saying is this: the nation of Israel was working They were saving. They were trying to make all the right financial decisions. But all that money that they put in their bag for a latter date was gone when they went to get it. There are holes in the bag. He says, you know why those holes are there? It's because you don't put me first. Very interesting card. Concept. Honor the Lord with thy substance, and the first fruits of thine increase. So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine. And lastly he says this, my son, despise not the chastening of the Lord. For whom the Lord loveth, he correcteth. The last thing he tells his son about his relationship to God is this son, if you belong to God, he's going to chasten you. There are going to be times that he's going to deal with you and it's going to be a little bit harsh and you aren't going to like it. But when that happens, don't get angry at me. God. It's because he loves you. That's why he does that. It's like when your children act up and you bring them into your room and you have to deal with an issue and you have to To bring correction. And you're looking at your child and you say, I had to discipline you because I love you. And they're like, Yeah, really? That's what he's saying. Because you know the consequence of children not being restrained. The consequence is they won't develop discipline, they won't have good character, they won't work hard, they won't push themselves, they won't be respectful, they won't be obedient, they won't fear God, they won't understand consequence. If you just let them do whatever they want, and they go on their own ways, they're gonna be involved in self-destructive things. The rest of their lives. So you restrain them, you teach them, you discipline them. And he says, that's exactly what I do. God says, I do that to my children. And so When I do that, don't despise me, don't be weary of me. Remember that I love you and I delight in you. Proverbs chapter three, verses one to twelve 12. A lecture on the importance of a right relationship with God. Let's have a healthy walk with God because that is the prerequisite, that is the starting point. For having a right relationship with the people around us. Let's put our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, we thank you so much. That your love for us is confirmed when you discipline us, when you correct us , when you rebuild us Rebuke us. And when you come alongside and you comfort us and you work in our lives in a very personal way, help us to be people who don't get weary of your correcting. Help us to be people who don't lean on our understanding. Help us to be people that don't withhold from you what rightfully Belongs to you. And I pray that as we walk with you, you will bless us and we will delight in your goodness. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, if you could take your prayer sheets out