Let's bow for a word of prayer and then we'll get started. Lord, we're so grateful that we can come together in the middle of the week, and I pray that you would help us to be able to lay aside the burdens and the cares that most certainly each of us will carry and help us to be able to focus our attention on the word tonight. Help me as I lay out this text of Scripture to do it with clarity, and I pray that you would speak to our hearts. You know exactly what we need to hear tonight, so I pray that you would minister very personally to our lives as we read the word together. And pray that our time of prayer together would be very sweet, that as we lift up these requests, that our fellowship one with another would be encouraging. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, the song we're going to sing is 119. Our God is mighty. And Deanna's going to play through it one time just so we can hear it. And then we will sing it together. First and last verses. Alright, you've heard it. Let's try to sing it together. Here we go. Oh yeah, yeah, we can do it. 119. Our God is mighty, worthy, worthy of all praise , Coming unto him a glad triumph. And song He is the Lord supremest in heaven. To him all strength and majesty We all became On the last offering over creation , and turns out people. It's not the one It is all power and I don't raise God and keep not right before I think. Well, Trinian, you better talk to your dad and tell him to prepare for that one. If he's leading the singing, I don't even know if he's leading the singing sometime Sunday, but anyway, you have been forewarned that is coming uh on Sunday morning. Okay, the passage that we've been dealing with uh on Wednesday nights is the Sermon on the Mount. So let's all turn together, please, to Matthew 5. And we're going to focus our attention on verses 10, 11, and 12 tonight. Though just for the sake of context, we're going to read the entire section together. And last time that we were here, we also really dealt with a very important topic, and that was the danger of A false teaching that is very, very prevalent in the Christian church. So Matthew 5, verse number 1. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain, and when he was set, his disciples came into him. And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Now here's the part that we're focusing in on tonight. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now, I understand on a Wednesday night, we've had a lot of things that have gone on throughout the week. And so when we come on a Wednesday night, we read a passage. Where it says, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, blessed are they that are reviled and persecuted, and they say all manner of evil against you falsely. You read these verses and you go, How in the world? Is that true? I mean, we know that it's Scripture. We know that this is God's word. We know that it is inerrant. And these are not just the words of Scripture. These are the words of Scripture recording what Jesus taught. But we have to admit that this is a very difficult saying. And so we're going to look at the importance of understanding the blessing of faithful endurance. And that's really what these verses are all about. And there is a lot for us to break down in these verses, so I doubt we will finish this little section today. But you never know. Anything can happen. So first of all, let me remind you again the summary statement that we had from last time we were here. Just kind of remind you a couple of the details that we talked about. And then we're going to work our way through several truths that we find in these verses. First of all, the summary. Even though God's children possess exemplary character, Their association with Christ will inevitably result in the blessing of persecution and baseless false accusations. Let me read that again. Even though God's children possess exemplary character, their association with Christ will inevitably result in the blessing of persecution and baseless false accusations. God wants his children to be prepared for the potential for great hardships even when they are doing what is right. Now, if you remember last week we talked a little bit about some introductory thoughts, and here were the things that we talked about. First of all, we have to be prepared for the potential for great hardships even when we are doing right. The second thing we talked about is how we need to be discerning about a very dangerous false teaching that that teaches that God guarantees good health material prosperity and ease to all Christians. Such a teaching is not biblical. And when we look at a passage like this one, it is very, very clear that it is possible for someone to be in the eyes of God blessed. Yet at the exact same time they're experiencing difficulties and hardships. We might even use the word injustice because clearly if someone is speaking evil against you falsely, that is A terrible, terrible injustice. We also recognized last week that we need to develop discernment and strength so that we will be prepared to face The kinds of things that we will see in a society that becomes increasingly secular and hostile towards biblical Christianity. It's kind of a summation of what we talked about last week. Now, what I'd like us to do, first of all, is deal with the first section, verses 10 through 11, and here's the truth we're going to look at tonight. It is possible to be both blessed even while we suffer. Again, it is possible to be blessed. Even though we are suffering. I think the most natural thing for us to do when we go through hardship is For me at least, the very first thing that I'll often ask myself is, God, what did I do so that you have dealt with me in such a way? Anybody else in this room thought in such a way? I mean, really, that's that's one of the most natural things that happens. And when things are going well, we start going like, hey, I wonder what I'm doing to make God bless me in such a way. But one of the things that we see about the scriptures is that seeing prosperity is not necessarily saying that God is actually blessing you because of something that you're doing. Or a person going through leanness and difficulty and hardships is not necessarily telling us that this person is maybe doing something that they shouldn't be doing. A great example of this would be Job. Job was suffering, but he wasn't suffering because of something evil in him. And in fact, one of the main themes in the book of Job is that Job's Friends, we'll put them in quotes, are people who had this this view in their minds that if you do good, you get good, if you do bad, you get bad. So If you see bad, you know someone did bad, and if you see good, you know that they did good. That's kind of the idea. And so they said, well, Job, you're experiencing hardship. Because you've done something bad and God's punishing you. And if you'd just be honest and you put it out on the table, then we could address the issue and God could start busting you again. But they were completely wrong. And as we read the book of Job, one of the main points is to say that kind of thinking is not scriptural thinking. That kind of thinking is very dangerous. In fact, that kind of thinking can be very, very harmful if you are trying to help someone who is hurting and they're going through that. And so we see in these verses it is possible to be blessed even though we're suffering. Notice what he says in verses 10 and 11. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. And then we skip down to verse 11. He says, Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you. What is Jesus saying? Well, he's affirming that though these people are facing intense hardship, they are blessed. He didn't just say it once. He said it twice. And so to appreciate the statement that Jesus is making here , I think we need to focus in on a few of the key terms that are here. The first is the term blessed. And another way that we could translate that word blessed is happy. Though I think happy is almost gives too much of a trite idea here. But is the idea of a person who is blessed is a person who has experienced A blessedness that gives them a happiness that is rooted in something that is more than just the superficial Things that are objectively good, something that is objectively consistent, something that is objectively sure. And so if my joy is rooted in God who doesn't change, and my joy is rooted in someone named God who is good, and someone named God who is consistent, Then no matter what's going on around me, the ups and the downs, if my joy is rooted in him, that can be consistent. That can be stable and steady. And so when he uses the term blessed, he's using it in that sense. These are people who, even though everything around them is tumultuous , They are settled internally. They're actually joyful internally because their joy isn't rooted in the stuff around them. It's rooted in the consistent one, God Himself. The second concept is the concept of persecuted. He says that these are people who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. And that word persecuted has the idea that they are being harassed. People are pursuing them with a hostile intent. It's not just like, hey, I'd like to see you trip and stumble. It's like I'm going to hound you and I'm going to drag you down and I'm going to make your life miserable. And even when you have no ill intent toward me and and and you're just trying to mind your own business, I'm going to come and I'm going to get you and I'm going to make your life miserable. That's the idea of persecuted. So you might be trying to be as gentle as possible, as unassuming as possible, and there are people that are gonna they're gonna hunt you down. And make your life miserable. That's what he's talking about. You say blessed, happy, and persecuted. How do they go together? The next word is the word reviled. The idea is that these are people who just they throw insults at you. This is a person who is vicious with their words. They can cut you down. They can make you feel like you have no value. That's what he means by reviling. An example of this is when Jesus was hanging on the cross, and you had the two malefactors on either side. And the one was insulting Jesus. He was reviling Jesus. And the other man, he looks at him and he says, hold on a second. Hold on a second. You and I deserve to be here. He doesn't. You need to stop. Lord, remember me when you come to your kingdom. But that's what reviling is. And then the fourth part is the f the concept of falsely accused. The idea is that they are bearing a false witness against you with the intent to harm you and to ruin you. So it's not just that they don't like you. They're willing to say things that they know aren't true and you know they're not true. But by presenting those things that are untrue, it undermines you, it harms you, it's going to ruin you. Now, when we think about this, you say, how in the world could someone who is persecuted, reviled, and falsely accused, how can they be blessed? Doesn't seem to make sense. Yet Jesus couldn't be clearer in his statement. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, when men revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely. For my sake, you are blessed. That's what he says. So let's kind of be transparent about what Christ is saying here. This kind of a behavior would leave most people exhausted. discouraged, feeling isolated and feeling like they have no sense of value. It's just it's just honest. It's just the truth. You know, think about the the bullying that goes on like in the social media context. And there are young people that are are even willing to take their lives because of how vicious the bullying is against them on some social media platform or the things that they're experiencing at school in their classrooms. or while they go down the halls. The most natural way for a person to respond when they're persecuted, reviled, falsely accused, is that they feel like they have no value and they begin to fall apart and they begin to wilt. And that is what most people would do. But that's not what's happening in this context. As the person experiences this behavior, they would be a prime candidate for a victim's mentality. And we live in a culture that encourages people to be victims. Okay? Oh, well, th this happened to you when you were three, this happened to you when you were ten, this happened to you when you were twenty-two. So it's almost like you get a pass to act like you're a child when you're an adult. Okay? A victim mentality. It's very prevalent in our society. And this person would be a prime candidate to say, I'm a victim. But that's not what they do. This person, rather than becoming weak and fearful and isolated, is strong. Resilient and settled. And the question we should all ask is: how in the world is that possible? So that leads us to the second thing. This blessedness is found in the root of a particular kind of persecution. Not everybody who is harassed by other people is blessed. Not every person who is reviled is blessed. Not every person who's lied about is blessed But according to Jesus, there is a particular kind of scenario where a person is harassed, persecuted, reviled, lied about, and God says they're blessed. And the question is. Well, how in the world is that possible? Verses 10 and 11, here's what it says. They are persecuted for righteousness' sake, and they are persecuted for my sake. There are two pieces to the root of the persecution that these people are experiencing. And before I tell you what it is, I want to mention what it is not. He is not saying you're blessed because you're being persecuted for being contentious in your disposition. There are lots and lots of Christians. They say, you know, woe is me, I'm being persecuted. And if you're to really be honest, you you watch them in their workplace and you go, man, that guy, he really likes to tingle with people. That person is a contentious person. That person has a very self-righteous and condescending attitude towards other people. And so perhaps the reason that this guy is disliked or this lady is disliked is because Rather than walking with the Lord and having a godly disposition, they're contentious, they're condescending, they're self-righteous, they're contrarian. That is not what Jesus is talking about in these verses. So if you believe you're being persecuted, but it's because you're being difficult with people, the passage doesn't apply to you. Okay? Not suggesting anybody's like that, but I definitely would suggest there are people out there that are like that Two pieces. Persecuted for righteousness' sake and for Christ's sake. And so let's look at those one at a time. First of all, what does he mean by persecuted for righteousness' sake? I'll put it like this. There is an ethic that conforms to the character and the design of our righteous creator. And there are many kinds of ethics that are contrary to God's character and God's design. You got that? There is the standard. God is the standard. He is the righteous standard. And the world out there around us does not conform to God's standard of righteousness. It's not even that they don't conform, it's that they don't like God's standard of righteousness. I think about what it says in Romans chapter 8. It says that the natural mind is at enmity with God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be, so that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. What that verse is telling us, or what that little section of Romans eight is telling us Is that people by nature, it's not just that they fall short of God's standard, but they enjoy not falling short, and they don't like being told that they fall short. They actually are in rebellion against God by nature. And so this ethic and the ethics of the cultures around Christians have historically been at odds. There are very few times in history where Christians have lived in cultures that as a norm within the culture, it was conformed to Christian ethics. You know what the exceptions are? Cultures like ours about 150 years ago. It's the truth. And you know why that is? It 's because Christian principle so influenced the thinking of the people of those times. But that has not been normative. That has not been typical in societies. I want you to hear some of the scriptures that really lay this out. 1 Peter 3, verses 14 to 17. He says, if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are you. Sounds very simple, similar to what Jesus says. In Matthew chapter 5, it's almost as if Peter is expanding what Jesus has said. If ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye Be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you you a reason of the hope that lieth in you with meekness and fear. Having a good conscience that whereas they speak evil of you as of evildoers they may be ashamed, who falsely accuse your could good conversation in Christ. Sounds a lot like what Jesus is saying in Matthew 5, doesn't it? It's the exact same concept. Or he goes on in 1 Peter 4, verse 3. The time passed of our life would suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. When we locked in lasciviousness, lusts excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries. Now, let me just kind of explain to you what those words mean. He's basically saying before you were a Christian, you did everything that everybody else in your society did. Okay? So what is he talking about? Well he's talking about modern-day frat parties. Okay. He's talking about people going to things like Mardi Gras. I mean that's really what it is. These are places where people are drunk This is places where people are being sexually promiscuous. This is a place where people act like total fools and they're out of their mind. And they're just living as hedonists for their flesh. He says, listen. That's how you all lived before you were Christians. That's the way that the culture around you lives. Who is not Christian? And then he says this, they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot, and they speak evil of you. It's almost like all of these people that you used to hang out with and you used to party with and get drunk with and you used to get high with and you used to sleep with and you say I'm not doing this stuff anymore. I'm a different person. And you just start living a immorally clean and upright life, completely different than you did before they go, what's wrong with you? And they think that what you're doing is bad. It's like ethics turned upside down. So what's he saying? That's the way the world is That's the way most Christians have experienced life in the world. Another example, 1 Corinthians 6. 9, he says, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates, nor abusers of themselves with mankind. Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. The next statement is so interesting. Such were some of you. Notice the word were. That's very important. They're not anymore. So what changed? When a person becomes a Christian, old things pass away and all things become new. The downstream effect of new life in Christ is that what you were identified with as an unbeliever The sins that everybody said, oh yeah, I know you. I know what you do. I know what you indulge in. I know what you love. You say, I'm not like that anymore And your life is completely different. It's radically different. Such were some of you, but ye are washed, God cleansed you, you are sanctified, God set you apart to Himself. You are justified. He declares you as righteous in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. So what's the point? Well, the point is very simple. The cultures around Christians do not have the same ethics. And whether the world likes to admit it or not, they want you to do what they do And you know why that is? It makes them feel better about what they're doing. It's a bomb to the conscience. If you're a dishonest person and you are you you constantly, constantly lie. And then you come in contact with a person who is consistently speaking the truth. You know what that does to you? Makes you feel very uncomfortable around them. It's the truth. If you're a person who is sexually immoral, and then you're interacting with a person who is faithful to their spouse, and they're not involved in those things, and you interact with them, it makes you uncomfortable. There's something wrong when the Christian makes the world around them comfortable. I don't mean that you tell people, hey I'm different than you, and you draw attention to it. You're the kind of person that whether you say it or not, the world around you knows and it bothers them. Our culture today is no different than the cultures of these past generations. I say that with complete confidence. The prevailing views in our society are at odds with Scripture. And I could probably give you at least a dozen examples, but I'll just give you a couple. God's design for humanity, Genesis 1. 27. God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him, male and female, created he them. Our culture doesn't believe that anymore. God created us in his image. That's where our dignity and our value comes from. And he created us either a man or a woman. And he has a purpose. He has a design for that. His design for human sexuality. Hebrews 13 4. Marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled. But whoremongers and adulterers, God will judge. The world says, you know what? You can cheat on your spouse. Who cares? Just get a new one. Hey, you know what? If you want to if you want to figure out who you want to marry, live with them for a while. See what it's like. And decide if you want to marry them after the fact That's what the world preaches. That's what the world teaches. You know what God says? Horemongers and adulterers, God will judge. It's designed for marriage, Mark 10, 6. From the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, cleave to his wife. And they twain shall be one flesh. So then they are no more twain but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let no man put asunder. Well, there is a definition of marriage. It's God's definition. He's the one who created it. In fact, when you think about it this way, God created all these animals. Male and female, and he says, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. But when God created mankind, you know what he did? He created one person. who was absolutely incapable of procreation by himself. Okay? He did that for a reason. And then he created him a wife, and he created marriage, so that when they are fruitful and multiply, guess what? They have children in the covenant of marriage. That 's one of the things that separates us from the rest of creation. We are image bearers. And so the covenant of marriage is such a sacred thing. And so when we talk about this, God's definition is so clear. One man, one woman, till death separates them. You know what the world says? You can call marriage whatever you want, as long as it makes two people happy. Okay, that's not what God said. His design for our way of life. Ephesians 5, 8. Be not drunk with wine, we're in a success. Be filled with the Spirit. Romans 13, 13 to 14, let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness. Not in strife and envying. Put you on the Lord Jesus Christ, make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. We could just go from example to example after example. And you know what we will see? God's righteousness and man's values, not even close. And so when we as Christians Begin to live in conformity to God's righteous expectations because we have been transformed by the gospel and we care about the authority of Christ. Guess what? Puts us at odds with the world around us. But there's a second aspect to this. It's not just the ethics of the Christian, but it's the allegiance of the Christian to Christ Himself. He says it is for Christ's sake, an allegiance to Christ that supersedes all other allegiances. Now, this is a hard saying because when we talk about the ethics, I think sometimes as Christians it's easy for us to say, oh, we believe in traditional marriage and We believe that God created male and female, and we believe that people should be sexually moral and those kinds of things. Sometimes it's really easy for us to say, we believe those things. But when it comes to this absolute authority of Christ, sometimes as Christians, we are not as consistent as we would like to think. Listen to some of the things that Jesus said about allegiance to him. Luke 14. If any man will come to me Hate not his father, his mother, his wife, his children, his brother, his sister, yea, his own life also. He cannot be my disciple. You say, well, I thought Jesus said that we're supposed our the scriptures say we're supposed to obey our parents. Honor our parents. Love your wife as Christ loved the church. Wives submit to your husbands as unto the Lord. Doesn't the Bible teach it? Absolutely it does. But there are situations where the allegiance between son and dad could come in conflict with son and Savior. It can happen. Especially if a person's not a Christian. But it's not just unbelieving families that sometimes have these contentions. Sometimes believers who are not thinking biblically can put expectations on their children that are not healthy and that are not right. And so we see that Christ says, I have a higher authority, and your allegiance to me needs to be even higher than that of to mom and dad, or to your own family. Think about the issue of government. Daniel chapter 3, verse 16. Oh Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this matter. If it be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and we will deliver, and he will deliver us out of thine hand, O King. But if not, be it known unto thee, That we will not serve thy gods nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. What's the Christian supposed to do when a rogue government tells them you have to do this? And God says, No, that's not what you're supposed to do? And they say, here's what it's going to cost you if you decide to reject the law of our government and submit to the law of your God. Guess what happens? We have a conflict. And this is a great example of this, but this is not just an Old Testament example. It's not just something that we saw during the first century sometimes, or you know, during the Roman world. It can happen today too. Well, we could be in a situation as Christians where the government compels us to do something that God flatly forbids. The question is, who are you going to obey? Are you going to obey God or are you going to obey man? Another example is dishonest religious leaders in Acts 5. When the disciples were preaching that Jesus had died and was risen, and they said, you need to repent and believe in the gospel. The religious leaders called them together and they said, We forbid that you speak the name of Jesus. And this is what what says in verse 27. It says, When they had brought them, they set them before the council, and the high priest asked them, saying, Did not we straightly command you that you should not teach in this name, and behold, you have filled Jerusalem with all your doctrine and intend to bring this man's blood upon us? Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said We ought to obey God , rather than men. So what's the point? The point is that when we talk about this issue of persecution There are two kinds of persecution that he's talking about. A persecution that comes in this issue of ethics. What we call righteousness, when the believer is conforming to the will of his father in heaven as opposed to the will of the culture that he lives in. Conflict can come. Or secondly, an issue of allegiance to Christ, where your allegiance to Christ supersedes your allegiance to family, or supersedes your allegiance to the government, or supersedes your relig your allegiance to some religious organization. And so we are called to put our allegiance to Christ alone, to walk in obedience to his will and not the will of man. And so faithfulness to truth may very well lead to persecution. Submission to Christ's authority may very well lead to persecution. A distinction in our walk may very well lead us into persecution. Allegiance to Christ's person and work may very well lead us into persecution. Now, am I saying that it always will? The answer is of course not. We're not being persecuted right now I mean, that could change very quickly. I have no guarantee that in the next five to ten years things do not change in this country. But the simple fact is this this issue of persecution can very well come to the Christian. And even if the Christian is experiencing persecution, God says, if it falls into these two categories, you're blessed. Thirdly, this persecution is a mark of genuine conversion. Verse number 10, he says, for Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. This statement is an affirmation that the kinds of people who are persecuted in this way, they are true believers. That's what he's saying. And I think it's important that we notice something. It's a combination of the two pieces that are mentioned in the text. For instance He doesn't just say those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, stop. Or just those who are persecuted for the name of Christ, stop. In other words, he's not talking about a moralism or a conservatism or a cultural Christianity. He's talking about a blend of these two things that we would say are the result of real, genuine Christianity. It's an ethics that flows out of one's allegiance to Christ. And so we think of it this way. We're saved and transformed by the power of the gospel. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. We are radically shaped by our new position and the indwelling work of the Holy Spirit. Remember back to 1 Corinthians 6 verse 11, it says, such were some of you, but ye are washed. sanctified and justified. So he's talking about a positional change and he's talking about a practical change And so what he's saying is the positional change is what has caused the practical change. So it's not just a practical change, the person Just says, you know, I'm going to turn over a new leaf. I'm going to stop doing these sinful things that I used to do. I want to be a more moral person. I want to be a more righteous person. That's not what we're talking about. Or someone who says, oh, I'm a conservative, and I believe in conservatism, so I'm being persecuted because I'm a conservative. That's not what he's saying. There is a righteousness that flows out of the position that you have in Christ. And so that's why there's an ethical difference, and that's why there is an allegiance difference to the Lord Jesus Christ. Our position is a manifestation before others of the observable transformation that takes place in the hearts of real Christians. First John chapter 3 verse 10. In this the children of God are manifest. The children of the devil Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. This is the message that ye have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain. Who was of that wicked one and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. We know that we have passed from death into life because we love the brethren. What's amazing about that statement in 1 John 3 is he kind of takes all the pieces we're talking about tonight and he puts them together. So for instance, he says, okay, you have a person who hates other people. You have a person whose life is not conform to God's standard. Guess what? There's a reason for that. It's because they're not believers. They're not new creatures in Christ. They're spiritually dead, not spiritually alive. They don't have the Holy Spirit working inside of them. They're not new creatures in Christ. So what you see is a direct result of what's going on internally. But then you see this other person who used to be just like that, but now they're not. You say, why? What's the change? Oh, because they decided they wanted to live a different life. No, that's not it at all. It's because they were truly saved. They embraced the gospel. And now they're a new creature in Christ. Old things pass away. All things become new. The Holy Spirit comes and he begins to And dwell the believer, and he's shaping them and molding them and growing them. And all of a sudden who they were and who they are is just radically different. Guess what? You can see the difference. You say, what's the difference? One's spiritually alive, one's spiritually dead. But there's even another dynamic to it. This person Hates this person, and this person loves this person. You say why? So the guy hates the one who loves him And the guy loves the one who hates him. I don't get it. That's what the gospel does to people. A person who loves the lost in their brokenness is a person whose life is being transformed by the work of the Spirit inside of them. And the reason that this person despises the righteous is because He doesn't like the conviction that comes to his attention when he sees this distinction between them. And so he says, Marvel not if the world hates you. We know that we have passed from death into life because we love the brethren. I'm going to stop there because I think I'll go another 20 or 30 minutes if I go to part four and five. But I think that what we have here is a lot to chew on. The first part of this was that even though a person is persecuted and suffering and experiencing hardship, does not mean that they are not blessed. Just because a person is persecuted and suffering does not mean they are blessed. Okay? You have to look at it based on what the scripture teaches here. And so the blessing, secondly, is found in the root, the source. It's because of this person's change of disposition and change of life and their allegiance to Christ, those things couple together that the world persecutes them because Christ is an offense. And the ethics of the Bible and God's law that says thou shalt and thou shalt not is an offense to the world. And so persecution comes as a result of that. But then we see in this third piece that it is those two pieces coming together that ultimately are this incredible mark of someone being a true Christian Now, I'm in no way saying you become a Christian by getting persecuted, or that you become a Christian by being a good person, or you become a Christian by walking in a different way. This is the downstream effect. of real life in Christ. If you're a Christian, it affects you, it affects the people around you, and it affects how they relate to you. And that's the point of what Jesus is saying in these verses. And so you say, well, Joel, what's the encouragement? Well, the encouragement is I'm going to kind of go to the end of this, and I'll mention this again next time, but I'm going to mention a couple of these things because I think they're helpful. Persecution is sadly a part of living in a fallen world. And there's certain kinds of conflicts that we cannot escape with non-Christians. It's the truth. You know that coexist bumper sticker? It just doesn't work. I hate to say that. The reason it doesn't work is because the person who puts the sticker on the car Has some non-negotiables in their head, and some of those non-negotiables are in conflict with your non-negotiables, and not just yours, with other people who they just happen to have on the bumper sticker too. These conflicts are unavoidable because they are ultimately clashes related to non-negotiable values. Christianity is an exclusive belief system. It encompasses every aspect of our lives We can't compromise on Christ, the nature of the gospel, or God's standard of righteousness, and still have genuine Christianity. When Christians suffer in the way that Christ describes in these verses, There are several reasons to be encouraged. Our life is really being transformed by the gospel, and the transformation is making a difference. There is a daily supply of God's grace available to help us endure these difficulties, and there's a future reward to those who endure them faithfully. And so I want to leave you with that. Lord willing next week, we'll go back and look at the last part of these verses. May the Lord help us to take to heart what we've seen tonight. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for the word. We recognize that suffering is something that none of us want. Unfortunately, there's a certain kind of suffering and a certain kind of persecution. That a principled person cannot escape. And so I pray that you would help us to be principled people who walk consistent with the position that we have in Christ. That we would be fearless and bold, yet humble in the way that we relate to other people. Father, help us to endure as seeing you who is invisible. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen.