Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 3, and we're going to read verses 10 through 15 together. We've been working our way through a section here that is kind of meant to correct how these uh Corinthian church members are looking at this issue of ministry. And this is kind of the last little portion of the section that we've been looking at. So I think this is like the third or fourth message on the section that we're reading. And it is dealing with the judgment seat of Christ. And this is a very important topic for us to address. And so what we're going to do is we're going to look at the text itself and work our way through the things that Paul says there, kind of get the big picture. And then kind of step back and look at a couple of doctrinal points that are pertinent to this discussion that we find in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. So follow along in your Bibles. 1 Corinthians 3 verse 10 says the following. According to the grace of God, which is given unto me, as a wise master builder I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon, for other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now, if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hay, and stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest. For the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. But he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. Now the passage in front of us is kind of like the last little section. Of all the things that the Apostle Paul has said about correcting their wrong view of ministry. And if I was to summarize it, I would summarize it this way: a healthy view of ministry begins and ends with God. It is his work. It is to be done by his enabling. It is to be done for his pleasure, and it is to redound to his glory. So we talk about ministry, it should be all about God. I mean, we are involved in it. And there is great joy in serving the Lord. There's great joy in seeing God work through you. But the primary focus of healthy ministry is it's all about God. He enables us. He's the one who gives us the work. It's about pleasing him, and that would be the quality of the work that is done. And it's about his glory. It's not about our glory. And you know, a lot of people here this evening might say, well, I'm not a pastor, so I guess I don't need to worry about this thing on Christian ministry. I'm not a minister per se. Well when we talk about Christian ministry, I mean every one of us has Christian Christian ministry that we're involved in. ministry If we are a parent, we have children that we are raising, we are discipling. First of all, we're pointing them to Christ, and we we pray that they are uh converted. They place their faith in Christ, and then we're to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. We're to help them to grow up into Christ's likeness. And so we have a very, very important ministry. If we are married, our spouse, we are in this relationship, we're to be growing together into Christ's likeness and iron sharpening iron, we're to be pointing one another to Christ. And that is that is a ministry. Or here in the church, we have people that are investing in us, and then we have people that we are investing in. And uh if we're in a in a work context where we're around unbelievers, which Pretty much everybody here that is in a work environment works with unbelievers. Maybe almost all of them are unbelievers, or uh the vast majority of the people that you're working with are unbelievers. You have evangelistic opportunities, pointing people to the gospel. So we are all involved in some level of Christian ministry. We need to serve with a God-centered motivation. And that is really the heart of what this passage is all about. So the first thing I want us to dig into is kind of the progression of the thoughts that are being laid out in these verses. In verse 10, we could summarize it with this statement. Let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. In other words, we need to stop and we need to ask the question, how am I building on this foundation that has been laid in my life? Now for Paul, he's writing to the church at Corinth, and these are people that he led a lot of them to the Lord. He spent almost two years ministering to them, pouring his life into them, really laying this foundation of a correct understanding. of who Jesus is, of what he has done for them, the importance of the cross, the absolute bedrock essential of the cross. and the resurrection and he has really poured his life into these people. And he's saying you need to think about how you are building on top of that foundation that has been laid. And that foundation is Christ. How we are building, big deal. Interestingly, he doesn't say, take heed what you are building. Not that the what does it matter. But the how is important. Sometimes people think, hey, you know what? It's not really, it doesn't matter how I get there, as long as we all end up at the same place, then we're okay. That's not necessarily the case. The process is very important. The mode of how we get there is very, very important. The tools that we use are very, very important. And that's going to come out. in the text that we're looking at. So notice the progression of thoughts here. The first thing is he identifies the foundation. Verse 11. Other foundation can no man lay, than that is laid, which is what? Jesus Christ. So there is nothing else that a life that is built that is going to have eternal significance. It can't be built on anything except for Christ. He has to be the center. He has to be the foundation. It's like that illustration that Jesus uses at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. He says, there are these two people, they go out and they build a house. One builds On sand, and another builds on a rock. And then the storm comes and the wind blows and the rain comes and it beats on the house. And what happens? The house built on the rock stands. The house built on the sand collapses. What's the difference? Foundation. And so he said: whoever hears these sayings of mine and he does them, he's like the one who builds his house on the rock. And the one who hears these things of mine and he doesn't do them, he's like someone who builds his house on the sand. So Christ is the foundation. You can't build it on anything else. It's not about religion. It's not about morality. It's not about how people think about us. It's not about how hard we work. It's about Christ. His work, his righteousness, his death, his sacrifice, his life is the foundation. Secondly, in verse 10, we see that he identifies a reality that we will all face. He says, let every man take heed how he builds thereupon. Everybody is building. Now, not everybody is building industriously. Okay? There are lots of people that what they're building is uh it 's not really getting a whole lot done. It's almost like someone who goes who goes out and they're like, well I'm gonna build a house and like every third day they go out and they lay a brick Okay? That's the way some people build their lives. Very uh very passively. They're not really doing much. And there are other people who they're very industrious and they're building, but what they're building has a lot of problems. So he identifies this reality. Everybody's building. Let every man take heed how he builds. Everybody's building a house Everybody's building a house when it comes to your family. Everybody's building a house when it comes to your marriage. Everybody's building a house when it comes to how you Who live out the Christian life, how you interact with the loss, how you interact with other Christians. We're all building How are we building? What's the quality of it? What's the long-term lasting effect of it? In fact, I think it's fair for us to just make this observation. If we look at our lives and we see problems , Those problems have a source. You understand that? So if you have a marriage problem, there's a source. If you have child problems, source. Relationship problems, source. There is a source. The question is: what is the source? What is our life really being built on? What is driving it? He identifies the reality. Everybody's building. Third. He identifies that there is an enabling that's available to every Christian. Verse number 10, according to the grace of God which is given unto me. This is such a profound truth. God gives everybody that belongs to him exactly what they need to do what he calls them to do. There's no exception to that. He is faithful to give us what we need. In fact, I think of that passage where it says that there is no temptation that has taken us that is common to man. But God is faithful, who is not going to suffer or allow us to be tempted above what we're able, but he also will with the temptation provide a way of escape that we may be able to bear it. You know what that tells me? God's in charge of even our temptations, even our tests, and He knows what we are capable of Of rising above. He knows that we're capable of working through. He knows that we're capable of going through. And he would not permit it if we could not navigate it in a way that honors him. That's a profound thought. And alongside with how he manages our lives is the grace that we need to get through it. Think about when Paul asked the Lord three times, remove this thorn in the flesh, remove this thorn in the flesh, remove this thorn in the flesh. And what does God say? He says, My grace is sufficient for you. My strength is made perfect in your weakness. And so what we what we see here is that whatever we encounter in life, God is sovereign, he rules. And he reigns, he's not going wringing his hands, going, I don't know if I I don't know if these people can handle what they're going through. If that's your view of God, it's wrong. If that's your view of God, you're setting yourself up for some serious problems. It's not biblical. You should be saying God has permitted with a purpose and an intent, and his grace is available, and if he did not, If I didn't have what I needed, he'd protect me from that. It's really important for us to recognize this. According to the grace of God given to me, he identifies the enabling. Fourthly, Now I'm at four, so at some point I'm probably gonna forget where I'm at. So if I say like four three times, I'm sorry. It's possible. Maybe I should just like hold my hand here with a force. I remember this, alright. Fourthly, he stresses the seriousness of this evaluation that we're all going to face. Verse number 13, he says, every man, man's work shall be made manifest. That word manifest means it's going to be revealed. The true quality of this work is going to be demonstrated to be what it is Every man's work shall be made manifest for the day shall declare it because it shall be revealed by fire. The fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. Now notice some of these words. We have work, that's what you do. being manifested, that means it's revealing its true quality. The day is going to declare it. That means that there's coming a period of time We're all going to stand before God, and on that day, the real quality of what we have done is going to be presented, and we will see it. By the way, our our our view of the work we do might be a little too high or it might be a little too low. I think there are a lot of people that when it comes to how they live the Christian life. They're really defeated and they're down and they they're like, I don't think there's a whole lot of value in what I'm doing. And and and and they and they struggle because of the nature of the work that they have, but they stay at it, and you know what? God's going to reward that faithfulness. And there's others like, we think that they got it made, man. They're doing a great work. And on that day, God's going to say, well, you cut a lot more quarters than people realized. You played a lot of spin games. People didn't know that. You were able to put on a good front, but I saw what was really there below the surface. And that day's going to reveal it. And then we see this. It's going to be revealed by fire, of what sort it is. You know what fire does? Fire purifies metal. And fire burns wood. I know that because I'm burning a lot of wood these days, right? And so so what happens is when you have gold or you have some kind of precious metal and you get it in the raw, right? You get that metal and then you put it in the heat. There is a point where certain impurities that are in that metal, they're going to start melting out. And the more they get it hotter and hotter and hotter, then what ends up happening is the impurities rise to the surface and they can skim it off and they make it a little bit hotter and it rises to the service and they Skim it off and make it a little bit hotter and it rises a surface. They skim it off. And so what happens is that fire removes the dross and it leaves you the real stuff right there. And you know what? That's the way our lives are, the work that we do. I mean, if you think about it, everything that we do in service to God has some imp impurities in it. It really does. When it comes to how we raise our children. There's good and there's bad. When it comes to me as a pastor, there's good and bad about how I do the work. Hopefully more good than bad, right? When it comes to how we are building in our marriages, there's both good and bad. And so what's going to happen is when that labor goes through the fire , What's worthless burns off to the side, and the real substance is what's left. And here's what's scary. Some people will have nothing left to show for what they did. You know why that is? Because it was all fluff. And some people are gonna have something there of value So the purpose of the fire is to really test the true quality of what is there so that what has lasting eternal value is all that is left. You say, like there's really going to be a day that that happens? Absolutely there is. That's what the text is saying It's telling us one day we'll stand before God and the labors we have done are going to be tested and revealed, and we're going to be left with nothing. or something. That's what he's saying. The day will reveal it. Fifthly, he stresses the permanence of this evaluation. Verses 14 and 15. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. I was thinking about this the other day. I don't know what what like popped this into my head, but I was thinking about how, you know, when you have legal documents you need a lock box that's fire r you know fireproof, right? Because if you ever had a house fire, um What what would happen to those documents? They'd be gone. You know, your housing documents, insurance documents, I mean you go through all kinds of your your will, all kinds of different things. Those things could be completely consumed in a fire if they're not put in a security box that is safe. And really, when a person's life is passing through this fire, the labors that they've done, it'd be interesting to see what's left. What I think is really important about this is it's all about orienting our minds to something here. What it's telling us is what your neighbor thinks about what you do doesn't really matter. That's that's like it can go either way. Somebody who looks down on what you're doing, like that doesn't matter. I mean, I'm not saying it doesn't affect us, but I'm saying it doesn't matter. What really matters is what God thinks, how he sees it, the quality of what we are doing in his service. It's his desire, it's his plan, it's his judgment. That's what matters the most. And so we see he is he is stressing the permanence of this evaluation. He's either going to receive reward or he's going to suffer loss. And the question is, for how long will he experience the loss or the reward? The answer is forever Forever. You don't get to go back and relive your life and well I'll try it over again. Okay? I mean when you hear a message like this, you can make a reevaluation. You say, okay, I have I have I I need to make some changes in the way that I'm doing things. And then you can't really change what's behind you, but you could change what's in front of you. But when it comes to this day, what you did is done. There's no changing what has taken place. Lastly, he stresses the believer's security even in the loss. I think this is so important. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, yet says by fire. I think it's really important for us to stress that when we talk about the judgment seat of Christ, this is not talking about whether or not you go to heaven or hell. He's only talking about believers. He's not talking about the person as much as the labor. Notice what it says. A man's work will be burned. He will suffer loss, but he will be saved yet so as by fire. Do you see how the language is very, very precise here? So when we read this text of scripture and some of the other ones we'll eventually get to, not tonight apparently, um when we get to some of those other passages, what you're gonna see is there's a difference between what we call the judgment seat of Christ and what we call the great white throne judgment. But notice how all of this is really directing toward a couple of very simple facts. So part two. What's the focus of the passage? Here it is. First of all, be prepared for the judgment seat of Christ. Some Christians are consumed with this and others don't think once about it. A lot of people say, hey, you know, I'm I'm saved. How I live doesn't matter. I'm under grace. And technically, yes, you're under grace. But question, how you live, does it matter at all? The answer is, well, yeah. I mean the passage wouldn't be in the Bible if it didn't matter. The Apostle Paul would never have addressed all these sin problems in the church if it didn't matter. His question wasn't whether or not they were saved people. The question was, what is the quality of your labor? What is the fruitfulness of your life? How much of an impact are you living on eternity? What is the long-term, long-term effect of your life? That's what he's concerned about. So, in one sense, if we want to talk about our position and how God accepts us and how he loves us, that question is in a totally different area. But this does matter because how we live It is going to impact other people. And there will be a real eternal loss or effect as a result of this. So, first of all, be prepared for the judgment seat. Second, invest your life diligently in eternal pursuit. I want to pause here for a second and say something. Investing your life in eternal pursuits does not mean you have to be a pastor. There are some churches where you almost get the impression, man, if you're not like a missionary or a pastor or in some kind of by you know some kind of like Christian vocation, then you're like you're a secondary Christian. That is not true. I mean, we have to think about the time that Paul is writing. A lot of people living in the Roman world, they were caught in a position in life. that could not be changed. You know what's amazing about this country and the time we live in is that you know you you could you could you could you could be born into a very a very poor and difficult situation And over the course of your life, you end up getting into a good schooling situation, you get an opportunity to working environment. You work hard, you you give of yourself, and all of a sudden you start becoming a prosperous person. And pretty soon when people interact with you Maybe as a fifty-year-old or as a six-year-old, they just assume, well, you always you know had a great job and you always had the ability to buy your own home and you always had a a great family situation, and they assume that's how it's always been for you. , But that's not Always true. Sometimes you look at a person at that stage in life, you never know what their life was like when they were a kid, or when they were a teenager, even maybe as a young adult, the kind of struggling and the suffering that they experienced. And so in our situation, we do have the opportunity to prosper, and we have opportunities ahead of us that most people in history just haven't had that opportunity. But if you lived in the Roman work, you did not have some of these opportunities. You were stuck in very, very difficult situations. And so a person couldn't just, you know, go to the person that they're working for and just say, hey, you know, I decided I'm not going to work for you anymore. I'm going to go out and I'm going to go into full-time vocational ministry. And the person would be like , Well, you owe me a huge amount of money and you'll never pay off that debt in your lifetime. So sorry, you can't do that. And the law would keep them in that position. And they couldn't do anything about it. And there were all kinds of entangling, challenging situations. Yet Paul encouraged these people. In some of the most challenging situations, that they can honor God. They can live a life of tremendous value for Him And so don't in your mind think, well, the only way that I can invest my life diligently in eternal pursuits is if I'm a pastor, if I'm always doing you know, ministry in the church and this and that. The truth is the faithfulness that you have to God in your vocation, and the faithfulness that you have as a husband or a wife, and the faithfulness that you have as a mother or a father or as a grandparent Just being a faithful member of the Church of God, being in the Word of God and growing in a love for the Lord, rubbing shoulders with other people and pointing them to Christ, planting seeds. A lot of little things. Those things matter. The stuff that seems kind of ordinary and mundane, those are some of the things that have some of the most impactful, uh some of some of the greatest impacts on people's lives. I just I'll just put it I'll put it like this. If your kids grow up in a stable home Or mom and dad love each other. Dad faithfully goes to work, provides for his family. There is peace and harmony in the home. You regularly take your kids to church. You teach them the word of God. You lead them to Christ. You train them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And they go out and they do it again. Guess what? You didn't waste. The 20 years of your life that you were investing in your family and your kids, you did far more than somebody that becomes very wealthy, whose marriage collapsed, has no relationship with their kids, and when it comes to eternity, they are morally bankrupt and broken. Don't overlook those basic things. Invest your life diligently in eternal pursuits. Thirdly, draw upon God 's grace that is available to you as you do this. And sometimes in life, we get into these situations and rather than asking the question, God, what is available to me to take on what's in front of me, we go, I just can't do this. I'm a victim. It's too much for me to bear. Everybody else has it easier than me. If I hadn't had this problem at this stage in my life, I wouldn't I'd be able to do this, but I did and I can't get past it. I mean, come on, guys. Is that really how we're going to live our lives? The apostle Paul could have sat there and said, Why, God, I can't be an apostle to the Gentiles because you know me, I persecuted the church of God. Hey, you know me when Stephen was being killed, I was there consenting to his death. I was in charge of that. I was holding all the stuff. Well, they did my bidding. He could have easily done that. He said, God, I go to the Gentiles? I I I was a Jewish rabbi. I can't go to the Gentiles. Are you kidding me? Is that what he did? He said, By the grace of God I am what I am. I don't deserve to do any of those things. I persecuted the church. There are people that were murdered under my name. And I was so condescending and so arrogant towards the Gentiles. And God, He just laughed and said, You're going to be the apostle to the Gentiles. That's what he did. And the fact is that God gives us grace for all kinds of things. And none of us should live a victim mentality. Just take what God gives you and do the best you can with it. And you'll be amazed at what He can do with what you have. Fourthly, stay motivated by the reality of the judgment seat of Christ. The fact is, this is something that's going to happen. The text could not be clearer. Now, I'm looking at my time and I realize that if I go to part number three, I'm going to preach a whole whole nother sermons. I'm gonna just stop here, all right? But I want us to kind of build a little bit on this Lord willing next week and I want to look at a couple of doctrinal points that are that are connected to this. And I'm not going to develop them tonight, but I'm just gonna introduce them so that you know what's coming. And if you want to see my notes, they're online, so uh you'll be able to look at that. But we're going to talk about the fact that there is an eternal law of sowing and reaping For the believer. We're going to deal with that concept a little bit. And obviously, when we talk about the judgment seat of Christ, this is where we're going to see that come to fruition. Now, we see it in real time. You know, what I put into my marriage, what I put into my relationship with my kids, what I put into my work, what I put into my time reading the Word of God. You can go into lots and lots of different areas. There's a law of sowing and reaping. But it's really focusing in on the judgment seat. So we'll talk about that one, Lord willing. And then secondly, we'll talk about the doctrine of there being two judgments. The judgment, seed of Christ, what we're talking about here, and the great white throne judgment for the unbeliever. And we're gonna look at some of the passages that are there, and we're gonna ask what exactly is the purpose of the great white throne judgment and what is the purpose of the judgment seat of Christ. And uh there's a lot of scripture that I'm going to dig into in that passage scripture you see because I'm flipping my pages here. Obviously, we're not going to get into that tonight. And then the third thing I want to do is I want to emphasize the fact that every believer is absolutely secure no matter how they stop. And the the doctrine of eternal security is a really big deal. If you believe that you can be saved and lost, then the question is: is your salvation built on Christ alone, or is it built on Christ in you? And this passage of Scripture states very, very precisely that a person can experience great loss at the judgment seat. Yet they are saved. And what it shows you is that there is an eternity for the Christian, but there may be things that are lost in the quality of that. that are flushed out in the judgment seat of Christ. So I I'm going to get into three doctrinal concepts there that I think will be very, very important under this topic. I know that they're kind of stepping out of this individual text, but these are doctrinal points that I think are directly connected to that. And then we'll uh have some final thoughts at the end. But that's where we're going, Lord willing, next week. So hope you'll come back as we dig into that. But let's let's kind of pull ourselves back and ask, what do we take away from this tonight? Like what are the what are the practical real-life ways that we should respond to this? I think the most logical thing is this. Consider how you build your life. I mean, is that not the question that he starts with? Let every man take heed how he builds her on. How are you building your marriage? How are you building in your relationship with your kids? How are you building in your relationship with other Christians? What is the true quality of the way that you're going about doing this? Who's in charge? Are you drawing on the grace of God that's available to you? Are you taking this victim mentality, I can't overcome anything? And I have all these things hold me back. I'm not discounting the fact that there are a lot of things that hold people back. But God's grace is sufficient. He gives you what you need. You don't need to wallow in that misery. You can get up. You can move forward. He wants you to do it. He's giving you what you need. He can get you through those things. So let's not walk away from this passage without really internalizing the truth. that are there. The judgment seat of Christ is real. It's going to happen. We're going to stand there. The quality of our labors will be revealed on that day May we on that day have something of true eternal quality that we will be able to experience reward for because we have labored as God called us to. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for the word. A lot of questions I know pop up in our minds when we think about this text I pray that as we work our way through some of these doctrinal concepts, that they would really take root in our hearts, we would let your word speak to us. That we would listen, we would submit to it. And I pray that we would live very soberly. Help us to consider how we're building our lives. I think especially for some of the most Um close and intimate relationships we have, our relationship with our spouse, our relationship with our children, our relationship with our brothers and sisters in Christ in the church, how we relate to unsaved people, how we relate to our family members. Father, help us to do our work as unto the Lord and not unto men. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.