Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. And today is our bonus episode. And what we're going to be doing is we're going to be looking at the passage that we dealt with on Wednesday night And I know it was a lengthy passage, I know that I spent uh quite a bit of time in it, and what I'd like to do is I kind of like to condense it and uh just spend some time thinking about it. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn with me to Ephesians chapter six and we're going to read verses ten through nineteen together. And then we're going to reflect on the Christian's armor and the importance of putting on that armor as we prepare to face uh the challenges that we encounter in life. Here's what it says. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take into you the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand, stand therefore, having your loins skirt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness. And your feet shroud with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all taking the shield of faith, wherewith you shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints, and for me. that utterance may be given unto me, that I may know how to open my mouth boldly to make known the mysteries of the gospel. This passage of Scripture is foundational to understanding how to be prepared to deal with uh temptation in the Christian life. We've been talking about the fact on Wednesday night that temptation is a regular thing that we deal with as Christians Um just uh to put something in front of you, I am a big fan of Martin Lloyd Jones and I really enjoy his sermons, especially on Ephesians. And uh he uh preached about fifty sermons in these two books um on this topic of Ephesians chapter six verses ten uh to verse twenty And so he deals at great length with these. In fact, some of the things that I'm going to say today, I'm going to depart a little bit from the way that he saw those things. But I think that his exposition on these verses is extremely helpful. And so if you like to read or if you like listening to sermons, they are lengthy sermons. I think you would glean a lot from his exposition on these verses. But what I'd like to do is kind of contense this and uh and just leave you with some practical thoughts today. So The first thing I want to mention as we look at these verses is that these pieces of the armor are to be put on with a very particular attitude or disposition. And the way that it's put is in verse 18, he says, we are to be praying always. So if you look at these verses, verses 10 to 18, he says, put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil, praying always. Always. In other words, the way that we put on each of these pieces is to be doing it with an attitude of prayer. And prayer is not a tool to manipulate God. Prayer is an expression of our dependence on the Lord. And it's also something supposed to direct our focus. And so at the end of that section in verse 18, he says we're to be praying always with all prayer and supplication, and to be praying for all saints. And then in the next verse he says, and pray also for me. So one of the effects of prayer is not just expressing our dependence on the Lord and recognizing that we need his strength and his enabling to stand in the battle. But it's also to direct our attention off of just ourselves and to think about others. Very, very important part of dealing with these kinds of issues. And so it emphasizes the corporate nature of how we live the Christian life, not just as individuals, but as members of a body who are to be concerned about one another. The second thing I'm going to mention, and that is the focus of these verses is the importance of a biblical worldview when it comes to dealing with temptation. In verses 10 and 11 he says, Brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might, and put on the whole armor of God. I want to kind of break down that statement, the whole armor of God. It's emphasizing that every single piece of the armor is important. It's a holistic approach. We can't leave off certain aspects of this armor. They're all important. So we can't be lazy when it comes to putting on these pieces of the armor. We can't uh emphasize one area over another We've got to make sure that we're putting on the entire armor. The second thing I'm going to mention about this biblical worldview is the importance of truth We see that in verse 14. He says, We're to stand, having our loins skirt about with truth. And the picture that we would get if we were to live in that time period was that when the Romans went into battle, They would take that that that robe that they were wearing and they would pull it up and tuck it into their belt so that they could move about freely when they were standing in battle. And so he says that the girdle that holds the skirt up so that they could move freely in battle is truth. He's emphasizing the importance of having a worldview that is built solidly on what is true, not speculation, not emotion. That experience on truth. Simply put, our our our our lives have to be built squarely on the truth And Jesus even talks about the difference between someone who builds their life on a rock and someone who builds their life on the sand. One's going to stand fast when the storms come, and the other's going to Collapse. And so Paul is using the same kind of analogy in a different kind of metaphor. The third thing that's mentioned is the importance of living out our position. Now, in verse number 14 he says, have on the breastplate of righteousness. And when it comes to interpreting what Paul's talking about, there's really two different things we could be looking at. Either one we could be looking at the the fact that we need to be living in the light of the fact that we are positionally righteous, so he's talking about our justification. Or he could be talking about the implication of living in the light of the gospel being the practical works of righteousness that flow out of the Christian experience. And there is a sense in which we can't be absolutely dogmatic about which of those two is in view. But the reason that I take the second approach as opposed to the first is because Paul does deal with positional realities in other parts of the armor. But when he refers back to the Christian's armor in another context than 1 Thessalonians 5, he appears to be referring not to the positional righteousness that we have in Christ, but the works of righteousness that flow out of that position. And so in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 8, he says, Let those who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith. What is faith and love? They are fruits of the Spirit. So a person who is positionally righteous, who cannot strengthen that position in any way, That person is going to grow into Christ's likeness, and as they do, some of the things that are developed in their lives are faith and love. Galatians talks about the fruit of the Spirit being love, joy, peace, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. And so in my view, when he talks about putting on the breastplate of righteousness, he's not talking about a position, he's talking about the practice of the Christian life. What he's saying is that sin is always destructive and it's always entangling. And so a Christian who is living in the light of the position that they have is a Christian who is going to experience a lot more stability in their Christian life because of sins entanglements that they are not experiencing because they're walking consistently I dealt with this in a lot more detail on Wednesday night, but I'm going to keep moving on to the next piece. Number four, the importance of understanding the nature of the gospel. In verse 15, he says that you are to have your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Now the analogy that he's borrowing from is that in the Roman days a person would wear uh a certain kind of shoe or sandal that was specifically geared towards being in battle. And and the the best uh We say modern analogy is that a person who's playing football or soccer or baseball wears shoes that have spikes, cleats, that dig into the ground and they do that so that they can plant their foot and have good stability. Well that's the the picture that that Paul is painting here when he talks about our feet being shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Well, someone might say, well, is he talking about going out and being an evangelist? And the answer is no, that's not what he's talking about. It is true that as Christians, we're supposed to be proclaiming the gospel indiscriminately. We've been talking about this all week. But he's talking about an aspect of the gospel that is essential to being able to stand firm. And that's understanding that it is a gospel of peace. It establishes peace between you and me In God, because when we were not believers before our conversion, we were in a position of under God's wrath Couple of verses that talk about this. Romans 5. It says that we are now justified by his blood and saved from wrath. through him. We were the enemies of God. We're now reconciled to God by the death of his son. That's why he calls it a gospel of peace. Peace has been established between you and God through the death of Christ on the cross. Or Colossians chapter 1, it says that he has made peace through the blood of his cross, and he has reconciled all things to himself. He says, you were sometime alienated, enemies in your mind, and now you are reconciled to God through the work of Christ. And so the the idea is that the gospel establishes peace between God and man. This gives us a sense that we are fully accepted in the beloved. It should remove all fear of condemnation. I think of what Romans chapter 8 says. It says There is therefore now no condemnation of them which are in Christ Jesus. So while in my view, verse fourteen, the breastplate of righteousness is talking about practical implication Verse 15, your feet shot of the preparation of the Gospel of Peace, is talking about a positional reality that is foundational to standing in the Christian experience. One of the greatest ways that Satan exploits the Christian is to cause them to be fearful of their position, to to to make them feel like they have to somehow earn God's favor and and and God Uh God will love me more if I'm a more faithful Christian, or he'll love me less if I stumble in the Christian in the Christian life. And so while I'm not suggesting that it's okay and we should just go ahead and live as if Uh being a Christian doesn't matter. What I am saying though is that it's important that when we live the Christian life, we're not living it to earn God's favor. We recognize it's already been established by the perfect righteousness of Christ. And the cross of Christ has canceled in full our sin debt. And there's nothing more for us to do, and there's nothing more for us to give. We don't become more holy or more righteous because of the length of our Christian life. And so I think that's really what he's focusing in on here. The stability to stand is rooted in the fact that we know there is peace between me and between my Creator and its peace because of the cross of Christ. The fifth thing that's mentioned is the importance of a daily dependence on the Lord. Verse 16, he says, above all taking the shield of faith whereby you may should be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. I said this on Wednesday night. The picture is not uh an individual holding a shield by themselves. But in the Roman world, they would have linked up as a unit and they would have all moved together with these massive shields, kind of like the size of a door. And they would have them above them, they would have them linked together in front of them, and they would move as a unit. And so really what it pictures is the importance of walking by faith, not just as an individual But as a member of the body. And so the corporate nature of how we grow as Christians is very, very important. It emphasizes that Part of the way that our faith is strengthened and we're able to deal with Satan's onslaught is when we have other brothers and sisters in Christ who bear that burden with us. And our faith is strengthened as we have that that that that very encouraging Christian fellowship. We stir one another up to love and to good works. We are strengthened in our faith as we As we work together and grow together into Christ-likeness. And I think that's really the picture that we have there. Number six the encouragement of our future salvation. He says in verse 17, take the helmet of salvation. In 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 9, He talks about putting on a helmet, the hope of salvation, because God has not appointed us to wrath. I think there's a connection between what Paul is saying in 1 Thessalonians 5 and what he's saying in Ephesians chapter 6. The aspect of our salvation that we are to focus our attention on, being pictured in the helmet is the fact that there's an ultimate salvation that we're going to experience, our glorification. Now glorification Uh does is is is what we're going to experience after we die and we stand before God and we're no longer dealing with sin and temptation and the frustrations of living in a fallen world. And so what Paul is saying is to preserve you from being overly discouraged in the Christian life and only focusing in on what you're dealing with at this very moment. You need to look ahead at what God has prepared for those who love him. You need to remind yourself, all things work together for good to them that love God, to them are the called according to his purpose. You have to remember that there's going to be a day that we're going to stand complete before him and experience all the benefits of our salvation, even the benefits that we're not yet fully experiencing today. And so he's emphasizing that aspect of the Christian life. We can be sustained in moments of discouragement because we remember our future glory. And the last thing we're going to mention is the importance of Scripture. And so in verse 17 he says, and the sword of the Spirit. which is the word of God. Out of all the pieces that have been mentioned, they are pieces that are more on the defensive nature, the ability to stand. The ability to quench the fiery darts, the ability to be protected if if a dart gets gets hurled at you. This one here is different. A sword is not just something we use in defense. It's something we use to go on the offense. And God uses the Word of God, the Sword of the Spirit, to mature us and to build us and to strengthen us to essentially go on the offensive. And so Romans chapter 12, verse 2 says that we are to not be conformed to this world, but to be transformed through the renewing of our minds. The question is: what does God use to renew our minds? It's Scripture. I also think of Psalm 19, we talked about this throughout the week. It converts the soul, it makes wise the simple, it rejoices the heart. enlightens the eyes. A Christian cannot get away with neglecting the Word of God. So what I'd like us to do with this very quick survey is kind of bring it to a very practical conclusion. What can we learn from this? How can this be a help to us? Let me give you some very simple thoughts that I hope will be a help to you this morning. The first is this you and I cannot cheat in our preparation on these issues and get away with it. There will always be consequence. If you choose not to put on the whole armor of God consistently day by day, there will be a sense in which you will live a defeated Christian life. It's not going to affect your position in Christ. You are eternally secured because of the redemptive work of Christ, but you're not living out the position you have to the extent God wants you to. The second thing, our lives have to be built on truth. Not emotion, not experience, not I hope so. Truth. Third, we can't play with sin without painful consequences that life that make life far more complicated than it needs to be. Sin, even for the Christian, is going to affect them and the people around them. And I think that's drawn out in these verses. Next, we need our stability to be firmly rooted in the unshakable security that we have in Christ. He accepts us in the beloved. We are righteous in Christ. We are Saints, declared righteous and holy. And we need to remind ourselves continually of that very truth. Next, I would say we need to take the Christian life one day at a time. And remind ourselves of the importance of choosing to trust in what God has revealed about himself, about his ways, and rooted in his promises. We need to walk by faith And the last thing I think two things I'm going to mention is that we need to keep our focus on the long-term, not just the short-term frustrations that we experience. And we cannot neglect the Word of God. This morning I hope that as we think about these truths about the Christian's armor, and I know it was a very quick run-through. I know this is a little longer than most of our videos, but it's it's it's a short video when you think about how much content is in Ephesians chapter 6. I hope it'll be an encouragement to you. Hope that you have a wonderful week. If this has been a blessing to you, please share that. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. And Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. Or we'll see you on Monday when we when we do our next video. Have a blessed day. Bye now