Uh let me draw your attention to a couple of things. Um first of all, uh you'll see that we put together a preaching schedule uh for uh um the rest of the spring uh into the Easter season. And so what that's gonna do is it's gonna allow you to to know what text of scriptures we're gonna be dealing with each Sunday morning and each Sunday evening it also gives you um an idea of what our theme will be and um if we planned it out well and nothing changes that that is the schedule that we will be following. So I'd really like to encourage you to take some time, read through those passages. Also, we're starting back our Anchored in the Word, morning reflections. And the way that we're doing those is we're basically going back over the sermon that was preached on Sunday and we're breaking it into bite-sized chunks. And so last week, if you saw any of those, we're going back over last Sunday's message. This week we'll be going over today's message So I wanted to remind you of that. And then also on the back, there are QR codes to several different Bible reading plans. And rather than uh printing off a whole bunch of Bible reading plans and setting them in the lobby, uh we just put together a resource that allows you to link through QR code two different reading plans. One is chronological and it would get you all the way through the Bible. The other is the McChain series and that's actually the one that I personally follow. What it does is you basically do one Old Testament reading and one New Testament reading and you'll on average read about four chapters a day. And then at the bottom there's additional reading plans that you So I wanted to mention that resource. I hope that you'll use it. We put it in this week's bulletin and we'll leave some spare copies out in the lobby area for the future in case you lose that. Also I wanted to mention that we have some house rule reminders and from time to time it's important for us to remember some very important details. At the beginning of the year, in the beginning of the summer, it's important for us to remember that our facility Is something that uh is cleaned regularly, it's maintained regularly, and um as members of our church, as folks that are coming, we really want to take good care as good stewards. of this facility. And it's not about the facility. It's really about helping the people that maintaining it on a regular basis. And you'd be amazed how much money goes into maintenance. And sometimes if we're not careful, we'll have to maintain things at a higher rate if we don't take good care of them. So these are just basic reminders. I went through them with our teen Sunday school class with the guys. And the answer that they said is, well, that's all common sense stuff, Pastor Joel. And I said, Yes, that's true, but you guys don't follow it. So, you know, simple stuff. If you turn it off, turn it back or if you turn it off, turn or turn it on, turn it back off. Uh if you're gonna borrow something, don't expect the person to give it to you. Ask them, bring it back to them and Uh the same way that you got it, if you broke it, you should replace it. Uh children don't run in the building. Those are very, very similar. Simple things that will be a tremendous help to you. So please do read through this. Don't just read through it, but go through it with your children, especially the ones that apply to them And also I put in there who our deacon is that's in charge of maintenance, and that's Jim Williams. So if there is something that is broken, draw that to his attention and then also let the office know because Sometimes if we have miscommunication, we might have two people working on the same project, and we don't want that to happen. So wanted to draw your attention to those two items. Also We are still doing directory photos, and so after the morning service, if you'd like to get a family or individual photo, please do that. That'll be back in the fellowship hall Everything else in the bulletin is fairly self-explanatory. We have several different things with signup sheets, so please make sure that you sign up for those. Okay, if you could, let's turn our Bibles for opening scripture reading, and that's Romans chapter 11. Excuse me, Romans chapter 11, verses 33 to 36. Here's what the scriptures say. O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out For who hath known the mind of the Lord, and who hath been his counselor, who hath first given to him and shall be recompensed unto him again For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory forever. Amen. This morning the focus of our worship and the focus of the passage that we will be looking at is the mystery of divine providence. How does God govern this universe and what is his ultimate purpose and what he allows and what he causes and how he works circumstances to an ultimate purpose. That will be the focus of our service. And so as we sing these hymns that really emphasize God's power and his authority, I hope that you really sing these songs with understanding as we look at the scriptures. Scriptures that are read. Let's allow these truths to settle into our hearts. Let's bat together for prayer, please. Father, we come to you with hearts that are so grateful that when we pray, we're praying to a God who rules and reigns. A God who takes the circumstances of life and he moves them and uses them to accomplish good in the lives of his children We can rest in the promise that all things work together for good to them who love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose Father, help us this morning to see you high and lifted up and to exalt you appropriately as you are. And then, Father, I pray that we would be humbled and that we would be comforted and that we would be encouraged as we recognize that the sovereign who rules over all is personally and actively at work in our lives. You are working in our lives to accomplish good. And I pray that that would comfort us in a very rich, in a very personal way. Father, as we sing these hymns, may our hearts be knit together, and may they be full of praise to you. As we read these scriptures, May we submit our wills to the word and may our hearts be turned to you and our thinking be shaped and changed. We ask that in all these things you would be glorified. Father, we recognize in our church congregation there are many who have dealt with heavy, heavy issues in these last few weeks. We've had church members pass away. We've had several that have been hospitalized. We have folks that are carrying very heavy burdens. And Father, I pray that you would meet each personal need in a very special way. I thank you that as a church we have an opportunity to minister and to pour our lives in service to our brothers and sisters in Christ whom we love dearly. Encouraged in Christ's name, Amen. All right, good morning. It is a blessing to be with you. Thank you all for your prayers for our family. Please stand with me as we prepare to sing together. There's nothing nothing quite like singing in person. Hymn number five, hymn number five, oh four, a thousand tongues to sing, we'll sing all five verses. Sing out this morning. And over to hymn number 12, I'll hail the power of Jesus' name. We'll sing all four verses Great singing. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number fifty. Number fifty, be thou exalted. We'll sing all three verses. We are in the end, like we're going to take the law in the land. Maybe Okay , we need this morning that we found Gospel of Luke. The Gospel of Luke chapter seven. We'll be reading verses eleven through nineteen. Luke chapter seven verses eleven through nineteen. 18 The scriptures say, and it came to pass the day after that he went into a city called Maine. And many of his disciples went with him and much people. Now when he had come nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow as much people of the city was with her, and when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not. And he came and touched the bee And they that bare him stood still, and he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise. And he said He that was dead sat up, and began to speak, and he delivered him to his mother, and there came a fear on all, and they glorified God, saying that a great prophet is risen up among us, and that God hath visited his people. And this rumor of him went forth throughout all Judea and throughout all the region roundabout. And the disciples of John showed him of all these things. And John, calling unto him two of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look we For another. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. We'll continue our singing as we turn to hymn number 38, How Great Thou Art. Single four versus Any man. Our sort of for the month of January will be 151 in the blue book. 151 in the blue, but please stand with me as we sing all three verses of I Run to Christ. We will sing the last verse, a cappella. And I 'm sorry , deal with me, I wise to him And they will praise our God before I pray my name And one thing I four Anyway, please be seated. Jesus said that if I first I should come to him No one else can say I should come to him. Jesus said if I am weak, I should come to him. No one else can give my strength. I should home today. For the Lord is God and faithful, he will keep us. We can always run to Jesus, Jesus strong and cry Zoom of the zoo boom. Jesus said that if I fear I should come to him No one else can be my shield. I should Come to him for the light days. He will keep us day and night. We can always run to Jesus. Jesus strong and strong. And then we'll get it. Jesus said if I am lost, he will come to me. And he showed me on that cross. He will come to Me for the Lord is unfaithful, He will Keep us in always right to Jesus. Jesus strong and kind, for the Lord is good and faithful, He will keep us day and light. We can always run to Jesus, Jesus strong and kind. Jesus strong and calm. Okay, well if you have your Bibles, I want to encourage you to take them and let's turn together Luke chapter 7. And uh our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for your junior church lesson. Luke chapter 7, and we're reading verses 11 through 19 this morning. Here's what God's Word says. And it came to pass the day after that he went into a city called Nain. Many of his disciples went with him and much people. Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother. And she was a widow. Much people of the city was with her. And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and he said unto her: Weep not. I'm going to stop there and ask the Lord to bless this focus on his word and to help us to understand the significance of this very important miracle that authenticated the life and ministry of Christ. It demonstrated who he was and really affirms that his message about who he was was true. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, as we open up the Word this morning, I pray that first of all you would help us to have minds that are clear and focused. Father, help me as I communicate this text and the very important truths that are being demonstrated in this text. I pray that you'd help me to communicate it with clarity and simplicity Father, I know over the last several weeks and months, many have faced hardship. These hardships cause us to ponder. Father, I pray that you'd help us this morning as we look at this text to ponder and to be to find our answers in the truths of your word. To find these objective truths to be comforting and strengthening to us as your people. Father, we ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is such an important part of Jesus really preparing himself to preach and to teach. And so as Luke is going to get into a lot of the teaching of Christ, he's He reveals several stories from the time that Jesus is preparing to do this teaching. And really the purpose of that serves to undergrad the fact that what Jesus is saying is true. Who Jesus says that he is is true. And ultimately, he's trying to strengthen or encourage a man named Theophilus. But what I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to really focus in Not just on how this piece fits into the flow of what Luke is trying to reveal as he's encouraging this man Theophilus, but I like us to see what this passage is revealing to us about God's ways. The way that God works and the way that God moves in the world. And so I give you this summary statement in the beginning. The resurrection of a widow's only son serves as a powerful testimony. to the mystery of divine providence and the kindness of God's ways to point us to himself. Let me say it again. The resurrection of a widow 's one only son Serves as a powerful testimony to the mystery of divine providence and the kindness of God's ways to point us to Himself. As we read these verses, what we're going to see is that God wants us to rest. In his care, his sovereign care. In fact, the word providence might be a word that you don't often hear in Baptist churches, and sadly that really should not be the case. The fact is, when we talk about God being Sovereign, we mean that he rules over all. When we talk about his providence, we're saying that as he rules and he reigns, he is actively, personally involved in the lives of people. These verses are going to show us that that is in fact the case. And I want us to see the practical implications as we unpackage this concept. But before we do, I want you to see what is a side note, but I think an important note in understanding the significance of what's going on in these verses. There is a very clear connection between the miracle that Luke records in Luke chapter 7, verses 11 through 19, and something that Jesus has already said at the beginning of his Galilean ministry in Nazareth. And it also doesn't just link back to what Jesus says in Luke 4, but it actually links back to what happened in the Old Testament days with Elijah and with Elisha. One of the things that's important for us to remember is that when we read the Old Testament, many times we see certain things that because we are New Testament Christians and we know the complete story, we have all these New Testament passages. We read the Old Testament and our eyes are opened to certain things like we make these connections. You know what I'm talking about? We make those connections But we have to recognize that there was a need for people to make some connections when Jesus performed the miracle that he performed. So I take you back to Luke chapter 4. Where Jesus steps into the synagogue at Nazareth, and for the very first time, he is going to present himself not just as That the son of Mary, who grew up under Joseph, a carpenter, but he's going to present himself as the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy regarding the Messiah. And so The scripture tells us in Luke 4 that he walks up and he goes to the prophet Isaiah and he opens the scroll and he goes to the very place where the following words are stated, and he reads them. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, and he has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor and sent me to heal the brokenhearted preach deliverance to the captives. And the recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. And he pauses and he looks at the people and he says, Today that scripture is fulfilled In your ears. Whoa! All of a sudden these people are saying, We don't know you as the Messiah. We know you as a carpenter's son. And so there was this tremendous division. And so people are wondering at his gracious words. Some said, Is this not Joseph's son? And then Jesus makes the following statement: He says, No prophet is accepted in his own country. And then he goes on to say, remember the way that Israel related to Elijah, and remember the way they received Elisha. In those days, God sent Elijah to a widow woman in Zarephath. And the land of Sidon, which just happens to be the hometown of Jezebel, who was the very wicked queen who was really ruling, we could say over Ahab or with Ahab, however you want to look at it, ruling with Ahab in those days, leading the nation of Israel into tremendous abominations. He says, out of all the people that I sent Elijah to, I sent him to a woman who was dying with her only child in the land to the north of Israel. That's the person who experienced God's blessing. He says, that of all the people that were healed of leprosy, during the life of Elisha, there was a man, his name was Naaman, he was the chief ruler, the chief of the Syrian army. And he comes down to Israel, and that's the person I healed. And he says, You know why I did that? Because you rejected me, and I was going to them. Fascinating to consider. It says when they heard these things, they were filled with wrath. In other words, what Jesus is saying is I am here to present myself as the Messiah. You rejected Elijah, you rejected Elisha, and somebody greater than Elijah, and somebody greater than Elisha is here, and that's me. And so what's really fascinating about the passage we're going to look at is that there is a connection back to those stories. There's a connection back to 1 Kings chapter 17 when Elijah gives life, or we could say resurrects by God's power, this widow at Zarephath's only child. There's a connection back to 2 Kings chapter 5 when this man Naaman is healed. He's making a connection. In other words When the Roman centurion servant is healed, people are going, hey, you know, there's a time in the in the biblical history where there was a foreigner who was healed as well. They're going to see this event and they're going to remember there was a time in the big biblical history when there was a widowed woman's child, only child, who was raised back to life. But what's makes what makes this even more significant is that the very town where Jesus performs this amazing miracle Is the town that 800 years ago, not from us, but from them, 800 years before, the Shunammite woman came to Elisha and said, My son, my only son, is dead. Please do something for me. Pretty significant, isn't it? This little community on a road from Galilee down to Judea. Was going to be the place of two remarkable, amazing miracles. One performed by Elisha and one performed by the Lord Jesus Christ. And all this testifies to the fact that Jesus is greater than I'd encourage you to go back to those passages and read through them because you'll see the similarities, but you'll see these very distinct differences and the distinct differences continually point us to say, Jesus is superior. Jesus is superior. Well, I wanted to give you that little connection before we dig into The heart of what I wanted to look at this morning. And that is this issue of God's providence. How does God govern in the world? So the first thing I want us to see from the text. That God mysteriously governs the natural course of life. What is going on in these verses is something that has been repeated millions upon millions upon millions, in fact, billions of times. People who love someone bury them. And they weep and they mourn. That has happened millions upon millions of times. But this one is different than any other circumstance. Ordinary in one sense, yet absolutely incredible in another. And I want you to see that, as God mysteriously governs in the natural course of light. Verses eleven and twelve it says this. Came to pass the day after that he went into the city called Nain, and many of his disciples went with him, and much people Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. Much people in that city was with her. I want to give you four words to think about as we consider the ordinary yet the extraordinary side of this. The first is the word ordinary. He went into a city called Main. Now it makes complete sense that Jesus, who was going from Galilee, just been in Capernaum, and he was going to the south to Judea. that he would have passed through this city name. In fact, when Jesus is traveling to the city, nobody that was with him said, Oh, I wonder if something amazing is going to happen today or That's really strange that he stops in this community name. It was a normal place. In fact, the reason that Elisha was uh going to this town is because it was one of the places he passed from the north to the south. And there he had a place where he would stay, and that was the whole storyline of this woman whose child died. Very ordinary. Nobody traveling with Jesus would have thought that something was about to happen that was very significant. I can't. Truthfully, that's the way our lives are every single day. You know, we get up in the morning and we never consider what may happen later in the day. We just go about our business. We we get our cereal or oatmeal, or maybe we don't eat breakfast, we get our cup of coffee, we think about what we're going to do in the office that day, or What the kids are going to do in their schooling, we do not consider the implication. It's very ordinary. That's the way these people were. The second is the word visible. Some of Christ's miracles were personal, and they were, you could say, just one-on-one type of situation, but this was not meant to be that way. It says many of his disciples went with him and much people as Jesus is moving from the North Galilee down to the south Judea. There's a whole crew of people that are traveling with him. They're going to witness this and it's going to leave an impact. The third word, third word, not second, third, is the word timely. When he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man being carried out Now, again, that does not appear to be very significant in the timing of the story until we see what happens next. But the fact that Jesus arrived at the town at the moment that he did, with this processional coming out, the very widow, the very person who had died, the whole story It was all a part of God's providential work in the ordinary. You may not realize this or think often of this, but the fact is that God works in these kinds of ways in our lives all the time. Amazingly, this week as I was preparing for this sermon, I have this uh devotional reading that I do. Uh it's uh it's Puritan devotionals. And uh some of them are great, and some of them not so great, but uh this particular uh day I sit down and I'm reading, and as I'm reading, it's all about the providence of God. In fact, I'm gonna read you the quote later in this sermon God 's providence led me to those quotes. Very, very distinct for this particular passage of scripture. Last night I was sitting in my chair and I was doing some reading. I pulled up a book. And as I read as I opened it up and as I moved to the next chapter, the chapter was an exposition of the very text that I'm preaching this morning. Did not influence in any way these notes. But it gave me a lot of things to ponder. God's providence. God's providence is involved in all the little details of life. But there's a fourth word I want you to notice, and that's the word tragic. The only son of his mother, she was a widow, much people of the city was with her. I think about some of the tragic situations that I have personally witnessed in my life. As a pastor, there's a lot. But perhaps the most tragic that I remember was a man who passed away in Ghana who was probably about my age. He had several children. He was studying for his master's in a city that was probably ten hours away. One day he walks into the library, he's pulling out the books that he's going to be working as he's working on his masters, a very educated man, a sharp man, wonderful family, very sweet young young people. His wife is a very sweet woman They live very close to our church. And as he sat down, he dropped dead that fast. No explanation. No paramedics came and got him. Dropped dead. I think he had five children. Some of them were very young. I remember going over to that house, sitting down with the widow and the children. It was stunning. The pain and the grief that woman was experiencing. I remember going to the funeral. I've been to a lot of funerals. We've almost done 20 in our church in the last five years. Do you realize that? Never been to a funeral where the people wept more than that one. Wasn't the family It was the friends who came. Because they felt the weight of what this woman was going through in her kids. It's incredibly gripping. I remember them carrying the casket as they do in their communities and people crying as they're carrying this box. And that's the picture that comes to mind. Yet notice this. She was a widow, so she'd experienced intense grief when she lost her husband. She was a widow, so she experienced a tremendous vulnerability. But her one child, her one hope, is now gone. That intensified the grief and it intensified her vulnerability. And from a human perspective, this story is about pain, suffering, tragedy. It reminds us that is the human experience in a fallen world. But I want you to realize there's another side to this story. It's not just the pain and the tragedy. There is a sense where God's providence is intervening for the good of this woman For the good of this man, and for the good of all the people who are going to witness this event, and for your good and my good, because we're reading the text this morning. This passage of Scripture, this moment in history, was no accident. It was a part of God's work that was going to affect every generation Of people who read the word from this day forward. That's a very significant thing to consider. God providentially guides in the human experience This is an ordinary yet major biblical thing. Daniel 4, he doeth whatever according to his will in the armies of heaven. Among the inhabitants of the earth, none can stay his hand. Or say unto him, What doest thou? Romans eleven thirty three, O the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counselor, or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed to him again. And this next statement is important. For of him and through him and to him are all things. To whom be glory forever. Amen. Isaiah 55, 8. My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. As the heavens are high above the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. Ecclesiastes 3 11. He hath made everything beautiful in his time. We know that God maketh from the beginning to the end, so that no man can find out the work that God is doing. Romans 8, 28, we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. He works mysteriously, meaning that we don't get all the information. It's not like God says, here's what I allowed. Let me explain to you all the reasons why I did this. Let me explain to you all the things that I'm doing because of what I've allowed, or what I caused in a particular situation, or how I intervened in this situation. He doesn't lay this all out, it's mysterious. We don't understand all the purposes, but there are certain things that we can know clearly. Find them in the Word, and I'm going to come back to that in just a moment. We're also not entitled to get all the answers. Might I add, we're not even capable of comprehending all the answers we might be given. Proverbs 25:2: It is the glory of God to conceal a thing, the honor of kings is to search it out. Job 40, God asked Job , Shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct him? He that reproveth God, let him answer it. And Job answered the Lord and said, Behold, I'm vile. What shall I answer thee? I will lay mine hand upon my mouth. Once hath I spoken, I will not answer again, yea, twice I'll proceed no further. That's Job's response. So we move to the second truth. And the second truth is a very important part as we're moving through this. We see the reality that God rules and he reigns and he's providentially involved in the ordinary circumstances of life. But there's a second truth. This governance is intended to point us to an objective understanding of who He is. There's a lot that we don't understand. There's a lot that we don't know, but we know this. If God permitted it, he wants to objectively demonstrate himself to you through that circumstance. That's what the scriptures would tell us. And so I want you to look down at verses 13 to 15. It says, When the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her. And he said unto her, weep not. He came and touched the bear. And by the way, I looked that up because I didn't know how to. actually pronounce such a word. But it's it's it's an old English bear is how you say that. It's basically a casket or a stretcher. He touches it, and they that bear him stood still, and he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise. He that was dead, sat up. He began to speak, and he delivered him to his mother. There are two basic reasons that Jesus raised this man to life. The first is the word compassion. It says when he saw this woman, he had compassion on her. He said we've not every time That I think of Jesus coming in contact with people who were grieving because of the loss of a family member. In every circumstance that I can think of, it says he was moved with compassion. He wept. He felt the sorrow with them. There is nothing wrong with weeping in such moments. In fact, it would be totally unnatural not to weep in such moments Not to feel the weight of such a thing. There's nothing wrong with that. Jesus wept. Jesus grieved. Jesus felt the sorrow of what this woman was experiencing. But then he says something intriguing. He says, weep not. Think about what Paul writes in 1 Thessalonians. He says, We sorrow not as those who have no hope. We sorrow, but there is a limit on some level because we understand something that's bigger than this moment, and bigger than just the physical realm. He says, don't weep. He, out of compassion, raises this man to visibly and objectively witness to his true nature. The scripture tells us who Jesus is. And we can understand, you could say on an academic level, on an intellectual level, what his nature is like. If we were to sit in a theology class and I was to ask you Tell me what you know about God. We've got all these passages of scripture and we'd read them and we'd say, Well, God is such and such because of that truth. And so we have this objective academic understanding of who God is. But my question is Is that academic level where it should stop? The answer is not a chance. God wants us to move us from this simple academic level to something that's very personal. In fact, what's amazing is we read through the Old and New Testament, the majority of the Bible is written in the context of a story. Here is what's going on in Moses ' life. Here's what's going on in the nation of Israel. Here's what's going on in Daniel's life, in David's life And then what does he do? He works in that situation. So it's not just about an academic objective understanding, but there's something very personal to that, something very practical. To that. He wants us to know him on a personal level. So he wants us to go from this academic truth to something practical and personal. The question is, how does God do that? Oh, he teaches the class. He does. Not in a classroom. It's called life. He teaches us practically in life. God wants our knowledge of Him to go from academic to personal to experiential. Psalm 48, verse 8 says the following: As we have heard, so have we seen. In the city of the Lord of hosts. I love that text because if you go to Psalm 48, what you'll see is that there was something terrible going on in Jerusalem. The armies were encamped against the city, and they were going to go down. And by the way, in the ancient world people knew what it was like to see a siege surround a city, where these massive armies would cut the city off from any hope. They would even build walls around the encampment so that they could fight the people that were coming to help out the city and they could keep the people in the city uh completely isolated. And so when uh when a city was watching this encampment come around them That would have been an absolutely terrifying thing because it would have said, you're gonna die. You're gonna starve, you're gonna suffer, and when the when the city is just It's falling apart. They're gonna march in with these massive armies and they're just gonna take what they want. They're gonna kill who they want. They're gonna seize whatever they want. That's a terrifying thing. And you're gonna watch it for month after month after month. Yet that text it tells us. They saw, they heard, they experienced God's protection. That's an experiential knowledge. God wants us to move from academic to personal to experiential, practical So the question is, how does he do it? How does God move us from an academic to a personal experiential knowledge? How does he move us from a shallow, casual relationship to one with rich depth? How does he shape us into the image of Christ? How does God uproot the idols that we find in our hearts? How does God make us consider the emptiness of a fallen world and the glories of our eternal inheritance? There's only one way He can do it. He's got to let us pass through some tough times. We all value strength. You know how strength happens? When you work We all value patience. You know how patience is developed? When you have to endure hardness for a season. We all value compassion. You know where compassion comes from? It comes from personal grief. People who are compassionate are people who have suffered. You mark it down, it's true. The qualities that we exalt, they do not come without process. They do not. And so God in his providence allows us to pass through circumstances because he wants us to know him. Personally, experientially. He wants to transform us by the renewing of our mind. Truth number three. His providence compels the human response. When God does something that is visible and it is objective, the point is not for us to go, ah, that was really cool and kind of move on. The point is to get your attention. I know I mentioned this already. We live in a really secular culture. We live in a culture that rages against God. that despises his ways. Yet two weeks ago, on a Monday night, two weeks ago, two Mondays ago. I'm off. You know what I'm talking about. We're watching Monday night football at the house with my kids. A 24-year-old guy. He tackles a player. T. Higgins played for Clemson. The tackle didn't look like it was, it wasn't like it was a real hard hit or anything like that. He tackles the guy, he stands up like it's normal, and he dropped that fast. And those players, all of the fill were weeping, the announcers were weeping. People didn't know how to deal with that. They had a prayer meeting at the last football game in a very secular anti-God culture. Why is that? Because stuff like this gets people's attention At least it's supposed to. When God does something, he doesn't do it so we can just move on. He does it to shake us. He does it to get our attention. If you're not walking with God, he's going to get your attention. If you're not taking him seriously, he's going to shake you. That's not like a warning. That's just like a when it happens, you'll understand. People ask me this all the time. Pastor, is God chastening me? Something bad happened. I'll say, if God's chastening you, you'll know exactly why when it happens. It's true. If you don't know why, that's not what it is. God wants to get our attention. And you actually see this in these verses. Verse 16: it says, There came a fear on all. And they glorified God, saying that a great prophet has risen up amongst us, that God hath visited his people. And this rumor of him went forth throughout all Judea and throughout all the regions round about. God visibly interrupted the ordinary course of events, and it forces us to efface this eruption. Notice That's why he directs and allows and he causes circumstances. He's calling us to consider. He doesn't act it out of purpose. We know Ecclesiastes 3:1, he says. to everything, there is a season and a time and a purpose. Everything. Season, time, purpose. That means that God is doing stuff through the ordinary. God can use any part of the human experience to potentially bless and encourage and challenge and mold his people. That promise in Romans chapter 8 stands no matter what circumstance you're facing or encountering. He uses good and bad and sweet and bitter, humbling and uplifting. And I will tell you, apart from that Monday night football game, you learn more at a funeral than you do at a football game. You do. You learn a lot more when you're at the bedside of a suffering individual than you do at a party. One of the problems in our culture is people don't go to funerals anymore. They want to party and they live in this virtual world rather than facing the reality of the world that we live in. This is where some of the great problems that we encounter in our culture are going on right now. People do not appreciate life and death and the value of human life and suffering and what it can produce. There's no moment in our human experience that can thwart God's purposes of revealing himself and shaping us into the image of his son. This event is no different. A grieving mother was comforted and overwhelmed by God's grace. You know, think about what was experienced when Lazarus was raised back to life. This is more significant. This is a widow. This is her only child. She was comforted. A crowd was sobered. There came fear on all. People saw God's power on display, they glorified God. They realized he was actively working in their midst. A great prophet has risen up against us, or risen among us, and God has visited his people. People couldn't help but talk about what they saw. This rumor of him went forth throughout all Judea and throughout all the regions round about. But that's not the end of the story. Because the last point I believe is the most important, and that is that his word has to reform uh has to inform our response. Folks, if you experience that does not guarantee that you learn, lots and lots of people grow old and they never grow the wiser Lots of people experience hardship. They don't become more gracious. They don't become more kind. They don't become more merciful. They become bitter and nasty and angry people. Just because you go through tough experience doesn't mean you grow through it. Just because you witness something that is extraordinary does not mean it will shape you in the right direction. Because when you ask questions, you've got to go to the right place to get the answers. That's the key. In fact, even when we read through the Bible, we read through these Old Testament narratives, it is so important. This is a principle of Bible interpretation that when I study these passages in the Old Testament, these narratives, I've got to interpret the narrative in the light of the clear teachings of Scripture in other places. In other words, just because David did such and such doesn't mean Pastor Joel's supposed to do such and such, or that you're supposed to do such and such. Or just because this person experienced this doesn't mean you're going to experience this. Or that it's going to play out the same way. You've got to go to the rest of the of scripture and you interpret what you're reading and you interpret what you're seeing in the light of what is clear and objectively understandable. This is a very, very important principle. But it's not just an interpretation of scripture principle. This is an interpretation of life principle. Verse 18 and 19, this is fascinating. And the disciples of John showed him of all these things. Now, by the way, they showed him because he was in prison. And John called unto him two of his disciples and sent them to Jesus, saying, This is amazing. Art thou he that should come, or look we for another? Can you believe that John the Baptist said that? All these miracles John preached An angel announced John's birth and the nature of the ministry he would have. His father, Zecharias, actually prophesies about John's ministry and the Messiah who will come after him. And John, in a moment of weakness, says, Are you really the Messiah? You know what that tells me? You've got to go to something objective. To interpret what you see. It's true. You've got to go to something objective to understand the significance of what your experience is. Lots and lots of people interpret experience in the light of nothing more than their own emotions. Whatever pops into their mind, what their friends are telling them, your emotions are not a good judge of what is right and wrong. Your friends, depending on if they're gossip people at all, are not necessarily a good judge of what is right and wrong If a hundred people tell you something and it's not true, it doesn't make it true. If everybody feels the same way that you feel about it, it doesn't make it true if it's not true. John the Baptist sent them to Jesus to get an objective answer to his question. What we have seen Does it demonstrate that you're Messiah or not? They needed God's objective revelation to clarify what they saw. Experience without scripture to shape how we process those experiences leads to misunderstandings. And potentially devastating conclusions. Don't miss that. Just because you went through it, just because you saw it, doesn't mean you're going to think right about it when it's done We've got to go to the word. They didn't understand who Jesus was fully without additional information. They said a prophet is among us. Well, here's more than a prophet. He's the Messiah. When they say God has visited his people, they weren't thinking, wow, Emmanuel God with us. They're simply saying he's working through somebody like Elijah and Elisha. That's what they're thinking. They needed something objective to inform who Jesus was. Just seeing something significant isn't enough They knew Jesus did something remarkable, but they needed clarification to understand that the sign was authenticating. He is Messiah. Even John needed Christ to reaffirm what John had been preaching was true. Sometimes we go through human experience that leaves more questions than answers. How we seek those answers is extremely important. We must go back to what is objectively true and start there as the foundation for processing our experiences. Many times in a counseling situation, someone will say, I feel this. I don't want to say it doesn't matter. Because it does matter on some level, they're feeling it, but It doesn't mean that what they feel is true, or what they feel should inform what they believe to be true. I saw this, I experienced this, I heard this. We've got to go to the Word and say what is God saying? is true. And I need to go to what God says is true, and I need to inform my thinking on what is true. I did this just the other day. As I was spending time in the Word, I sat down and I said, Today is, and I wrote the date wrong, and then I wrote it right the second time. Okay. And then I said, God is, and I wrote, and I wrote the scripture. God tells me that such and such is true about me. And I just went one by one by one by one by one by one by one. And the question is, why did I write those things down? Is it because I felt them? Nope. Is it because they just popped into my mind because they're true? Nope. I wrote them down because the objective, authoritative word of God says they're true. And I read them and I rehearsed them to myself because whether I feel it or believe it, it's true. It's true. And you know what happened is I went through that list? It warmed my soul. Encouraged my soul. I said, God, thank you that this is true because your word says. Thank you. This is true because your word says That's how we process circumstance. We don't go and take opinion polls. We don't go by our feelings up and down every single day. You'd go nuts If that's the way you lived your life. Or if that's how you're living your life, not good, not wise. You've got to go to the objective realities of Scripture. We can affirm on the authority of Scripture that He has personally and actively at work in our lives. So, how do we apply it? Let me give you some simple thoughts in closing. He wants us to move from academic to personal. He wants us to move from shallow and casual to Depth that is rich. He wants to shape us into the image of Christ. He wants to pull down the idols of our heart and turn us to himself. He wants us to consider the emptiness of this fallen world and the glories of eternity. How does he do it? The circumstances of life. He's personally and actively at work in your everyday ordinary life. It's true. That's based on the authority of Scripture. It's being demonstrated in this passage. So on a close With a statement that I read late in the week that I think so beautifully illustrates the intent of this text. Listen to what it says. This was written by Stephen Sharnak many, many hundreds of years ago. He says, nothing is acted in the world without the will of God. His will either commands or permits. That distinction is important. He didn't say that distinction is important. I say that distinction is important. Nothing can subsist without God's care and power. If you want a world that's random, it's gonna fall apart really fast. Like a skillful pilot, he sits at the helm and steers the world in that course it should. In the least moments, if God should withhold the influence of his providence, we should melt into nothing. It is not high presumption, or is it not high presumption for ignorance to judge God's proceedings? When the whole connection of their end is unraveled, they appear highly beautiful. Discover a glorious wisdom and righteousness. It is certain God righteously orders his providence. I wish I could have written that. But I can read it to you because it's very it's very powerful. It's very true. It's consistent with the text that we're looking at and the scriptures that we have brought to bear. And so I ask you this question : Are you willing to trust God? Are you willing in all the ups and downs of life? And as a church, we've had a lot lately. Our prayer sheet is like double what it was a month ago. The ladies ' uh Facebook group is like it's just one thing after and these are like heavy issues. People are going through a lot. As all these things are unfolding, I ask the question: where will you go to get the answer? Or will you harden your heart and say, I don't even want to think about it, I'm just going to detach. That is a fool's errand, my friends. You detach when God is calling you to think, you will pay for it. We've got to go to the Word so that it objectively informs our perception of what God is doing. May God help us to do that. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father in heaven, your word is rich and it is clear. It's pure. It's true. Father, may we, as we go through unsettling waters in life, find stability resting fully on the foundation Of your kindness and your wisdom and your righteousness as you guide in the affairs of our lives. Father, this principle is so very, very important. May we live in the light of it. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to invite you to turn with me in your hymn books to hymn 44. Hymn 44. We're going to sing the first, the second, and the third verses of To God be the glory. By the way, I will I will tell you after a message like that, I'll probably there's probably question marks out there. You know, give me a call this week, send me a text. Send me a message. I'd be glad to sit down with you and talk through this practically with you. We'll be going through this in our Anchored in the Word studies, and I might be able to spend a little bit more time on some of these issues. Okay. I'd encourage you to watch those. I'm not saying any of this without a sense of the heaviness and the pain sometimes we experience. In these times. But I am telling you, there are real answers in the word. We can find them, and we need them. We need to stand on them. Him 44, let's stand together to God be the glory, verses 1 through 3. And is it thousands of bucks doesn't you think? Bring the Lord, bring the Lord, let me go to the wild and get a little bit of a. Over again, the kindness of one to everyone. Pray the Lord, praise the Lord, let me let his voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let me all be voice, oh God. Let's sing an a cappella on the last. Let's really sing it out. Here we go. Great things he has done us, great things he has done, and great our rejoicing through Jesus has done. For your mind, and nature will be our wonder I can for when he does me see Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth here. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let us be all before Oh come to the Father, through Jesus the Son, and give him all glory, great things he has done. Great song. Well I hope that tonight you'll be able to join us again. Uh if the suits can uh stand in the lobby area, and I I want to encourage you to go go by and greet them and uh welcome them into our church membership. We're so grateful to have you be a part of our church family. And I want to ask if Frank Dumshaw, if you could come and close us in prayer, please. And we hope to see you. See you tonight. Hope you have a great week. Our Father in heaven, we just we marvel and wonder at the just the the wonderful glory of your providence in uh in this world and in our lives. personally Lord and we're we're so thankful that you are the gracious and merciful kind God that you are and um and that you alone um have the wisdom and the and the and the and the power and and grace to to that that you would rule in this in this world the way that you We're so thankful for it, Lord, and um most of all we're thankful that you and your um wonderful kindness and love and mercy have have brought us to the saving knowledge of your your wonderful son who in your divine providence you you chose to to love this world in that way that you might that you sent him that we might through faith in him have eternal life and and his righteousness and and fellowship with you. Lord we just we thank you for it all in Christ's precious name. Amen.