Luke chapter 24. I want you to, as you're turning your Bibles to Luke 24, I want you to think about situation, maybe when you were a kid, and I'll tell you about one that happened with me. Where something happened, and the next day you woke up and you said, you know, I sure hope that wasn't true. And it was. And Then you didn't know how to handle the situation you were dealing with. I remember when I was about fourth or fifth grade, I had gotten the new bicycle from my parents and Maybe it wasn't fourth, maybe it was more like fifth or sixth grade. And it was Blackberry season. And we're not quite there yet here in Maryland, but at the end of the school year where we lived in Florida, The blackberries would be everywhere at that time of the year. And where we walked from my house to the school went through this path where there was a deep swamp area. And all the way running up from that swampy area to the path where we would uh would be would be blackberries everywhere. And so as we walked along the trail, we would pick blackberries through the fence. Well I remember one day I decided I wanted to get those blackberries inside and we got a whole bunch of blackberries and some some of my friends and I we went back into some areas we really weren't supposed to be with our bicycles. Well, along the way, we got in some brush and some sticks that got into my bicycle, and it actually ripped a very important section of my bicycle. off of the bicycle. It was so badly damaged that I couldn't ride my bicycle home. I had to walk with my bicycle And I remember getting home and getting a lot of questions asked of me, and telling a little bit of uh falsehood a few times, and uh going to bed and uh feeling really guilty about that. But it wasn't just that I felt really guilty about what I'd done. I was hoping so badly that it was a bad dream, and when I went into the garage, my bicycle would be fine. That next morning I got up, walked in the garage, and sure enough, the bicycle looked just like it did the night before. And I remember all these thoughts that went through my he my mind. I was so troubled. I'm just a kid. It's not a really big deal. There's nothing eternally significant about what I had just gone through apart from the fact that I had, you know, lied to my parents and I was gonna have to face some consequences as a result of that. And I wouldn't have a bicycle for a while because I'd broken that. But I want you to think about what was going on in the hearts of the people that had been following Christ. We're not talking about a bicycle that had broken. We're talking about something that these people had put their entire lives on the line for. Some of them had followed Christ from the beginning, so over three years Some of these people had left their jobs, they'd left their families, they'd left their livelihoods, and they're following Jesus, and they had been mocked probably by some of the very people who had once done business with them. They believed that Jesus was going to be not only their Messiah, but he was going to lead a triumph. over Rome, and he was going to establish the Jewish people as a powerful, influential people, and all the world would come to Jerusalem. That's what these people believed. In fact, we saw last week that as they were coming into Jerusalem, huge crowds of people were standing on the sides, and they were throwing down these palm branches, and they're saying, Hosanna, save us. But within a few days, it completely changed. Everything that those people had been living for that they thought was about to happen You want to talk about falling flat. You want to talk about a sick feeling in your stomach. Jesus, their Messiah, was not just dead. But he had been scorned and beaten and spat on and crucified and they watched his body hang on a cross in that hot Middle Eastern sun. They had seen the spear get thrust up into his side and that blood and water fall out. And they had heard the religious leaders mocking and cheering as Jesus is now dead. And these people go, what in the world are we going to do? We got no hope. Whatever their motive was for following Jesus, it seemed like it was flat and it was done, and they had no hope. And so three days after Jesus' death, we pick up our story in Luke 24, and this is what it says. Upon the first day of the week. Very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared and certain others with them. And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre, and they entered in and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. It came to pass as they were much perplexed thereabout. Behold, two men stood by them in shining garments, and as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, and they said unto them, Why? Seek ye the living among the dead. He is not here. He's risen. Remember how we spake unto you. when he was in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and the third day rise again. And they remembered his words and returned from the sepulchre and told all these things. unto the eleven and to all of the rest. I'm not going to read this entire section right now, but we are going to actually look at these verses down to verse 27 during our time period. But I want to kind of get the story set because this is a story. And when I say a story, I don't mean it's like a mythological story. I mean it's a record of what actually happened. These people really felt the emotions that you and I feel when we have gotten duped. Or when we have done something really bad, or when we think that there's no hope. These people are feeling that way. And as those ladies are going there to that sepulchre on that morning, they believe that they're going to meet a Roman guard there that's guarding it. They're going to plead with them that they're going to roll the stone away, and they believe they're going to find A rotting body that they're going to put spices and anointment on just to show respect to their Messiah. That's what they believe. Why in the world does Luke take the time? Why does the Holy Spirit move Luke to record these words? Well, here's the reason. He wanted to leave a compelling witness for the bodily resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ from the dead. That's what this passage is all about. It's a compelling witness. And I think by the end of our time this morning, you will hopefully see that there is a compelling witness and a case that Jesus Christ is not dead, he has died and is risen and is coming again. God wants you and me to be convinced That the gospel is true. And he wants us to turn in repentance and faith and trust alone in the finished work of Jesus. Now, I don't know every person here. Some of you may be sitting here going, I trusted the Lord Jesus as a child. And I have no doubt in my mind that Jesus died for my sins and I stand complete in him, just like the song we just sang. That could be everybody here, it could be most of you, it could be some of you, I don't know, your situation. But most definitely there will be somebody here today who might say, you know, I don't know if I'm convinced. I don't know if I'm convinced. I don't know if I believe. I know I don't believe. I reject this message. I have no idea where you stand today, but I do want to ask you this. Please take a few moments to consider the compelling witness that we find in this text. How can you and I be convinced that Jesus has died for our sins and he is alive today? And he's coming again to take his children to be with him. How can we be convinced of that? Well I want to begin with the first section of our of our study this morning. I want to look at the parable that Jesus gives just a few days before he actually dies. and rises from the dead. In fact, it's about a week before, and Jesus is coming there, getting ready to come into the city. And in John chapter 12, we read this parable last week. It says this Jesus answered them saying, The hour is come. Now when he makes this statement, he is basically coming to Jerusalem. All these people are saying, save us, save us, save us. And the disciples, when they hear the hour has come, they're thinking, it's time. The whole reason I came to follow Jesus, I'm about to see it. I'm gonna get to sit on a throne. I'm gonna get to be a part of a kingdom. We're gonna triumph over Rome. We're gonna establish the kingdom. I'm gonna be a part of that. And they're excited. But that's not what Jesus was thinking. He says this. The hour has come that the Son of Man be glorified. Verily, verily I say unto you, except a corn of wheat, fall into the ground, and die. It abideth alone. But if it die, it brings forth much fruit. And the disciples are like, glorify a dead branch on the ground? What in the world is Jesus talking about? Now some of you maybe couldn't even picture what he's talking about, but here's what he's saying. You walk out into a field, there's corn everywhere. And some of that corn, because of the wind, a storm whatever has snapped off. It has those kernels on the stock itself, but it's fallen on the ground and you won't want to pick it up. It's dead. It's just laying there. And so you come through and all the harvest comes in and people take all that corn and they dry it out or they sell it for it. Whatever they're going to do, they do with it. And that one piece is just laying there in the dirt. And it's dry. And it's as dead as dead can be. But the next season, the rain comes. All those dried-out kernels soak into the soil. And the farmer comes out and he says, I don't remember planting any corn here, and there's corn all over the place. He says, how in the world? There's corn all over the place. And he can see the remains of a cornstalk fell in the dirt. Jesus said, that's what I mean by the hour has come. I'm gonna die. But when I die, I'm gonna give life to an innumerable multitude of people. My death is not a waste, it's a triumph. We come to the second section, and that's this. The disciples did not understand what Jesus was talking about at all. There was confusion. In fact, I want to draw your attention to some of the little details that are recorded for us in this passage. We get the big picture. These ladies are going to the tomb early, early in the morning. But I want you to see the little statements that are made in this text that tell us about the disposition of these ladies, what they're thinking as they walk to that tomb. As we look down, the first thing that we see in verse number one it says this. They were bringing spices which they had prepared. What does that tell us about these ladies? They believed that when they came to the sepulchre, they were going to find a dead body. Okay? They didn't believe they were going to find an empty sepulchre. They believed they were going to find a body in there. And they were going to put the ointment on that body, and they were going to pay their last respects. They didn't understand what Jesus was talking about. In fact, it's interesting later on in verse number 11, or in verse number 4, it says that when they came to the tomb, And they see that it's open, they are much perplexed. They go, What in the world is going on? The first thing that probably pops into their mind is not Jesus rose from the dead, but somebody broke into this tomb and stole his body. What are we going to do? And verse number five, it tells us that when these two men, the angels, are standing there and they speak to these women, It says, as they were afraid, it doesn't say they became afraid when they saw those two men. It says they already were afraid. And then when these men spoke to them, it says they bowed down their faces These do not look like people from the account that we have here who are going to lead a story that you and I are going to be celebrating 2,000 years later, does it? Doesn't sound like a couple of people who are going to lead a powerful movement that's going to change the world forever. Doesn't sound like it at all. It sounds like a couple of women who did not believe Jesus would rise from the dead, who when they see the evidence that he has are very concerned and don't understand how to make sense of all this. And then when they actually hear that he's risen, they're fearful. Then we look at verses 5 to 9, and this is what the angels say to them. They actually ask them a question. Why seek ye the living among the dead? Those angels knew what they were doing. They were expecting to find a body. He said he's not here. He has risen. Remember how he spoke unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying, the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men. and be crucified and the third day rise again. And notice it doesn't say that he would or that he might. He said it he must This was something that God had purposed it was going to happen. It had to happen, or there'll be no kingdom, there'll be no forgiveness, there'll be no cleansing. You and I could never have a walk with God. It must happen. It says they remembered his words and returned from the sepulchre and all told all these things unto the eleven and to all the rest. Now don't miss the next statement. In verse 13, it says this. In verse 11, and their words seem to them as an idle tale. They believed them not. Now who who were the people that the women were talking to? I'm going to tell you. John Peter, Thomas, Matthew. He's talking about the apostles He's talking about the disciples, the very same people who within a few weeks are going to be standing in the temple at Pentecost saying, you crucified the Messiah, but he's alive today. And they're going to say it with boldness. And they're going to say it with passion. And they're going to say without any fear of their lives. People who are going to go all throughout the Roman world and they're going to spread the gospel to the furthest extent. of that empire all the way into Asia, all the way up into Europe, down into Africa. These people are going to take that message. And when the women came to them, you know what they said, you're crazy. I don't believe you. It's an idle tale. It's not true. These men were skeptics. They didn't believe Verse 13, listen to what it says. Two of them, that's the group that the ladies had come to talk to That same day went to a village called Maus, which is from Jerusalem about three-score furlongs, and they talked together of these things which had happened. And it came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them, but their eyes were holding that they should not know him. Somebody might say, How in the world could these people not recognize Jesus? Well, you ever tried walking in the dark without streetlights? They know who they're talking to. And they're pretty absorbed in this conversation. And when it says they commune And they're also discussing. There's probably a lot of debate, like what really happened here. Jesus walks up and he begins to ask them questions, like, what are you people talking about? They're like, what do you mean? You don't know about this story? You don't know what's going on in Jerusalem? Are you a stranger? You don't know who Jesus of Nazareth is? It says this in verse 19 We're speaking concerning Jesus of Nazareth. He was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. You know what's missing from that statement? A correct understanding of who Jesus really was. These are the people who walked with him. These are the people that listened to his message. This is like a person who grows up in church and 20 years later they say, Man, nobody ever preached the gospel in that church and somebody goes, Were you paying attention for 20 years? You were talking to Jesus. You were walking with him. You heard everything that he said, and you didn't get who he was Verse 20, it says, the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and they've crucified him. Verse 21, we trusted that it had been he which would have redeemed Israel. And beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done. Why in the world are they talking like this? Because to them, it was a myth. They did not believe that Jesus rose from the dead. You say, Pastor, why is that going to compel me to believe that Jesus died for my sins and rose from the dead? I'll tell you why. If you believe something's a mess, and then you don't, something changed your mind. You understand what I'm saying? If you don't think this story is true and you followed him for over three years, You're hiding. You're fearful. You're troubled. And then within a few weeks you're standing at Pentecost preaching without any fear. With confidence, with boldness, you're willing to die for this message. What changed the way you think? I'll tell you what changed. They became convinced by the reality of what had taken place. They weren't just convinced, but they were compelled. They were motivated. You can believe in something and just sit on the sideline, can't you? They weren't like that. They were compelled and convinced and they went out and they preached the gospel. Verse 22 and 23 it says, Certain women also of our company made us astonished, which earlier went to the sepulchre and they found not his body and came saying. that they also had seen a vision of uh a vision of angels which they said that he was alive. The reason that I take you to look at those little details Because I want you to understand something. These men who were the apostles did not believe that he rose from the dead. didn't believe it. Move to section chapter or section three, and that's this. Christ has a conversation with these people. Up to this point, Jesus hasn't really said much. He's listened. He's asked the question. Now it's time for him to talk. What does Jesus say? Look down in verse 25. It says this. Then he said unto them, Oh fools! Ouch. I teach my kids not to call people fools, alright? Sometimes I get myself in trouble. They're like, hey daddy, why'd you use that term? Fool. Well, I've got to explain the concept. Jesus said, You're fools How in the world can Jesus speak so so bluntly? He calls them fools He says, slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. You know what's interesting? Jesus did not say you were slow to believe the things that Jesus said to you. He didn't say that. You're slow to believe the things that you saw. He doesn't say that. You're slow to believe the things that the prophets wrote. Jesus did not draw them to believe because they had seen. He didn't say believe because of what you've heard. He says, believe because of what you have read In other words, he believed that the scriptures were a compelling enough witness that after reading and hearing and sitting in the synagogue and having all these things presented to them, they should have had faith in the Messiah. That he would die for their sins, that he would rise from the dead, and they were looking for him because they know he's alive three days later. He continues. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, to have entered into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning concerning himself. I could summarize this little statement, this little section with these words. Number one, rebuke. He rebukes the people and says, you are slow to believe. Two, we witnessed. He said, there's a witness from the Old Testament. You should understand it. You should believe it. You should be resting in it. And you're not. He proclaims to them the gospel. He says, Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and entered into his glory When he says entering into his glory, he doesn't mean he's gone to heaven, you won't see him again. He means he's been glorified. He's triumphed over death. He is standing and he's saying, I have conquered death. I'm the Savior. I can give you eternal life. That's what he's saying. And then he preaches. Beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounds unto them the scriptures. I have no idea what text Jesus went to, but let me mention a few that he most certainly could have and may very well have gone to. In Genesis chapter 3, when we look at the story of Adam and his wife sinning in the garden, and we see the immediate consequences of a man and woman who have lived in perfection and in innocence, who have sinned against God, have spiritually died, they're separated from him. We see shame. We see guilt. We see fear. We see them wanting to hide from God. We see them trying to cover themselves. We see all these negative consequences of just one decision. Yet what does God do? He says, I'm going to send through the seed of the woman a savior. And that savior is going to crush the very serpent that brought you to look at the fruit. I'm going to send a Savior. And Jesus could have very well told them, you know what? The one who died is the one that Moses wrote about in Genesis chapter 3. There was no Genesis 3, okay? They didn't have the chapter divisions. In Genesis, they didn't call it that. That first book of the law. We then go to Exodus chapter 12, and we see the story of the Passover lamb. And that night the Jewish people have been living in slavery in Egypt for many generations. And they have witnessed all of the plagues where God has demonstrated his power over the gods of Egypt. And on that night, there's going to be a unique miracle slash judgment that's going to take place. God is going to kill the firstborn in every single house in that nation. Unless a substitute dies in the place of the firstborn. Moses instructs the people That God has said you have to kill a lamb and that lamb's blood has to be applied to the doorposts. And if the blood has been applied, the death angel will pass by that house. Why is that? Is it because there was power in the blood of a lamb there? Nope, not at all. It's because God said a substitute dies. And sheds its blood. And the evidence is there. And because the evidence is there, I don't have to take that life because something died for it. You know, it's interesting when John looks at Jesus and he says, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. What lamb do you think he's talking about? I think he's talking about that lamb right there. The gospel was proclaimed every time they did the Passover. We come to Daniel chapter 9. And we have been studying eschatology on Sunday nights. And we read this passage recently, but I want to focus your attention on what it says. In Daniel chapter 9 it says this seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon the holy city to finish the transgression. What transgression do you think is he talking about? He's talking about the transgression of Adam. He's talking about when Adam sinned and death passed on all men for that all have sinned. Somebody's going to come and he's going to lay that low and he's going to triumph over that transgression He then says this, to finish transgression, to make an end of sin. He's talking about how the serpent's head is going to be crushed, and there's going to be a triumph over sin and death in the grave. He goes on, he says this, to make reconciliation. Who is not right with who? It's people and God. And to bring in an everlasting righteousness. Folks, when I trusted Christ as my Savior, God gave me a position that I didn't earn. When you trusted Christ as your Savior, you didn't earn that position. The righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ was credited to you. It wasn't your righteousness that was his. And when God looks at you, he sees you righteous in Christ. And that's what he's talking about. He says in this text, after three score and two days, the Messiah will be cut off and not for himself. I want to ask you a question Do you think that people who read those scriptures back in those days should have understood the gospel? I think they should have. Jesus thought that they should have. Folks, the gospel's not just the New Testament message. The Gospel is the capstone. Of what was stated all throughout the Word. But then I come to a final passage that I think is the most thorough and the most glorious passage on the gospel in the Old Testament. That's Isaiah 53. I want you to listen to the way that that Isaiah writes these words. He says, he hath borne our sins, borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. All we like sheep have gone astray, and we've turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. When he shall make his soul an offering for sin, he will see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities Let me just put it in real simple terms. Jesus died for your sins. He died for your sins. Because he died for your sins, God can forgive you. The wrath of God, and when I say wrath, I mean his justice. You break the law, a judge has to say innocent or guilty. And if you're guilty, he's not a good judge unless he says, because you're guilty, here's the consequence. God has to punish sin. And what does it say? He looked on the travail of his soul, he was satisfied. Basically the text is telling us this. When Jesus hung on that cross and our sins were placed on him, God looked at that sacrifice and he said, It's enough. There's nothing more that you have to do in order for your sin to be paid for. It's finished. It's complete. I'm satisfied. Folks, that's what the gospel is all about. When Jesus hung on that cross, he was dying for you. He was dying for me. And all of these passages, they demonstrate it. As Jesus is going through, there's a reason he says, slow of heart. How could you not believe what the prophets have written? Because these texts are so clear. But I want to pull this to a final question. That's this. What about you today? What about me? These truths have been in the Word of God for thousands of years. You want to go back to Isaiah, you're talking about many thousands of years. You want to talk about Genesis, you're talking about thousands upon thousands of years ago. When you talk about New Testament text, you're talking about 2 ,000 years ago. These truths stand firm today and ring in our ears just as much as they ever have. And I want to ask you the question. If you were one of those people walking on that road, would Jesus have rebuked you? Would he have looked at you and said, fool? Slow of heart to believe? Is the Bible not clear enough? Have the prophets of the Old Testament not spoken with enough clarity for you? Does the witness of these men and women not stand and cry out to you, He has died for your sins and he rose from the dead? Is that not enough? What do I need to do? Why are you slow to believe? Would he have asked that question of you? Would he have given that sting rebuke? Do you know for sure? If you die today, you go to be with the Lord. Are you resting in the gospel message that Jesus died for your sins, that he rose from the dead, and his righteousness is the only righteousness that God will accept? Or are you working? You're trying. Folks, God accepts the sacrifice of Christ, not yours. We have this witness. Have you stopped to reflect on how compelling this witness is Let me tell you, there are a lot of people today that say, I don't believe the Bible. I think this is a book of myths. There's no way that Jesus rose from the dead. And I asked him the question, explain to me the Apostle Paul. Explain to me the Apostle Paul. Look at people in high places and look how quickly they'll compromise and cave on something. Look at how quickly somebody for a little bit of money Will do something that they know is wrong. A little bit of pressure and they'll back down and not speak the truth. I mean think about humanity. If there's anything that should convince you, humanity likes the path of least resistance. And that's all of us. You think these people were wired any different than you and I were? You think the skeptic who not only was a skeptic, a doubter, but was probably very angry, some of these people, I followed a lie for three years. I have put my neck on the line and I've got nothing to show for it. You know, how many times does a person work in a job for 10 or 15 years? And then the way that they're treated in the workplace, they say, you mean those 10 years, those fifteen years, those twenty years didn't mean anything to you? And there's this twinge of anger and bitterness and frustration. You don't think that these people felt that way? Yet these people lead the proclamation of a message that has conquered this world. There's nowhere in this world that you can go that the gospel in some generation has not touched It's true. There's nowhere. The gospel has been proclaimed to the uttermost ends of the earth at some point in every single people group. Folks, these are the most unlikely people to lead that kind of a message. They are. Yet God did it. Does that not compel you to repent and believe? I am convinced that the majority of people who reject the gospel don't do it because it's irrational. They don't do it because of how it stings their conscience. We love the darkness rather than the light because we don't want to face the reality of what the gospel says about our soul. I want to encourage you this morning, don't walk out of this service without internalizing the message. This is truth, folks. There's only one way that you can stand before God as righteous. It's through what Jesus did on your behalf. And if you have not placed your faith in the finished work of Christ, I want to exhort you to see the evidence, to bend your knee, and turn to Christ and humbly trust in what He's done for you on that cross. cross, how he rose triumphant from the dead, as he stands to save you from your sins. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please, this morning. Before we go to prayer, I'm going to ask a simple question. I don't want anyone looking around. I'll be the only one who looks here. And I won't call you out. I'll say, well, the guy over there wearing the blue shirt or something like that. I'm not gonna do anything like that. I want to ask you a question. Is there anybody here that says pastor? Listen to that message. And the Holy Spirit has grabbed a hold of my heart and has convicted me, and I know I'm not saved. And I know I need to trust Christ. Pastor, would you pray for me that I'll understand this message thoroughly? And I'll respond it by placing my faith in Christ. Is there anybody here that raised their hand and say, Pastor, that's me? I've never trusted Christ, and I know, absolutely know that I need to do that I'm looking around, give you just a second. Ask a second question. Is there anybody that says, Pastor , I'm not certain? I I'm not gonna say I know I'm not saved, but I'm not sure that I am. Would you at least pray for me in this closing time? Anybody like that, would you just quietly raise up your hand? Say, Pastor, I'm not sure. I'm not sure if I'm safe. Okay, in just a moment, I'm gonna bow my my heart and we're gonna pray together. And those of you that have responded in your heart, I want to encourage you. After the service, come by, shake my hand, and I'll set up a time to sit down with you and we'll go through the gospel, okay? I want to help you get settled in your heart How you can know for sure you're saved. Let's bow together in prayer, please. Father in heaven, thank you so much for this very powerful story, this record of what the Lord Jesus has done for us, how we can be saved. They can stand before you in righteousness because of Christ's work. Pray for any person that doesn't know for sure they're saved or there's a battle going on in their heart. I pray that Your spirit would not let them go, but you would press their soul, convict their conscience, draw them to yourself, that they may see the rest of place in their trust in Christ. Christ. I pray for those who raise their hand. I pray that we have opportunity to sit down, they can get this matter settled once and for all. Have a confidence they're saved. We ask these things in Jesus' name Amen