Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And looking forward to continuing this passage, we are in Luke 24 this morning. And so if you have your Bible, I'd want to ask you to take it and let's all turn together as we look at this passage. We're going to be focusing in on verses 13 to 24 today. And if you remember yesterday we kind of set up this story by talking about the disciples and how it would have been an extremely difficult week for them, the high points of the resurrection of Lazarus the high point of the triumphal entry, um the the the terrifying moment of seeing the Lord Jesus arrested in the garden, being led by uh hit his accusers being led by Judas, um Peter running for uh out of fear and out of um despair, saying, I don't know this man, and then the crucifixion. And so that week would have been an absolutely exhausting week for these people. And so after all of those things, some ladies are going to the tomb when they go to the tomb, they say, it's empty And these two angels tell us that he's not here, he's risen. Don't you remember what he said in Galilee? And so the disciples went back to verify that in fact the tomb was empty and Christ's body was not there. And they were perplexed, is what the scripture says. So with that in mind, let's pick back up in this passage, and we're looking at verses 13 down to verse 24. Let me read it to you. It says, Behold, two of them, and the them is they're part of the disciples of Christ, not the twelve, but they're some of the disciples. It says, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus. which was from Jerusalem about three score furlongs. They talked together all of all these things which had happened. It came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near them and went with them. Their eyes were holden that they should not know him. He said unto them, What manner of communication are these things that you have one with another as you walk and are so sad? And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answered and said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem? Hast thou not known the things which are come to pass in these days? He said unto them, What things? They said unto him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet, mighty indeed and word, before God and all the people. How the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and have crucified him, we trusted it that it had been him that should have redeemed Israel. Beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the tent at the sap sepulchre. And they said that they found not his body. When they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive, and certain of them which was with us went to the sepulchre and found it even as the women had said, but him they saw not Now can you appreciate what's going on here? Let me kind of break it down these details. So two of the disciples, not not the The twelve, okay, eleven now because Judas is no longer with them, and not not the original twelve, but one of those people, um uh that that group that had been traveling with Jesus. Two of the disciples decided to leave Jerusalem, and it seems from the passage that the other disciples are in hiding And so they're going to travel to a village called Emmaus. Emmaus is about six miles away from Jerusalem, so uh is like the equivalent of a 10K walk, okay? And so as they're walking, they have a pretty long journey. Um it's probably going to take them maybe a couple of hours to walk that distance. As they're walking, they're having a lengthy conversation about what's going on. And and you can appreciate what's what what what would have been going on here. Here they're they're saying, I I I can't believe that this has happened. Think about all the good things that happened, all the bad things that happened. Think about all the things that he said. Think about what we've left. Think about what we've lost, and they're very discouraged, they're very disheartened, they're very upset. And as they're walking, somebody comes up alongside of them. Now At the moment, they don't know who it is. They don't realize this is Jesus. It says that the that their eyes were not able to recognize who it was. And I don't know if it's because it was in the dusk. I mean it seems possible that it Could have been later in the day, maybe it's getting a little bit dark, and they're going to eat dinner when they get in, so it it's probably later in the day. Maybe it's like five, six o'clock, who knows? But what's interesting is that after this conversation, they're going to go back to Jerusalem. So they're going to walk back, which probably was a really quick walk. But They're talking to this man and he asks them, he says, What's going on? Why are why are you guys so upset? What are you talking about? And they said Are you not familiar with these things? How could you be in Jerusalem and not know about what's taking place? And Jesus says, Well, what are you talking about? And they said, Well, a man named Jesus of Nazareth. He's somebody that we believed was a prophet. In fact, we thought he was the Messiah. We thought he was the one who was going to uh deliver us from the Romans. And the the religious leaders, our religious leaders, went and they took this man and They crucified him. They delivered him to the Romans. And we are absolutely devastated. And to add to this story, there are some people that are saying that he's risen. And It's been three days since he died, and we don't know how to make sense of all these things. We are in a complete shock. We are in complete confusion. We don't know how to process all this. That's what's going on. You might say, well, well, why is this so significant? Well it's significant because what it does is it links what they've experienced with what Jesus did it for. Because in the next several verses, we're not going to get into these this morning. We're going to get into this tomorrow morning, Lord willing. They talk about, or Jesus talks about why He, the Messiah, needed to do these things. That means that Jesus isn't going to just leave them hanging. He's going to go to them. And so that's actually a very comforting thing. So you might say, well, well, Joel, what do we take away from this passage? Okay, some people are distraught. It's understandable that they're distraught. Jesus comes to them, he has a conversation with them, he asks them all these questions, he asks uh acts as if he doesn't know what's going on. Why what do we have to take away from this? Well, there are actually some really important points that I want to draw your attention to. And here's the first one. God allows people, his children, whom he dearly loves, he cares so much for, he allows us to experience tests of our faith. In the midst of those tests of our faith, sometimes we become very upset. We become discouraged. We become anxious. We sometimes are not in a good frame of mind. And that's exactly where these disciples found themselves. Now, God doesn't enjoy watching us in such a place, but he allows us to end up in such a place. And we know from other scriptures. that he always has a good purpose in those things. His ultimate end is for our good, that we might grow in maturity and in depth and in wisdom and appreciation for who he is and the position that we have in Christ But he allows us to go through these tests of faith. The second thing that I want to mention is that he prepares us for these tests. Jesus had clearly prepared his disciples beforehand for what they were going to experience. Now, the the the fascinating part of this is that though he took great lengths to prepare them for this, they were not uh navigating it very well. And so even though s uh things have happened for us to be able to be prepared for the test and how to endure it victoriously, that doesn't mean that we actually will And so all of Jesus' statements were to prepare them for this moment. In fact, the whole purpose of the upper room discourse and all the things that Jesus says in the upper room, it was to prepare his disciples for what they were going to encounter. He wanted them to navigate those things well. And he did it because he loved them. But it's not necessarily the way it went down for them. That's not Christ's fault. It's not because he didn't give them the information, or because the information wasn't enough, it's because they didn't hear it. They didn't listen. They didn't internalize it. And many times we find ourselves in the same place. The third thing that I want to mention, and this is where the true comfort comes, is that in our moments of weakness, he comes to us. You know, here are these two people that they are wrestling with everything they've experienced, they don't understand the significance of it. And what does Jesus do? He just abandons them. He leaves them to themselves. No, that's not what he does. Jesus goes to them He asked them all these questions, not because he's cruel and he he just likes people squirming. He's asking them these questions because he's drawing their attention. to the significance of these things, the weight of these things, why God allowed this to happen, that there was actually a purpose for it, and that purpose was for their good. That's why he asked them all the questions. And so it reminds us that in our weakness, God pursues us. He comes to us, and he does it because he loves us. And so I want to leave that thought with you this morning. The the the difficulties that these disciples encountered were not the result of Jesus not preparing them and not giving them the information that they needed. It's because he allows us to be tested. Sometimes the material that we have. The equipping that we have, we do not pick it up and use it. But in a moment of weakness, he still goes to us. He still pursues us. And we see that example in this passage of scripture. And I know about you, but that brings me tremendous comfort today. I hope that's an encouragement to you as well. If it has, please take a moment to share that with another person who might be encouraged by it or perhaps share uh just a word of encouragement about how this has been a blessing to you. And Lord willing tomorrow we're going to continue our look at Luke chapter 24. And hopefully find some truths that will be very encouraging and helpful to us. Have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing we'll talk again tomorrow. Bye now