Well, good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. And uh let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will get started with our evening service tonight. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you so much for this Lord's Day and opportunity to focus our attention on the resurrection and really the heart and soul of the Christian faith and the place where we find strength and stability in times of difficulty. I pray that this evening as we gather again and as we share testimonies of your faithfulness, as we sing praise to you, and as we sit under the ministry of your word, I pray that you would meet with us in a very special way. That your presence at work in our lives would be very evident, and that we would be strengthened and challenged and encouraged and convicted. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good evening, everyone. Welcome to the services at Anchor Baptist Church on a good Sunday evening. I think spring has sprung. At least my allergies are telling me such. So join in with me to make a happy, joyful song. We're going to turn to page 252 in the hymnal. 252 and sing nothing but the blood. Stand with me as we start What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of me. No, no blood , I know nothing but the blood of Jesus For I see nothing but the blood. For my crank that might be Nothing at the Badaphore Makes me by guess now water can I know Nothing but the blood that she needs to Smell up. Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. We're going to turn to page 258 and continue singing about the blood. There is a fountain. Filled with blood drawn from Emmanuel's veins. I said as much we need that night with all the guilty stay All the kill is there, all the kills I was like These days we're dying, my precious blood shall never learn all of that. We faith is in no more , said And shall be till I die as I die and shall be jelly and shall be jumped Amen. Now we're going to turn to 262 and continue the blood. There is power in the blood. Sing out. What do we bring from the bird and the dead? There's power in the blood, power in the blood But you are evil a victory red There's wonderful power in the blood Wonder what he car is the blood of the land. Wonder what he car is the precious blood of the land. There's power in the blood, power in the blood, come for our dancing cowboy side, there's wonderful power in the blood. There is power, power, wonder what you are in the blood of the man There is power, power, wonder what heart with a precious of the lamb what you do service for Jesus your king there's power in the blood power in the blood would you obey his praises we sing there's wonderful power in the blood there is power power wonder working power in the blood of the land there is power Power, power, wonder working power in the precious blood of the land. Amen. Oh my goodness. Powerful songs there. Now We're going to go to a song in the blue book. It's on page 39 in front of you. We sang this last Sunday evening. One day. One day is the name of it. Not like the song that you might know. This one's a little bit different, but sing out. We sang it last Sunday. One day when heaven spelled with his praises, one day we said what 's I guess. Jesus for the born of the virgin Well come on in my camp for is you live in you love me Dying, Barry carry my dead far away , rising he justified, freely forever. One day he's having a warning. One day that hit the remote. One day. Die on the tree, suffering anguish, despise and rejected, bearing our sin by If he loved me , I gave me say me. Barin he carry my sits by your way. Rise if you justify One day becoming for me last one day I've dead. Yes, I will lie. One day my day would bring me glory of the given day. My lady loves me dying, bury me, bury my sense far away my. . The Lord will be me forever. One day is coming for glory. Amen. Good seeing you tonight. Okay, well, something I can like But only one verse of each one. So Okay. I got up here, I was scanning, and I saw Nate first. What you p what What's that? Two seventy red book. Two seventy-eight. Okay, two seventy-eight in the red book, and then I saw a shine. Uh three seventy Three seventy four red book. Maya 's brother. Drinian. Is that Drinian? Oh Maya I can't lights are in by Drinian. That's Drinian. Okay. I thought that was the younger guy. Okay, Drinian. Ninety three. In the blue book. And let's see, I need a young lady down here. Oh seven in the red book. Page seven in the red book. Okay, page seven in the red book. Now the song leader gets to be surprised. What are we singing? Okay. Page 278 is the first one. Oh boy, I almost opened up right to it. One day when heaven was filled with his praises. That's a good one. All right, sing it out First verse, one day when heaven One day when heaven was filled with his praises, one day when dead was as black as could be Jesus came for to be born of a virgin among them by example living in love with my take Carry my since far away rising he does never die freely forever One day he's coming for glory of All right, page three seventy-four in the red book. Now whose favorite did this used to be? I didn't call on him, I don't believe. But be thou my vision, page 374. First verse or not, my heart not be all To me say that thou art thou my best board Light or my God Working or sleeping my Alright, now we'll go to the blue book, page 93, and this always gives me Miss Janderson. Oh. Well, we haven't sang this in a while. Bow the knee. Good sir. Good day. What a privilege to come to God's hands. Just to anger with no one who sent me. I let my eyes and see an awesome glory when I wonder We bow the knee , he is king of all the angel bow the knee, God alone on his bone. I am up and down and worked him I'll Amen. I think that blue book is written in a lower key. That's at the bottom of my range. Now page seven Page seven. Page seven. Calm thou thought. We'll sing the first and the last. First and last. Every person like part to sing like home stream of worst ever stressing all response in trees on So by being done the ball Praise the Holy Make the Lord Company Cause for real. May we find your strength with me When I go like a measure and my border heart with me Come to bother Lord I feel it, don 't to labor God I love , can I hear make it feel it for like for children Amen. Have a seat. So Day da baby , day baby day, baby, baby day, da baby. Tegeli. Thanks so much, Doug. That's a wonderful song. It was for me. He died. And uh I believe that that's that's the song that we s uh that Janelle sang last year for it was either Resurrection Sunday or Or Good Friday or something. I don't remember, but I believe that we had her sing that. That's a wonderful, wonderful song. Be good, let's take our Bibles together and let's turn to Genesis chapter 15. Genesis chapter 15, this morning we were talking about Job, and one of the things that I got into when we were discussing this issue of Job's life. Is the hope that Job had, even though he was a suffering man, even though he was dealing with all kinds of tremendous hardship, tremendous difficulty, he found strength and he found stability ultimately in the gospel. And one of the things that we talked about this morning is that the Old Testament saint was really saved in the exact same way that you and I are saved. In fact, it's possible for us to take the Bible and not just go to places like Romans and John and Galatians and Ephesians and Philippians. and explain the gospel to people and try to lead them to the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation out of the New Testament. But I want you to realize if we didn't have the New Testament, and I'm not saying that we don't. Don't get me wrong here. If we only had the Old Testament I want you to realize we can go to the Old Testament and we could lay out the exact same case for why people need to be saved, how people need to be saved, what God has done for them, and how they must respond to the gospel. I want you to realize from Genesis all the way to the end of the Old Testament, we can lay out from the Scriptures how we are saved. And so this evening I'd like us to talk about the reality of the Old Testament saint, the person that was anticipating the coming Redeemer. The one who understood that God was going to send a Savior and that they personally needed a Savior. And that Savior was going to come, and he was ultimately going to be their sin-bearing substitute. We're going to look at how God saved this man, Abraham. And I think it's a really important study for us to look at. I think it's important for us to recognize That Abraham was a man who was saved exactly the same way that you and I are, by grace alone, through faith alone, and in Christ alone. Genesis chapter 15, verses 1 through 6. Let's read it together. Here's what God's Word says. After these things, the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying Fear not, Abram. I am thy shield, thy exceeding great reward. And Abram said, God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless And the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed. And lo, one born in my house is mine heir. Behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, This shall not be thine heir, but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir. He brought him forth abroad and said, Look now toward heaven. Tell the stars, if thou be able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be He believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness. The purpose of the passage in front of us was to demonstrate that though Abraham was a sinner, both before and after his conversion, God graciously declared him righteous through his faith in the gospel. In fact, when we read this verse, you might say, well, what exactly is the gospel for Abraham? What exactly is he understanding? He's being given a promise about having descendants, a seed that's going to be as numerous as the sands of the seashore and as the stars in heaven. You go, well, how is that the gospel? Well what we need to recognize is that that promise was really a part of a series of promises that go all the way back to the Garden of Eden when God promises that the seed of the woman was going to crush the serpent's head. In other words, what we see is a continuation of that promise. Promise is given, and now God is going to talk about who exactly he's going to begin to work through. He's going to pick out Abraham, he's going to use Abraham. as one of the tools through which he's ultimately going to bring the Messiah into the world. In fact, when Job talks about how his Redeemer lives and He knows that he's going to stand before him one day, and this body that he has is going to decay and it's going to rot and it's going to be gone, but he's going to have a glorified body and he's going to stand in God's presence. Job understood this plan of redemption. It's also very interesting when we read the Old Testament, particularly in the book of Genesis, we see that there's the concept of animal sacrifice. The reason that there was a concept of animal sacrifice is that it was to teach the people that when there is sin, there is consequence, there is punishment. And the sacrifice was representative of the fact that a substitute was going to come and the substitute was going to die, the shedding of blood was going to ultimately be for the punishment of that person's sin. That animal was a representative that was picturing the coming Redeemer. I think about what John says in in in in during his ministry where he says, Behold, the Lamb of God who taketh away the sins of the world. Why does he do that? And how did the people understand what he meant by that? Well, it's because the concept of animal sacrifice We've seen all throughout the Old Testament. I'm really looking forward, this is kind of preparing us, for a conversation we're going to have looking at the Passover lamb. And what the Passover lamb is, really, is indicating the kind of sacrifice that was going to come and was going to be the substitute for people's sins. What we need to realize is that the promise that God is giving of descendants is really part of this story of him giving a savior, a redeemer. And so when Abraham doubts that God's going to make his descendants like the sands of the seashore and as the stars in heaven, really ultimately what he's saying is, I'm doubting that you're going to follow through with your plan of redemption. And when Abraham says, I believe this plan that you're going to follow through with this, he's ultimately saying, I believe that you're going to Bring the Redeemer into the world. This is a part of that plan, an anticipation of that plan. So really what we see in these verses is that Abraham, though a sinner, before conversion, after conversion, he demonstrates he's a sinner by his actions. Before his conversion, after his conversion, we're going to see that Abraham was justified by faith alone in the gospel. God wants us to understand the heart of the gospel. I want you to realize that when we talk about what it means to be a Christian, we are talking about fundamentally how we are reconciled to God. How we who are sinners are able to stand righteous and forgiven before a holy and just judge. When we talk about what it means to be a Christian, we're not talking about a series of values or a law. We're talking about being reconciled to God through the death of his son. All of those things that flow out of that position are important, but that's not the heart and soul of the Christian faith. God wants us to understand this concept of justification. And so I want us to look at this by looking at the life of Abraham, understanding that what the Bible is going to teach about how Abraham was justified is exactly what the Bible teaches about how you are justified, how I am justified before God. The first thing I'd like us to look at is the reality of the Old Testament saying Now, I could have gone to many, many, many examples of Old Testament saints, but I'd like to refer to a couple of different Old Testament saints. testimonies about these individuals, what they believed, what the Bible actually said about them. I want you to realize that these Old Testament And saints, many of them are from really time periods that are almost a thousand years or more separated in time, yet they were saved the same way. The first example is a man named Simeon. And we find the life of Simeon in Luke chapter 2. Now you might be saying, well, Luke chapter 2, I thought that's New Testament. Well, it is New Testament technically But what we need to recognize is that what we see about Simeon was before the cross. In other words, when we're looking at Simeon, the statement of Simeon's faith. We're not talking about a man who was saved after the cross, after the resurrection, looking back at redemption, but rather we see someone who in time is looking forward to the Redeemer coming. Listen to what it says in Luke chapter 2, verse 25. Behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. The same man was just and devout. Now that's talking about the way he lived. We could talk about the practice, the implications of what flow out of a righteous position before God. Here is what made the man righteous before God. It says he was waiting for the consolation of Israel. You say, well, what does it mean that he was waiting for the consolation of Israel? He believed that God was going to send a redeemer. He believed in redemption. So the reason that he walked justly, the reason that he was a devout man was not because that's how he got salvation But that's because he was a believer anticipating the Messiah. And so he was living out a position that he had as an Old Testament saint. He then goes on to say this, the Holy Ghost was upon him, and it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. Really interesting statement. The word Christ means the Messiah, the anointed one. Literally, God tells this man Simeon, before you die, you're going to see with your eyes the culmination of all these promises, the Redeemer that you're anticipating. And all those Old Testament saints were anticipating, you're gonna get to see him. You're gonna see him as a baby. It then goes on to say this: that when this man, this very old man Saw the Lord Jesus Christ, that little baby in Jerusalem, and he held that little boy in his hands. This is what he says. It's really, really important, and it's a powerful statement. Lord, now lest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word. For my eyes have seen thy salvation The Redeemer, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel He says, I'm holding in my hands the Redeemer, the culmination of all of those promises. My whole life. Whenever he came to understand, I'm a sinner, God sending a redeemer, I'm waiting for the Redeemer, I'm trusting in this Redeemer, from the moment that that clicked in his mind, for the rest of his life he was looking for the Savior, and now he gets to see him. And he says, it's okay, I can die now because I've seen your salvation. You say, well, he hadn't gone to the cross yet. He didn't die for his sins. He didn't rise from the dead. So can this man be saved? The answer is of course he can be saved. Because he was trusting in the promise of redemption. He was trusting in the gospel. Old Testament saint. In Daniel chapter 12, Daniel talks about Old Testament saints. He says, At that time Michael shall stand up, the great prince. Which standeth for the children of thy people, and there shall be a time of trouble which has never been since there was a nation even to that same time At thy time, that that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the book. Many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life. And some to shame and everlasting contempt. What's he talking about? Old Testament saints. There were people who had died and were anticipating the Messiah. And these people were believers just as much as you and I are saved before God. We see the example of Job. We talked about this this morning, and I love the statement. He says I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. Old Testament saint My personal redeemer lives. He was anticipating the Savior. And then I love what Romans chapter 4 says. Romans chapter 4 gives us the testimony of both Abraham, an Old Testament saint, what we're going to look at this evening, and David, an Old Testament saint. In Romans chapter 4, verses 2 through 8, it says this: What saith the Scriptures? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him as righteousness. Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, His faith is counted for righteousness. Now hold on a second and don't miss out on the very important statements that are made. The one who works is indebted. The one who does not work, but rather believes on the one who justifies the ungodly, his face is counted as righteousness. The person who believes they can earn their way to God will never, never, never work off that debt. It's impossible. But the person who stops trying to earn their way to God and trusts in the one who has accomplished the work on their behalf, that person is declared righteous while he's still a sinner. Before God, He justifies the ungodly. I am a saint who is still a sinner. I am a sinner who's been declared righteous before God, and the question is why? How can that be just? It is only because of the substitutionary work of Christ. And it is only because of Christ's righteousness imputed to me. Folks, that is the heart and soul of the gospel message. The sinner is declared righteous on the basis of the work of Christ. Then he goes on to say this, even as David also described the blessedness of the man unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works. We use the term imputed righteousness. There it is right there. Literally, Christ's righteousness has been credited to my account. So that when God views me, he views me as righteous in Christ. He then goes on to say this. Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin. When we talk about how David was saved, how Abraham was saved, how Job was saved, how all of those Old Testament Saints were saved, how Simeon was saved, how you're saved, how I'm saved, it is all based on the work of Christ. His cross His righteousness, his resurrection, not my righteousness, not my good deeds, not my ability to keep the law. That's why we use the term grace. It is entirely. And fully undeserved. It is all a reflection on the goodness of God to sinners who do not deserve it. The second thing I'd like us to see is that salvation is the salvation of the Old Testament saint. How did Abraham get justified? Now in Romans chapter 4, it tells us that Abraham believed God, it was counted unto him as righteousness. But I think it's important sometimes for us to see kind of the storyline. The events in his life, how they unfolded, so that we kind of see within Abraham's life, at what point did he actually believe and did God declare him righteous? And I think it's really interesting. There are details in this story that I think a lot of times we don't consider, but they actually really tell us a lot about the nature of the gospel. And they really confront a lot of misunderstandings of how people are saved. Many people would say, Well, I know when Abraham got saved, it was when God entered into a covenant with him. When God made the promise that I'm going to bless you and I'm going to make you a great nation and through you all the nations of the earth will be blessed. You know what's really interesting? When God entered into a covenant with Abraham, an unconditional covenant with Abraham, and gave him those promises, he was not justified for many, many years after that event. Pretty interesting. Someone might say, Well, I know when he was justified, it was when he stopped sinning. Yet the story of Abra of Hagar, really one of the greatest blots in the life of Abraham. One of the most painful decisions that Abraham made. Painful in the sense that we are still dealing with the consequences of that man's sin. was after his conversion. Not before. It was after. Let's stop and let's consider for a moment The salvation of this man. Here's the storyline. Abraham was a sinner unworthy of God's forgiveness. If we go to Genesis chapter 12, we will see that there was a period of time where Abraham had been blessed by God. Had been promised that God was going to make of them a great nation, yet he still was not convinced, did not believe that God could do that. And do you know how we know that? In Genesis chapter 12, Abraham leaves the promised land, Canaan, and he goes down into Egypt. And when he goes down into Egypt, when he gets to Egypt, he and his wife have a conversation. A conversation I hope your husband would never have with you. Here's what he said. Sarah, I know that you are a very, very beautiful woman. And we go to Egypt. I'm a little bit concerned that there's some people that are going to want to kill me so they can take you. So here's what I want you to do. Tell them that we are not married, that you're my sister. Now hold on a second. Why did he do that? Because obviously he didn't believe that God could preserve his life, could follow through with the promises that he had made. It was a completely manipulative, dishonest. Mana add he did not protect his wife. He cared about his own interests. It was an extremely self-centered, sinful decision. Say, well, I thought Abraham was a hero of the faith. Well, in many ways he is, but he is a flawed man. In fact, we see it in Genesis 12, verse 13, he says I pray thee, thou art my sister. Tell them, say, I pray thee, thou art my sister, that it may be well with me for thy sake, and my soul shall live because of thee. In other words, like, I'm actually doing this for you, Sarah. Obviously, that's not true. And God was very merciful, and God protected Sarah in spite of Abraham's spinelessness. And his unwillingness to defend his own wife and protect his own wife, God defended this woman. In Genesis 15, we see that God makes a promise to Abraham. In fact, this is the passage dealing with Abraham's conversion, and Abraham questions whether or not God will follow through with the promise. In Genesis 15, verses 2 to 3, it says, Abraham said, Lord, What wilt thou give me seeing I go childless? The steward of my house is this Eliezer Damascus. Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed, and lo, one born in my house is my is Lo one born in my house is mine heir. Let me put it in real simple terms. Abraham says, God, I know you promised that you're going to make me a great nation. You're going to bless me, and you're going to make my name great, and through me all nations of the earth are going to be blessed. But it hasn't happened. You promised it didn't happen. The person that right now is my heir is not my child. He's my servant. When I die, everything's going to him. Because I don't have a child. Are you gonna do what you said you're gonna do or not? What does this tell us? Abraham doubted that God was going to do it. In Genesis chapter 16, this is after Abraham's conversion. Abraham wavered in doubts with doubts and sinned against God's will in marriage. He still hasn't had a child in Genesis 16, verses 1 through 3. Sarah, Abraham's wife, comes to him and it says, Now Sarah, Sarai, Abram's wife, bare him no children, and she had a handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold, now the Lord hath restrained me from bearing. I pray thee go into my maid. It may be that I may obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai, and Sarah Abraham's wife took Hagar, her maid, the Egyptian. Now if you stop and you really think about what this man is doing, what his wife is doing. That is an extremely dishonest, distrusting , hurtful maybe we could use the term abusive thing to do. We are living with the consequence of the fruit of this decision today. You know what's really interesting about that that statement and that decision? That was made after his conversion. You say, why does that matter? It matters because Abraham's justification was not connected to something he did for God. It wasn't connected to his obedience. It was the fact that he trusted in the promise of redemption. God's common grace God 's particular covenantal grace and Abraham's general obedience were not the grounds or the timing of Abraham's conversion. Now I say common grace, what I'm saying is this: God was very kind to Abraham. There are some people that you ask them, do you know for certain that that you're God's child and that you're going to heaven? You know if they'll say and say, Well, yeah, look at how God's blessed me. Well, God blesses all kinds of people. God's blessings are out of his goodness. God can be blessed and it's got nothing to do with you being a child of God. You could be suffering like Job, and you could be God's child. Our material possessions are not in any way an indication of whether or not we're right with God. God had been gracious to this man. God enters into a very specific covenant of grace. He says, I'm going to make you a great nation, and through you all nations of the earth will be blessed. He made those promises to Abram before Abram believed them and before Abram was justified. And an extensive period of time takes place between the promise and Abraham actually believing the promise and being saved. It's kind of like Jacob. We know the story of Jacob, and Jacob is at Bethel, and he's running for his life, and what does he do? God tells him that he's going to bless him, just like he was going to bless Abraham and Isaac, and now he's going to do this with Jacob. And Jacob basically makes a deal with God and he says, well, here's the deal, God. If I come back to this place and I'm alive and I enter into the land, then you and I will be in relationship. I will pay my tithes to you. I'm going to call you my God. I will worship you. But I'm not doing it until I come back. And you know what's really interesting? Jacob came back on the day that he wrestled with God. Do you know why he was wrestling with God? Because he did not believe he was going to survive the next day. He said, God bless me, and he wrestled with God. It was because he didn't believe God would follow through with the promise. In other words, there's a period of time before promise and faith. And we see that even in Abraham's life. Abraham was not saved because God entered into this covenant with them as a nation. Abram wasn't saved because God had blessed him materially. Abram wasn't saved because of his obedience. What's interesting is in Genesis chapter 12, he obeys God. He gets up from his country. It says, the Lord said to Abram, Get thee out of thy country, from thy kindred, from thy father's house, I'll make of thee a great nation, I'll bless thee. Make thy name great, thou will be a blessing, I will bless them that bless thee, curse them that curse thee, and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken. And you know what's amazing? He did that obediently, but not yet in faith. It's a pretty amazing thing. Abram was not justified till Genesis 15. You say, why do you say that? It's because Abram was not justified by his obedience. He was justified by faith alone. We see that Abraham was justified by grace alone through faith alone in the gospel in verses 4 through 6. The word of the Lord came to him saying, This shall not be thine heir. He shall that shall come forth out of thine own bow shall be thine heir. And he brought him forward and said, Look now toward heaven. Tell the stars if thou art able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be. And he believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness. That is when Abraham was saved. Promise, faith, justification. He believed that God was going to send redemption. He believed it and the implications that flew out of it. And so God declared him righteous on the basis through the faith that he had in the gospel. Let me let me give you just for a moment some of the theological implications that we see in these verses. Because I want us to be able to kind of like take this and just boil it down to a very simple And practical and understanding way, understandable way. The first thing is this Abram was a sinner who needed a savior Abraham was a sinner who needed a savior. You're a sinner who needs a savior. I'm a sinner who needs a savior. We see that throughout this passage of scripture. We see Abraham's failures. We see his disobedience. We see his doubts. We see that he made decisions that were very self-serving, very selfish, did not consider the responses of the people around him. Abram was a sinner that needed a savior. The second thing we see is that God's common grace, the way that he had blessed him, the fact that he enters into a covenant with him, and the fact that he even obeyed him was not the basis of his justification. Third, Abraham's obedience to the light that was given him was not saving faith. There are people that will tell you: well, if you just obey the light that's given you, then you go to heaven. All roads lead in that way. That's not the truth. That's not the case. Even though Abraham obeyed God Obeyed him. He was still not a believer at the point. He became a believer when he believed in the gospel. Abram 's continued obedience after his conversion was not the basis of his continued position before God. How do we know that? Because after God declares him righteous, Abram disobeyed God. Abram made sinful decisions, not small, major sinful decisions. That were very painful to the people around him, that are even affecting us to this day. Abram did not Faithfully obey God after his conversion, but it did not change the fact that he was justified before God. Why is that? Because he wasn't justified by his works, it was by faith alone and redemption. Abram was saved the exact same way that you and I are saved. The basis of our position, the work of Christ and his imputed righteousness. The instrument through which God declares us righteous, faith alone. Our faith doesn't earn God's favor. Our faith is this humble response that recognizes it's what God did for us. Now, what we do for him. Faith is not something that earns grace. Faith is what connects us to grace. And that's extremely important for us to understand. The object of Abram 's faith was the good news of redemption. His point of reference was anticipating redemption. He was looking forward to the cross. He was looking forward to someone who would die in his place. He was looking forward to someone who would save him from his sins. He was looking forward to the Savior like Simeon. Forward to the Savior like Job. Forward to the Savior like Daniel. We look, or like David, we look back to the Savior and we believe in the implications of what he did on the cross. And then God justifies us. We see that Abraham is saved just like you and I. And we also see that Abram 's position was secured. By grace alone and rooted in the work of the coming Redeemer. Even though Abram stumbled Even though Abram disobeyed. And by the way, what he did by taking Hagar and having a child through Hagar wasn't just sin. Wasn't just disobedience, wasn't just undermining his covenantal relationship to his wife. It was a demonstration that he was beginning to waver in his confidence That God was going to follow through with the promise. Do you understand that? In other words, it was a doubt. It was a question. It was a maybe I need to work this out in my own way. Even though Abram wavered in that sense, it did not change his position. Let me summarize for you how someone was saved in the Old Testament and how you and I are saved. Romans chapter 4, verse 3 says this: Abram believed God. It was counted unto him for righteousness. Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace but of debt. But to him that worketh not But believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. Even as David described the blessedness of the man unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works. Saying, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord will not impute sin. Folks, that is salvation. That is how we are reconciled to God. And so I asked this simple question. Do you understand the heart of the gospel? You know what's really interesting? We were missionaries overseas. Most of the people that we interacted with. Would have professed to be Christians. Now, when you ask, are you a Christian? this is what they meant by that. On my birth certificate, when I was born, my mother said he's going to be a Christian. I'm a Christian, he's a Christian. His birth certificate says Christian. Now, if this child had been born to a Muslim mother and father, guess what? Then he would have been, you know, Muslim on his birth certificate. So it had nothing to do with what the person believed, nothing to do with the person understood. It was simply about here's the family I was born into. That was the most common perception Of the issue of being a Christian. But beyond that issue of being a Christian, because I was born into this family, was the belief that you became a Christian by a formula. In other words, I pray something like this: God, I want you to be my personal Lord and Savior. And by making that profession, by praying that prayer, having absolutely no concept of the gospel. No conviction over sin. No understanding of the righteousness of Christ. No understanding of his sacrifice that was a substitutionary death on my behalf. No understanding of the resurrection. Simply by using this formula, this expression, then I become a Christian because of that. We began to do these kind of researches. We asked people questions. Have you made Christ your personal Lord and Savior? When we went through our community, and I don't remember how many people we interviewed, it was beyond a thousand. The answer to over 92% of the people was yes, I have made Christ my personal Lord and Savior. I remember looking at this and going, well, then why am I a missionary in Ghana? Because I mean, are ninety-two percent of the people in Enrimo County Christians? Of course not. Not even close. But then we got into the content of the gospel. How are you saved? Is it through what you're doing for God? Or is it entirely rooted in what he did for you through the Lord Jesus Christ? Is your salvation secured through your works, your righteousness, or Christ? And you know what we started finding out? Very few people. Less than 20% of the people we interviewed understood the most basic, the most basic principles of the gospel. I think it was something like 18%. That's staggering, isn't it? But you know what I would I would venture to say that if we were to go into the evangelical church in America and we asked those same questions, you know what we'd find out? It might not be a lot different. Might not be a lot different. In fact, if a lot of people profess to be a Christian, they don't believe that Jesus is God. They don't believe that he actually came and physically died on the cross. They don't believe that when he died on the cross, it served a purpose. And the purpose was redemption. By the shedding of his blood on that cross, their sin debt was canceled. God's wrath was satisfied. Propitiation took place. They don't believe that. They don't understand that. In fact, many people, it's offensive to them, the cross. Jesus rose from the dead? Well, if he didn't exist, or if he existed but he didn't die, then how does the resurrection work? All of a sudden, as you begin asking questions that are fundamental to what the gospel actually is, you know what you'll discover? The faith that people have. Is a mystical faith. It's not rooted in a doctrinal understanding of who Jesus is and what he did and a conviction that it actually mattered They do not have faith in the gospel. I am concerned that we are living in a time, and it is being revealed. Let me tell you, it is being revealed in our culture. As the secular uh statisticians ask questions about churches and how people are abandoning the church, what they're discovering Is not that those who preach the gospel are dwindling, but churches that are not preaching the gospel are beginning to fold and crawl. And by the way, it's okay. I'm totally fine with that. If a church doesn't preach the truth, let it fold. It doesn't really it's not it's not a church. It's just a social club. It doesn't actually matter. Folks, we need to make sure we understand the gospel We need to make sure that we understand substitution. We understand we need to recognize we need to re make sure that we understand that Christ's righteousness is imputed to the believer. That we stand justified before God on the basis of Christ's sacrifice, not our sacrifice, Christ's righteousness, not our righteousness We have to believe these things, communicate these things. We need to pray that our children, the people that we evangelize, that they understand these things. And when they profess faith in the gospel, they're embracing the gospel as it actually is. I ask these questions. Do we see ourselves as sinners in need of a savior? You can't be saved if you don't You can't. What is the point of inviting someone to trust Christ if they don't believe that they really need it? Do we see the difference between God's kindness And eternal forgiveness and salvation? Do we see that our obedience cannot be the grounds of our salvation? Do we understand that the only acceptable basis for salvation is the work of Christ and His imputed righteousness? Do we see that the only way that those blessings that are purchased by Christ Can become ours is through faith alone what he did. Do we see that the position that we receive by faith alone is secured in Christ because it's not based on our strength? Our promises, our righteousness , our determination to do better, it's all rooted in the unchanging work of Christ and His righteousness. I want to ask this question. Have you trusted in the finished work of Christ? That's not just for those here in our congregation tonight, but those who are joining us in the live stream. As you communicate the gospel, is this the gospel we communicate? You know what's more tragic than not evangelizing? Giving a false gospel. It's true. If you don't say a word, guess what? People stay as they are. You give them a lie, they embrace it. And they find security in it. We've got to make sure that what we're preaching is the truth. We've got to recognize that the message that we preach is historic. And when I say historic, I don't mean it just goes back to the first century. I mean it goes back to the garden. I pray that the Lord will use us as a church to reach people with the gospel. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, help us to be a people who have a very clear, a very definite understanding of the gospel. I pray that these wonderful truths would be truths that we glory in. We think about the cross and the shed blood of Christ. We think about the righteousness of Christ. We think about the empty tomb. We think about how we are declared righteous in Christ. I pray that these truths would thoroughly resonate in our souls. That we would be men and women of this book, that we would be passionate evangelists that proclaim the true gospel of Jesus Christ. Not a false gospel, not a sugar-coated message, not something that cuts short the truth, but something that lays out the facts. That people, when they embrace it, will genuinely be safe for eternity. Thank you so much for this text of Scripture and the wonderful truths we've seen from it. I pray that if even one person in our midst doesn't understand this gospel, whether they are young or whether they are old, whether one person who's joined us on the live stream does not understand the gospel, I pray that through the words that have been presented in this text That the Holy Spirit will open their eyes to their sin, to God's love for them , to his incredible work on the cross. And that they will embrace it by faith alone. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. I do want to encourage you if you ever have questions about one of these messages. And you say, you know, Pastor, I I I I realize that I I probably don't communicate the gospel as clearly as I'd like to. I'd love to sit down and talk to you about how to how to improve presenting the gospel. You may say, man, I've been in church my whole life and That thing about a formula, like like that's what I've been trusting in a formula. It's not about Jesus, it's not about the cross, it's not about the empty tomb. It's about saying words, and I've never connected that to these truths. Then please speak to me about that so that you can resolve this. You don't have to talk to me. You can come to this understanding sitting in your seat and you can embrace the gospel there. But if you have any questions, any concerns, please reach out, and I want to help you as best I can. Let's turn our handbooks to page 14 And the song that we're going to sing for our closing is worthy of praise. And I will tell you that because of what Christ has done for us, he is worthy of praise. I mean, frankly speaking, if he hadn't done that for us, he'd still be worthy of praise. But how much more so? We can glory in our Savior. Let's stand together and let's sing verses one and two of worthy of praise. My heart overflows with praise to the Lord. I will lift up my voice to the king. Of the fear of his career and called my heart to seek worthy of all my faith. You are worthy of all my praise. Now at your throne and I worship I feel alone more to more worthy, worthy of praise. On the last, my lips sing his praise. My heart Feels his father, whose word is a lamp to my way. His mercy and grace forever endure. His farm strong equals to be say worthy of my praise You are worthy of all All my praise, I bow at your throne, and I worship you alone, for you are worthy, worthy of Amen. Well it's been good to be in the Lord's house and to spend time uh just focusing on these wonderful truths. Uh Brother Bruce Hutchison, can you close in prayer please? And I want to remind you all that Tuesday night uh we'll be having our first uh visitation for the spring season. And so if you can come to that, we'd love to have you. Also uh want to remind you that We have a work day on Saturday morning, 8 o'clock. So if you want coffee and donuts, you've got to get the donuts before the kids do. And uh we're not letting the kids drink coffee. But um I hope that you guys can come to that and that'll be a good time of fellowship and uh just a great time of getting a lot of work done around here. So go ahead, Bruce. Lord, thank you for an opportunity again to be in the house of the Lord. Thank you so much for our church. uh for the opportunity to be under the speaking of your word and just as we've uh talked about uh quieting the noisy soul and Sunday school and just the uh matter of confession of sin and David and um what it is to be repentant and then uh on the subject of Joe and knowing that my Redeemer liveth and the assurance of that. And then even tonight, the the message of the gospel in the Old Testament and uh what our trust is uh In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust. Thank you so much for the body of believers. We do pray again for many of our shut-ins and elderly people that uh I we haven't been able to see um guide and direct them uh amidst and let them know that they are thought of. I think of Kingsley and again just ask your hand upon him and Millie. Pray for the Moors this month as our missionaries focus and just Josh and Annie as they are confined there in Ireland. just uh guide and direct with uh the Zoom conferences uh church that he has there and uh just the growth of his church Ask that you would watch us as we go home and bring us back safely this Wednesday in Jesus' name, amen