I wanted to take a moment to just remember those who have paid the ultimate price. And the fact is we would not be able to gather together with the freedoms that we have. without those who have made that sacrifice. And so ultimately we are thankful to the Lord because He is the one who in history has preserved us these opportunities, but we also are thankful for those who have paid that price. So Pastor Chris will come with some announcements, and then after that, we're going to pray and have a moment of silence before we start our service. Just a few things to point out from the uh bulletins. So we have our Anchored in the Word teen study this Thursday, June 1st at Pastor's House. So teens, make sure that you get your questions uh in through the the either the deposit boxes or the QA box in the Sunday school rooms. And then we have our Olympics on June 3rd from 10 to 1 p. m. So we'll have Two two hours of games where the parents will get egged and um uh ice creamed as well. And then we'll have a cookout uh in the hour following. It'll be a good time for the whole family. And then we got our Tree Tracker Awards next Sunday. And you notice that there's still a table out there for Uh the end of year store for our truth trackers, the last night to give donations is tonight. So if you have any items, five to ten dollars for the kids, uh please be sure to get those. thereby this evening and our awards will be uh next Sunday morning. And then we have a finger food fellowship on June 11th. Um I just wanted to make a note of that. So after the evening service then we will have a finger food fellowship hope we can can be with us for that. Pastor? Okay, our opening scripture, we're actually going to read a couple of scriptures this morning. And the focus of our worship is going to be really on the richness of the life that we have today. And whether you realize this or not, or you thought about it or not, We're not just going to have eternal life, we possess it now. And God's desire is that we as His people, who have passed from death to life, will enjoy the fullness and the richness of the life that he's given us. And so I want to remind you of that with a couple of scriptures. We're going to pause for a moment to reflect on those who have paid that ultimate price, and then we're going to open open up our service in prayer. Here's the first scripture, Isaiah 55, verses 1 and 2. Ho, everyone that thirsteth, come ye to the waters. He that hath no money, come, buy, and eat. Yea, come by wine and milk without money and without price. Wherefore do you spend money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which satisfieth not? Jeremiah 2. 13. My people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters. Have hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water. Psalm 1611. Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Each of the hymns that we will sing this morning are really focused. on not just the fact that we have eternal life, but that our Lord Jesus gave us a life that He desires us to experience richly and fully and abundantly. And so with that in mind, let's take a moment of silent reflection. And then we will have our service start. Father, we're gathered together today as a body of Christians. And the reason we can gather freely There's two parts. One, there's a reason to gather because Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being a curse for us. He took our sin debt. He bled and he suffered and died. He bore the full wrath of your justice against our sins so that we could be forgiven, cleansed, and freed. And if it hadn't been for Christ's redemptive work and his triumph over death and the resurrection and the righteousness of Christ imputed to us, there would be no reason for us to gather Father, we are also reminded that we can gather in this land in freedom with so many rich blessings. Ultimately, because there are people who, in the defense of this land, throughout several different generations, have been willing to go and fight, and many have laid down their lives Father, I pray that you'd help us this weekend to not just think about hot dogs and hamburgers and family, but that we would realize we live in a free country because of the sacrifice. Of people who went before us. Father, I pray that you'd help us not to be an entitled people who are arrogant and self-centered. But a people who recognize the need to be principled and strong, that need to use the freedoms that we've been given by your good hand to their fullest. I pray that this morning as we gather that we would think deeply about the tremendous gift that we possess, the gift of eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Lord. I pray this morning as we sing, our hearts would be knit together, that we would lift up our voices with passion and fervency, that we would think deeply. About these wonderful truths that are packaged within these hymns of the faith. I pray that our hearts would be knit together. I pray that our hearts would be uplifted I pray that our fellowship would be very sweet and very rich. I pray that you would move very evidently in our midst as we recognize when we gather together the Spirit of God is working in our midst. We pray that you would work in our hearts through the reading of the Scripture, the preaching of the Scripture, the singing of these wonderful hymns. I pray that every aspect of our worship today would uplift your people And would ultimately testify to the greatness of our Savior. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen. Good morning, Acre Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Good to see everyone out. Welcome to those that are joining us on livestream as well. I know some folks can't get out, but we're certainly hoping and praying that uh you'll raise your voices and Song, making a joyful noise unto the Lord. We'll start our song service off with page 299 or follow along with us on the screen. Please stand with me. Stretch your legs, your diaphragm, and make A joyful noise. Arise, my soul, arise. We can't sit to this one. So sing out. I am for the world, my joy, my name is with an island. We have a little problem for the entertainment. Is already love his precious blood to free. Brothers on all our done. For all our race and springles now the throne of great on the land. I now am against my voice I hear, he owes me for his child I can no longer be with our night, with converter, I now write And Baba B. Alright, we're going to turn to page three thirty-six. For the next song, page 336, My Hope is in the Lord. I know I can later. And pay the price of all my things and I overf. I never liked my man might be brave I'll wear my arm. I can suppress my only hope this man is like just that our main Or maybe live I never think my man might be freaking and out of And the name be a Or may die or maybe live and everything I can might be free. I recognize it work of our name. We die for me. All right, go ahead and have a seat Well, we turn to page 355. Page 355. Jesus paid it off. I take it on this for all how the weakness water I didn't see my own in all these that they did. Or now indeed I wind by power and elbow and change the love pers And death thou hardest God. Jesus paid it all while to him I love Let him have a printed pain, he washed it like that. For nothing good have I whereby I must be playing on the wash whistle is by And when before the throne I shall complete Jesus died, my soul is saved. I will shall be the play all Well here I was sin had left a prince and say he washed it white as Uh that's me. Okay. The scripture reading for this morning. We're going to the book of Luke. As you can see on the screen, Luke 9, 11 through 22 will be the reading. Luke 9, 11 through 22. The scripture says And the people, when they knew it, followed him, and he received them, and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of healing And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the towns and country round about and lodge, and get vigilals, for they were for we are here in a desert place. But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have no more but five loaves and two fishes Except we should go and buy meat for all this people, for they were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, Make them sit down by fifties in a company And they did so and made them all sit down. Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes And looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude. And they did eat, and were all filled And there was taken up of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets. And it came to pass, as he was alone praying, His disciples were with him, and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am? They answering said, John the Baptist, but some say Elias. And others say that one of the old prophets is risen again. And he said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter, answering, said, The Christ of God. And he straightly charged them and commanded them to tell no man that thing saying, The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day. And may the Lord bless the reading of his word. Oh All right, as we continue our songs, we're going to turn to page 343 in the hymnal. Page 343, all three verses of springs of living water. I thirsted in the barren land of sin and shame, and nothing satisfying there I found. But to the blessed cross of Christ, one day I came where springs of living water did abound. Drinking at the springs of living water Happy now am I, my split satisfied Drinking at the springs of living water, oh wonderful and bountiful supply Living water from the hills of God. It makes me glad and happy all the day. Our glory, grace, and nothing marked the path of God. My shall we hallelujah every day. Drinking at the springs of living walk Happy now am I, my listening eye, drinking at the springs of living walk There is flowing deep and wide Ah Savior now invites you to the water free where thirsty spirit can be satisfied. I'm drinking at the springs of living water. Happy now am I, my stuff late satisfied, I'm drinking a good thing of living watch Wonderful and boundtiful supplies. All right, next song is going to be out of the blue book. Out of our blue book. It's going to be page one hundred and ninety-two. Very Back to the book one hundred and ninety two complete in the Oh God , they can be a work of mine. I think it 's more the place mine. I have hard and God for thee, and I am now completely , justified heart And thanks if our salvation was my God in God for me, and for a God, I should be No brings in the no worship sin. I break that wonder break in My voice shall be completely Ben I shall please me Take up the pride of blessed God and thank the God Salvation God. And glorified I do. Stand with me on the third and the fourth. Please stand. Complete in the each one supply. And no good thing to me deny, sis thou white portion, Lord will be I have no more completely. Jesus Christ, O bless it part, and thank it part, salvation part. Thy blood have fought and bought for me, and glorified. I too shall we let go a cappello on the last. A cappello, dear savior, win before thy frost. All tribes and tongues assembled are among thy chosen will I be. At thy right hand complete in thee. Yea, just give hide a blessed heart, and thank if I 'm salvation art. Thy blood hath poured in blood for me, and glorified I too shall be. Please have a seat. Amen For the I have a strong hand for deceit, a great high priest whose name is Whoever lives and pleas for me, my name is friend on his hand My name is Britain on his hold. My name is Wall Witch and He's No tongue can give me that seat, no tongue can give me that seat. When Satan tempts me to despair and tells me all the I killed with them upward I look and see him there, who made an end of all my This was nothing with your guy. My sin was all is counted. For all the just satisfied, To look on him and fight and me, to look on him and find me. We hold him learn the risen lamb by perfect marble The brain and shape noble I am, the king of glory and of rain. What it is wrong, why can I die? My soul is burdened by his blood. My life is in with Christ on high, with Christ my Savior. And my God, with Christ my Savior, and my God. Well , What a beautiful song Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for your class. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 9 this morning, Luke chapter 9, and we're looking at the section that is verses 10 through 22. And we're not going to read that whole section as we open up this passage, but um this is a very familiar text. It's a very familiar story And it's the feeding of the 5,000. In fact, there are several other gospel accounts of this. This is probably the least full as far as the details go. But I'd like us to really focus on how Luke Presents this miracle because it is an important part of his strengthening of the faith of a man named Theophilus. Luke chapter 9, verse number 10. Here's what the text says. And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all they had done. He took them and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsayeda. And the people, when they knew it, followed him, and he received them, and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of healing. And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve and said unto him, Send the multitudes away, that we they may go into the towns and the country round about and lodge and get victuals. For we are here in a desert place But he said unto them , Give ye them to eat. They said, We have no more but five loaves and two fishes, except we go and buy meat for all this people. For they were about five thousand men Before we dig into this text of scripture, I'd like us to bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to appreciate this very, very profound miracle recorded for us by Luke. Father, as we open up the text of Scripture, I pray that we would with fresh eyes read a miracle performed by Christ that teaches us so many things about his nature. It reveals to us his power. It reveals to us his compassion. It reveals to us his extravagance. It reveals to us the very provocative way in which He confronts us in our blind spots and in our weaknesses I pray that as we open up the scriptures, that the Holy Spirit will take the word and press it deeply upon our hearts. Help us to understand the weight and the significance of Of these truths and help us to see the Lord Jesus Christ high and lifted up and exalted. And I pray that we would recognize our Savior and that we would bend our knees and we would think biblically about ourselves. And Father, I pray that as we move our way through these wonderful truths, you would open our eyes to the significance of these things. We ask that you would bless us as your people through your word in Christ's name. Amen. I want to give you a simple summary statement for the text in front of us. The feeding of the five thousand was a remarkable miracle meant to show us who Christ is. What he came to bring us and how he would purchase the gift of eternal life for us. meeting of the 5,000 is that we look at it as a moralistic story. And we see this little boy who came up to the disciples. He can hear the disciples talking to Jesus. And he says, oh, I can help out. I've got my lunch here. Can you take it and can you use it? And the disciples are looking at this little boy and they're like, could you please leave us alone? We have a big league problem. And Jesus, oh hold on a second, I could use that. And then he feeds 5,000 people with this little boy's lunch. And that is a part of the story. But I'm going to submit to you that's really not what the point of the story is That's an important part, and there's something we can learn from that. But really, what this passage is all about is it's about showing us Jesus. It's about us seeing the power and the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ and the remarkable ways in which he deals with people. And so this passage of Scripture is going to drive us to something that is very, very profound. And on the way to that place that we're going this morning, there are going to be all kinds of truths that are sprinkled through there that kind of drive us to that point as well. So what I want us to do first of all is I want us to examine this morning the miraculous revelation of Christ's person from these verses. Notice what it says in verses fourteen and following. It says Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and he broke and he gave to his disciples to set before the multitude. And they did eat and were filled, and there were taken up fragments that remained to them, twelve baskets. Now I don't think these are like, you know, little baskets. that you put like a little lunch in. These are large baskets. This is a lot of food. The question is, what does that tell us about Jesus? Well let me kind of begin with this statement that I think we see at the beginning of this section, and that is it says a lot about the selflessness of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now think about this for just a moment. In verses eleven and twelve it says, actually verse number 10 The passage we looked at last week was that Jesus had sent out his twelve apostles. And he sends them out with this great ministry. They're supposed to go out, they're supposed to preach the gospel. the kingdom. They're supposed to verify the authority that Christ vested in them. And they're supposed to go from city to city, town to town, preach the gospel, don't get planted in any of those cities. And when you come back, they're going to explain to Jesus everything. That's going on. Think about it this way. Somebody goes on a missions trip and they've experienced some amazing things, some really good things, some really negative things. But the first thing that you want to do when they come home is you want to Hear the stories. Isn't that true? You want to see the pictures. You want to know what happened. And so Jesus takes his disciples and they withdraw their f They're physically exhausted, they're mentally exhausted, and Jesus wants to hear the stories, and they want to tell the stories. And so it's a time of refreshment, it's a time of rest, it's a time of reflection. It's a time of encouragement, there's lots that's bound up into it. And then here comes this group of people It's sort of like, you know, it's been a long day. Turn off the light, you close the door, you're about to fall asleep and then tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, daddy, daddy, daddy. No e mommy, mommy, mommy My brother had this problem, and you're like, no, I'm so tired. Isn't that how we feel? Exhausted. We don't have time for that. That's how the disciples feel. But notice what it says. He received them. He received them. Jesus does this all the time. There's little children, they're coming alongside the disciples like, get these kids away. He says, no, no, let them come. Let the little children come. Sit down. He says, unless you become like one of these kids, you can't enter the kingdom of God. And they go, What? This is the way Jesus was But that's not the end of it. He receives them and he speaks to them of the kingdom of God and healed them that needed healing. And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve to him, and they said, Send them away. Now, now let's think about this. It would have been enough if they showed up and they kind of sit there for 30 minutes, for an hour, for two hours, but there's 5,000 people there. And think about if in that 5,000 people, everybody that's got a problem in all of those towns, they're there because they want to meet Jesus. And the disciples are sitting there going, the sun's gone here and it's gone here and it's gone here, and they're tired. And they finally say, Jesus, send them away. And what that shows us about Jesus? He's selfless. He also was physically tired. We're talking about God in flesh. But Jesus wept and Jesus got weary and Jesus got tired. And so we see that these multitudes disrupt Christ in this private moment after intense ministry, and Jesus allows the disruption. He ministers to them for the entire day. The disciples are exhausted, and he says, send them away. But there's a second thing we're going to see about Christ. And this is all throughout this text. Jesus confronted the people with their greatest needs. Now, notice what he says in verse 13. It says, and he said unto them, the disciples, give them to eat. Now the disciples are sitting there and they're like, Jesus you you don't you don't get it. We don't have any food. We've been here all day. We're exhausted. We're tired. We're weary. Send them away and he says, you need to give them something to eat. And they say, we don't have any food We don't have any money. And it's like there's this little boy sitting there going, hey, hey, hey, I got some food. I can help you out. And you're like, yeah, whatever. And Jesus said, hold on, I can use that. And so what does Jesus do? He confronts his disciples. In fact, this is the way that Jesus works so many times. Not one person would be in this room today if it wasn't that Jesus didn't confront you at some point in your life. It's true. We're all as an unclean thing. We're all as uh filthy rags we're trusting in. We're going our own way. We are unrighteous. We are sinners. We are separated from God. We're not seeking after God. We're doing our thing. We're walking after the course of this world. And what does God do? He interrupts our lives. He convicts us of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. He uses all kinds of different tools at his disposal. And he reaches down into our life and he shakes us and he drives us to himself. That's the way God works. The gospels are full of examples of this. Luke five, four. Now when Jesus had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep and let down your nets for a draught. Do you know what happened in that story? Jesus called the disciples to leave their nets and to follow him. He says, Leave your nets, follow me, and I'll make you fishers of men. But you know what Jesus did? He confronted them in their livelihood. He let them get the greatest catch of their entire life. And they have all this fish, and their nets are breaking, and they're just like, wow, look at all this money. He says, leave it all alone. Walk away from it. Walk away from your business. Walk away from your family. Follow me. Isn't that an amazing thing? Think about the story of the rich young ruler. He comes to Jesus and he says, What good thing can I do? And Jesus says, Well, you know the commandments. Why do you call me good? There is none good but God. And he tells him, Well, I've kept all these commandments and Jesus says, Oh, there's one thing you're missing. Take everything you have and sell it and follow me. And he goes, I'm not gonna do that. Jesus didn't tell anybody else to do that. Just this man. Why? Because this man was self-righteous. He believed he loved his neighbor, and Jesus says, You don't love your neighbor more than you love yourself, and I'll prove it to you. He confronted him. Look at the story of Nicodemus in John chapter 3. He comes to Jesus and he says, we know that you're a teacher from come from God. Nobody can do these miracles. Except God is with them. And Jesus says, hold on a second, unless you're born again, you will not see the kingdom of God. And Nicodemus is like, what? I won't see the kingdom of God. He's like, yeah. Yeah. Let me say it to you again. Unless you're born again, you will not see the kingdom of God. And Nicodemus is like I'm a ruler of the Jews. I know the law. I'm an old man and he's thinking about all these things in his mind. And he says, I don't understand this. And Jesus says, Aren't you a teacher of the Jews? And you don't know these things? What is Jesus Confronting. We know the story of the Samaritan woman, John 4. He says, If you knew the gift of God and who it is, that saith unto thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him, he would have given thee living water. She says, I want this water. He says, then call your husband. She's like, Oh, I don't have one. He says, Technically, I guess that's true. You've had five, and the one you live with currently isn't your husband. And she's like, hold on a second, what's going on here? Confrontation. This is the way that Jesus works If Jesus didn't confront us in our sin, in our self-righteousness, we would continue as we are straight to eternal destruction. And so what does Jesus do? He confronts. We see that in this text of Scripture. We also see his authority. In verses fourteen and seventeen it says, He took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them and broke and gave to his disciples, and sat before the multitudes, and they did eat, and they were filled. You say, Well, what's it showing us about Jesus? It's showing us that he has the power to create from stuff. And by the way, he didn't just have the power to create from stuff. He has the power to create In fact, in John 1, 3 to 5 it says, All things were made by Him. Without Him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shined in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. Colossians chapter one, verse sixteen, it says, By him were all things created in heaven and on earth. whether they be visible or invisible, thrones, dominions, principalities, or powers, all things were created by him and for him. So if you go to Genesis chapter one and you see in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. And then he begins to describe how he spoke the world into existence, how he formed man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils The breath of life, and he becomes a living soul. And we look at every single one of those creative acts. What we are seeing is the power of God to create. And here he is doing the same thing. Of all these people, creating. It shows his authority. But there's a fourth thing, and that is the extravagance of Christ It's a great little detail. Verse 17 it says, and they did eat and were filled, and was taken up the fragments that remained to them, twelve baskets. Now, this weekend we had a father -son I I don't know if we'll call it a camping trip, but you know, we just put tents up in the back and we sat around a fire. We made a real big fire and we ate lots and lots of hot dogs and we had lots and lots of marshmallows And we ate lots and lots of watermelon. And the fact is after all of that food eaten by all of those boys, and you know boys can eat, the little ones and the big ones, you know, we are the big boys, right? So when it was all done, guess what? There was still food left. There were hot dogs, and there were hamburgers, and there was half a watermelon, and there were chips and all kinds of stuff. The idea is we had as much as we wanted, far more than we needed, and we had more than enough And that's the way that Jesus performed this miracle. He wasn't minimalist in that miracle It wasn't like, okay, five thousand, let me divide it up, you get a little piece right here, and you get a little pie like like what they give you on the airplane when you're flying, you know, here's your peanuts and enjoy your peanuts and enjoy your your little glass of coke and You'll probably not get another opportunity again. It's not the way Jesus did it. He performs this miracle of extravagance. Why? Because Jesus is an extravagant Savior. What he does is big. What he does is significant. What he does is great. And I want to remind you what we read this morning. Isaiah 55, 1 and 2. He says, Ho, everyone that thirsteth Come to the waters, he that hath no money, come and buy and eat, and come and buy. Wherefore do you spend money on that which is bread which is not bread, and you labor for that which satisfies you You know what Jesus was saying to the nation of Israel? I'm here to give you what you need. What you need to have a sustained life, what you need to have vibrance and joy, and you don't have to pay anything for it. And you know what? You're working for something that has no value. That is the indictment of humanity. We're all like this Psalm 1611, thou wilt show me the path of life, in your presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. And you know lots and lots of people when they read that verse, they don't live like it's true because Jesus has his box over here and this is everything else they're living for and he says you know I've got everything that you need here And they're pursuing all these lightness. James 1, 5 and 17, he says, If you lack wisdom, let him ask God, who giveth to almond liberally and abradeth not, and it shall be given him. Every good and every perfect gift is from above. Think about the psalm where it says, He daily loadeth us with benefits. God loves to lavishly bless his people. Second thing I'd like you to see this morning is that this miracle served as a catlass for two very important Now if you remember, we we mentioned that Jesus is performing this miracle to provoke a response. He asked the disciples, or we could just say, he told the disciples, he said, you feed them. And they're like, we can't do it But that wasn't the only thing that Jesus was doing. He was driving to a point. In fact, in some of the other gospel accounts, we will see that after this This miracle, there's a conversation about the bread of life. And Jesus says, I am the bread of life. And your fathers ate man in the wilderness and they died And he says, I am the source of life, and I am the sustainer of life, and I'm the one who gives you a lavish life. That was part of why Jesus performed this miracle. Notice what he says in verse 18. Came to pass as he was alone praying, his disciples were with him. He asked them. Whom say the people that I am? They answered and said, John the Baptist, some say Elias, and others say one of the old prophets is risen again. He said unto them, Whom say ye that I am? Peter answering said, The Christ, the Son of God. He straightly charged him and commanded them to tell no man these things, saying, The Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders, and the chief priests, and the scribes, and be slain. And be raised the third day. We could break it down this way. The first conversation that Jesus was opening the door to was: what did I come to bring? Now, when we read the passage in Luke and we read the passage in John, the other gospels, what we see is that there were a group of people that asked the question, what did you And they're looking for a spiritual answer. And then there are other people that were saying, Why didn't you give us more food? Hey, we're here for a little bit more food. We'd we'd like our peace as well. We heard this story. Give me this and give me this and give me this. In other words, there were some people that came with an unregenerate heart and you know what they saw Jesus as? A tool. He was there so that they could rub the genie and get what they wanted. In their minds, he was no different than the idols of the world. I want prosperity, I'm gonna get it from Jesus. I want money, I'm gonna get it from Jesus. I want to get married, I'm gonna get it from Jesus. I want this, and I That's the mindset of the world around us. He's a tool, a source of power to be tapped. That is not who Jesus is. Some people think he's their personal servant to give them what they want. 1 Timothy 6, verse 5. This is what Paul tells Timothy, be careful In the last days, there are people who, through perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds, and who are destitute of truth, suppose that gain is godliness. And the idea is that you use God and religion to get what you want. That's the idea. It says withdraw yourself from such people. Some people see him and religion as a tool for selfish gain. 2 Peter 2:3. Many shall follow their pernicious ways, by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of. And through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you. Now listen: prosperity theology would not thrive if people didn't love Lust for stuff. You got that? In other words, a person that's really good at praying on others, coming alongside a person that's really good at using others. Work together where there's kind of like a leech relationship, if you understand what I'm saying. One is saying, I can give you this and I'll use God, and guess what? They're just sapping them of their energy. Energy, like a tick on a dog. That's the truth. And so what does he say? He says, Don't be duped, don't be covetousness, don't listen to people that are going to use you because You're just following your belly. The vast majority of Christianity in America today actually is in this category right here. I'm telling you that's the truth It's not about salvation from sin and eternal destruction and a life of holiness committed to God. It's about God giving me what I want, or I turn against him. And I'm happy with him as long as he gives me what I want. And we see in this story, not in the Luke text as much, but certainly in the John text, that people came and they said I'd like a little bit more food to eat. And Jesus is like, I'm not here to give you food. I'm here to die on a cross. I'm here to cancel your sin. And they're like, we don't care about that. The sin thing, why are we talking about sin? Why are we talking about the cross? We're here for food. That's what the world around us wants. And lots and lots of churches they twist the message, they tweak it just a little, so that people will come. It's destructive. On the other side, we see those who understand the gospel. They recognize there's an eternal purpose. And we see this come out in the text. They recognize that this is the Christ. And that statement the Christ means he's the Messiah. There are all these Old Testament prophecies That fill out the concept of the Messiah. He is God in flesh. He came to save us from our sins He is holy and to be feared. He is good and he is to be loved and worshipped. He's Lord. He is to be submitted to and obeyed. That's the concept. And so some people go, give me more, and others say, thank you. There's a big difference between those two things. One is living the life of the leech. Never satisfied, never happy, never content. Jesus is just another idol In their life. Not the Jesus of the Bible, the Jesus they've created in their own hearts. And others say, Thank you, Lord, for saving my soul God be merciful to me, a sinner. The second conversation is: how did he come to accomplish this? He came to die on the cross. He says the Son of Man must, he didn't just say he's going to, he says, he must suffer. Many things, and be rejected of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day. Now this is a fascinating statement because what it does is it actually shows you the difference between The Savior and those who are, we could say, taking advantage of the people. There are people that said he is the Savior. He came to die for our sins, and they're anticipating the salvation. There are others that are saying, He's disrupting our purposes and the opportunities we have with Rome. And why won't he overthrow our enemies and give us what we want? And they say, let's just kill him Folks, people are not looking at Jesus with a heart attitude that's kind of like, eh, I'll take him, leave him, it doesn't matter. There's actually an antagonism toward the Christ of Scripture. The preaching of the cross is foolishness to people. Don't talk about Christ shedding his blood as a sin-bearing substitute. But Jesus states it very explicitly: I must Go to the cross. He took on flesh, he humbled himself, he died for our sins, he conquered death. And so this miracle was about asking the question: why am I here and what am I ultimately here to do? I'm not here to give you food till the day you die. I'm not here to be your genie in the ball. I'm here to provide the only means of redemption. The third truth. He came to provide an abundant eternal life. Now, when we talk about eternal life, we need to recognize that eternal life is more than just going to heaven. Now, please don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying that it's not a part of eternal life. But eternal life is something not that you're going to get, it's something that you have today. We have passed from death to life. He that has the Son hath life. That is not you're gonna get it, that is you have it. John 17, 3 says, this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, in Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Well, when do you start knowing God? When do you start understanding who Christ is and what he's done? And where do you start developing this love for your Savior? It's the moment that you understand the gospel and you turn to Christ and you place your faith in Him alone. So eternal life's not just like, oh, well, like this endless period of time, it's far more than that. Something that we have now. 1 John 5:11. This is the record that God hath given to us eternal life. This life is in his son. He that hath the son hath life. He that hath not the son of God hath not life. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. Not that you know you're gonna get it, that you know you have it. You see the difference. In fact, the vast majority of texts in scripture that talk of eternal life don't talk about it in the quantitative time element, but in the qualitative Sense. What I mean by that is that this is a life that is vibrant, it's a life that is rich, it's a life that's full, it's the life the way God intended us to live. It is conformed to his purposes for us. Listen to what it says in John 10, verse 10. The thief cometh, but to steal and to kill and to destroy. I have come that ye might have life. And that it might, you might have it more abundantly. There's no greater quality of life available to people than the life that is conformed to God's design. It's true. Somebody says, well, I want this because it's going to give me what I want. It's going to make me happy. It's going to make me fulfilled And I'm gonna say, for a little time, maybe it will. Just like the fish thinks he's really got something when he bites that hook. He's gonna find out it was more than a worm. It was more than a fish. It was a hook. And that's what the world gives us. It gives us a temporary satisfaction that ensnares us. It enslaves us. He created us to know him and to reflect him and to delight in him and to use the bodies that he's given us happily in his servant. And eternal life is us enjoying the purpose for which God designed, not just now, but forever. And it is a gift. You could have two people that are married, two couples, and one couple has a vibrant marriage. They're both imperfect people. Of course. They have their their struggles and their challenges, but they are building their life on something of value. You have another person that is just as legally married to their spouse, and their marriage is not They have the same thing in one sense, but something entirely different in another. There are many Christians who they are saved from sin and they're going to heaven, but they do not enjoy their Christian experience. They don't know God. They're not growing in this vibrant life. Their knowledge of God, their affections, their cold. And other Christians who have far more complicated challenges in life come to the same place and their heart is stirred and filled, and they rejoice and they're knowing Gods. Quality. Think of some of the ways it's described. Proverbs 4, verse 18. The path of the just is as the shining light that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. It's a description of walking in the light. It's an aspect of the eternal life we possess today that we will have forever. First John one seven. If we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. You know, you can have a rich fellowship with God or a very deficient fellowship with And both be equally saved. One is rejoicing and enjoying and lavishly enjoying their savour, and the other is cold and callous. John four four verse twelve John four twelve No man hath seen God at any time. If we love when another God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us It's a description of this progressive growth in the Christ's likeness. As we grow in a knowledge of God, He shapes our disposition He shapes our passions. He shapes our affections. He influences our responses. And so this is what God does. It's the quality of the life that we have. 1 John 5 20, we know that the Son of God is come, that concupiscence and covetousness Is idolatry. Did you catch that? We think about this concept that covetousness, God says, is idolatry. Tree. You ever thought about that? Covetousness is wanting something that doesn't belong to us, something that's been forbidden from us, and it disrupts us, makes us angry , makes us frustrated. It makes us complain, be miserable. You know what it ultimately is? It's saying, God, I demand that you give me what you didn't give me And I'll use whatever I need to get it. If you'll give it to me, I'll take it that way. If I ought to use unjust and dubious means, I will do it that way. It's ultimately exchanging the truth of God for something that is created, either in our minds, or something He has made. Romans 1, 22. When they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. Catch that statement, not thankful. Say, well, that's not a big deal. In gratitude, everybody's ungrateful. It's true, everybody's ungrateful. And he says it's idolatry. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. Changed the truth of God into an image made like unto corruptible image Man. You know what people is? People are good at making stuff that reflects their image, not enjoying what is created in his image. We're good at that. People like to seek satisfaction outside of him, and this is a fruitless pursuit. Jeremiah 2 13 My people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living water. and have hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns that can hold no water. That's a really amazing statement. It's sort of like I have God here, and he says, Come to me, you who are labor and heavy laden, I'll give you rest. My yoke is easy, my burden is light And you say, thank you for that offer. I'm going to go ahead and create something that I think can help me right here. And we get exhausted doing it, and we get frustrated and we get angry, and it gives us nothing. And that's how so many people live their lives. Living for an empty cistern when they have the fountain of life available. 1 John 5. 20. We know the Son of God has come, hath given us an understanding that we may know him that is true. We are in him that is true, even his son Jesus Christ. And this is the true God and eternal life. Little children, keep yourself from idols. This week I was listening to a podcast and someone quoted this passage. And they said, I don't know why he ended the book that way, because he doesn't say anything about idols. And I Said, are you kidding? What he's saying is this: you have the truth. It's Jesus. Are you going to embrace him or are you going to create your own truth? Jesus? Are you going to embrace him and what he has, or will you create something that will give you a cheap substitute? That's what he's saying. When he says, keep yourself from idols, he's saying, I've laid out to you the way of a vibrant life. And anything that you take, anything that you trust, anything that you embrace, anything that That you pursue that is taking the place of him is an idol. That's what he's saying. So he asked this question: Is it possible that we living in the Western world Live with idols in our hearts. He used the illustration of water and food. Why? Because water and food sustain life and satisfy satisfy thirst and satisfy hunger. And that is what God is supposed to be. He's the giver of life, he's the sustainer of life, he is the source of satisfaction. Anytime you're hungry and anytime you're thirsty, you You can flee to him, and he will uphold you and strengthen you. That's the picture in the scriptures. He wants us to be fully satisfied in him. Alone, not the idols of this broken world. And so I ask you some questions. Is there anything that you have put in the place of God? Now, I'm not here to tell you that you have. That's really not my place. It's to ask the question and to exhort you to ask yourself the question. And then to answer the question honestly. Just between you and God. Is there any compromise you're willing to make because you ultimately value that thing more than the giver and the sustainer of life? What is compromise? It's saying that's more valuable than God's authority. That's really what it is. It's a very simple thing, but it's true. I like this comfort more than this. Like this money, I like this power, I like this opportunity, and so I'm willing to compromise because that is ultimately of greater value to me Have we reduced God to a tool that we use to satisfy our own selfish desires? Let me tell you, one of the greatest defenders of this are pastors. I'll tell you the truth. Missionaries. This is how I feed my family. And someone who handles the word of God week in and week out can actually make God a tool he uses. For his own purposes. Every single one of us can do this. If a pastor can do this, if a missionary can do this, if someone who handles the word of God on a regular basis can do this, well, any of us can do this. We can see God as a tool to be manipulated. Are we angry at him because we believe he's withheld from us something that we are entitled to? Is it that he has dealt us something that we feel we have the right to and he's not given it to us? Are we discontent and disgruntled? It's idolatry. And so I asked this question. Are we willing to ask these questions to ourselves? I think a lot of times we're not. And I want to encourage you to do it. It's hard to preach a message like this because I've got to sit down and ask myself these questions first. The fact is, we are we are masters of creating idols. Masters of it. And I want to encourage you from the Word not to do that this morning. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father in heaven, we think about the text before us We recognize that the power of Christ was demonstrated as He creates. We see the wonderful illustration of life being sustained. And life being vibrant because of the food. We see Christ's incredible kindness and mercy towards those who just wanted to speak with him. And Father, I pray that you would help us to recognize that as these people, many of them, misunderstood Jesus But we sometimes do as well. I pray that our hearts would be humbled in your presence, that we would ask ourselves these difficult questions. That we would do business with you. There would be a genuine repentance of heart in your presence that we would say, God forgive. And we are reminded that the cross has taken care of it already. I pray that you might help us to be a vibrant people. Who have the kind of life that is available to us, that we embrace it fully. We ask it all in Christ's name Amen. Just a few moments we're going to have a baptism, so I'm going to ask if Doug can come up and lead us in Well, I say a closing hymn. We'll we'll say it's a hymn between now and the baptism, but it's the song Satisfied 298. If you need time, you can pick it up. And then we have another one we'll close with, but go ahead. In the hymnal satisfied. All three verses. By my planted for a day I come so you'll spring That I hope would the burning of the thirst I felt within From Avonia I have found him , though my soul so long has prayed , that satisfies my longing. But I now have saved, feeding on us around me till my strength model is gone Crong myself for something better, only still hunger on. Hallelujah, I have found him Though my soul so long has prayed, Jesus satisfied my longings, through his blood I now have saved. I love water, ever springing, that of life so rich and free Un wealth had never failed, my redeemer is to me. Oliver I have found you And my soul so long has been Jesus satisfies my longing , where is what I now have said