Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'm excited about the topic that we're dealing with today. And this is based on our Sunday morning message. So if you Uh joined us for a Sunday morning message, uh we were in Luke chapter seven and we were looking at verses thirty six through forty three. So if you have a Bible I'd like to invite you to take it and let's look together at this passage. And this is going to be our introduction to what we will be studying together this week. Luke chapter 7, verse 36 says this. And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisees' house and sat down to meet. And behold a woman in the city which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment, and stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with her tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment Now when the Pharisees, which had bidden him, saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she is a sinner. And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have someone to say unto thee. He said, Master, say on. He said there was a certain creditor which had two debtors. One owed him five hundred pence, the other fifty When they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore which of them will love him more. Someman answered and said, I suppose that he to whom he forgave the most. He said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. Now this passage is a very rich passage because it teaches us a lot about The way the gospel changes people. And when a person doesn't understand the gospel or they've flatly rejected the gospel, it shapes how they respond to other people. Someone who's embraced the gospel understands God's grace and his forgiveness. is a person who is also going to relate to others differently. And so that really is what the heart of our study is going to be this week. How the gospel affects people's ability to flourish in relationship. And so Luke chapter 7 in this particular section it's recounting just a simple dip dinner invitation. But in that dinner, Jesus is going to illustrate this point very, very clearly. Now in order for us to get into this discussion, I want us to begin with a quote that I read from this book right here. It's called Christeless Christianity. It was written about 20 years ago by Michael Horton. And I highly recommend this book. It is a really fascinating read. It's a critique on the American Church. And at the beginning of this book, he made uh a a reference to a person named Donald Barnhouse who was a pastor uh of the 10th Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. And in in the 1940s, late 1940s, for about 10 years Donald Barnhouse was on CBS radio and he would preach regularly through the Book of Romans. And on one of those occurrences, he posed a question. That I believe was picked up by Paul Harvey. If you uh remember Paul Harvey when he was on the radio, he actually refers back to um this question that Donald Barnhouse asked. And here was the question If Satan were to take over Philadelphia, what would it look like? Some of you might say, well, it would look like it does right now. This was over fifty years ago. In fact, actually it was about 80 years ago when he asked this question. And this is the way that he answered the question. It's fascinating. In fact, it's the beginning of this book. He said, all the bars would be closed. Pornography banished, pristine streets would be filled with tiny pedestrians tiny pedestrians who smiled at each other and there was no swearing. They said, Yes, ma'am, yes, sir. But here's the key. The churches would be filled on Sundays where Christ was not preached. The point that that this man Donald Barnhouse is making, as he said, I am concerned that the churches of America are preaching moralism But they're not preaching the gospel. And he knew that the moralism of American society in the nineteen fifties would be gone someday if churches were not filled That were preaching the gospel, instead they were preaching a moralistic message. And I will tell you that that is exactly what's going on today. Donald Barnhouse understood what many contemporaries of his day did not understand. And that is that you cannot have the values that are produced by the Christian faith without the gospel itself. It is the life of the Christian faith that produces Christian living. Morality without the gospel is a deadly trap. It lures people into the self-righteousness that's going to ultimately be devastating. And so later on in this book, Michael Horton makes some some fascinating uh statements about what Donald Barnhouse was preaching and what Paul Harvey picked up. And this is what he wrote. He said, it's easy to become distracted from Christ as the only hope for sinners, where everything is measured by our happiness rather than God's holiness, our sense of being sinners becomes secondary, if not even offensive. And if we're good people who have lost our way uh without proper instruction, motivation, we can become better persons. We need only a life coach, not a redeemer. I believe that that really is a is a perfect description. of what happened in American churches and really what is the predominant theme of the thinking of our era. People today believe that mankind is morally good. Gets off track a little bit and all he needs is he needs a coach. He doesn't need a savior. He doesn't need a redeemer. He doesn't need someone to actually rescue him from his his sin and his brokenness. He doesn't need to be made spiritually alive. He just needs to be taught and coached. Well folks, that thinking is why we're why we're why we are today where we are in our society. And churches have to get back to this fundamental principle that it is the gospel that enables people to live out the Christian life. If I'm spiritually dead I am not able at all to live out the Christian life. And by the way, this is one of the predominant themes we find in the New Testament. I'm going to give you some examples of what I'm talking about, where before Paul talks about how to live as a Christian, he talks about what it means to actually be a Christian and what is true about the believer and that really enables them and motivates them and drives them to live the Christian life. For instance, Ephesians chapter 4 or chapter 5, verse number 8, here's what it says. Ye were sometimes darkness, but now ye are light in the Lord Jesus. Therefore, Walk as children of the light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth. What is Paul saying? He's saying, This is what you used to be, this is what you are now, and the fruit of your new position in Christ is what? It's godly So he's making the distinction that apart from the gospel, you're not able to walk in this newness of life that you have. Or, for instance, in Galatians 5. 18, he says If you are led by the Spirit, you're no longer under the law, but under grace. Now the works of the flesh which are manifest are these. And he talks about all kinds of uh terrible perversions, abusive behavior, unjust behavior, the kind of things that degrade a society, destroy families, ruin relationships. what's prevalent within the world around us today. And then he says, but on the other side, the fruit of the Spirit is love and joy, peace, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. But here's the key. They that are Christs, he's talking about a positional reality, they have crucified the flesh with its He says, if we live in the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. And by the way, that word fruit is important. Fruit is something that is produced by life. And this is really the difference between a tree that produces fruit like an orange tree or a lemon tree or a peach tree or an apple tree. It produces because it's alive and a Christmas tree that you just put tinsel and you put lights on and you put ornaments on. You know what the difference is? An ornament isn't something produced by a Christmas tree, but something you hang on a Christmas tree. An orange is something that's produced by an orange tree because it has life. And that's the difference between the moralist who doesn't understand that the gospel is at the heart of the Christian life And the person that's truly alive in Christ. One person is putting on ornaments from a position of deadness, and the other is producing fruit By the enabling of the Spirit who indwells them. Another example, Romans chapter twelve, verse one. He says, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice Therefore, because you are alive in Christ, because of the position that you have, because you have the Holy Spirit, because you are regenerated, because you are justified, because God's forgiven you, therefore By the mercies of God, present yourself as a living sacrifice. Notice the consistency in Ephesians and Galatians In Romans, he's saying, because you're alive in Christ, because you're positioned in Christ, this is how you're supposed to live. He doesn't start with the behavior of the Christian, he starts with the position of the Christian. And the position of the Christian is what presses us into the life that follows. We do not become Christians by our lifestyle. We demonstrate that we are truly in Christ by the radical change that takes place and how we think and the way that we respond in circumstances. Perhaps one of the greatest examples of the ones that that I have jotted down is the Colossians 3 passage. And listen to what it says If you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. That word if is important If it's not true, then you can't do it. If you're risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Set your affections on things above, not on things of the earth. Later on in the passage, he says In uh i if if you uh it says put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, forbear one another, forgive one another. As Christ has forgiven you, so also do ye. Colossians chapter 1 makes this this up this This principle come to life very clearly. You have position, you have an abling, you have responsibility He's emphasizing the fact that we live the Christian life because we are alive in Christ. So this point is very important as we get into this discussion in Luke chapter 7. The reason that this woman is going to relate to Jesus the way that she does is because she's a forgiven person The reason that Simon the Pharisee is going to have disdain for Christ and disdain for this woman is because he simply revealing the true condition of his heart. He is cold and he is calloused and he is self-righteous and he is blinded to his own position. And so that's at the heart of this whole thing. So let me kind of sum it up this way. We're living in a time that has been paved by the problems of the past. The reason we have the issues today that we do in our culture is because there was a time in American society where the churches that were predominant stopped preaching Christ and the gospel and they started preaching Moralism, Christian culture, goodness and virtue without gospel. And you know what's happened There is a society that says, you know what, I don't want the morals of the church anymore. I don't want the virtues of the church anymore. Why did they depart from the morals and the virtues of the church? It's because they don't have the heart that produces them. The reason they don't have the heart that produces them is because the gospel is not being preached. I'll close with this thought. If you don't have God , You don't have an objective standard that says this is right and this is wrong. Without the gospel, you have no basis to have a clear and cleansed conscience. Because sin isn't being dealt with. Without regeneration, there's no power to walk in newness of life. If I'm spiritually dead, how can my life produce spiritual fruit? It's impossible Without the gospel, there's no ground to say that I've been forgiven, I've been cleansed, I've been regenerated, God accepts me in the beloved. Without the gospel, I have none of those things. And without the fatherly care of God and the work of the Spirit sanctifying me, pressing me to become more and more like Christ in my character and conduct and my thinking, there'll be no spiritual growth. We're living in a time that has been produced by churches of former generations. And really what it comes down to is that we have to recognize the desperate times we're living in. And quit looking at the symptoms and ask what's under the surface. What has produced the problems that are so obvious before us? And it's that we're not preaching the gospel like we should. I hope that this morning as you think about this, it it gives you a seed for thought It gives you something to think about throughout the rest of the week. And as we dig into this concept that we've laid before us this morning and that we talked about in our Sunday morning service, I hope that it will really shape your thinking And help you to recognize where the ultimate issue has to be addressed, and that is at the root. May the Lord use these things to bless you today Hope you have a great rest of your day and I look forward to continuing in the series tomorrow by now