Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh we're back in John chapter twelve this morning. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together. And yesterday we talked about the momentum that was building as Christ is entering into Jerusalem. And today what we're going to do is we're going to take the perspective of the disciples and we're going to look at sort of both sides where they were right and where they were wrong about what Christ was about to do and then try to think about how we can practically apply that in our own lives as well. So let's go ahead and dig into the word this morning. Here's what it says Then Jesus, six days before Passover, came to Bethany where Lazarus was which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. Then there made him a supper, Martha served, and Lazarus was one of them that was at the table with him. Then in verse twelve it says, On the next day much of the people were come to the feast when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. They took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him and cried Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereupon, as it is written, Fear not, daughters of Zion, behold thy king cometh sitting on an ass's colt These things understood not as disciples at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they these things that were written of him that they had been that they had done these things unto him. The people therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the grave and raised him from the dead bear record. For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle. And the Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Perceive ye how ye ye prevail nothing. Behold the world is gone after him So yesterday we talked about the momentum that was building. You kind of see that in these verses. It's the Passover season. There's this massive group of people that are coming. Jesus has raised Lazarus to the uh back to life. The Pharisees are upset because they recognize that the people are uh they're they're flocking to Christ as he comes in, they they quote from Psalm 118 and they're saying, Save us, Lord, save us, Lord. Well, that's what he's coming to do. He's coming to save them, but not in the sense that they're thinking. And so what I want to do is I want us to take the disciples and I want us to understand what was going on in their minds, what was right about their perspective, what was wrong about their perspective, and then ultimately that's going to lead us to some important implications for our own Christian experience. So first of all, let's talk about where they got it right. And the first place I want to go is John chapter 6. And John 6, verse 67, this is what it says. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will you go away? Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God He says, we're sure of this. What's John ultimately saying? He's saying, I believe that Jesus is the Messiah. Okay? And so verse 69, he says, We believe and we are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. That statement is a powerful statement. The reason that John is sure of this being the person is because of what he witnessed with his eyes, what he read in the scriptures. And so he sees that what he's witnessing with his eyes and what he's hearing with his ears, they're consistent with what has been foretold in the Old Testament. And so they're correct on who Jesus is. The second thing that we mention is that they anticipated his messianic role of establishing a kingdom. Now, when the disciples read the Old Testament, they understood that the Messiah is coming to establish an eternal kingdom of righteousness. And so For instance, in Acts 1, verse 6, this is after Jesus has died, has risen, and this is right before the ascension. This is what it says. It says, when they therefore were come together, they asked Jesus, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore the kingdom? to Israel. Now there's a there's a question that they're asking. Are you going to establish your kingdom? That's really what they're saying. And the answer that he gives is very intriguing. He says it's not for you to know the time or the seasons, but you will receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. You'll be witnesses unto me in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. And so Jesus doesn't say, well, you're wrong on not coming to establish a kingdom. He simply says, it's not for you to know when that's going to happen. Your duty is to just be faithful in expounding the gospel. Telling people that I have died, that I rose from the dead, and that there is forgiveness of sins and cleansing for all that will turn to me and place their faith in my finished word. That's what they're supposed to do. So they understand who the person is. They understand that he's going to establish the kingdom. And by the way, they understand um that this is something that's really, really important. So that they believe that the prophets foretelling the coming of the Messiah was true. So for instance in Luke chapter 18, verse 28, Peter says, Lord We have left all to follow thee. And that's true. The disciples did leave everything to follow Christ That means that they were convinced of who he was, they were convinced he was going to send uh he was going to establish his kingdom, and they were convinced that what the prophet said was true, and they were willing to stake everything on it. That's where they got it right But they also got it wrong in a lot of ways. And so the first place I want to go is Luke chapter 18, verses 31 and 34. Here's what it says. Then he took unto him the twelve and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. Now Luke 18, 28 is Peter's statement, We followed you. We've left everything to follow you. And Jesus says, That's true. Let me tell you what's going to happen. Everything that is written of the prophets concerning the Son of God is going to be accomplished. That's what he's saying. Then he gets very specific. He says, for he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles. And the question is, by who? By the Jewish Samhedron He will be delivered to the Gentiles, he shall be mocked, he shall be spitefully entreated, he shall be spat on, and they shall scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again They understood none of these things, and this saying was hid from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken. Now this is stunning Because they understand he's the Messiah. They understand he's going to establish his kingdom. They've been willing to forsake everything to follow Christ. But there's certain aspects of that messianic prophecy that they don't understand. And that's the most important part of the messianic prophecies. What is the basis through which the Messiah will be able to establish those things? And the answer is it's the cross. So when he talks about the scourging, being put to death, the resurrection, him being delivered over to the Gentiles, all those things. are foretold in the Old Testament. So a faithful student of the Old Testament should have understood by reading Moses and David and Daniel. And all of the prophets, Isaiah especially, they should have understood that in fact he was coming to Jerusalem not just to establish a kingdom, but to establish a basis for that kingdom. That's where they're wrong. So let me break it down this way. Well they underst they didn't understand that they were unfit to enter the kingdom. And so it says in John 3. 3, uh Jesus is talking to Nicodemus, obviously not one of the disciples, but it appears that Nicodemus became a disciple later on. He says, Verily, verily I say unto you, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Verse number seven, marvel not that I say unto thee, You must be born again. Well, what's Jesus telling him? He's saying, you are not fit in your natural state to be able to enter into my kingdom. You have to be regenerated. You have to be born again. You have to be born from above. And so they didn't understand that there has to be a basis for them to be able to be made fit through the death of Christ and the righteousness of Christ and the triumph of the resurrection. Those things have to take place. in order for them to be qualified to be able to enter into the kingdom, because they're not qualified on the basis of their own works and righteousness Another example. They didn't understand that there needed to be a sacrifice so that redemption could be established. John chapter 13, verse 8 is a fascinating text because Jesus is in the upper room with the disciples And he he he bends down before Peter and he begins to wash Peter's feet and all the other disciples' feet. And when he does this, it makes them extremely uncomfortable. And Peter says, you can't wash my feet. And this is what Jesus says to him. It's very interesting. Says in verse number eight, Peter says, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. What's he saying? He's talking about the fact that there needs to be redemption. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sins. And so what Jesus is saying is, Peter, you cannot be a part of my kingdom. without the new birth, okay, John uh Nicodemus, Peter, you can't be a part of my kingdom without your sins being washed away, without you being cleansed by the sacrificial death of me, the Messiah. That's what he's saying They also didn't understand the timetable of what God was doing. In Acts chapter 1, verse 7, we're kind of going back to their question about, are you going to restore the kingdom of Israel? He says it this way. He says, it's not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. What's Jesus saying? The timetable is not for you to be be concerned with. And by the way, what is also interesting to note is that in the book of Daniel He does give us a timetable for from the the rebuilding of Jerusalem until the death of the Messiah. He gives us that timetable, but he does not give us the timetable of the time from that until the establishment of his kingdom. So you might say, well, well Joel, what what do we take away from this? Well usually you could take away from this. First of all, just because someone has access to the truth doesn't mean they put it all together. We could have all these pieces in our minds, but not necessarily understand how they think. fit together. I give you a great example. Let's say that you're giving the gospel to somebody and you can explain that a person is a sinner and that because they're a sinner they deserve God's judgment. They may believe that that is true Okay? You may be able to go to the next point and say, well, Jesus is God in flesh, and he died for your sins, and he rose from the dead. They believe that that is true. But all of a sudden there's this little missing component that they have a struggle with. And that is the nature of how a person becomes a Christian. We're not saved by this combination of God does his part, I do my part. It's by depending alone on the work of Christ. So I'm a sinner, I have no basis to to make myself acceptable to God. Christ died for my sins, he rose from the dead, and if I turn to him and I trust alone in his finished work Well then what does God do? He declares me righteous, not guilty. He removes my sin debt. He makes me alive in Christ And so I may understand who Jesus is. I may understand that I'm a sinner that needs to be saved. I may understand what he did. He died for for me on the cross and he rose from the dead. But I don't understand that missing link between the two, how the benefits of the gospel become mine through faith alone in Christ. So just one example. But when the disciples are going through these things, what it shows us Is that Jesus just patiently, we could say, endured the the lack of understanding, and he understood That in the process of time, eventually they would come to understand these truths and it would click, it would make sense, they would rest in it, and then they would be mighty witnesses to the power of this message. And by the way The same thing is true often in our own lives. Aren't you thankful for God's patience with us? Aren't you thankful for God continually bringing us the truth? Aren't you thankful for people who are older and wiser in the faith, who maybe have sat down with you and and and and worked through a complicated issue of theology or doctrine or or some area of the Christian life? And they did it Just out of patience and out of love. This is the way that God works in our lives. And so when we think about this, let's remember that though they had all the pieces on one side, they didn't have some of the most significant pieces that connected them to the benefits of that kingdom. we Lord willing, tomorrow morning we're going to look at that missing piece and why that is so significant. So I hope that you'll stay tuned for tomorrow that you'll join us for our anchored in the word study in Night it'll be an encouragement to you. Have a blessed day by now