Welcome to you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today we are in Ecclesiastes chapter 10. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. And let's turn together to Ecclesiastes chapter 10. We'll be reading verses 19 and 20 together. Here's what the scriptures say. A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh merry, but money answereth all things. Curse not the king, know not in thine thought not in your thoughts, and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber. For a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter. Now when we come to this passage that we're looking at this morning, We're going to see that Solomon is going to emphasize how important it is for a person to have a heart that is settled, not unsettled, not restless, but settled. And so let me give you a some a simple summary statement and we'll look at the two points that he really digs into in this text. A summary is this. Solomon states what people pursue in life when they are restless. and warns us of the danger of allowing our hearts to be unchecked when we are unsettled towards others. So he's going to talk about what happens when people are restless and when people have an unsettledness toward other people. And so the first thing that we're going to see, the first fact or truth that he talks about, is the fact that people who live without God live life chasing after the wind. There's an unsettledness in their minds, an unsettledness in their heart, and so there are things that they try or pursue so that they can remove that unsettledness. In fact, it's interesting The statement is going to really be a reflection on what he says earlier in the book. He says it like this in verse 19 A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh merry, but money answereth all things. Now, when we look at this verse, we need to recognize that this verse is not meant to stand alone apart from the context of the entire book of Ecclesiastes. In fact, what's interesting is at the beginning of the book, Solomon talks about how life is full of emptiness and vanity. And he talks about things that he personally pursued in life. One of the things that he talks about is feasting. Another thing he talks about is alcohol. Another thing he talks about is money. And Solomon says, as I tried these things, and by the way, he talks about a lot more than just feasting, alcohol, and money, but he basically says, after I tried those things, I found that it was emptiness and weariness of the soul. So you ask the question, why does Solomon bring this up here in this part of the book? Well, it's simply to state the fact that when people live life without God and eternity in their minds, they're unsettled in heart. And they're trying to find something that can take that restlessness and can replace it with peace and joy and happiness. And so he said there are three things that I've observed that people try in order to get that settled heart instead of a restless heart. The first thing that he talks about is an abundance of food. He then talks about the temporary escape that people experience from their sorrow when they're intoxicated. He talks about how money gives you power to buy stuff. And when you can buy stuff, you can try, you can try to get out of your misery, you can try to find happiness, you can try to buy your way. out of the troubles that you experience in your heart. And so he basically says, when people are restless, when they say, what can make me happy, what can give me a sense of meaning, these are the three places that they're going to go. Now, the reason that Solomon brings it up is not to say that they're going to find happiness and joy and contentment and that the restlessness of their heart will be permanently removed. He's simply stating the fact that when you observe life, that's what people go to to try to get away from this restlessness in their heart. The second fact that we're going to see is that we need to guard our hearts when our hearts are unsettled When we say garter hearts, the idea is that when there's a problem inside, we have to address what's inside with real solutions that actually address the problem. Not something that just gives us a band-aid. In fact, when he talks about feasting and alcohol and money, he's basically saying that those are things that people run to And essentially what those things do is they give you a temporary pause in your temperature. It's like taking Tylenol or ibuprofen. You take that medicine and what happens? It doesn't remove the problem, but for a period of time it takes away the temperature that you have. It takes away the fact that you're running a fever. Or somebody has a deep wound and they put a band-aid on it. Well, the band-aid may stop the bleeding temporarily, but it doesn't fix the problem that's going on inside of the person. And so he's saying, listen, people chase after things to try to remove the internal difficulties going on. The second thing he talks about is this. We need to guard our hearts. In verse 20, he says something really interesting. He says, curse not the king, know not in thy thoughts. Curse not the rich in thy bedchamber, for a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter. Now basically what Solomon is saying is that when people have an unsettled heart and they're frustrated with others, particularly those who are in power, those who have authority over them. Then what's going to happen is inside the person's heart, that frustration and that anger and that irritability is going to build and fester. And he says, if that's going on in your heart, don't allow that to continue. You say, well, why does he say that? Because he said If you speak in your bedchamber, in other words, your most personal relationship, this is your spouse, okay? This is your family, the people that you live with. If it's going on in your heart, you're going to express it at some point to them. And he says, at some point, it's going to go from your heart. To those personal people, the closest associates that you have, but eventually that information is going to get all the way to the person that you're not happy with. And he said, what's going to happen? Trouble is going to be the result. In other words, don't curse powerful people in your thoughts. He's not saying don't go to them and speak your mind. He's saying don't allow that frustration to fester internally. Don't curse people who are powerful in your closest of relationships And by the way, we can't keep things internally long because eventually it's going to flow out in our conversations. He says, if you do it, eventually it's going to get out. So in other words, he's saying your thoughts don't stay private forever. Eventually we're going to share it with the people that we trust, that we confide in. And at some point, either somebody's going to overhear those conversations. Or somebody's going to casually make a comment to another person about how you feel or what you're saying. And eventually, the more that we think about something, the more that we express something The more we don't guard what's going on internally, the more likely it is that we're going to get that information to people who eventually are going to embarrass us. And the things that we're thinking and the things that we're saying in private are eventually going to become public matters and they're going to cause us regret in the end. So what is Solomon really saying? What Solomon's really saying is guard your hearts. In other words, what's going on inside needs to actually be addressed with real change or you're going to end up with regret down the road. What's interesting is that in both scenarios He's talking about things going on inside that eventually get into other areas. In other words, the person with the restless heart says, I've got to find a way to get rid of this restlessness. I'm gonna try feasting, I'm gonna try drunkenness, I'm gonna try money. I'm gonna try those things. Well you have the person who's so frustrated in their heart that rather than getting that issue resolved internally and then it not going beyond that It continues to fester in their heart and eventually it builds to the point that they express it to those closest to them and eventually it gets to those that they're upset with, and eventually it causes a lot of trouble and grief for them. So you asked the question, what is the practical implication? How do we take these verses and how do we live in the light of them today? Let me share with you two thoughts. That I jotted down today as I thought about this. The first is this. We need to recognize that things, pleasure, power, are not the real answer to a restless heart. You know, Solomon's going to express this not just at the beginning of the book, but he's also going to express it at the end of the book. He's going to say, let's hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God, keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of man. God will take every thought into captivity. You're going to answer to God for the things that you think and the things that you say. Well the reason that Solomon reminds us of that is because he wants us to recognize if we live life without God in eternity, in the way that we factor things, we're going to come up very empty and frustrated. And in the end we'll have nothing of true value So we need to recognize that pleasure and power are not the real answers to a restless heart. They may temporarily answer our problem. They may give us a sense that we think we're getting the answer, but in the end we won't The second thing that we need to see from this passage is that we need to address the unsettleness that goes on in our hearts with real biblical solutions. If we don't do that, then there's going to be a day that we're going to regret the fact that we didn't do it. And so really this section is all about the heart. the restless heart, the unsettled heart, the frustrated heart. Solomon saying, Deal with what's going on in the heart so that you don't regret it later. Let me share with you one final thought from Proverbs chapter four. Verses 23 to 25. Here's what the scriptures say. Keep thy heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of life. Put away from thee a froward mouth and perverse lips put far from thee Let thine eyes look right on, let thine eyelids look straight before thee, ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established. To put that in very simple terms, you need to guard your heart. You need to deal with restlessness and unsettleness in the heart. So that in the end, what flows out of your heart and the things that you say, the things that you do, the directions that you take, in the end it won't lead to pain and misery and suffering because of sinful choices. I want to encourage you this morning that it is very, very important that we respond correctly to what's going on in our hearts. I want you to know that I'm praying for you today. I hope that you have a wonderful day. I hope this has been a challenge to you. And if it has, I hope that you'll share that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer Father, thank you for the opportunity to be reminded again today that what goes on in our heart is absolutely critical to what flows out of our hearts into our daily lives. Help us to be a group of people who when our hearts are restless, we don't go to the wrong places to try to satisfy that restlessness. When our hearts are unsettled, help us to deal with that unsettledness of heart with biblical solutions. I pray that you bless each person that's going on. Father, we pray for our nation today. We pray that you would have your hand upon us as people go to the polls and vote. Father, we pray that a peaceable outcome would come from this election, that you would have mercy and kindness upon our land. that people would vote in a way that would ultimately preserve the freedoms and the liberties that we have, and as Christians, we would not uh take lightly the tremendous blessings we enjoy in this land. Help us to be faithful as the church. Help us to reach people with the gospel. Help us to see people discipled and thriving as they grow into Christ-likeness. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. We hope that you have a wonderful, wonderful morning. I look forward to continuing our study, Lord Willing, tomorrow. Bye now