We turn to the book of 2 Timothy, and we're going to read from chapter one. In fact, before we dig into this passage, I just want you to put yourself in my shoes for a minute and ask yourself the question, what would you Some of you would not preach on Mother's Day, but if you were in the position to choose what text of Scripture was preached on Mother's Day, what passage of Scripture would you deal with? In fact, one of the most interesting or easiest things for me to do when it comes to pastoral ministry is to uh know what I'm preaching the next Sunday because That was determined over a year ago as we were working our way through the preaching schedule and broke down the various sections of the books that we're dealing with. That's all been planned out. But when it comes to a day like Mother's Day, I always really, really wrestle with what to present. There's lots of reasons for that. Everybody knows on Father's Day you just rip into the dads because they need to step it up. You don't do that on Mother's Day, do you? And nobody wants to hear a Proverbs 31 message every uh Mother's Day either, so that everybody walks out of here going home, man. I fall so short of the expectations. But actually the passage of scripture we're going to look at this morning is, I think, extremely, extremely encouraging. And I think it'll be especially encouraging for our ladies. Especially for our moms and our grandmothers, but not just for moms and grandmothers, all of our ladies. And not just all of our ladies, I believe all of our men. I think that the text in front of us has a lot, though said a little, a lot can be expounded from what we are going to read this morning. And so this morning I'd like us to read chapter 1, verses 2 through 5, as we look at the powerful influence of a faithful mother and grandmother. Here's what The text says to Timothy, my dearly beloved son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father, and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee and my prayers night and day, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears. that I may be filled with joy. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first, in thy grandmother Lois. And thy mother Eunice. And I am persuaded that it is in thee also. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to really speak to our hearts through the word. Lord, as we read your word and as we work our way through this passage and various cross-references and concepts that really are a part of understanding this text very well, I pray that You would help me to communicate your word very clearly. I pray that the truths that we find in this passage set alongside this text would come to life, that we would understand some of the dynamics that are behind the scenes both in Paul's life and Timothy's life and the home that Timothy grew up in, and ultimately the future that you had for him. And I pray that as we see these things laid before us, that the Spirit of God would take the scriptures and press them into our hearts. Help us to see the invaluable blessing of having people who have invested in us when we are very young. And some who've invested in us more than anyone would be our our mothers, our grandmothers, our parents mentors, people who have shaped our lives even from the tenderest years of our youth. And so I pray that we would see the blessing of how you work and your grace through these instruments I pray we'd be encouraged today, and I pray that we would recognize the need to step into those roles if in fact that's what we're called to do, that we would seize them very well, if in fact that's what we are doing. And that we would not diminish the value of our labors if we are reflecting back on the investment of time and energy. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The text in front of us is very interesting, but before we dig into these details, I want to just highlight something that I think sometimes we do not do well in our church in context. And I think it's important for us sometimes to recognize how much the scripture emphasizes godly women. Who God has worked through and God has used in very profound ways. In fact, if I was to sit down and I was to just do a bit of a review of the scriptures, all the different examples. I think we could be here for hours talking about the influence of certain people and how God used them. And what's very interesting about these different people is that Most of them, perhaps even all of them, had massive limitations that they were dealing with as God was working through them and ultimately using them to influence the lives of people. I think about the example in Luke chapter 8 of a few women who actually ministered quite a bit to the apostle, or not to the apostle, to the Lord Jesus Christ and his disciples who would ultimately become the twelve apostles. In fact, in this verse it says, it came to pass afterward that he went throughout every city and village preaching and showing the glad tidings. of the kingdom of God, and the twelve were with him. And the next statement is interesting. And certain women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils. And Joanna, the wife of Chazah, Herod's steward, think about that. Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others which ministered unto him of their substance. In fact, interestingly, that woman who was mentioned Joanna, there is a sarcophagus that has been recently found in the Middle East that bears her name And would have been the sarcophagus of someone who would have been extremely wealthy, who was connected to Herod's household. Here is a woman who was saved from a lot of difficulty. We don't know all the story. But what we know is that her contribution to the work of Christ was that she provided physical support for Christ and the disciples. Alright, think about those women who went to prepare Christ's body, or the woman who God used to prepare Christ's body for burial. And I didn't say women, if I did, I meant to say woman, because there was only one who anointed the body of Christ for his burial. In Matthew 26, verse 12, it says, She hath poured out this ointment on my body. She did it for my burial. Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever the gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this that is done by this woman be told for a memorial of her. While the disciples are arguing about what position they will have in the kingdom, there is a woman who gets down on her knees at the foot of Christ. And she breaks open this ointment and she weaves as she anoints his body. And as the disciples look down at her and say, Why are you wasting this substance? Why didn't you give it to the poor? Jesus says, she's the only person in the room that understands what I'm about to do. She is the only one who is going to anoint my body for burial, because the other women that came on the first day of the week, they came to an empty tomb. Third example is those women, many of whom were just mentioned in Luke chapter 8, who were the first to testify to the resurrection. It wasn't Peter who was the first to testify to the resurrection. It wasn't John who was the first to testify. It was the women who went to the tomb. And listen to what it says in Luke 24, 10. It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary, the mother. Of James and other women that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles, and their words seemed to them as an idle tale, they believed them not. Now why do I highlight this? Simply to say that some of the most impactful people that supported the ministry of Christ and the disciples were women. Women who had been demon-possessed. Women who had lived very difficult lives. Some of the first people to recognize who Jesus was. And what he did, some of the very first to testify to his resurrection were not the apostles, they were the women. And so we come to this text in front of us that is very fascinating because what it is going to do As it is going to elevate the influence of two women that we know very little about in the Bible, but Paul highlights the impact they had on his ministry. In fact, the passage in front of us presents a powerful testimony to the influence of these two women who were converted out of d difficult circumstances yet were pivotal in shaping Paul's closest minor ministry co-laborer. You know who that was? Timothy. Out of all the people that Paul could have sent to Ephesus, he sent Timothy. Out of all the people that Paul could have taken with him to Philippi, he takes Timothy. Out of all the people he could have written his last epistle to. He writes to Timothy. Why did Paul have so much confidence in Timothy The answer is in the passage right in front of us. So in order to see that, let's work our way a little bit methodically through this storyline. So the first truth I want you to notice from this passage Is that Paul's ministry was about to come to an end and he was feeling the weight of it. Now as we move our way through life and we go through different seasons of life, we go through various struggles that are unique to those seasons. So if you think about a child, the thing that is very heavy in the life of a child is very different than the things that are heavy to someone who's we could say coming into puberty, they're now junior high, high school, they go to college. You have young adults who are not yet married or people that are raising their children and there's certain unique challenges and weights that these people feel You have people in middle age as their children are getting a little bit older. They're physically beginning to diminish a little bit. They're starting to see people that are much younger than them. who are coming into the field that they're working in and they start asking the question, what am I worth? What am I accomplishing? What have I invested my life in? How much time do I have left? And these are the kinds of questions that as people come into middle age, they start thinking about. And then you have people as they get older and they start realizing, if I live another five years, I'm going to be 90 years old. If I live another five years, I'm going to be 95. Not many people live to that age. I don't think I have a lot of time left. What's going to be left in my absence? Or you have somebody who's transitioning out of one role and they realize they're going to leave a big gap behind them and they say, who's going to fill my shoes? That's what's going on in Paul's life and ministry. Now he wasn't an elderly man. In fact when I tell you how old he was, some of you go, he's a young man. He was probably sixty-seven, sixty-eight, you know, about the age of my parents, actually a little younger than my parents. But right about that age. So here's the Apostle Paul. He has ministered for, let's say, about 30 years, okay? And he's coming to the end of his ministry. He realizes he's going to die. And he wants to pass the baton on to Timothy, his protege, this person he has invested so much time, so much energy, given so much trust to. And we see this really highlighted in 2 Timothy. Let me show you some examples. For instance, in 1. 6 he says, stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. He says, Timothy, you need to labor with the strength and the enabling that God has given you. And that has been validated when I put my hands on you when you were appointed to the work of the ministry that you are involved in. In chapter 2, verses 1 and 2, he says, Timothy, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. He didn't say, be strong in my example. He said, be strong in the grace that Christ Jesus gives. He says, you're going to endure difficulty. You need to step into this role. You need to draw strength from God. Why is he speaking these terms? Because he knows Timothy is going to serve without him. Chapter 3, verse 1, he says, know also in the last days perilous times will come. And he begins to lay out the kinds of perilous activities that will go on during the time of of this man's ministry. In fact, you gotta remember something about the Apostle Paul versus Timothy. Paul was killed by Nero. And up to the time of Paul's being martyred, really the persecution did not come from Rome. It was primarily from the Jewish communities in the various places where churches were established. And so they didn't have Christians being thrown into the Coliseum, ripped apart by lions, uh being hung on stakes and burned to light feet uh the place where the the uh the near where Nero was eating. Those kinds of things were not yet going on. But after Paul is martyred, this would be the kind of stuff that people like Timothy would have to serve under And not only that, there was tremendous potential for disunity in the early church because the apostles are dying Their proteges are coming in. They're not as strong. They don't have the same level of authority. They didn't have first-hand eyewitness accounts of the ministry of Christ. and the resurrection and lots and lots of false teaching was infiltrating the church. This is one of the things that Paul really highlights and Peter really highlights at the end of their ministry. And so he says in chapter 3. 1, be prepared to experience tough times in ministry. Chapter 3. 14. Continue in the things that you have heard and learned and been assured of. Stay committed to the basics. What you have been taught is the right foundation. Don't deviate it from it in any way. Stay true to the truth. Chapter 4, verse 2, preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. Faithfully labor in biblical ministry. 4-5, watch and all things endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry. I am now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Now, right now, you're sitting here going, I don't see any connection to mothers. I can't believe you don't see it yet. I can't believe you don't see it. It's coming, I promise you. Stay with me. Second thing I want you to notice is this. Paul has incredible confidence in Timothy. One of the most difficult things that a person can do is release the reins to someone coming behind them. I'm going to speak to all of our parents who have watched their children step into adulthood. How nervous were you? You say, I still am. How about when you handed a car key to your child for the first time and you had that little thing Stuck on the back of your car that says rookie driver, and you're like, everybody's gonna be trying to get away from me because my teenager is driving and I gotta sit next to them and say, yes, they drove under these conditions all those things. How terrifying was that? And some of our teenagers like, they shouldn't have been afraid at all. I was in complete control. Your time will come. Actually, my time will come very soon Or what about when you give over responsibility to somebody that has watched you for a very long time and now you're going to be gone? And you go, what are they going to do? I felt this when we left the mission field in Ghana. I felt the joy and the excitement of having invested in these young men And seeing them get married and have families and seeing all these families that were part of this church and all the investment of time and energy, but in the back of your mind you go, what will they be in five years when we're gone? You know what's really encouraging? They're staying by the stuff. They really are. On Fridays when we have our preaching discussion, they they give tremendous contributions. to discussions. God is working in their lives and through their lives. But for you to release that and say, the job is now yours. I'm stepping away from it. It's your turn. That's hard. And a lot of people do not release reins. They do not release reins for their kids when it comes to driving. They don't release reigns when it comes to letting their kids be adults and live the life that God has called them to live for the glory of God. A lot of pastors do not release the rain to the next generation that's coming behind them. It's a hard thing to do. A lot of missionaries don't release the rains. to those who are going to be involved in doing the work in their absence. A lot of politicians nonetheless don't seem to release the reins of people in the House and Senate. That's why I have so many old people in the Congress, right? What's the point? It's hard to trust people in your absence. We all have a high view of ourselves. We're convinced we're going to do it right. We're convinced they won't. But I do not see that from the Apostle Paul at all Why was Paul so confident? Well look down at what it says in verse 3. He says, without ceasing I have remembrance of thee and my prayers night and day. greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy. And here's the statement we all need to really focus on. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee. Why was Paul so confident Because he believed that Timothy was a man of real integrity. He believed that Timothy was a man who was of sound faith. He believed that Timothy was a man who would do what is right when he's gone. And the question is, why? Why did he have such confidence? We know that he personally feels the way of the transition. He says, without ceasing, I have remembrance of you in my prayers, mindful of thy tears. Timothy wept knowing what was about to happen. Paul wept knowing what was about to happen. His heart was heavily engaged in this transition that's about to take place. He knew that Timothy was a sincere and principled young man. That's why he uses the word unfeigned faith. It's real. It's genuine. There is no lack of clarity that this is the man who is going to do what is right. Do you realize that Paul had probably worked with Timothy for close to twelve, thirteen years at this point? The reason we know that is because we can kind of pinpoint when the church was established in the city where Timothy grew up. And we can pinpoint around the time that the Apostle Paul died, and we know that Paul was involved in the church plant there where Timothy grew up, and we know when Paul brought Timothy to follow him to Philippi. So we can kind of get a basic idea of the amount of time that he worked with him. Twelve years is a long time in some senses, and in other ways it's really not a long time. Especially when you consider the weight of what's about to go on his shoulders. He knew what it was like to face heartache. In fact, when Paul saw trouble at Ephesus, He is the one, Timothy, that he sent to serve in that place. He says in 1 Timothy 1, I besought thee to abide at Ephesus when I went to Macedonia that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine You know how hard it is to go to someone who is a false teacher who's 20, 30, 40 years older than you, and you sit down with them and you say, Paul sent me on a mission to say you're wrong. The doctrine you teach is false, and it's not going to be permitted in the church. And you know, Timothy was probably like twenty-some years old, like pretty young guy. And in their culture, somebody in their early 20s was a kid. In fact, we were on a call on one of our Friday nights Uh Friday, Friday discussions, preaching discussions, and I asked the guys in Ghana, I said, how do you know when a person is an adult? Could somebody 30, 35, 40 years old be considered a a young person? They're like, oh of course they could. It's kind of weird to think about, but it it it really has more to do with your y you know, your marital status. Do you have children? Uh are you established in the community? Do you have an established job? Do you own property? Do you have a house? These are the kinds of things that that are marks in a culture like where I was ministering in Ghana that someone would say that's a matured person. Well it wasn't a whole lot different in the first century here. So here is Timothy, this very young man. We have no indication that he's married. He doesn't own property. And he's going into the church and he's having to confront people who are married, have family, who are teachers, and are teaching false doctrine. But that's who he said. He believed Timothy's approach to ministry mirrored his own. Philippians chapter 2 verse 20. He says, I have no man like-minded who will naturally care for your state. All seek their own, not the things which are Christ Jesus. But you know the proof of him that as a son with the Father, he has served with me in the gospel. Amazing statements. Nobody like-minded. He naturally cares for your state. Even with your own children who you love, have you ever had a time that you were so angry with them you could not even have a pleasant conversation with them? in the moment. You say yes, that's why I send them to their room. So I can cool down before I go and talk to them. Okay. We've kind of been there before, right? But what does Paul say? He says he naturally cares for your state. Timothy was such a genuine person that when he came in contact with great conflict, he cared in ways that you and I would not naturally do. As a father, a son with his father, he served with me. Paul says, I know him very well. You still say, I don't see the connection to mothers. But it's coming. Truth number three. Timothy had overcome many significant obstacles. And there are a couple I want to highlight here. The first one would be his family obstacle. Now, if we want to know about this, we've got to go to Acts chapter 16, verses 1 and 2, and listen carefully to what it says. Then came he to Derby and Lister, and behold a certain disciple was there named Timothy, the son of a certain woman which was, listen carefully, a Jewess. And believed. But his father was a Greek, which was well reported of by the brethren that were in Lystra and Iconium. Did you notice the way he put it? His mother was a Jew who believed , but his father was a Greek. And then he says, he was well reported of by the brethren. Everywhere that Timothy went, people knew that he had a father who was not a Christian who was not a Jew, who was a Greek, and he had a mother who was a very faithful believer. The second thing I want to mention here is that he understood ministry hardship very personally. In 2 Timothy 3. 10, he says, you have fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience, and then persecutions. Afflictions. And he mentions specifically some places. At Iconia, at Antioch. At Iconium and at Lystra. What persecutions I endured. Now when we read through the Bible, a lot of times we s we we focus in on the doctrine, the manner of life, the faith, the long suffering, the charity, the patience. And then we go, persecution, I want to talk about that one. And then if we even take time to consider the persecution, we most certainly don't go, what happened at Antioch? What happened at Iconium? What happened at Lystra? What's he talking about that would have really grasped the mindset of Timothy? Well, I'm going to answer that question. Because in Acts chapter 14, we see what Paul is talking about. In fact, here's what it says. It came to pass in Iconium that they went both together into the synagogue of the Jews. And so they spake, and a great multitude of the Jews and also of the Greeks believed. Then we move to verse number two, and he says, But The unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and made their minds evilly affected against the brethren. And verse 4 it says the multitude of the city was divided in part held with the Jews and part with the apostles And when there was an assault made both of the Gentiles and of the Jews with their rulers to use them despitefully and to stone them, they were aware of it and they fled unto Lystrin Derby. So here is Paul. He's ministering in this city. He goes into the synagogue, which is what he always did. He preaches the gospel in the synagogue because these are people that have the Old Testament scriptures. And as he lays them before him, some of the people believe, and some of the people reject, some of the Gentiles who had come into the synagogue to learn about the Jewish faith. They believed. Some of the people that were not a part of the synagogue, they believed. And what ends up happening is those who are leaders in that community begin to become very upset with the Apostle Paul And they get confrontational with him. And they realize that they're not just going to get confrontational with him, but everyone who has embraced this gospel, they're going to get confrontational with them. And even further, they go to the rulers of the city and they get confrontation with them. And it gets so messy that the Apostle Paul runs, and he runs to save his life. And in verse 19 it says, and they came thither certain Jews from Antioch and Icodium, who persuaded the people, and they stoned Paul, and they drew him out of the city, supposing he was dead. So here Paul deals with all this drama in the one city. He flees for his wife. He preaches in that city, and people from the former cities that he had been in They follow him to this location. the They disturb the community. They drag him out of the city and they stone him and they believe he's dead. That was their intention. That's what Paul's talking about. And here's what's interesting. That was Timothy's first introduction to the Apostle Paul. So when he thought about Paul, he thought, led mom to Christ, led grandma to Christ, and got stoned outside the city. That was his introduction to Paul. The second thing we see is that he knew about Paul's mistreatment at Philippi because after all of these events. In Acts chapter 16, Paul invites Timothy to travel with him, and the very first place he goes is Philippi. And listen to what happens at Philippi. This is his introduction to ministry. So his introduction to the faith is seeing Paul get beat up. His introduction to ministry is going to be what I'm going to read here in a second. And Acts 16, 22, the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates rent off their clothes and commanded to beat them, and when they had laid many stripes on them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely. who having received such charges thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stocks. Timothy knew suffering But there's a third aspect that I think is also very important. He personally sacrificed after these things. So when when when Timothy hears of the faith, he sees Paul persecuted. When Timothy starts to travel with Paul, he sees Paul persecuted. And the very next city that he goes to. . . Paul says you need to be circumcised before we go to this city because of the stigmatization of being uncircumcised and being publicly known if you're going to minister in the Jewish context in this next city Timothy was not an eight-day-old child. He was a grown man. And in chapter 16, verse 30, it says, Him would Paul to go forth with him and took and circumcised him, because the Jews which were in those quarters, they knew all that his father was a Greek. Now, circumcision was completely unnecessary theologically. In fact, Paul preached against it. He says you're corrupting the gospel if you tell people they have to be circumcised to be a Christian. He's very outspoken about it. That's what the book of Galatians is all about. In fact, a good chunk of the book of Romans is all about it as well. And Timothy's status as an uncircumcised Jewish mother, Gentile father was something that was probably a great stigmatization his entire life. It's like somebody who's like, yeah, when I grew up, they always call me such and such. When I was growing up, they always said, yeah, I know you're dad. I know your mom. I know where you live. And they constantly threw that barb out. That's a painful thing. What did he do? He said, if this is for the sake of ministry, so be it. Now, these are amazing sacrifices that Timothy makes. But that is not where Paul directs his attention when he talks about Timothy's faith. It's very important. As Paul in this passage of scripture talks about his confidence, he never once says, I know that you know what it's like to persecute, to be persecuted and to suffer. and he goes through all you've you spent you know a decade plus with me and he goes through all these things that's not what he points to notice in your Bible what he points to verse number five When I call to remembrance the unfane faith that is in thee, which dwell first in thy grandmother Lois. And thy mother Eunice, and I'm persuaded that is in thee also. Out of all the things that Paul could have directed his attention to, for Timothy, he says, I have confidence that you will be a faithful man because I know your mom and your grandma. You say dad. He didn't say anything about his own faithfulness when he worked with him. He says, I know the faith of your family, your mom and grandma, and I believe that you have the same faith. Now this is where we start seeing an interesting connection. Notice what he says in Acts 16, verse 2. He was well reported of by the brethren that were in Lystra Niconium. Question, how much had Paul influenced Timothy at this point in his life? The answer is, not at all. How much had he shaped his character? Not any. How much had he shaped him as a young man? Not at all. The only thing he had done is introduce the gospel to that city. And this is a very important piece I don't want you to miss. What is absent is his father. He says, I am persuaded that this faith was in your grandma and it's in you. This faith is in your mus your mother, it's in you. I am persuaded it's in you. It says nothing about doubt. And yet so the question is, what's the significance? Well, Paul knew Timothy extremely well and thoroughly trained him and worked with him. But that's not what he referenced in the passage. His confidence went back further than his own interaction with Timothy. Timothy was trained by Paul, but his character as a young man was shaped not by Paul. But by mom and by grandma. He already had an excellent reputation. Acts 16, 2. He was well reported by the brethren who were in Lystra and Iconium. Where did that reputation come from? From who he was up to that point, not after. The character that makes a young man a faithful minister of the gospel is not developed in seminary. It is not developed in ministry. It is developed when they're a kid. It really is. There are many people who would never ever be able to do the work of ministry because they do not have the character. And that character problem started from the time they were a kid and never got reversed till the time they become an adult. They do not have the qualification to be in such a role. And there are other people that while they don't have all the skill sets, they get up and they preach and they teach and you go, eh, there's a little bit of shakiness there. And they need their mind to be shaped. And they need things about their perspective to be broadened. But if you want to talk about the core character of the individual, while very unshaped in certain areas of their life, they are hard workers. They are diligent, they are honest, they are gracious, they are respectful, they listen, they are humble, and you just go through the list and you say, Those qualities were not shaped in seminary, Bible college. They were shaped in their youth. Now, I want to say something here. I praise God that there are people that are converted older and God gets God gets a hold of their heart and He works in their life and through them. So I'm not trying to make an absolute statement here, but I am making a point here. That some of the most faithful, godly people you will ever meet, they are that way because it started when they were very, very little. And that can really be attributed to what was poured into them when they were in the junior church age and the elementary school age. The character that makes a young man a faithful minister in the gospel develops when he's young. The experience as a minister was shaped by Paul, but that was not his character. The reason that Paul invested in Timothy is because his character was established. He understood the kind of man he was dealing with and he was willing to pour into him. In other words, he wasn't changing who he was. He was pouring into someone who was already a very godly a very careful type of individual. And so I'm reminded of what it states in Proverbs chapter 1. We open the scriptures, the service this way. Listen to what it says. My son, hear the instruction of a father and forsake not the law of thy mother. They shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head. And chains about thy neck. Now, when you hear that word chain, some of you are thinking that somebody in prison is like holding them down. That's not what he means by chains on your neck. Think about the jewelry that you're wearing right now. Think about something that is meant to be an enhancement of beauty, an ornamentation. He's basically saying the things that you are taught as a child, those are the things that are to shape your life and they're going to cause you to be an attractive, mature, stable individual as an adult. That's what he's saying. Word a minute of grace. Or Proverbs chapter 6, my son, keep thy father's commandment, forsake not the law of thy mother. Bind them continually on thy heart Tie them about thy neck. When thou goest it shall lead thee. When thou sleepest it shall keep thee. When thou awakest it shall talk with thee. The commandment is a lamp, and the law is a light, and the reprieves of instruction are the way of life What is the lamp that guides an adult? The light that gives them clear understanding. The way of life that is to be shaped. It's shaped when they're little. Again, there are people that are converted as adults, praise God for it. Praise God for it But there's a lot of baggage when you get saved as a 28-year-old or as a 40-year-old or as a 60-year-old. A lot of baggage. But when you get saved as a little kid, Your mommy and your daddy teach you the word of God and they shape your character and they shape your conscience and they give you a godly example and they give you stability in the home and they pour their lives hour after hour after hour. day after day after day. They even lay aside things that they could pursue in the absence of training you as a child, and they don't do it. They pour everything they have into the valuable children God has given them. That person will go into adulthood in a very different position. There's a reason that Solomon was a wise man. Despite all David's flaws, and there are many, when he had Solomon, he taught him the word of God. And it wasn't just Solomon's father, David, it was his mother, Bathsheba, who, by the way, had a lot of baggage too. So out of all of the things that could have shaped Solomon's life, what really shaped them in his youngest days and the tenderest of years were mom and dad pouring into his life. You know, one of the great tragedies today is a lot of parents that look at the investment of time and energy and they think making money And pursuing prestige is of greater value than pouring their time and sweat and tears and energy into the souls of young people that will live far beyond them. It's a great tragedy today. It's a great tragedy that there are many people growing up in this country that do not want to get married, they do not want to have children, and the reason is because they don't see the value of that investment. And the truth is, there are a lot of parents who are very weary in this process. Raising children is not easy. It's not for the faint of heart. And when God gives you children, that means late nights. That means stinky diapers. When they stop having stinky diapers, then that means stinky attitudes and all kinds of things that you have to deal with. And then giving them the car keys one day. Watching them go to college. Walking them down an aisle and things like that. And realizing they're not going to live where you live. Do what you want them to do, but they're going to live for Jesus. And the fact is, there's a lot of pain that's involved in raising kids. There's also a lot of benefit. There's a lot of reward. And someone might say, I don't have any kids. So this kind of excuse me. No, it doesn't. Some of those impactful people in my life were not my parents. This week on Monday, my my baseball coach, the guy that taught me how to pitch. I'd hit a baseball bat, put Ted Williams signs a hitting book in my hands for the first time. I'd go down the list. That man died this week on Monday. He was very impactful in my life. My wrestling coach. Why he poured into me, I do not know. But I'll tell you the first time I got enough nerve. I'm a pastor today, but I'm going to tell you, I was not comfortable as an 18 or 17-year-old giving a gospel tract to someone saying, Can I talk to you about this? I was very fearful to do it And that coach, my junior year, was the first person to really press into me the need to do that I was terrified when I did it. That was a big impact on my life. The truth is it's not just our parents who influence us. music teachers, coaches, teachers that work in secular professions, mentors in the workplace, people that we watch at church, that we interact with. People that work with the teams in the youth group, people that pray with young people during Wednesday night services People that go to ball games, people that listen to music, people that there's all kinds of different areas. People that are willing to have conversations with you that other people just don't have the time for. Those people have an influence too. And so whether you're dad or mom , whether you're someone in the church who loves the young people, your impact is significant. And it's not you, it's him through you. The grace of God shaped Timothy. Not mom and not dad and not grandma and not Paul. The grace of God shapes him through. That's really important. So how would we leave this place encouraged? Let me give you some final thoughts here. Do not underestimate the importance of shaping the next generation. When you don't have the time, you say you don't see the value. And that's a big deal. Nobody in this room would say I don't value my kids. But our actions might speak otherwise. Our priorities may speak otherwise. The labors of raising children and working with our youth are immense, but the rewards are eternal. I have seen this many times. Because as a pastor, I work with a lot of older people. We have a lot of seniors in our church. And some of the sweetest things that an elderly person will experience. will be the beautiful choices of their children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. Some of the most painful things might go the other way too. But some of the most encouraging things that they will experience Will be the legacy they leave behind. Going to my grandfather's funeral, you know what really impacted me? Seeing all of these family members, direct descendants. Children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren going, all these people are here because of those two people right there. And who they are today has been massively shaped by those two people right there. And when someone is old, that gives them comfort. Every season is a gift. Every soul is eternally valuable. Every task that God provides will come with score corresponding tools and strength and wisdom to meet the need. If God has put something on your plate, He's going to find a way to give you the tools you need to do what you need. Now it's another thing if you take on something that he didn't give you. I think sometimes people do that. But if he's put it on your plate, he's going to give you what you need to do it. Whether man or woman, parent or not, God has given us all opportunities that we need to embrace. He's given us mentors that we need to thank. And ultimately, we need to thank the source of them all. That is God. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for the word. What an amazing story of how you moved in the life Of Paul's closest ministry friend, a young man whom he poured his life into. whose character was shaped by mom and grandma. And I pray that when we leave this place, we would not leave with a calloused heart. We would not leave with a broken heart. We would leave with an uplifted heart that is purposed to engage in what you have for us. We'd be very grateful for those who have poured their lives into us over the years. And we be those people for others. We ask it all in Christ's name, Amen.