Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And I'm excited about what we will be studying this week. It's a very familiar portion of Scripture, the parable of the Sower. And today we're going to read through this passage. It's a fairly lengthy passage, but we're going to lay out some introductory material that I think are foundational to appreciating what Christ is ultimately communicating uh in this passage on the parable of the shower. So if you have your Bible, let's all turn together to Luke chapter 8 and we will read verses 4 all the way down to verse 15. Here's what it says. When much people were gathered together and were come to him out of every city, he spake by parable. A sower went out to sow his seed, and as he sowed some fell on the wayside, and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it. And some fell upon a rock, and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away because it lacked moisture. Some fell amongst thorns, and the thorns sprang up with it and choked it Others fell on good ground, it sprang up and bear fruit a hundredfold. When they had said these when he had said these things, he cried, He that hath an ear to hear, let him hear His disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be? He said, Unto you it has been known the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to others in parables that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand. Now the parable is this, the seed is the word of God. Those by the wayside are they that hear, then cometh the devil and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they which, when they hear, receive the word with joy. And they have no root with uh for a while to for they have no root which for a while and uh they believe, and in time of temptation they fall away. And that which fell amongst storms are they, that when they have heard, go forth and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But then on the good ground are they which of an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience Now this passage is a really rich passage and there are a lot of details that we can unpackage. But before we look at those details, which we talked about on Sunday I want us to begin with a very important foundational matter. And so I want to ask three pr preliminary questions that deal with the nature of Scripture. The first question I'm going to ask is what is Scripture? And so the main passage that we would go to to answer that question is 2 Timothy 3, verse 16. Scripture is God's word, written and preserved for us today. And so in Second Timothy three sixteen it says, All scripture is given by inspiration of God. There are three Greek terms that are there, and I I know this is not a Greek class and um it doesn't You know, it's not it's a little bit outside of our purview, but those three words are very important. The first word, pasa, has the idea of all or every single The second word is grafe, which has the idea of the written word or the scriptures that are written down. And then the third word is the apnistas, it's it's a compound word. The idea is that it is God's breathed word. And so if we were to take that together, we would see that every written word of Scripture is breathed out by God. It means that when we read the scriptures, the very words, not just the thoughts or the concepts or the ideas, the very words are from God's mouth himself, and it's through human instruments. Now I say, well, why does that actually matter? Well that that matters because this is an issue of authority. When we talk about Scripture, we're saying that the very words of God are his words. They bear the full authority of Scripture. Not just the impressions that we get, oh, the impression is God's word, like God speaks to us. somehow in this impressionary way when we read the Bible. That's not what we're saying. We're saying that the authority lies within the very words themselves. And so The role of the Holy Spirit is to take the Word, which bears the full authority of God's voice upon it preserved for us And then he takes the truth that is there and he impresses that on us so that we understand the significance. And the weight of those truths. He awakens our conscience so that the word has bearing. And that uh the word uh presses our hearts so that we understand it and we recognize how we need to respond to it. So That's what the scriptures are. When we talk about the scriptures, we're talking about the very words. Matthew 5 18 puts it this way. He says, Till heaven and earth Pass away. Not one jot or one tittle of the law shall pass away till all be fulfilled. And so what Jesus is saying is that every word matters, not just thoughts or the concepts. Every word matters. What God has stated and what God has given us in his word, he's going to fulfill completely. He's not going to leave any part of it out. So the words matter. Also we could say this. These words, the Scriptures, stand with clarity, purity, and authority. For instance, four over four hundred times in the Scriptures we see the phrase, thus saith the Lord. That means God is speaking. Or we see another phrase, uh primarily in the New Testament, and we see it over 80 times, and that's the phrase It is written. That statement it is written is fascinating because the tense of it is the perfect tense. What that means is that It's something that was written in the past, and it continues to stand in the present. And so what it what it argues for is that God's word wasn't just given in the past, but it's preserved for us today And what was written then still stands today. In other words, it's it's emphasizing the authority of it. It's God's word, it has been written, it still stands today. Well you might ask, well, how in the world did God give us his word? Well the scriptures were given through human instruments. And one of the classic passages that helps us to understand exactly how God gave us his word is 2 Peter 1. Verses 12 and then following. And that passage is significant because here is Peter. He's an apostle. He's at the end of his life. He has been preaching and teaching and he has been recording scripture And this is what he says. It's very significant to the doctrine of understanding what the actual scriptures are. Here's what it says. He says, I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though ye know them. Now you say, well, how is he always going to put them in remembrance if he's going to die? Well, he's going to write them down. He then goes on to say this, I will endeavor that ye may be able, after my decease, to have all these things always in remembrance. For we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of His Majesty. So the so the Apostle Peter is saying that what we've written we wrote as eyewitnesses, but it's deeper than just eyewitness accounts. We are eyewitnesses, and we don't want to diminish that at all. But the next statement is very important. He says we have a more sure word of prophecy whereunto you do well to take heed as unto a light that shineth in a dark place. Knowing this first That no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. I think a I think a lot of people misunderstand what Peter is saying He's saying that what we wrote was not just our personal take on the events. It wasn't just our interpretation of what we saw. You know, think about what a historian does. A historian takes first-hand accounts and they read through those. firsthand accounts and they try to compile all of those resources and they try to write it out in a way that you can grasp here 50, 100, 200 400, 500 years later. But there's an interpretive nature to what a historian is doing. A historian is going to bring their own perspective into the way they relate those facts. And so Peter is saying I want you to recognize that when we wrote the scriptures, though we were first-hand account eyewitnesses, we were not just relying on our memory or our recall or our interpretation of the facts. This is what he says. The prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. That's what we mean when we say that the scriptures are God-breathed. This is the inspiration of God. What we're saying is that the very words, every single one of those words written in Scripture, passa grafe theopnastas, these these words, the very words, are God's words. But He's giving them through people who were qualified as firsthand people who saw these events, they were qualified practically speaking to be able to write on these matters. However, it was not their eyewitness account that is the ultimate source of authority. The the point of authority is that they were being guided by the Holy Spirit as they wrote those things. And so all of those things come together. That means that these people were not just, you know, writing without their minds being engaged and that their personalities didn't come out. But at the same time, it's to recognize that what they wrote was perfect. It was pure. It was fully reliable. So the ultimate source wasn't Peter or Paul. Or Matthew or Luke, the ultimate source of the Scriptures is God Himself, the Holy Spirit. So You might ask, well, w what distinctiveness does the scripture hold? Well, do you know of anything in the world that we could say that has God's authority on it? Someone might say, well, when my preacher, when he preaches, God speaks through him. Uh But when your preacher preaches, he's not speaking as a prophet. He's taking the word, he's expounding the word. God God convicts you through the word, but even when your preacher is preaching the word He's still subject to flaws in the way that he communicates what he's saying. He may not understand the text. He may understand it, but the way that he communicates it is Is not clear, and maybe it falls short in some area. There is nothing. There's no book you can pick up. There's no sermon that you can listen to. that bears the kind of authority that the scriptures that the scriptures bear. They stand alone having this kind of authority. Your dreams and your visions and your impressions, they don't bear authority. The scriptures bear authority. Our impressions about the scriptures don't bear authority. It's the very words themselves that bear that authority. So let me mention for just a second the distinctiveness of the Scripture. He says all scriptures given by inspiration of God. We've already talked about that And they, the scriptures, are profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, righteousness. That the man of God may be perfect. That's talking about full maturity thruly furnished unto all good works. Another passage that we can mention is Psalm 19, verse 7. It says that the law of the Lord is perfect. converting a soul. The testimonies of the Lord are sure. They're reliable. They make wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandments of the Lord are pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean and during forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. And he says, by keeping of them there is great reward. There is nothing in all the world that bears that kind of authority, that has those qualities. And so when we talk about the scriptures and the distinctiveness of the scriptures, they bear the full authority of God because they're God's words. They bear a a a quality of purity because the scriptures were not just the words of Paul and Peter and and those individuals, but they're pure because they're God's words, and that means that they're without error and what they affirm and what they teach and what they say, not just the thoughts, but all the way down to the very words, the very details. They are truth. They are pure. There's clarity in the scriptures When we read the Bible, God's not trying to confuse us. God's not trying to trick us. He's not trying to uh to to to do something where we've got to like figure out a code or something like that. There's clarity. And so when we encounter problems in our understanding of the Bible, the problem's not really on the scriptures part and not that it's unclear. The problem is on our part. We bring biases to the scriptures. There's certain things we don't want to see. There's certain things we have a harder time seeing because of our background and our circumstances. And so There is clarity, there is authority, there is purity, and there is sufficiency. What we mean by that is that the scriptures are enough to tell us how to walk with God how to faithfully do our duties before God, how to know him to the extent that he wants us to know him. And so there's a sufficiency in the scriptures. We don't need to be looking for something outside of scripture to give us an authoritative understanding. And a lot of people really get in trouble here because they put a lot of weight on their experience experiences, they put a lot of weight on their impressions, they put a lot of weight on something that their pastor says or a book that they read. The authority is in the scripture itself. It is sufficient. That really needs to be our focus. You say, well, why does all this matter? I thought we were talking about a parable about a sower. Well the reason that that matters is because the things that Jesus is going to the things that he will talk about in the parable of the sower, they ultimately go back to the nature of Scripture, the nature of the Word of God. And so that leaves us with a final question. How are we supposed to to relate to Scripture? I'm going to leave you with a question because the parable is going to tell us how to respond. So I hope that tomorrow you will join us as we continue in this study and as we dig into Luke chapter 8 and the parable of the sower. It's a very familiar passage, but there's a lot for us to unpackage this week. Hope you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will see you all tomorrow. Bye now.