We are in 1 Corinthians chapter 7 this evening, and we are moving on to the next portion of these verses. And I want to remind you that this section is Paul answering questions That the church had for him, and the issues that he is addressing are primarily in relationship to marriage Those who are not married, those who are married, those who uh don't they do want to be married, is it wrong for them to get married? All these different kinds of questions that he's addressed. And he kind of pauses in the middle of this and he gives a series of statements about a very important topic. And this important topic is not disconnected from what he's been addressing here on this issue of marriage and singleness and how God can use us in whatever place we find ourselves when we become Christians. So let's go ahead and pick up in verse 17 and we'll read down to verse 24. Here's what Scripture says. But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called everyone, so let him walk, and so ordain I in all churches. Is any man called being circumcised? Let him not become uncircumcised. Is any called in uncircumcision? Let him not be circumcised. Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing but the keeping of the commandments of God Let every man abide in the same calling wherewith he was called. Art thou called being a servant? Care not for it. But if thou mayest be made free, use it rather For he that is called in the Lord, being a servant, is the Lord's freeman. Likewise also he that is called being free is Christ's servant. Ye are bought with a price. Be not ye the servants of men. Brethren, let every man wherein he is called therein abide with God. Now, as we often find when we're dealing with passages of Scripture and there are situations that are being dealt with in the text, sometimes the illustrations that are being used are Concepts that are kind of foreign to us. For instance, he is obviously talking about circumcision and uncircumcision. This is not a discussion we tend to have in our church settings, is it very much? Well, the reason for that is because we're not living in the first century when you have a Jew-Gentile uh dynamic in the church. And so a lot of the people that were part of the church were people that were saved out of Judaism. This was their culture. And so following the Levitical law was a really, really big deal to them. In fact, some of these folks had been a part of The Pharisees and other various groups and so they're having a hard time figuring out as a Christian now am I supposed to put off being a Jew. In other words, am I supposed to live like a Gentile even though I am ethnically Jewish? Because now I'm a Christian. So this was a question that they had. Or then you have these other groups that are in the church who are Gentiles And they say, you know, a lot of these Jewish Christians, they continue to follow the Levitical law, and there's certain things that they don't eat, and there's certain days that they celebrate. And um, can we be good Christians? and not follow the Levitical law and all of the customs of Jewish practice. Do we have to go and become Jewish in order to actually be godly people. And Paul's addressing this issue. This isn't something we think about too much in the church today, but it was a big deal then And then he gets into this issue of servants. And by the way, that word servants really has the idea of a bond slave. And this is something that is obviously very foreign to the culture that we live in, but we need to recognize that in the first century, if you were to talk about the Roman the Roman world, there were more slaves than free men. in the Roman Empire. And so a lot of the people that Paul has in the church are people that are servants in bonds. They are working in households. They do not have the normal rights. and privileges of Roman citizens and this isn't something that they could possibl th it might not be something they could actually get out of And legally they were bound into those obligations. And so the question that these people would have naturally had is, if I'm a servant in bonds and my master is not a Christian, can I still serve God? And then we could ask the other question, what about someone who was a Roman citizen, someone who did have folks who worked in their household? and we're under their care and we're under their responsibility and there was a servant master relationship. Can a person like that actually Honor and serve the Lord. So what you see in these verses is we're not just talking about those who are single, those who are married those who are widows or widowers, those whose spouse has left them. We're also talking about the cultures of the people, and we're talking about their rights as citizens, as members of the Roman world. And so the whole point of this passage of Scripture is that no matter what your circumstances are as a Christian, you can You have opportunity to serve God faithfully in the capacity that you are in as a believer. But in order for you to do that, you need a godly virtue. And you know what that virtue is? It's called contentment. And so we're going to talk about that godly virtue. of contentment this evening. Before we look at the content of this passage, I want us to think about the fact that we live in a society that is extremely, extremely restless. In fact, a lot of us, if we were to put our phones down for just 30 minutes and not pick it up, we'd start shaking a little bit. Because we are so accustomed to just mindlessly scrolling on that screen, not necessarily looking at anything in particular, not looking for something in particular, just mindless numb scrolling. Why is that? It's because we're restless. Or if somebody is sitting down and they're watching. Do we still do people still watch TV? I don't know. It's kind of like a wash thing, right? But if someone is to watch a 30-minute program, they're not watching 30 minutes of program, they're watching like 15 minutes of program. and fifteen minutes of commercials and every three minutes there's a new one that comes on and there's all these different screenshots and all of these different things because people have lost the ability to sit still and focus their attention. It's a real problem. But at the heart of that is restlessness. We are restless people by nature. And the reason for that is because life is filled with change and we don't always like change, and life is full of struggles, and we don't like struggles. And yes, life is even filled with inequalities. And we look at the people around us and we say they have more than I do, that's not fair They have more opportunity than I do. That's not fair. They have a nicer house than I do. They have a nicer car than they do. Their family seems happier than mine does. They have opportunities I don't have. And we make these comparisons, and you know what we become Restless. We become restless when we go through seasonal change in life. I think about those kids that can't wait to be teenagers in the youth group. And those teenagers who can't wait to get out of the youth group and be the age of a college student. And then those people that just can't wait to get married, but they gotta find someone that's willing to marry them. Okay. One of those kinds of issues. And uh those people that can't wait to retire and um probably not many people just can't wait to die. But the reality is at every single season of life, it's like we're looking for the next thing and we're missing out on on what is right in front of us. The fact is we are restless because of where we live or where we don't live, how much we make or how much we don't make, what our career is, what we wish our career is, what role we have at work, what role the person next to us has at work. What our siblings are doing, but we're not. Those childhood peers that we grew up with. Look at what they're getting to do that I'm not getting to do. Restlessness is a problem. And by the way, I'll mention this one, midlife crisis. That's a serious problem too. I was listening to a Martin Louis Jones sermon recently, and it was like one of the best ones I've listened to. And it was on the danger of the middle years. It was a really interesting sermon, and he talked about all kinds of different issues in relation to how people go through seasonal changes, and when they do, they get restless. and they're not content and they don't invest in what's right in front of them and they do really, really dumb things. He didn't use that word, but that's what they do. What's the point? Restlessness. People have a difficult time looking at themselves in the mirror because things are changing. Their choices have finally caught up with them. Their lives seem stagnant The reputation is set in stone in people's eyes. Restlessness. So we understand that this is a temptation for all of us. How can we avoid it? Well, this passage gives us a lot of information on how we can do that. So let me summarize the text this way. We need a God-centered view of ourselves and our work, or we will be miserable people who will waste what God has given us. We must resist the vice of restlessness and embrace the grace of godly contentment. The vice of restlessness. That is what it is. And it's something that is a temptation for all of us. How can we do it? Alright, first three that ones you notice tonight is this. We need to understand what contentment is. And in order to do that, sometimes it's helpful to look at this in two parts, what it's not, and then what it is. because we want to get a full understanding if possible. And I want to kind of address some things that I think might be misunderstandings when people talk about contentment. When we talk about contentment, we are not talking about a person who has sort of like plateaued and they've accepted the plateau. Feeling as if you've arrived. Okay? Think about Philippians chapter 3 verse 13. This is what Paul says. I count not myself to have apprehended But this one thing I do. You know what he means when he says I've count not myself to have apprehended? He's saying I've not arrived where I'm just, I'm at this like Plateau of greatness. I'm not there. Okay? I haven't reached some pinnacle. He says there's one thing I do. I forget what's behind me and I reach forward to what's behind me. in front of me. I press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. This is very interesting. He says, I do one thing, but he says, I forget what's behind me and I look forward at what's in front of me. And you go, is it one or is it two? And the answer is It's both, okay? Because if I'm gonna press forward and I'm gonna focus on what's in front of me, that means I'm not looking behind me. Does that make sense? You can't do them both at the same time unless you got eyes in the back of your head and you don't And so in order for us to focus on what's in front of us, we have to leave behind what's behind us. That's the good and the bad. For some of us it might be uh not living on the glories of the past. You know, all these guys back in my day I I was able to do such and such. And you're like, I don't know if I believe that or not. Maybe they were, but they can't anymore. So why does it really matter? The idea is we have to focus in on what's in front of us. It's not the plateau. It's also not mediocrity. What I mean by that is setting a low expectation. When we talk about contentment, don't think that a person's like, eh, I don't really care about life and what happens. I'm content. That's not what we mean by contentment 1 Corinthians 9 24. Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize, so run that ye may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now, they, the athlete, does it to obtain a corruptible crown But we an incorruptible. He says, So fight I not as one that beateth the air, but I keep my body under subjection, I bring it into subjection, lest by any means, when I have preached unto others, I myself should be a castaway. Paul is content, but he's not shooting for mediocrity. He is pushing toward excellence. So when we talk about contentment, we're not saying lazy, mediocre, plateau. And then that laziness. Proverbs 26, 16. The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render an an a - an answer. What does that mean? That means if you have a lazy person you say, Hey, you need to get up and go do some work, they can give you twenty reasons why that's not what they need to do right now. And then you box you into a corner and you go, uh, maybe they're right, no they're not. They're just really good at excusing themselves Or Proverbs 19, 15, Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep. An idle soul shall suffer hunger. Lazy people have no motivation. And they 're going to starve, especially in an agrarian society where people lived off the land, they're going to starve because they are not working. Or Ecclesiastes 10. 18, by much slothfulness the building decayeth, and through idleness of the hands the house droppeth through. If people don't keep up with what's in front of them, they don't manage what's around them, their house falls apart. So when we talk about contentment, understand that Paul is not encouraging people to be lazy. Or to be mediocre or to feel like they've arrived. That is not what he means. Here's what he means It's got several components to it. And in this text, we see several of these things brought out. It's not going to develop all of it from this text, but we will look primarily at this text. First thing I want to mention is this. This issue of contentment is something that believes that God is sovereign, wise, and good Now you can see this in verse 17. He says, as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called everyone, so let him walk. You know what's interesting about that statement? That statement is not emphasizing your choices that have put you in that position. It's emphasizing his providence that puts you in that position. However, he does not diminish your choices. Because you have a choice to either walk in wisdom or walk in folly when it comes to this issue of what God has given you. And so it is true that in life a lot of who we become is a result of our choices. What's also true is there's a lot of who we become that has nothing to do with our choices. There's a lot of the opportunities that we get that have nothing to do with our choices. It's the good hand of God that puts us in places and gives us opportunity. And so for a person to be content, they got to be resolved in their mind to say, I know that God is sovereign. And I know that he is wise, and I know that he's good, and because he is sovereign and wise and good, where I am today is where he wants me today, and so I need to put my heart into what he has put in front of me That's what we mean by contentment. A second piece to this. A person believes that there is more to life than just what's immediate. I think of 2 Corinthians chapter 4 verse 17. So in the next epistle that he writes, he addresses this issue and he says the following. He says, Our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us. A far more and exceeding eternal weight of glory. While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen, for the things which are seen are temporal. But the things which are not seen are eternal. Now this is what it's saying here. A person who's content understands God is sovereign and God is wise and God is good. They also recognize that the whole summation of the situation isn't just how I feel right now, or how people evaluate what I'm doing or not doing, or the opportunity that I have in front of me. There's another dynamic that's very, very important, and that is it's not just about the here and now, but it's about the significance and light of eternity. And so when he talks about suffering, when he talks about heartache, all those kinds of things, he says that light affliction, it pales in comparison to the weight of eternal glory that is a part of this test or this opportunity. And so contentment has that side to it. A third piece. A person who can humbly accept their circumstances Verse number 20, he says this, let every man abide in the same calling wherewith he was called. Now, if you go back to verse 17, he emphasizes that we have this position or we have this situation as a result of God's hand. When we come to verse 20, now he's talking about how you and I relate to that. And verse 20 he's saying, you need to be willing to abide in the calling wherewith you've been called. That's where the contentment lies. It's the trust side. It's the rest side. I can tell you I believe God's sovereign, but how am I relating to his sovereignty? Am I being upset at him? Am I resisting him? Am I complaining? Am I disgruntled? Or am I accepting this? And I'm willing to function in that role that God has given me. That's a huge, huge thing for us to consider. A lot of times people have a good job. I'm not saying it's the best job out there. I'm not saying it's the greatest job out there, but it meets their needs. It's provided by God. And you know what? They say, I need something that's a little bit better for me I need something that's going to make me more fulfilled. And you know what they do? They quit their job and they don't have a job to go to. I've seen people do it. Or someone will be chasing something that they think is going to give them what they want. And what they fail to realize is the problem isn't in their situation. It's in them. Their heart is the problem. Their attitude, their perspective about what God has given them is the problem. And people can play this in their jobs, they can play this where they live, they can play this with their rel with their marriage, they can play this with the relationship to their children. They can play this in their church context. They can play this in so many different areas. What is contentment? It's accepting that God has put me here, and I need to fulfill what He has called me to do here. Fourthly. It involves diligently embracing the opportunity that I have been given by God. Now go back to the introduction to this section in verse 16. Now I read from 17 to 24. But verse 16 is a very interesting verse. This is what it says. It says, What knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? Or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? Now, if we're to go back to that passage of scripture and think about what Paul's saying is he's saying this. Let's say you have a situation where you have a person who's married to an unbeliever. And we we talked about that, you know, when a person is at that point where they're going to make the decision, who am I going to marry? A believer needs to marry a believer. The Bible is very clear about that. You choose to disregard what God says about that. There's going to be challenge that you bring into your life as a result of that. But there are also situations where a person becomes a believer after they're married. And after they're married, now one is a believer and one is not a believer, and they can look at this situation and go, you know what, I'm starting to have some challenges here because the way that my wife thinks or the way that my husband thinks It's different than the way that I think because I'm a Christian, they're not a Christian, and now we have all of these incompatibility challenges that are a result of this relationship struggle. Or maybe when those two people got married, they weren't living for God. They're both Christians. But as they go through through time, one spouse decides they want to be more committed to walk with the Lord, the other one is not. And they start having these challenges between one another. Well, a person in this situation could sit there and go, you know, I think life would be a whole lot easier if I wasn't married to this person. I'd like to just start over again. I'd like to go ahead and marry a Christian instead of not being married to an unbeliever. I'd like to be married to a serious-minded Christian, not someone who's kind of haphazard and they don't really care. And so in their mind they begin to play this game. Life would be better if I could be done with them and I could start over. Guess what? Shouldn't do that. And he gives the clear reason why. He says, do you not realize that you may very well be the tool that God uses to reach into life of your spouse. Interestingly, when we go to the verse before that, he talks about the fact that our children are sanctified through the believing The believing spouse. Now, he's not suggesting that children somehow get saved because their parents are saved. That's not what he's saying there. He's talking about the influence in the home of a believer. But what's very important is this. We have to recognize that a person in such a situation has to be willing to accept their situation. They have to be willing to come to terms with the fact that, yes, I am married to an unbeliever. Yes, we do have values differences. That's not a good thing But that doesn't change the fact that I can be a faithful husband, or it doesn't change the fact that a person can be a faithful wife, and through being a faithful, godly husband or wife, it may very well be that through that influence, God uses them. to draw that other person to himself. And by the way, he addresses the scenario when a person doesn't and they leave. And he says, you're not in your bondage. And he says that in that particular situation he's called you to peace. So don't fight and struggle. Let the situation play out. But here is the point. It's not just about accepting the situation. It's about choosing to embrace your responsibility within that context. That's the key. In other words, contentment isn't lazy, contentment is diligence. But contentment has a heart that rests in God's purposes. All right, think about this other example in Colossians chapter 4. He says, withal, praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance. To speak the mysteries of Christ for which I am also in bonds. And I think this is a fascinating statement that Paul makes. He says, so that I may make manifest as I ought to speak. Walk in wisdom towards them with our without with towards them that are without, redeeming the time. Now what is Paul saying? I do not want to miss an opportunity that God has put in front of me. In other words, contentment also recognizes the need for action, the need to be diligent, the need to embrace the opportunity that's given And so we see this in 1 Corinthians 7 and also Colossians chapter 4. Fifthly, it will not allow us to think like a victim. This is a huge problem in our society today. A victim mentality. Now, I want to pause and I want to say something about this. I'm not trying to in any way diminish the fact that there are people that are truly abused and they need to be protected. So what I'm saying should should be considered in the light of that, okay? Sometimes we need to protect people that are very vulnerable and in dangerous positions. But the reality is this, there are a lot of people that have had some bumps along the way. And the truth is rather than recognizing that God has a purpose and what he's permitted in their lives, And they can rise above that situation and they can grow and they can thrive and God can use them. Instead, what they do is they act as if Everybody owes them something because of some difficult circumstance that they encountered at some point in their past. And to be honest with you, it's an absolute tragedy that people would throw their lives away because they can't get their head out of some past grievance that they've experienced. One of the greatest examples that I can think of is Joseph. Genesis chapter 50, verse 19. His brothers come to him and they're afraid of him. He's got power. He's got the opportunity to get even with his brothers. And they believe that that's exactly what he's going to do. And this is what he says to them. He says, Am I in the place of God? You thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good, to bring to pass as it is this day, to save much people alive. There is something very profound about Joseph's perspective. Joseph does not say you didn't do wrong. They did. Joseph didn't cover over that. He just stated, you meant evil unto me. But here's what's interesting. But God meant that for good. The reason that God permitted what happened. is . because his purpose for me and his purpose for you and his purpose for all of us was a lot bigger than that little moment there And so what's really interesting about his perspective is it does not diminish the wrong, but it also doesn't live with a grievance of bitterness. He's risen above this. He recognizes how God has used this. Joseph has become stronger. Joseph has become wiser. Joseph has become more resilient. Joseph has a big picture perspective of God. And so when Joseph looks at the wrong , He doesn't just see the wrong. He sees the providence of God and the mercy of God and the grace of God and how God used this in his life. And this is how we need to learn how to process our grievances from the past. We've got to do this. If people live in bitterness, it will never, it will never make their life improve. I promise you. Bitterness is like a cancer, it will eat at a person's soul, and it will ruin them and everyone around them But there are some people that can go through great tragedy and great heartache, and they become so strong and so resilient because of God's grace. We have to be very cautious about this issue. We talk about contentment. Contentment doesn't sit there and go, woe is me. I've been so wounded and I can't get back up. Contentment rises above that. It does not allow itself to become bitter. It doesn't live like it's a victim. Hebrews 12. 15 gives us some great insight here. He says, look diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God. You say, what does that mean? What it means is that when we go through struggles, God always provides a way of escape. He always provides the grace that we need to endure what he permits. And so when a person becomes bitter, what they're doing is they're failing to take That grace that God has given them to handle that situation, to endure, to rise above it, to mature, to grow, to become the people God wants them to be. And rather than grabbing a hold of that grace, and drawing from that strength and moving through that particular issue, instead what they do is they set it to the side And they become embittered. And what does he say? A person will have a root of bitterness that springs up in them, and it will trouble many people. Truth is if a parent is bitter, guess what? Their kids are really gonna have a tough time being under a mom or a dad like that. If a pastor is a bitter person, all the people that sit under that pastoral ministry, they're not going to be fed and shepherded properly. They're going to get this jaded perspective. When a person is is is running a business or a person uh is uh in a position where they're overseeing people. All of those people that are under their watch and under their care, they're going to suffer because of the bitterness of those individuals. When somebody's bitter in a family, it can extend to lots of different areas. And so he warns us about this. The last thing I'll mention to this point on what it is to be content is it can delight in the highest calling that God has for them. Our highest calling is not what we do, it's who we are. Our highest calling is our relationship to God. We've been talking about this with the interns. We had a session and I said Before you are a pastor or a missionary or an evangelist, you're a Christian. And not only are you a Christian, but if you're married, you're a husband. And if you're a father, then you're a father. And so we have this order. I'm a Christian. I'm a husband. I'm a dad. I'm a pastor. Guess what? That's last on that list. Because the reality is if every single area is properly ordered, then on each level the relationships will be right and the way that it's done will be right. But a lot of Christians have it upside down. Their job is their identity. Not being a dad, not being a mom, not being a husband, not being a wife, not being a Christian. Their job, being a missionary, being a pastor, working in a particular area that's very lucrative, a lot of influence is involved in that particular thing. That becomes the center of focus. And guess what happens? When that becomes your identity, your relationship with your kids begins to suffer. Your relationship with your spouse begins to suffer. And your relationship with the Lord is not vibrant. It's not healthy. It's not what it needs to be. And so contentment says, my relationship with God, number one, everything else falls under that in its proper order. Psalm 27, 4. One thing have I desired of the Lord, that will seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. What does the psalmist care about more than anything else? Communion with God. Communion with God So I'm going to stop there tonight. I think it's important that we understand what contentment is. It's not laziness, it's not slackness, it's not mediocrity. It's trusting God. It's accepting that He is sovereign. He is good. He is wise. It's embracing what's in front of us. It's having a bigger picture than what is just in in the immediate, but also an eternal perspective. It's not having a victim's mentality where we become bitter. It's delighting in our highest calling, our relationship to God. May God help us to do that. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we thank you for the text that we have in front of us. And all of these other passages that we have looked at in relation to this topic. And Father, it may be that tonight there's someone who is really struggling. Maybe a lot of us are really struggling. We know it is true. We know how our life needs to be ordered. But we're not doing it well And so I pray that you'd help us to find the right balance of that grace of godly contentment. That you would be our highest delight and joy, that we would not get encumbered by the weights of life, bitterness, resentment, wounds, but rather we would lay aside those things. That we would rest in your sovereign care, that we would give ourselves fully to serving faithfully in the capacity that you have put in front of us. Father, help us to live vibrant and healthy Christian lives. And so may this passage in 1 Corinthians 7, and may these other passages that we have looked at this evening, may they minister richly to our soul. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.