Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you were with us this past Sunday, you'll know that we were spending time in Luke chapter 10. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn with me. to verses 25 through 37. And the passage that we're looking at this week is a very familiar scripture, and it's the parable of the Good Samaritan. So let's go ahead and read through the passage of scripture. I'll give you a summary statement. And then I'd like to share with you a couple of introductory thoughts that I think will be very helpful as we dig into this passage of Scripture throughout the rest of the week. Again, that's Luke chapter 10, verses 25 through 37. It says, And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And he said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? He answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God, with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy strength and with all thy mind, and thy neighbour as thyself. He said unto him, Thou hast answered right, this do, and thou shalt live. And he willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbor? And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way. And when he saw him he passed by on the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, and went to him and bound up his wounds, and pouring in oil and and wine, set him on his own beast. and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again I will repay thee. Which now of these three thinkest thou was neighbor unto him that fell amongst the thieves? And he said, He that showed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go thou likewise Now, the passage that we're looking at is a very familiar passage of Scripture. And because it's a familiar passage of Scripture, I think a lot of times we are familiar with the details. But it's also easy for us to miss very important details. And what I'd like to do starting out this week is rather than jumping into the details on Monday morning. I'd like to look at a little bit of the way that Jesus taught in parables. Christ's approach in teaching is a fascinating kind of approach to teaching. It is masterful. It shows the insight into which Jesus understood how people change and how people can be properly confronted. The way that we tend to study in our Western context The way that I studied in high school, in college, in seminary was typically in a lecture format. And the way that a lecture format works is your teacher gets up and they give you lots and lots of information and you jot down the information. It's written in a series of logical connections. It's very similar to the way that we tend to preach on Sunday mornings. But that's not the way that Jesus tended to teach. Lots of Jesus' teaching was extremely interactive. He would tell stories, parables, he would ask questions. And so the way that Jesus taught was different than the way that we tend to teach today. A second thing that I'm going to mention, is that he loved to teach him parables because those parables were crafted or designed in a way that would make the person that was hearing the parable or the person that the parable was directed to It would make them think and internalize what was there so that they would chew on it. Parables are very similar to the effect of a proverb. And when we read through the Proverbs or a book like Ecclesiastes, Wisdom Literature in the Old Testament, we'll notice that these parables or these proverbs are generally stated in a way that you have to think about it. If you're going to understand it, you've got to meditate on it. You've got to chew on it. You may even have to ask some follow-up questions. You have to consider the context. And Jesus taught that way because that kind of a teaching indicates that a person has a desire to learn and they're willing to do the work and they're willing to ask the questions. If they want to understand what is being communicated, it also gives them an opportunity to pause and to reflect and to come to a conclusion on their own. so that they can make the proper adjustment in the way that they relate to the principles that are being presented. He loved to use questions, penetrating questions. that would make the person think. And so this is the way that Jesus would teach. And what Jesus was teaching wasn't just to give information. But it was also made to reveal something about the mindset of the people that he was instructing. And this passage is a great example of that. The man that is coming to Jesus has some preconceived ideas about Christ. He has some preconceived ideas about the topics that are going to be addressed in this. And so the way that Jesus approaches him is rather than just confronting him in a very uh aggressive manner. He tells him a story. And in the story, he will confront the man. But the way that he will do it will be somewhat gentle and will give the man an opportunity to respond correctly So that's where we're going to begin this week, looking at that concept. And that's where we'll be going throughout the rest of the week, kind of expounding the parable. so that we can understand the implications. But before we close our introduction this week, what I'd like to do is give you a summary statement for the Parable of the Good Samaritan. And I hope that this will give you something to reflect on as we go into tomorrow. The parable of the Good Samaritan provides a timeless, memorable picture of what biblical love in action looks like. And it was presented in a way that exposed this legal scholar's clever attempt to excuse his own sin. As we read through this parable and as we reflect on the parable, we're going to see that it's telling the man this is ultimately the kind of religion you have. And the kind of religion you have is a formalistic, dead religion that is not rooted in the truth. It's not a living faith like the Christian faith actually is. And he wants the man to see that. And he wants to answer the man's question in a way that's also going to draw out his bias against certain people that he encountered on a regular basis. And so our prayer this week is that the Lord will help us to see ourselves honestly in the light of what the Scripture says about this issue. and that we will take to heart what is here and then we will respond to it by living in the light of it. I hope that you have a great rest of your Monday morning, and Lord willing tomorrow we're going to dig into the first section of the parable of the good spirit. Summerton have a blessed morning, fine out