Well tonight we're going to uh pick up in our discussion on the issue of the conscience. And the reason that we're dealing with the conscience is because um in 1 Corinthians chapter 8, that entire section is dedicated to issues of conscience. So really as an extended introduction, what we're doing is we're talking about what the conscience is. So we've answered several questions. What is the conscience? How does it work? Is our conscience infallible? And uh today we're going to look at a fourth and final question in this uh beginning part, and that is how can we have a conscience that's healthy? And that's what we should desire. We should desire that the way that we think and what's going on internally is in fact consistent with the Word of God. And so there are a couple of passages of scripture I want you to turn to. The first one is 2 Timothy chapter 2. And I'm going to read this passage because it's very, very important for this discussion of conscience. And then there are a couple of others, Romans chapter 12, we're very familiar with that, and John chapter 8, verse 32. So let's go ahead and we'll begin in 2 Timothy 2 verse 24. It says that the servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient in meekness, instructing those who oppose themselves. If peradventure God will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, and that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him at his will. Now, when we talk about this issue of having a healthy conscience, really what a healthy conscience is, is it is a mind that is being renewed by the work of the Spirit of God. And so when we talk about having a healthy conscience, we're saying this is a Christian who has right thinking, and that right thinking is affecting how they internally are processing all the things that are going on in their lives. And so a couple of verses that are important. The first one is John 8. 32. It says that it is the truth that makes a person free. The Spirit of God takes the word of God and he confronts us in areas where our thinking is wrong. He convinces us of the truth by opening our understanding to the significance of the truth. And then he stirs up Or we could say awakens our sense of understanding what is right and wrong. Ultimately, what is that? It is a working of the renewing of the conscience. Now, how does this happen? Well, turn with me to Romans chapter 12, and we'll talk about it in that passage, and then in 2 Timothy chapter 2. So in Romans chapter 12, this is what the text says. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God Now, when we talk about the renewed mind or we talk about the healthy conscience, Romans 12, 1 and 2 is one of those passages that we should be very, very familiar with. And when we're looking at this verse, there are a couple of things that should stand out. First of all, there is a basis that begins before we talk about how the mind is renewed. A person who is not a believer does not have the Spirit of God inside of them. They are not new creatures in Christ. They do not think like a Christian. It's not possible for them to have a renewed mind, to have a healthy conscience. And so it begins with a person being a child of God. And that's why he says, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, brethren being these are the people who are believers. They place their faith in Christ. And that therefore is pointing back to all the different things that Paul has talked about earlier on in the book of Romans. Things like justification. sanctification, our position in Christ, all of those things. So before you get into this issue of how the conscience is going to become healthy or how the mind is going to be renewed, it starts with the foundation of being a Christian. If this is someone who is a believer, it's based on the things that he's talked about earlier in the book, and it's also by the mercies of God. But then there's another piece to this that you'll notice. He says that we are to present our bodies, a living sacrifice. wholly acceptable unto God, which is our reasonable service. And so we're supposed to live a life that is surrendered to God. And then he goes beyond that to say, be not conformed to the world, but be transformed through the renewing of your mind. So what you see is there's the foundation, a believer, and then there's the ultimate end. We're going to be submitting ourselves to God in our daily lives. And then the question is, well, how exactly does this happen? It's bias being transformed through the renewing of the mind. And so the thing that God uses to help us to grow and mature and to have that healthy conscience is that the word of God has to get into our hearts. And that's what he means when he says the renewing of the mind. And so I use this illustration sometimes. When I was in college We had a hurricane that came through and it it devastated our community. In fact, my parents were not able to live in their house for about eight to ten months. And the reason for that is because during that storm the water came up into our yard. It kept rising and rising. In fact, the storm surge was like 10, 10, 10, 11 feet, something like that. And so about four feet of the house was completely flooded, and we had to rip everything out of the house. Well, you can't just say, well, when the water's gone, just let it dry out and we'll be fine. You can't do that. Because that water, it defiles everything in the house. All the carpet is ruined. All the walls are ruined. And so we had to rip off the drywall. We had to rip out all of the insulation. We had to rip out all the carpets, anything that got wet, we had to remove it, had to completely dry out the house. And this is a really, really long process. And then we had to go in there, we had to spray it with Clorox bleach so that it would kill all the mildew, because we were in Florida, okay? Hot, humid, sticky. And then after all that was said and done, once the house was dried out, then we had to go in and we had to rebuild everything inside. Well guess what? That's what our lives are like. That's what our minds are like. Our minds are filled with so much garbage That the default is not to be conformed to God's purposes, but rather it is to follow this the world's system. And so that's why he says that we're not to be conformed to the world, but rather transformed through the renewing of our mind. And so what God does is as we come in contact with God's Word, the Word of God exposes areas that are wrong. And when we're confronted with those things, we have to do something about it. Am I going to ignore it or am I going to address it? And I'm going to take those things, I'm going to say, that's no, I'm going to uproot it, and then I have to replace it with what is true. So this process involves identifying what is wrong. It involves uprooting those things and then replacing, filling that void with what is true. And this is the amazing thing that happens when we do that. When we submit to God's Word in that way The Spirit of God takes the word and it becomes a part of us and it takes root in us and it produces fruitfulness. It literally changes us. That's why he says to receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your soul. And so once the word of God takes root in our hearts, what it produces is real-life transformation. Now, sometimes we call that sanctification or growth into Christ's likeness. But in this discussion, we're talking about that is how we have a healthy conscience. So if you neglect the Word of God, you will not have a healthy conscience. Or if you don't allow the Word of God to actually shed light on what needs to change, you won't have a healthy conscience. Or another thing is, if you don't uproot it, or you uproot it, but you leave this void, that void's going to be filled. And so it's got to be filled with truth. So this isn't just a negative concept. It's a negative and then a positive concept. It's also not just a positive concept, like I just leave alone what's in my heart, I just add these things. That's called syncretism That's taking the error and just adding the truth to it, and then we have this big mess, and a lot of people do that as well. So it has to be identifying, uprooting, and replacing We see the same concept in the 2 Timothy 2 passage. And so really at the heart of having a renewed mind, and at the heart of having a healthy conscience, is repentance. That word repentance is huge. When we respond to the gospel, we repent and we believe. The repentance deals with the negative side. As the truth confronts me, it changes how I think, and then my response is to turn to God and to place my faith in Christ. That's what happens when we get saved. God confronts our wrong thinking and he points us to the finished work of Christ. But after we are saved, we continue to experience A form of repentance, okay? And this is a progressive thing. God just teaches us a little bit at a time. Have you ever gotten to do discipleship with a young Christian? I hope you have. Have you ever been the one that was getting discipled? Okay? Well, one of the things that's so interesting about discipling a young Christian is everything is new to them. They don't know anything. Okay? They know that Jesus died for their sins. He rose from the dead. They place their faith in Christ. They're excited that they're forgiven, but all this other stuff they don't understand it at all. And you get the opportunity to just teach them little basic things And what's amazing is as they start understanding those things, then God deals with this area here and there's this area of growth, and then he deals with this area over here and area of growth and this area over here, and what's amazing is It's just a little at a time. It's not like, boom, here's everything. Now you got it all figured out. It's not like that. It's like taking baby steps. And so when we talk about repentance and the renewing of the mind to have a healthy conscience, we're talking about that kind of a concept. Then we move to the 2 Timothy 2 passage, the one we opened up with. Notice it says that the servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle, apt to, here's the word, teach. Why is teaching so important? Well, teaching is important because the battle is on the level of how we think. That issue of repentance is our thinking. And then he says he's got to be patient And in meekness he to instruct. So you see that the emphasis is all on the teaching of God's word. Why is that? Because the renewing of the mind is where the battleground begins. He also says that these are people who oppose themselves When we live in a way that's contrary to truth, it's not good for us. It's not good for the people around us. And so he says they oppose themselves, and then he says God, if peradventure, God will give them repentance to acknowledging the truth. Now let me just say something here. He's not suggesting that God just like flips the switch or that a person's not responsible for their choices. That's not what he's saying What he is saying is that what we have to realize is that this is a hard work that is done through the Word of God, and the ultimate cause for that word to take root is the work of the Spirit of God. And so it's not eliminating personal responsibility. It's simply saying that at the end of this whole analysis, God is the one who brings people to that point where their heart is humbled and their thinking is changed. But he does it through the word of God and he does it through people and he does it through people praying and people being patient and people teaching and people being restrained. All of that's going on. But here's the point I want you to not miss here. God uses other people to help shape our contents when they're doing it the right way. This is why being in a healthy church is so important. It really is. Because you know, if you're in a church that's not teaching the Word of God, well then the constant flow that's feeding your soul isn't feeding you in a healthy way. It's leaving you deficient. It's leaving you starving. It's not shaping your thinking biblically. But when the word of God is being taught regularly, week in and week out, and it's a consistent pattern. That's a very healthy environment for you to be in. And God uses that instruction to shape your thinking and to help develop the way that your conscience processes things. So the first thing under this to have a healthy conscience is we need repentance, which is the root of a renewed mind. Secondly, we need to be careful that we do not violate our conscience, even though it may still be weak. Now this is something that we're really going to get into in this 1 Corinthians passage. But there's another passage in Romans that talks in the same way. In fact, you see that there's an overlap of principles, a different situation. But the same kind of principles. Notice what he says in Romans chapter 14, verse 21. He says, it is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor anything whereby thy brother stumbleth. or is offended or is made weak. Hast thou faith? Have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that condemneth not himself in that which he alloweth. Now, let me basically kind of break it down like this. What Paul is saying is there are certain things That were being debated in the church at Rome. And I think that most of these issues were kind of in that category of the Jew-Gentile controversy. That's where a lot of these issues were. But you had people who came from Jewish backgrounds and people who came from Gentile backgrounds, and their background was affecting their conscience. What they believed that they could actually do. And so what Paul is saying is some of those things that you're debating, the truth is that you have freedom in those areas. So one person's conscience is very troubled by a thing, and the other says, I'm totally fine, I don't have to worry about it. Okay? What Paul is saying this issue. Whoo, that's gonna hurt somebody's conscience, right? All of a sudden it's just happening. So so what Paul is saying is that the issues that you're that you're dealing with, you actually have real freedom in these areas. You could choose not to do these things, you could choose to do these things. You're not forced to do them, you're not forced to participate or not to participate. They're issues of conscience. And so he said in some of these scenarios If you know that this is going to cause your brother to stumble out of love for your brother, you choose to refrain. Why? Because you don't want to put your brother in a position where they are compromising their conscience. That's what he's saying. Then he goes on and he says, if you have faith, have it to yourself before God. The idea is That in your mind be fully persuaded of what is right and wrong and don't violate your conscience. And then he breaks it down further by saying, Happy is the person who does not condemn himself and the things which he alloweth. What he's basically saying is, if you violate your conscience, you're going to feel a lot of guilt. And if you don't violate your conscience, you're going to feel at rest. We understand this. This makes total sense. And so he says, he that doubteth is damned if he eat. Now he's not talking about eternal destruction, okay? He's talking about a person's conscience condemns them. If a person says, I believe this is wrong for me to do it, but my brother's telling me it's okay, it's an area of freedom, and I'm going to go ahead and do it, and I'm going to feel guilty about it, he says, don't do that. Don't violate your conscience. You're going to be miserable. That's the whole point of the thing. And so when we talk about having a healthy conscience It's not just about our conscience being built about around what is true, but it's also that that principle is not being violated. Now something that people will often ask me is well what if I have this situation where I know that this bothers my conscience and I also know that my conscience shouldn't be bothered by this Yes, this is where lots of us live our lives, I know. And and sometimes we can even look back and go, the reason that this bothers my conscience is because of whatever it is. Where I went to college, where I grew up, something like that, all right? And so the question is, what do you do in those situations? Well, what you need to do in those situations is you need to actually systematically take on those issues in a biblical way. And when you look at these issues, you should remind yourself, I don't have to participate, I can participate. And if I can get to the place where I can comfortably do that and enjoy that liberty that I have in that area, then I'm going to do it. But I don't have to do that. Nothing wrong with that. I would also add in a situation like that, if you know that something is condemning your conscience, but it's not something that God tells you not to do, then please don't force other people to People to do that and be along with you in those areas. do But sometimes we actually need to go through a training process. In the same way that someone will go through like physical therapy. Let's say you have surgery, let's say you have an injury, and and what you do is you don't you don't say well I I I can't walk, so I'm gonna just go ahead and I'm gonna force myself to run. You can't do that. You have somebody that sits down and says, All right, lift your leg. Lift your leg. Lift your leg. Lift your leg. And then you're like, oh, this is misery. They're like, well You'll be thankful three months from now that you did this. And then the next time you come, now you're going to lift your leg and then you're going to kick it out, then you're going to kick it back. Put it down, lift it up, and kick it out. And you're like, ah, these little baby steps. But what are you doing? You are incre incrementally strengthening your ability to do things that you have lost the ability to do. And we can do the same thing when it comes to our conscience. But we need to make sure that what we're doing is in fact truly scriptural. Third thing I want to mention here is that we need to make sure that we process our sin in the light of our position in Christ and the gospel. Now this is really important. This is actually one of the most fundamentally important areas when it comes to this issue of the conscience. So there are certain things we go, okay, I know there's right and I know there's wrong and I want the word of God to be informing my conscience. I know that when I do what I in my heart I believe to be wrong, I feel violating my conscience, so I don't want to do that. But what about when I sin? In fact, it's interesting. We almost we have this balance between we could have a person who's like, hey, I'm under grace. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses me from every sin, so it doesn't matter what I do. I can just I can do whatever because hey I'm forgiven and I'm cleansed and I'm righteous in Christ, and they take that mindset. Is that healthy? No, it's absolutely not. But then we can go on the other side where we where we become like meticulous record keepers of every single potential wrong we could ever do. And and if we were to sit down and have this list of all of our sinful infractions, I mean we could literally fill pages every single day of, you know, I think in my conscience I I did this wrong and my action. attitude was wrong here and I think I exaggerated here a little bit and that person asked me a question I wasn't totally straightforward here and I did the right thing here but I did it for the wrong reason and all of a sudden we just have this long list of things that weigh us down. That is also the wrong approach. We don't want to go to either of those extremes We want to find the middle ground. And what is the middle ground? Well, it's what we find in 1 John 1. Because 1 John 1 tells us how we as believers are supposed to process sin and the brokenness of fellowship and the restoration of fellowship when we are in these kinds of scenarios. So turn there and we're going to look at this for just a couple of minutes here for this third area. 1 John 1, verse 6 says this. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and we do not the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Now there are several statements in these four verses That we need to kind of pick out because what they're going to do is they're going to help give us some parameters and some guidelines for how to think about this issue of sin and fellowship and how it can be broken, how it can be restored. So the first thing I want to mention here is this. Sinless perfection is not attainable on this side of glory. It is not. If someone says, okay, well, I became a Christian, so now I don't sin anymore, well, this verse, this passage of scripture very clearly states that's not true. Okay? It's important for us to understand that. Even though I'm forgiven, even though I'm cleansed, even though I'm righteous in Christ, even though I'm accepted in the beloved I'm still going to battle with sin in my flesh. And sometimes believers have a hard time. making sense of that. Sometimes people will struggle with assurance of salvation. And the reason they do is because they know they've trusted Christ as their Savior, and then they still continue to struggle with sin. And they say, well if I'm really a Christian, then how could I struggle with this How could I be in the position where I need to ask God to forgive me? And so we need verses like this one right here. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. What's he saying? There's no Christian who should ever say, I've reached sinless perfection. In fact, I even look down in verse number nine, he says, if we confess our sins, sins, he is faithful and just. John doesn't say if you confess your sins, he says, we. John is an apostle. John is an old man. John is someone who has lived for the Lord for many, many years. He's a godly, godly saint. He says if we confess our sins, he's faithful. And just. What does that tell you? It tells you that John puts himself in the exact same category as everybody else. Sinless perfection is not attainable on this side of glory. Now, that doesn't mean that we should be like, I don't care how I live, but we need to have a balanced view of this issue that we recognize I am going to struggle I am going to sin. I am going to stumble. I am going to need to turn to the Lord and ask him to forgive that sin and remind me of what Christ has done for me. So that that fellowship is restored. I'm going to have to have this happen over and over and over again because I still sin in this fallen body. Second thing is this. Sinless perfection is not a prerequisite for communion with God. Now, I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying. What I'm suggesting is if the standard was you can't fellowship with God unless you are perfectly sinless, then nobody has fellowship with God. Now why is that? Well, because obviously he's just stated that we'll never reach sinless perfection. And so this actually puts people in a really interesting position. They're like So you mean that I could actually have sin in my life and I could have communion with God at the same time? Yes, it's true. The question is, are you aware of the sin? Has God brought that to your attention? Have you seen it? And are you actually addressing the issue or not? That's really what it comes down to. Think of the stor. Think of the example of that brand new Christian. and they are in such a wonderful state of mind. They're so thankful that God has forgiven them and saved them. And you look at them and you can see all kinds of things in their life that if God wanted to pick them apart, he could do it. But he doesn't do that. He addresses one thing at a time. And here's what's really interesting. As that believer comes in contact with that information and they realize that's a problem and they address it, they walk in the light. And then as they walk in the light, what happens? God exposes more things to them. And as they grow, they become more and more aware of things that are right and wrong. And when they come to those areas of struggle, they confess it to God and they remind themselves freshly of what Christ has done for them. His death on the cross. So the reason that we can have fellowship with God is because in Christ we are accepted by Him. Positional righteousness. And so when he says, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us, he's saying, when you get to those places where God exposes a thing, he points to a thing and you go, nah, it's not a problem. He says, that's when you're not walking in the light anymore. That's when that communion becomes broken. And when you're in a position like that, you've got a choice to make. Am I going to turn to the light or am I going to go into the darkness? He says in another verse, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. And this is amazing. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from every sin. So, what that's giving me the understanding of is that as I'm walking in the light, things are going to come to light. And I'm going to be reminded. And by the way, when we confess our sin as the believer, what we're really doing. As we are acknowledging our wrong, we are acknowledging it to God, and we are reminding ourselves freshly of what God has done so that we could be forgiven. And cleanse and reconcile to him. So, really, what confession of sin to God is, is it is a renewal and a remembrance of what Christ has done for us. That's really what it is. And so when I say no and I ignore it, I'm walking in the dark. And when I accept what God is showing me and I address that issue honestly, and I remind myself freshly what Christ has done for me I'm walking in the light. , And I should anticipate that there'll be more things that come to light as I go through that time. And so I think this is very, very important. When we talk about having a healthy conscience, we have to recognize we are going to struggle with sin. We should never get to the place where we say, I'm not going to sin anymore. We should also recognize that there'll be areas that we have blind spots in and we can actually have fellowship and communion with God, not being aware of those things until God points those areas out which most certainly he will do it. Through reading scripture, conversations with other believers, sitting under a sermon, God will point out those areas in our life, and then we got to do business with what God is showing us. That's really what it comes down to. Fourth thing, presumptuous sin breaks communion with God. That's really what he's saying when he says if we say we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness. We lie and we do not the truth. So it's like that person who says, you know what? I know it's wrong, but I don't care. God will just ignore it. He'll just overlook it. I'm in a position of grace. It doesn't matter. That's what he means when he says if we say that we have fellowship and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. And so this fourth area is, and by the way, this is how a person's conscience becomes really compromised. Or how a person's conscience becomes dull or desensitized. When they come in contact with this information and God points to that issue and they just ignore it. They find some way to escape that conflict of the con conflict of the conscience. Eventually a person can get to the place where they're no longer sensitive to those areas that they should be and that they once were You notice in Hebrews where he says you've become dull of hearing? What does he mean by that? You have desensitized your conscience You've gotten to the place where you don't see things with the same freshness, and it doesn't move your heart like it once did and like it's supposed to. And so part of having a renewed mind is allowing Scripture to speak for itself into these situations. So how do we have a healthy conscience? Number one, repentance. We got to be in the Word of God, transformed through the renewing of our minds. Number two, when our conscience is violated, we don't push against that. In fact, we do what we know is right. And even if it's an area of struggle, we say, you know what? Even if I think that biblically I have liberty here, I'm going to forgo that because I don't want to compromise the conscience. Perhaps I need to go through a process where my conscience is trained properly, but I'm going to do that slowly And then thirdly, we need to deal with this issue of sin in a biblical way. I want to walk in the light. If I'm resistant to God and what he's shown me, fellowship is broken, and that resistance stays there until I'm willing to humble myself. and address the issue. And by the way, every believer in this room knows what it's like to be in that position. I know what it's like to be in that position. Where you know what is right, you say no, and you're resistant to God, and that fellowship is broken. It's like there's this wall there. God didn't put it there, we put it there And we need to turn back to Him, confess our sin, and see God restore that communion. So let me conclude it like this way: we desperately need a conscience that is healthy. Lots and lots of Christians really struggle on this issue. And they and we struggle sometimes where we're too permissive or we're too tight or we do things that we know are wrong or that in our heart we believe it's wrong and we just Just push against it, or sometimes the people around us, they influence us, to do things that we believe they're wrong, we do them anyway. We desperately need a healthy conscience. Our conscience needs to be shaped by the scriptures, not culture. And by the way, not the culture out there. And even not our church culture or our family culture. It needs to be the Word of God. It's so very, very important that that's the case. We need to recognize that sin is not only destructive to the people around us, it's also destructive to us. There's nothing more tragic than having our own souls conflicted because we're not responding properly. properly to God in our hearts. The natural consequences of having an unhealthy conscience can be very deep and very destructive. The toll it can take on our thinking, our emotions, ultimately our affections for God can be so very devastating. The truth is when we come to church, it should be one of the most joyful times of our whole week. I mean, like the highlight. It really should. We should be energized by interacting with other Christians. But if our conscience internally is plugged, it's just not going to happen. And so we've got to be willing to be honest with ourselves. If we need to reach out and get some help, we've got to do that because when we come to this place, it should be a place where we're lifted up. We're encouraged, we're strengthened, we're recharged to go out and do the things that we need to do in our families, in the community, and our work and all those areas. Healthy conscience is huge. So let's be people who understand the blessing of what it means to be made in the image of God. Where we understand there is right and wrong. We have a conscience. Let's be a people who understand how it works. And let's be a people who have our content shaped by the Word of God. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us in these areas. Father, I thank you so much for your word, and I think about these verses. 2 Timothy, Romans 12, John 8, 1 John 1. These scriptures are very helpful to us. Help us to be a people who love your word. We hide it in our hearts. We listen to what it is saying. We don't resist it. I pray that when we struggle, that we would reach out to mature godly Christians who can help us work through those issues. And I pray that we would get to a place of spiritual maturity and good health when it comes to the state of our hearts. Father, help our church to be strong, biblical, healthy, vibrant, a place where people are uplifted and strengthened because the word of God is shaping all of our lives. As we spend time together in prayer this evening, I pray that that time would be very sweet. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.