Well, good morning. Please take your Bibles and turn to 1 John chapter 5. And if you're a child ages 3 to 7, please feel free to be dismissed to the back. With the assistance of your parents. And um the rest of you, we're going to focus our attention on these five verses at the beginning of 1 John chapter 5. And I will tell you that It is a delight to preach after a song like that. It's a delight because there's a wonderful rich message in that song. The doctrinal content is so Uh it's so glorious, and it's a beautiful song, and it causes us to focus our attention on the power of the gospel and what was accomplished by Christ on our behalf. Well, this message this morning is going to look at the transforming power of the gospel. I think a lot of times when we Give the gospel to people. We tend to think of the gospel in the sense of, if you died tonight, do you know for sure you'd go to spend eternity with God? I don't think it's a bad question. Um if you ask it the wrong way, people might take it the wrong way. But I think that that statement or that question is a little bit short-sighted. Because there's a lot more to what takes place when we place our faith in Christ than just when I die, I'm going to be with God forever in heaven. Now I am in no way by that statement trying to downplay the wonderful glory of that thing. But I want you to understand, and we're going to see this laid out, I hope. from this text this morning, that the gospel does more than just give us an eternally secure position in Christ where we will be with him forever in heaven. Where we will escape the judgment and the wrath of God that we most certainly deserve. But the gospel does far more than just give us insurance for eternity. The gospel transforms us. The gospel changes us. It takes us who are dead in trespasses and sins. And it makes us new creatures in Christ. And all things pass away and all things become new. And God begins this amazing work of sanctification in us. We've been talking a lot about that in our Sunday school time, but this morning we're going to look at several truths connected to how the gospel transforms the saint. 1 John 5, verse 1 says this. Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. And everyone that loveth him that begot loveth him also that is begotten of him. When your mind's in a fog, that's a real interesting one to read right there. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous. For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus Christ, or Jesus is the Son When I come to this passage, here is what I think is trying to be communicated by the Holy Spirit through John. John wants these Christians to be reminded that the gospel transformed them, is transforming them, and it transforms every single person who comes to that place where they repent, they turn to Christ, they trust alone in his finished work. You might say, why in the world is John so concerned about that? You know, John is a pastor. He loves the people he's writing to, and when John is looking at these people, he sees folks within that little congregation at Ephesus. Some who are believers and some who are not. Some people who are teaching false doctrine and those who are teaching false doctrine are really undermining the vitality of the Christians in that church And one of the things that John has done bit by bit is he addresses how these Christians can have confidence, can have communion with God, can have a healthy, vibrant, fruitful walk. And he's doing that in the context of false teachers who are undermining by the nature of the message they're giving their ability to have vitality. And so at this moment, when we come near the end of the book, John is going to be communicating that if you're really a Christian, if the message that you're really preaching is true, genuine, gospel-centered truth. It's going to change you. It's going to transform you. It will not leave you as you are. It will make you a different person. That's what the gospel does to people. And so that's ultimately what John is trying to communicate. in this particular passage. God wants us to understand firsthand the transformative power of the gospel. He wants that to be our experience He wants us to be able to look at our lives and say, I have felt, I have seen, I have experienced the transforming power of the gospel. What I was ten years ago. Twenty years ago, fifty years ago, before I came to understand the gospel and trust Christ, I'm not the same person at all. Anybody that knows me knows that is true. That's what he wants us to experience. So the question we want to ask this morning is this. In what ways does the gospel transform the saint into a sinner into a saint? In what ways does the gospel transform that sinner, dead in trespasses and sins, into a saint? A person who walks in the Lord? A person who has fellowship with God. In what ways does God do that through the gospel? The first thing we're going to see this morning is that the gospel gives us the power to love God. Do you realize that people don't by nature love God? See, of course they do. Not true. In fact, what does the Bible say in Romans chapter 3? It says, there is none righteous, no, not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They're all together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. Paul says this in 1 Corinthians. He says, the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. They're foolishness to him. Neither can he understand them because they're spiritually discerned. Now when we say natural man, it's kind of like this. When you're born into this world, if God just left you as you are, he never came and he never worked in your life, if you never put people in your life, Who are gonna, you know, teach you what's right, teach you what's wrong. If you never came in contact with the gospel, you could not, you would not, you would never love God and live for God. It'd be impossible. The natural man doesn't understand. He doesn't seek. He's not looking for God. If a person comes to where they are asking questions, it's because God's been provoking them to those questions. Notice what he says in verse 1. Whosoever believeth that Jesus Christ is born of God, and everyone that loveth him, that begat, loveth him also that is begotten. When John makes that statement, he's emphasizing the fact that those who are saved, who place their faith in Christ, who are born again, are people who have this quality of a love for God. And that is a love that begins kind of in infancy and it matures and it grows and it's tested over the course of a person's life. I hope today you love God a lot more than you did the first day you got saved. Without any question, between the day you trusted Christ to where you are today, a whole lot's happened. You've been tested in some way You've walked through some valleys. There have been things that you never thought you'd experience. And your heart was very pressed and stretched. But what does God do with the Christian? He through so many different means he strengthens that believer through the word, through other Christians, through the church, through experience. God takes that Christian and he stretches him and he matures the doubt. of the love that he has for that person. It is only the gospel that can give a person this love for God In fact, it's interesting. In Psalm chapter 2, it says this, why do the nations or the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? In John chapter 3, Jesus said this. He says, this is the condemnation that light has come into the world, but men love the darkness rather than the light. Because their deeds are evil. They won't come to the light lest their deeds be exposed, he says. What a blight on mankind. In fact, in Romans chapter 1, it says this: the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth and unrighteousness. And that word whole doesn't just mean like it's there in front of them, but as they're examining the truth, there's something inside of them that doesn't like that, and so they press it down, they suppress it, they don't want to think about it That is the natural disposition of people. That was your natural disposition. That was my natural disposition before we came to faith in Christ. We were pressing against God's way. Look at the Apostle Paul. When Christ meets him on the road to Damascus, he says, why do you kick against the pricks? The apostle Paul, this very religious guy, is going to take people out of Damascus and throw them in prison. And Jesus basically says to this man, he says, Paul, You are pressing against truth. You're suppressing the truth and unrighteousness. And when Paul writes this, that's exactly the kind of thing. He's thinking about. All of us on some level throughout the course of our lives, we do that. It says, because that which they may be known of God is manifest in them. God has showed it unto them. The invisible things from the creation of the world are clearly seen by the things that are made, even his eternal power in Godhead, so that they're without excuse. You know, there are lots of people who say, I'll never believe in God because I don't see him. Well, according to this text, there's plenty of evidence for you to see that he's there. And the fact that you can make a statement like that means that you have blinded yourself to reality. It says when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. The reason people don't see God is because they don't want to see him The reason they don't see God is because they're unthankful and they think they're the center of their own universe. And the reality is it says this. They became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish hearts was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man. You know what's universal in this world? People are creators of idols. I don't mean that we all have little shrines in our house, okay? I'm not saying that. Lots of places in the world they got them, okay? But we are we are idol worshipers. We like to fashion God in our own image. We will worship Him on our own terms. We don't like His restrictions. We don't like what He says is right and what is wrong. We don't like his character. We don't like the fact that he's sovereign. And that means that we're under his authority. We don't like the fact that there's a judgment. We're going to stand before him. Mankind rebels against God in the heart. And says, I want a God that is made in my own image. I want to ask you a question, how in the world can any person, with that going on in the heart, how can they love the true God of the Bible? It 's the gospel. You and I don't love God apart from that wonderful work that God does in us when we are regenerated, when we are born again. In Romans chapter 8, it says, the carnal mind is enmity against God. It's not subject to the law of God. But here's the good news. And if you're in this room and you've placed your faith in Christ, you know, not just intellectually, but you understand and experience what the passage is about to say. 1 Peter 1, verse number 6 says this. Ye greatly rejoice, so now for a season, if need be you're in heaviness through manifold temptation. That the trying of your faith being much more precious than gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, shall be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. And I love the statement. Who having not seen ye love, in whom though now ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. What an amazing statement. I remember there was a man in our church in Ghana. Every single time we would take a new member in, we would sit down in a little circle, and the person would give their testimony. Now, I guess here in this context that'd be a little intimidating. You know, have a hundred some odd people sitting around in a circle while you give your testimony is like, okay. Well that's the way we did it in Ghana, because it was a smaller group of people And that person would give their testimony, and then this one guy, I would open up and say, would anybody like to give a word of encouragement or ask a question to our to our person here? He'd always raise his hand and say, Pastor, I'd like to say something And he'd go to 1 Peter 1, and he'd read this little passage. The trying of your faith, being more precious than gold that perishes, that be found into praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Who me having not seen he loved. And he would say this if you've trusted Christ, you're going to pass through the fire. I was like, and he'd say, and your faith will be strengthened. The fact is, folks, the fact that you love God is directly connected to the power of the gospel. It says in 1 John 4. 19 that we love him because he first loved us. The more that you know about Christ, The more that you realize what he did for you on that cross, the more that you see your own sin and brokenness, the more you understand the overwhelming love of God that sent his son to die for your sins. The more you're in a position to love God. I read again verse 12. 1 John 4:12: No man has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us. His love is perfected in us. Folks, the gospel changes us from being haters of God. To lovers of our create of our of our Creator. Lovers of our Lord. Lovers of our Savior. Lovers of the God who we'll stand before and spend all of eternity with. A second truth is this: the gospel gives us the power to love people. Now, you know that's actually a pretty powerful thing, to be very honest with you. Every person in this room Once you get to know him long enough, not so pretty, is it? Some people it doesn't take long at all You have one conversation, you go, that's a tough one right there. The fact is, we don't by nature love one another. Not in the biblical sense You know, when you get to really get down to the heart of it, people tend to love what they can get from others, what that person can give them in advancements. They don't love them simply because they want the best for that person. They love them because of what they can get. The gospel gives us the power to love people in the biblical sense. Verse 1, he says, everyone that loveth him that begat, if you love God, it says, he loveth him also that is begotten of him. In other words, your ability to love people is directly connected to two things. One, the gospel, and number two, your love of God. There's a reason that when Jesus summarizes the commandments, he says this, love God and love your neighbor as yourself. Why do you think he did it in that order? Because your ability to love other people is directly connected to your love of God. That's exactly what he's saying in the passage In 1 John chapter 3, verse 14, he says, We know that we've passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. Now, when we were dealing with this passage, we talked about the fact that our assurance or our confidence that we're saved kind of has two aspects. There's the subjective side. I know I place my faith in Christ, so I know I'm saved. God has promised that those who place their faith in Christ are his children. But there's kind of this subjective and there's this objective side. The objective side, we have a subjective side. In other words, I won't feel confident in that position if I'm living in sin. If there's certain things in my life that aren't right, my conscience will bother me. And so that strength that I can have and that I should have is undermined by those things that I'm allowing in my life. And so what does John say? He says this: when you have confidence, it's directly connected to how you love the people around you. He's talking about that subjective side of our assurance. When we come to John chapter 13, 35, this is an interesting statement. By this shall all men know you're my disciples, that ye have love for one another. So not only is your confidence of your position in Christ strengthened on the subjective side By the fact that you love other people, that you're growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, those things. Now, is it undermined when you aren't loving the people around you? But people's confidence of your profession of faith is strengthened by what they see in you. It's kind of like this. How many times have you led somebody to the Lord to pray and ask the Lord to save them? And six months later you're like you never see him again. Do you have a lot of confidence that person got saved I I hope not. You come to their house and, hey, why don't you come on out of church? Well, I'm not interested. There is no interest at all in the things of God, yet they got saved. And you have another person, you lead them to the Lord, and they say, when does church meet? You mean you only meet three times a week? What in the world? Like there's a lot of stuff to learn about the Christian faith. Their attitude is completely different. And you and you sit down and you say, you know, this guy That's real shaky there. This guy, you know what? I have no doubt that he understood the gospel. He placed his faith in Christ. I see the evidence of new life in Christ. And so what does Jesus say? You have confidence that a person is a disciple because you see how they relate to other people. Not just what they say they believe, but what you see they believe by what they do. We then see in Colossians chapter 3, he makes this statement. He says, put on as the elect of God, holy and beloved. Vows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you , So also do ye, and above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness, and let the peace of God rule in your hearts. Don't miss the little statement that he makes at the beginning of that passage. He says, put on as the elect of God. Basically, what he's saying is this if you're a Christian, then there is something that we'd expect of you. We'd expect you to live a certain way. Not that you get saved by doing those things at all. But we expect that there's something different about you. And so as the elect of God, people who are holy, set apart to God, people who love the Lord and are loved by God, you're going to put on vows of mercy. There's going to be this tenderness towards other people. Kindness, humility, long -suffering, forbearance, forgiving. That's what you expect. How is it that people can act like that? It's because of the power of the gospel. Your ability to be a godly, humble person is directly connected to what God does in your heart when you are saved. We come to a third truth, and that's this. The gospel gives us the power to obey God's commandments. He says in verse 3, this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. Many, many people living in the world are trying to keep the law of God so they can go to heaven. You ask them, what do you need to do to go to heaven? They say, well, I gotta keep the commandments, you know, the ten commandments. Can you mention any of these commandments? And they can mention about three or four of them. And you ask, well, how are you doing? Oh, I'm trying. Are you sure? Like, do you know those things are oh absolutely I know those are something I'm supposed to do. Why aren't you doing them? You just don't seem to have the power to do them. No, you don't. You're a fallen creature. You have a heart that rebels against God. You don't have the Holy Spirit inside of you. How in the world do you think you can live the Christian life as a person who's dead in trespasses and sins? It makes sense that you walk after the course of this world. Why is that? Because people do based on what they are. And so if I'm a new creature in Christ, there'll be things that I do that I didn't do before that position. In Romans chapter 3, verse 5, I've already kind of alluded to this, but it says this. What the law could not do And that it was weak through the flesh. Don't miss that statement. What the law could not do because it was weak to the flesh. God, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, condemns sin in the flesh. Now hold on a second. You know why the law has no power to make you righteous? Because your flesh means that you aren't. So when you try, you demonstrate that you can't do it. But you know what's interesting? He says, that's why God sent his son. To fulfill the law, to do for you what you couldn't do for yourself. And then he makes this last statement, though, that for this purpose the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us. Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. God did not just save you to give you heaven. He gave the gospel to you, made you a new creature in Christ, because he wants to fulfill the righteous requirements of the law. He wants you to live in a way that is godly, that is holy, that is Christ-centered, that points people to him. He says, they that are after the flesh mind the things of the flesh, and they that are after the spirit, the things of the spirit. And I asked this question. Is there someone here today that realizes Maybe based on what's being said here, that I've been trying to keep the law as a person who has no power to keep it. I've been trying to earn God's favor, and not only do I realize that I don't have the ability because I'm not perfect, but I don't have the ability because my will is bent against God. My heart rages against him. And I've never looked at it this way at all. But when you become a new creature in Christ and the Holy Spirit dwells in you, guess what happens? God puts new desires in your heart. He changes what you think about and changes what you love and changes what you want to do and what you don't want to do. There's something internally that is different when you're saved. It says this in Romans 6. It says we are to reckon ourselves to be dead to sin, but alive unto God. It says, do not let sin reign in your mortal bodies, neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God. And here's how you can do it. As those who are alive from the dead. If that statement wasn't there, there'd be no point to what Paul is stating. Folks, the gospel gives us the power to obey God. There's a fourth truth, and that's this. The gospel gives us the power. To have godly affections. I remember when I was uh I was a young adult and I was talking to my parents about an issue. We were kind of having a conflict about some things. Not that anybody ever had a conflict with their parents for their young adults. Never. And I remember my dad asked me a question. He said, Joel, do you have the power to change your heart? You ever thought about that? Do you have the power to change your heart? And I looked at him and I was like, I don't know. I don't know I actually think about the question. Do you have the power to change your heart? In fact, in the book of Jeremiah, Jeremiah says, can the leopard change his spots? The fact is that what you love is something that has a source deep down in your soul. And the only way that you can change what you love is to affect the source of the affection In other words, if your heart is bent towards the things of the Lord, your affections are going to be bent towards the things of the Lord. In other words, you will not, you cannot seek the kingdom of God and his righteousness if you have a heart that's in rebelling against him. And if you have a heart that is in love with your Savior , Your affections will be passionately focused on him and what he loves and what he delights in, what he says is important. And I tell you this The gospel has the power to change our affections. Verse 3, it says this: His commandments are not grievous. His commandments. They're not grievous. I think about what Jesus says. He says, come at of after me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. See he says, Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly of heart, and you shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. And I go, wait a minute Follow him, put on a yoke. Like, isn't a yoke something that's supposed to weigh you down? Does that make any sense to what Jesus is saying? Well, in his mind it absolutely makes sense Because he says this, if you're saved and you're a disciple, and you put on the yoke, it's going to be light. If you love Christ, His commandments are not grievous. They're not a burden. They're not something that weighs you down. They're not something that you loathe. You do it because your heart is pointed in the right direction. The gospel gives us the power to have godly affections Colossians 3:1 If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God, set your affections. On things above, not on things of the earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid in Christ He says, put on the new man which is renewed in the knowledge of after the image of him that created him. That little statement, if, is important. If you are risen with Christ, then set your affection. You can't do it unless you're a child of God. I come to this final thought, and that's this. The gospel gives us the power to overcome the world. I want us to kind of step back a little bit into the contemporary situation. It was only 2,000 years ago. Wouldn't be too hard to go back that far, right? So we go back 2,000 years ago, and there are these Christians at Ephesus, and they're facing a lot of pressures from all kinds of different places. Like you and I, we we get concerned that in this country we're going to lose some of the freedoms that we have. And you know, there is a tremendous attack on Christianity even within our culture. But I do want to tell you something. Our country has a long way to go before we're there. I promise you that. We have a long way to go. The truth is, these folks face unbelievable pressures. When John is writing to those seven churches there in Asia Minor, one of them he mentions, you are in Satan's seat. Satan dwells in your city. What an amazing statement. He says Satan wants to throw some of you in prison. What an amazing statement. John was on Patmas as a political prisoner simply because of his faith. All the other disciples had been killed for their faith in pretty horrific ways. And John's writing to people that he knows and he loves And he's concerned for their souls and their spiritual well-being, and he knows they're facing deep pressure. And if you love people and you know they're facing pressure, what do you give them for hope? This is what he gives them. The gospel gives us the power to overcome the world. In verse 4, he says this whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world? But he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God. This has been a major theme throughout John's writings in the New Testament. When you go to 1 John 2, this is what he says in verse 13. I write unto you, fathers, because you've known him from the beginning. I write to you young men because ye have overcome the wicked one. Verse 14, I've written to you fathers because you have known him from the beginning. Written to you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one. Chapter 4, verse 4. He says, You have God little children, and have overcome them because greater is he that's in you than he that's in the world. 1 John 5. 5. I just read the passage. I won't read it again. Revelation chapter 2, verse 7, he says this, He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says unto the churches. To him that overcometh, I will give of the tree of life. Which is in the midst of the paradise. Revelation 21, verse 7, he says this He that overcometh will inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. Fifteen times in the book of Revelation. John uses the term, well he didn't use the English term, but he used the term that we translate overcome or overcomer or overcoming Why? Because in the midst of pressure, we need to know something. No matter what happens here, it's all going there. I've used an illustration like this before. I love football. My boys love it more than I do. For sure. And I remember when we lived overseas. We would watch games. We watch lots and lots. Every Saturday we would watch football. But you know, when your team gets good, then they their prime time on ESPN, which just happens to be 8 o'clock on the East Coast. Well, eight o'clock on the East Coast in Ghana was one o'clock in the morning. I never watched a game at one o'clock, I'm sure. Not true. It happened once or twice, but We would just you know I'd wake up in the night and the game was on, you know. Something happened every now and again. Don't know what woke me up. That restlessness to know who won But sometimes we would watch the game on Sunday after church. So we'd come home, we'd eat, and then we would watch the game, and we'd watch the game in the evening. And you know Google, like they know what you say, where you go, and all those things. And I would get these little notifications. Clemson, Maryland, oh, we don't want to go there. Clemson, Texas AM, Clemson, Alabama. Sorry, got some Alabama folks here. Clemson, North Carolina, Clemson NC State. You know what? They would they would give you the score. And it was like, oh no, I know who won. No, it was great to know who won. Because you'd get into that game and you would get into the game so much that it was like emotional high and low and that interception that's really gonna hurt and The momentum's going the wrong way, but when you know the score, even though there's ups and downs, there's still a steadiness there You know where it's going. It may not happen until the last second of the game. Block field goal. Saw a couple like that. I was like, I don't know how this score is going to come out. Block field goal A missfield goal, an interception, a sack, pick six, whatever it was. The reality is this. When you're in the game There's a lot of ups and downs. But if you're watching the rerun, the game's over. It's going there. Now look, the game's not over, folks We have not gone through the tribulation. We're not there. But in the mind of God, it's going to happen exactly as he said it's going to happen. We need to be reminded in times of great struggle that we are overcomers. I may stumble today, I must stumble tomorrow. I have no idea what I'm going to face. I have no idea what the people that are around me are going to face. But I know this: in Christ, I've overcome the world. We have beat the world system, if you want to put it that way. We're in a position to wage war with the enemy within our heart. You know Our flesh is strong and we still deal with temptation, but we have the power because of the Holy Spirit inside of us to overcome sin and temptation. We're going to triumph over sin, death in the grave when we stand before Christ and are glorified. 1 Corinthians 15, 29, he says, in a moment In the twinkling of an eye at the last trump, the trumpet will sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. This corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. And when it talks about corruptible, let me tell you, we feel the corruptible, don't we? We do. We feel it in our knees. We feel it in our joints. We feel it in temptation. We feel it when we go to the doctor. We feel it when we stand on a scale. We experience corruption. And as we get older, the things that we could do, we can't do them like we used to. The fact is that in spite of all that, this corruptible is going to put on incorruption. And this mortal is going to put on immortality. And I love this statement. Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory O death, where is thy sting? O grave was their victory. The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. When we die and we are glorified, it's as if God says, death, hell, sin, crush, you're done. You have overcome. In John 16 he says this these things I've spoken unto you, that ye have made me have peace. In the world ye have shall have tribulation. But be of good cheer. I've overcome the world. Hey, when you think about the gospel, I hope that you think about more. Than just my sins are forgiven. I'm going to heaven. I hope you don't get over that. But I hope you realize there's a whole lot more to what God does through that glorious message. Every person in this room has placed their faith in Christ. What I have stated here, it's Bible truth. It's God's word. It's true about you. And if you're sitting here today and you've never placed your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, These things are not true about you. You are not an overcomer. You have no power over sin. You have no ability to love God and the people around you as God intended. You can't do it. You're powerless. But I have good news for you. You don't have to stay that way. The key is you must turn to the Lord Jesus Christ and trust in what He's done for you on that cross. May God help us to be people who reflect with great joy on the transforming power of the gospel. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, I thank you so much for this text. Some really wonderful truths that we need to chew on and we need to glory in and delight in. I pray that you'd help each person here who is a child of God to not forget, to not get over the incredible power of the gospel to change people. Father, I pray if there's anybody here today who's never placed their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, maybe they didn't understand the gospel and never heard it clearly articulated. Maybe they've heard it many times, but in rebellion and pride they have pushed away from the truth. I pray that at this moment you might bring deep-rooted conviction to the heart. Where there would be this understanding of sin and unrighteousness, of the glory of what Christ has done for them, that they might turn to you and trust in what Christ did for them on that cross. How he's risen from the dead, and he offers full and complete forgiveness and transformation through this gospel. I pray that you'll bless our time together of fellowship that we will have. Bless the food. Bless all that will be done in this afternoon. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen