If you could take your Bibles and turn to 1 John 1. 1 John chapter 1, we will be looking at verses 1 to 4. 1 John chapter 1, verses 1 to 4, and I read, That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen. with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, of the word of life. For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and shown to you that eternal life. Which was with the Father and was manifested unto us. That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. And these things write we unto you, that your joy may be full. Let's bow our hearts together for a word of prayer before we get into this text. Let's bow our hearts together. Father, we come before you this morning with humbled hearts as we realize and we reflect on the shoulders of those who have gone before us. People who have paved the path for us to enjoy the blessings that we experienced this morning. People who sacrificed in their lifetimes. People who laid down their lives in combat and on the battlefield to preserve this nation, to keep it a unified nation, to defend and protect our allies in Europe. And also our interest in the United States, that we might be the land of the free, that we can worship you in quietness. That we can gather together without fear, that we can serve you with a clear conscience in this land, without persecution. We are a blessed people And we thank you so much for those who have willingly laid down their lives, many of them in their youth, young men, young women, so that we could gather together as we do today. We pray that you will comfort the families of those who are in grief as they consider family members who have passed on very recently. I pray that you will be a great comfort to them this day. We think of other issues in our church. There are many folks with health needs There are folks who are in very poor health physically, and I pray that you'll strengthen their bodies as they go through these days. I pray for those who are caring for them, who are carrying a tremendous load, as they are dealing with lots of challenges that they've never thought about. But are now their daily lives. The emotions that people are feeling, I pray that you will sustain and strengthen them, and that they will draw deeply upon your grace in these days And I pray that through these days folks will be pointed to the sufficiency of Christ, that they will find strength in you, that they will be humbled as you strengthen and guide them That you'll help them to see the redeeming lessons that you have for them to learn, the opportunities they have to be a strong testimony of the gospel to people. We pray for those who are carrying heavy burdens today that you know but maybe no one here knows. I pray you'd strengthen those individuals. I pray for folks that have very critical decisions they need to make. I pray you'd give them wisdom. I pray you'd give them the courage to do what is right in whatever circumstances they may face. And I pray that you would really minister to them in their time of need. I know many of our church members are traveling today. Many are with family for the weekend. And I pray that your blessing will be upon those individuals and those gatherings and be with them as they're on the road to the very busy time of the year. I pray that it will be a sweet time with family, a time of remembrance, and a time where Christ is exalted. We pray for this time of preaching and teaching and studying the Word of God together. I pray that as we bow our knees before you and say, open our eyes to behold wondrous things out of your law. That you would help us to understand the significance of these glorious truths. You would burn them deeply into our hearts and minds And that you would begin to work over the many days to follow through this text of Scripture. Help me as I preach to do it with simplicity, clarity, and I pray that your Spirit would move in our midst this morning. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. How many of you if you had a An explosion in the kitchen where a pipe is leaking everywhere would call an electrician. Hopefully none of you. What would happen if you called an electrician? You didn't tell him what the job was, he gets there And he walks into your kitchen and he sees water everywhere and he says, Why did you call me? And you said, Well, I know you're a professional. I know that you know what you're doing in your field. And so I figured I'd give you this job And he looks at you and he says, I I I can't, this is not my area of expertise. I am an electrician. I am not a plumber. And you say, well, I'm going to pay you well. I will pay you $50 an hour for your labor. And he says, well, I appreciate that, but I don't want to deal with this. This is not my kind of a job. And you say, look, I called you here. I expect you to do this work. Do it. That will be a very frustrating set of circumstances. The reason it will be frustrating is because the individual, though he's very talented, though he has experience, does not have experience in the field that you are asking him to address. And so he would look at you and say, get a different guy for the job. Well the reality is that in life, many of us specialize in certain areas, and when we get outside of that area of expertise We just don't want to get into those realms. And there's nothing wrong with that. The truth is that we should be doing what we're fitted to be doing. You say, well, why do you open with that particular illustration? I will tell you why I open with that illustration. Many people go through life And they understand if I'm an electrician, I don't take on plumbing jobs, I take on electrical jobs. And if I am a plumber, I don't take on electrical, I take on plumbing jobs. But when it comes to living the Christian life, they are living their Christian life, their Christian experience, as someone who's not fitted for what they're doing. You know, if we don't understand the purpose for which God put us on this planet and the role that he has for us, we're going to experience tremendous frustration and difficulty in this life. And John understands that. And as a pastor who loves people, John sits down and he writes a letter that is going to help those individuals to understand how to go through life joyfully. How to go through life as God intended for us to go through it. And so when we come to his first four verses. We saw last week that he was trying to establish the reality of Christ's ministry. I mentioned briefly that he wants to establish his qualification to address this issue. But this morning I want us to look at His primary purpose for the book. If you could take all the details of John's epistle to these individuals, you can put it under this category. He wants them to have something. And I will read to exactly what he says in verses 3 and 4. That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you. Listen that what he says, that you also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ, and these things write we unto you, that your joy may be full. If you want to know why John wrote the book, why he talks about all the various topics that he addresses, that's the reason right there. And so I want to ask three simple questions and then answer them in our time this morning. The first question is, what is John's primary reason for writing the letter? I kind of mentioned that, but I want to develop it. Question two, why is that issue so important for us? And three, how do we respond to the truths that John is writing down in these first four verses? The first question, what was his primary reason for writing the letter? Truth number one, John wrote the epistle so his fellow Christians could experience a vibrant Christian walk. Vibrant Christian walk. Do you have a vibrant Christian walk? Or do you feel like you're overwhelmed? Do you feel like you're just treading water and occasionally you're actually bobbing below the surface? Are you frustrated? angry, discouraged, overwhelmed? Do you feel like when you pray God doesn't listen to you at all? Do you feel like when you open up your Bible it's just an exercise in futility? Do you ever feel that way? Well, let me be very transparent with you. All of us, including me right here, have gone through seasons, not just short seasons, sometimes prolonged seasons. where we feel that way. We are extremely discouraged. We feel like when we pray, God does not listen. He does not hear. We open up our Bibles and we read a chapter or two and when we walk away, it is as if we did nothing. Sometimes we look at what we're doing on a daily basis and we experience frustration and we feel like we are wasting our time and we say, is this pointless? John understands that people are like that. Because not only was John a pastor, but John was a very old pastor and he knew people very well. He got into their lives. He had conversations with them. He preached to them. He taught to them. He counseled them. John understood the hearts of people And when he looked at people and when he saw their problems and when he saw the struggles going on in their hearts, he understood that's not unique right there. Lots of people are in that same position. In fact, all of us get there at times in our Christian life. So John sits down and he says, I want to help these people. I want to help them understand how they can be confident that they are walking in fellowship with God. I want them to be able to experience the kind of closeness that I experienced as a disciple of Christ. And I continue to experience every day of my life. I want them to have joy no matter the circumstances that they are going through. And so I sit down and I write this letter to them because I'm going to address lots of issues that I know hinder them for being able to experience what they desire. Fellowship with God, joy that is full, a vibrant Christian life. So he says in verse 2, the life was manifested. That eternal life which was with the Father was manifested to us. We want you also to have fellowship with us, and our fellowship is with the Father and His Son Jesus Christ. I've written these things to you that your joy may be full. Notice those various phrases They're all pointing down to here's what I'm going to say, and here's why I'm going to say it. Let me make this very simple observation. There's a big difference between being a Christian and being a joyful Christian. Is that not true? There is a big difference between being someone who is in Christ and fully secure in Christ You have a home in heaven, but you're living out the Christian life in a healthy and joyful and vibrant way. In fact, we can go through long seasons of joy, and then we go through circumstances that just twist our lives apart. And we do not know how to wrestle and deal with those issues. Let me make some observations about the difference between our position and our experience. And I want to draw your attention to Ephesians chapter 1. So if you have your Bibles, go to Ephesians 1 and look at verses 5 to 7 and then we will go to verses Chapter 3, verses 14 and to 19. This is what Paul writes. In Ephesians chapter 1, he writes, God has predestined us. to the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. In fact that's a that is a a a an amazing concept that we will not understand if we don't understand Roman custom. But just because you were a child didn't mean that you had all the rights and privileges of a child. There was a point when you received those rights. And those privileges. And if you were adopted, there was a time when you received those benefits. And so he says, as a child of God, God is determined. Nothing's going to stop. That time for you. He's talking about the security of the Christian. He says it's ordered according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise and glory of his grace, he hath made us accepted. In the beloved. You catch that statement. One of the things that a lot of times we as Christians struggle with is does God accept me Does God love me? Does God have any affection for me? Does he really view me as a child? I don't feel like a child. I don't feel accepted. I just went through this season in my life. I just did this thing. How does God view me? And he makes a statement, you are accepted in the beloved. He then goes on and says this, in whom We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. Sometimes when we sin and ask God's forgiveness, And we want to have fellowship restored, we don't feel as if that has happened. And the reason for that, there are numerous reasons that we experience that. But he's making statements about position, predestined to adoption, accepted in the beloved Redeemed through the blood of Christ, forgiveness of sins, and there is a lot more that can be said in that particular text, but that's position. I just want you to think about this. No matter how you feel if you're saved, those things are true about you. It doesn't matter how you feel on a particular day. You roll out of bed and things don't seem so bright to you and you're discouraged and you're frustrated. Or you have failed miserably in an area in your Christian walk, and you're feeling this sense of guilt and frustration, or you get on your knees before God in prayer, and it doesn't seem as if he's hearing you. And you're going through the cloud, and the cloud is now a dark tunnel, and it doesn't seem like there's light. It seems like a hole. And you ask yourself, how does God view me? Well, there it is. That's position. Whether you're having a vibrant Christian experience or whether you are in the valley of the shadow of death, those things are true about you. How you feel is not a factor in those things. But then there's the practical side, the experience. And in Ephesians 3, he makes this statement. Verse 14: For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father, that he would grant unto you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. Now that is not a statement of position. Okay? The position was dealt with in chapter one. Being strengthened with might in the inner man is about experience. He understands that though they are secure in Christ, though they are forgiven, though they are accepted, though they are predestined to adoption, They are not strong. They're very weak. And so he prays that they will be strengthened by the Spirit of God in the inner man. He says, I'm praying that Christ will dwell in your heart by faith, that you will be rooted and grounded in love. That is experience again. He says, I pray that you will be able to comprehend with all the saints the breadth and length and depth and height. And he's talking about the love of God. You know what is interesting? None of us like to experience pain and suffering. But that is when we begin to understand the depth and the breadth and the length and the height of the love of God. Because we have nothing but that to depend on at that time. He then says that you will know the love of God, and that has the idea of an experiential knowledge. It's like you're tasting You're not just seeing it there. You don't just understand it intellectually. You are experiencing it. It is nourishing and strengthening you, and it is sweetness to your soul. And then he says that you will be filled with all the fullness of God. And he's talking about the change that takes place in the hearts of God's people. Where they become more and more like Christ, progressively, day by day, being conformed to the image of Christ. Position and experience are different. And so John is writing to people that he says, I believe that you are in Christ, and I believe that you are not enjoying the blessings that God has available to you in Christ. And I want you to have that. And I know that you want that. That's why I write this letter to you. It's kind of like the difference between being married and being happily married. You know? On a certain date, on any given day in May or June or July, there are lots and lots of people who get married every single year. Ten years down the road. They may not all be enjoying that marriage union the same way. There's a difference between position. And experience. And so John wants these people to have a vibrant and healthy and joyful experience. That's why he writes it to you. You may be saying, Pastor Joel, I I'm not there right now. I'm not there at all. Then you need to read the book of 1 John. Because he's writing it for that very purpose. You need to listen attentively to the preaching and teaching that we'll have in these chapters because they're reasons. And by the way, there's not just one answer to why we struggle. There are lots of various dynamics that factor into why we struggle. We then come to a second truth. And the question is, why is fellowship with God such an important issue? And the truth number two is this: God created us in part for fellowship. Do you remember our illustration about the plumber and the electrician and the reason that the that the plumbing job isn't gonna go well for the electrician? It's because that's not what he's for. He's an electrician. He likes to work with liars. He doesn't work with plastic tools and glue and that kind of stuff. He uses tape and soldering iron and all that kind of stuff. That's what he does. That's what he's fitted for. He's really good at that. And if he's in that realm, he's okay. But you take him out of that realm, it's a totally different story. Well, if God created us to a major part for fellowship and we don't have fellowship with God, do you think it's going to be well in our souls? It's not. We're going to be frustrated. If God created us in part for fellowship and we are not rightly related to God And we know it or we doubt that we are, our soul is going to be extremely troubled. Very, very troubled. In fact, we have a There's a CD and a book series that we watched many, many years ago called Quieting a Noisy Soul by Jim Berg. When we first came to Anchor, that was the Sunday school that was going on in the fellowship hall. And that is an excellent material. It's excellent because what he does is he goes to the heart of why God made us And what troubles our hearts and how to address those issues so we can be calm and go through life the way God intended. God created us in part for fellowship. If you go to Genesis 1, listen carefully to the way that God 's word describes the creation of man. Verse 27, God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female. And then he says, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion. And then it says later, God saw everything that he made, and behold, it was very good. Now the Bible never tells us what it means to be created in the image of God. It's something we have to sit down and we have to think about. And we have to ask the question, how is it that a human being is different from an animal? And what about a human being reflects the nature and the character of God? And there are a couple of things that I think we can pretty quickly recognize. The first thing is that man, like God, has the ability to reason. That doesn't mean we always do it, or that we always do it well, or that we always do it rationally, but we have that ability. God created us that way. We're able to take facts And we're able to process them and think about them. And from that reasoning, there's a deliberation that goes inside. And from that deliberation, we are responsible to make choices. Not just choices about, well, what does one plus two equal, but moral choices. This is morally right This is morally wrong. We can decide I'm going to do what's right or I can do what's wrong. God gave us that freedom. And that is really what God creating that tree and putting it in the garden was all about. It was a test. God has been created with the ability to choose. What's he going to do with it? Not that it got off guard or anything like that, but that ability means nothing if there's not a test of it. And of course, man sinned. So we have the ability to reason. Man has a realm that he is responsible to govern. Notice it says he gave them dominion. And so we have lots of realms that we are responsible to govern within our families, within church life, within our communities. Even in the natural world, we have responsibility to govern and manage realms that God has given us responsibility over. But I like this one. Man like God is capable of genuine relationship. You and I can sit down and have a conversation. Hopefully good ones, right? We can have a conversation. We can share information. We can process it. We can be emotionally affected by the information that we share or that is shared with us. We can make decisions together. We can have real relationship. We can grow in knowledge of one another. And God created us with that ability for a good reason. Not just so we can relate to one another, but so that we can relate to him. It's not like God was lonely, he said, Oh, what am I gonna do? I don't have anybody to talk to, I'm gonna create Adam and Eve. He didn't do it like that God actually took pleasure in making this man and woman and giving them responsibility so that he could enjoy watching them communicate. And that he could enjoy watching them manage and he could be involved in genuine relationship with them. They can learn about him. He can teach them. He can interact with them. That was God's plan. You can see that fellowship's a big deal to God. And relationship's a big deal to God. God created man for his own glory, and we bring him pleasure when we display his character, when we manage the realms that he's given us, and when we are rightly related to him. Very interesting. To put it very simply, our relationship to God is the center of everything. In Ecclesiastes 12, Solomon says, Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God, keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of man When you hear that word fear, I don't want you to think terror because you think God will kill you, though he can do that. But I want you to think of this illustration. Let's say that you had the opportunity to meet somebody who was, how could I put it, somebody that you looked up to tremendously. It could be a relative, it could be a person in human history, but somebody that you had tremendous respect for. You valued their every word. You looked up to them as a great individual. And you had the opportunity to go and meet that person. 30 minutes, sit down with George Washington, or Ronald Reagan, or Abraham Lincoln. Some great man of the past. How would you feel about that? Emotionally. Would you be nervous? Like, I mean, I don't want to make a bad impression. Would you feel afraid? I know for me, I'd probably feel really cold and I'd be shaky and I'd have to go to the bathroom about 20 times in the hour that I was waiting to go and meet with him. Would you be able to describe me as afraid? Yeah, absolutely. Not because I thought this guy was gonna bring a hatchet and come after me or something like that, but that incredible respect. You had a tremendous opportunity to meet this person, and you did not want to take it lightly. When he talks about fearing God and keeping his commandments, that is the sense that he's talking about And that sense is there because you value that relationship. Proverbs 9:10 says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. Again, the same concept. If you want to know what life's all about, it begins with a proper relation to God. If you want to know how to look at life wisely, it begins with a proper relation to God. If you want understanding, it begins with a proper relation to God. And you know what's interesting in Genesis 3 after the fall? Notice the very first, we could say, little things that we pick up on that change when Adam and Eve sinned. Genesis 3. 7. The eyes of them both were opened, and they knew they were naked. That is a description of shame. They didn't know what shame was, but after the fall, they experienced shame. Shame is something that we experience in relationship He goes on, it says, This. They heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. Why was God's voice being heard? Because there was a relationship there. And how did they respond? It says they hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God. They were afraid. You see, God created Adam and Eve to have a relationship with him, and when they sinned, that was the very first thing that was affected. They felt shame, they felt fear, they hid themselves. Relationship is important. We then come to the third question, and it's an important one. How do we respond to these truths? Truth three, we must make fellowship with God our highest priority. I don't want you to get this misunderstood. I am not suggesting that you spend eight hours a day in prayer. Okay. I'm not suggesting that you begin reading uh one book of the Bible a day. And so when I say make God first in your life, that means eight hours in prayer. Six hours reading the Bible and I'll sleep the rest and those are unspiritual moments in my life. Not suggesting that at all. I'm not suggesting that we start making church services three hours long because that's really what's important, right? Church is the main thing. I'm not suggesting we pass out a gospel tract to every single person that we talk to. Or that we feel like we have to spend eight hours a day in evangelism or discipleship conversations. That's not what I mean by put God first. If you want to understand what I mean, look at a bicycle wheel, for instance. Look at each spoke. Every spoke is an individual spoke, is it not? It serves an individual purpose. You remove it, you have a problem. You remove enough of them, you have a real problem. But notice that every single spoke points to the same location Every single spoke has value because it's connected in the same location. Think about a river. It's a long river. It's got lots of different tributaries that go in various places, but it starts at one source. The point is that every single responsibility, every single aspect of our lives should be connected to our relationship to God And out of that relationship to God flows the rest of our lives. Out of our relationship to God, every single aspect is connected. If that's not healthy, if that's not right, there will be effects in those other areas. There will be an imbalance in those other areas. Our relationship to God must be number one. This is how Christ expressed it in Matthew 22. Here is the first commandment. Love Is that not a word that we use in relationships? Love. The Lord your God with all your heart. With all thy soul, with all thy mind. That is the description of how we have relationships. The mind, the heart, the soul, love God first. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. If you will, that is one of those spokes connected to the center of the wheel. That is the river flowing from the source. In Revelation chapter 2, when he speaks to the church at Ephesus, Christ says this, Thou hast left thy first love. Remember from whence thou art fallen, repent and do the first. Work. We could say the most important thing. Because everything flows out of that relationship. If we are struggling in areas of our lives, in interpersonal relationships, then let's go deep to where that problem really is beginning. Let's not just deal with those superficial areas, not saying that they're insignificant at all, but let's go deep to the source. Our relationship to God is where it all starts. We need to make God our highest priority. We need to be willing to listen to what John will say in this epistle. We need to make changes if God shows us that there are changes that have to be made. We need to reprioritize if that is what the Lord shows us through these scriptures. We need to be willing to remove those potential rivals. You know, it's kind of interesting. At the end of 1 John, the last statement he says is little children. Keep yourself from idols. The last statement in 1 John. There's a reason he said that. Because an idol is something that Is a rival to the main thing. Say, Pastor Joel, what's the whole point? Here's the purpose of it all. He wrote, John wrote this epistle to Christian brothers and sisters. Because he wanted them to experience a vibrant Christian walk. That's what he wanted. He wanted that because he knew that God wants us to have that too. He wants us to embrace the purpose for which he created us. He wants us to give our attention to it. And then we can enjoy the benefits of that as we draw into proper focus as Christians. May God grant us the grace to see where we have stumbled so that we can reorient on the truth. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. And I'll ask you this morning. The hymn of invitation that we will we will have played It's Hymn 382. I don't want us to sing it. I want us to listen and think about this passage of Scripture. The hymn is nearer, still nearer, close to thy heart. What an appropriate hymn in light of a text like this one. And I want to ask you. If you just bow your hearts together, the quietness of this moment. If the Lord has pointed to something in your heart that needs to change, I really want to encourage you to address that issue. Maybe it's a specific thing, maybe it's a general thing, I don't know. But if he's working on your heart, please don't push the Spirit's work to the side Be sensitive to that. Maybe there in your seat, you'll confess that to the Lord. Ask him to teach you from his word. Maybe there's a commitment that you need to make. Commitment might be to have a conversation with somebody to help you. It might be to address issues that you know what you need to do. But may the Lord work in your heart in the quietness of this moment.