Okay, if you could take your Bibles, let's turn together to the book of Ecclesiastes tonight. We are in Ecclesiastes chapter two, and we are uh dealing with a very interesting topic, and in fact, it's an interesting topic when uh when I sent my notes to uh Frank Taylor, he asked for a clarification on one of the points and one of the things that I said to him was I said, I don't know exactly how I want to express that particular idea. So I tried to sit down and tried to think of an illustration to kind of express the concept that I want to deal with this evening. And what we're going to be talking about tonight are both the benefits and the limits of wisdom. And I want you to realize that when we use the term wisdom, Wisdom really can be used a couple of different ways. We tend to think of the term meaning practical insight and dealing with situations. And when we talk about wisdom in the sense of the Bible, we're primarily talking about godly wisdom. So it's practical living in light of eternity, practical living in light of God and his ways. But there are also times that the Bible talks about wisdom in a practical sense that's focused on one particular area. So we're going to kind of talk about that this evening and how as Solomon looked at life He realized that there were some people that had wisdom, practical insight into how to live in certain areas of life. And that would give them benefits in that particular area of life. But that wisdom wouldn't translate into eternal wisdom, godly wisdom. And so he's going to express how he viewed that kind of a situation. So, with that in mind, let's look at verses 12 through 17 and see exactly what the Bible has to say about this topic of the benefits and the limits of wisdom. It says, and I turn myself to behold wisdom and madness and folly. For what can the man do that cometh after the king? Even that which hath been done alre that with ha that which hath been already done? Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly as far as light excelleth darkness. The wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walketh in darkness. I myself perceived also that one event happeneth to them all. Then said I in my heart, As it happened to the fool, so it happened even to me. Why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart, that this is also vanity. For there is no remembrance of the wise more than the fool forever. Seeing that which now is in the day to come shall be all be forgotten, and how dieth the wise man as the fool? Therefore I hated life, because the work that is wrought under the sun is grievous unto me For all is vanity and vexation of spirit. I want to ask a question. When you think about what Solomon is expressing in these verses Are there ever times that you stop and you look at life and you go, you know, at the end of it all, the person that lives a wise life , makes lots of money, maybe is very successful, people know their name. That person and the person who lived a disreputable life A life that was full of foolishness, folly, bad decisions, and the end of it all Fifty to a hundred years after those two people are are dead, what's the difference? And the fact is that humanly speaking, if all there was was this life. The fact is, in one sense, there is no difference. Now, there is a difference. Don't get me wrong. There is a difference because there is a God in heaven who's going to hold us accountable for the decisions that we make. And it is true that the things that we do in this life can have, and God wants them to have, eternal significance. But let's remember that when we're talking about the book of Ecclesiastes, Solomon is looking at life under the sun, and he's looking at it practically, and he's saying, if all we had was this world, this is the way that you would have to conclude based on the things that you see. In fact, the purpose of the section in front of us is to remind us that though there are significant benefits to walking in wisdom, these benefits are only temporary. These benefits last for a moment. But then in the end, we're both going to end up in the same location. We're going to enter into eternity. We're going to pass. God wants us to walk in wisdom, but he wants us to walk in a specific kind of wisdom. A wisdom that fears him, and a wisdom that lives in the light of eternity. And so we want to talk about that topic this evening. the importance of walking in the kind of wisdom that fears God and walks in the light of eternity. How can we have this kind of wisdom? I know that's what God wants for us, and I believe that that's what you want for yourself. I believe that that's what you'd want for your children. How can we be people that walk in godly wisdom? Well, I want to start out with this simple thought that godly wisdom starts with God and makes choices and processes circumstances in the light of eternity. I want you to look at a couple of passages that talk about the fact that wisdom has to factor in God 's. In fact, it says this in Proverbs chapter 1, verse 7. the fear of the Lord. And when we use the term fear in this context, the idea is that we have this awesome respect, this awe, this humility in the presence of God. We recognize his authority. His right to rule, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Basically, what Solomon's saying is if you want wisdom, real wisdom, the kind of wisdom that God wants you to have, the kind of wisdom that you need to navigate this very difficult world, it starts with a right view of God. We then go to Proverbs 2, verses 1 through 8, and we see that this kind of wisdom is going to give us clarity as we're dealing with situations in life. Listen to the way that it's expressed in these verses. My son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee, so that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom and apply thine heart under understanding. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge and liftest up thy voice to understanding, if thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as for hid treasure, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord It's a really interesting statement. In other words, you're going to end up with this place where you recognize who God is, you recognize why that's important, and your view of Him is correct. Then you will understand the fear of the Lord, and then you will find the knowledge of God. For the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. He's a buckler to them that walk uprightly. He keepeth the paths of judgment and preserveth the way of his saints. And so Solomon is telling his children, you need godly wisdom. Because godly wisdom is going to help you to navigate life. It's going to protect you. It's going to defend you. It's going to put you in a place where God can bless you. And so we need to understand at the outset of this discussion on wisdom both the benefits and the limits of wisdom. That the kind of wisdom that we want, the kind of wisdom that we need, is a wisdom that starts with a right view of God. It's a wisdom that humbles us in his presence. It causes us to fear him, to have an awesome respect for who he is. But then we move on to the first fact that we find in the scriptures before us. The first fact is that Solomon examined three different approaches to life. Notice the way he puts it in verse 12. He says, I turn myself to behold wisdom, madness. And folly. Wisdom, madness, and folly. And the question is, what is Solomon saying there? He's basically saying, I looked at the way that people live their lives. And I saw that as a general rule, people fall into three basic categories. One is the category of wisdom. Another way to put that is that they are practical people. They are thoughtful about the way they live their lives. They plan. They make principle decisions. As a general rule, these are people who carefully think about their future, they plan for their future, and they end up escaping some of the hardships of life because they plan well. Wisdom. That's one way to live life. The second category of general approaches to life is the word madness. Now, I don't know about you, but if someone was to describe the general way that you live your life, I hope they wouldn't say madness. You say, well, what does he mean by madness? Well, the way that I'd put it is presumptuous living. I want you to think of the example of the prodigal son. The prodigal son was a young man who basically went to his dad one day and he said, Dad, I'm tired of living with you. I know there's an inheritance waiting for me. I want the inheritance now. Give me my inheritance and I'll leave you alone. And you know what the dad did? He gives him the inheritance. And so he gives him the inheritance and he sends him on his way. And the question is, well, what did that young man do? Would a wise young man waste that? The answer is no. They would take that, they would invest it, they would use it wisely, and they would prepare for their future. Of course, a wise man would not have gone to his dad and treated him in such a way. But instead of this young man taking all of that stuff that had been given to him and using it for good , investing it and preparing for his future, he goes and he wastes it on riotous living, the Bible says. In other words, he was presumptuous in the way that he lived. He threw caution to the wind. He did whatever he felt like doing. It was an impulsive way to live life. We could say that this is a person who willfully takes dangerous risks. They don't consider consequence, even when they know their huge costs, they don't care. They just go ahead and they do it anyway. So we have the person that is practical and thoughtful. We have the person that's presumptuous. And then there's a third category. And this third category is the category of folly. This word folly has the idea of thoughtless living. And I want you to realize there's a distinction between when he says madness and when he says folly. One person is presumptuous, the other person is thoughtless. They don't plan. In other words, folly is kind of the opposite of wisdom. This person fails to think about their future. They just kind of do whatever is easy at the time. We could say the person is very simplistic to the way that they go about life. Generally speaking, a person that doesn't have experience falls into this category of folly. They don't think about life carefully And so Solomon says, I looked at these three basic approaches to life. And as I looked at those three basic approaches to life , And by the way, Solomon was an analyzer of people. He was someone who watched circumstances. He processed what he was seeing. He thought about what the outcome was of those different ways of life. The first lesson that he learns is that generations follow the same patterns over and over again That's kind of depressing, is it not? Notice how he puts it in verse 12. What can the man do that cometh after the king? Even that which hath been already done. It's kind of an interesting way to put it. He says when I look at people's lives, this is what I see. They do what the people did in front of them. You know how many young people Look at their parents and say, I will never do what Dad did, I will never do what mom did, I won't follow those patterns and guess what they find out twenty years later They are their dad. They are their mom. How did that happen? Because generally speaking, people follow the same patterns. One of the reasons it's so important to study history is because when you study history, you see the way that people respond in circumstances. And guess what you see when you study history? People don't learn from history, they repeat history. They do it over and over and over again. In fact, from the perspective of Solomon, from his observation, he said, there's really no new thing under the sun. Different names? Things can look a little bit different on the surface, but if you dig down deep, you'll find out that it's the same things over and over and over again Like in Ecclesiastes 1. 9 he says, the things that have been done, it is that which shall be done. That which is done is that which shall be done, and there's no new thing under the sun. So what basically he says is I look at people's life, the wise, those who are presumptuous, and those who are thoughtless, and I see that people repeat these kinds of decisions over and over and over again. Human nature is a consistency all throughout every single period of human history Every generation has the same kind of pitfalls lying within hearts. And so he makes that observation. The second observation that he makes, or the second lesson that he learns as he's looking at this, is that people who have wisdom have a huge advantage in life. Verses thirteen and fourteen said, Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly. Or to put it simply, the person who practically and thoughtfully lives his life. The person that carefully plans for his future lives a far better life under most circumstances than the person who is thoughtless in the way that he lives life. The person that fails to plan for his future. He says, I saw that wisdom excels folly, as far as the light excelleth darkness. The wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walketh in darkness. Now, we need to understand that the way that Solomon writes in many ways is very poetic in language. For instance, this statement, the wise man's eyes are in his head. Well, aren't your eyes in your head no matter how you make decisions? Well, he's trying to say something actually about the way that a person who is wise thinks. Basically, what he's saying is that a person who's wise, what they see, they process. And what they process, they understand. They can make sense of circumstances. They understand what's coming down the road and they prepare for that so they don't get crushed in the process of being thoughtless. And so basically, what he says is the person who's wise Is a person who has an advantage in life. And so you say, well, how does a person get wisdom? Well, a person gets wisdom either by somebody who hasn't already imparting it to them, or they have to learn through the hard process of life. In other words, you can have a person that's lived a long time and they can teach you and you can listen to what they actually have learned in life, and you can take that and internalize it, and it puts you way ahead of your peers. Or you can go through the same process, and when you're an old person and you really don't have the strength to do what you would have done when you were 20 and 30 years old, now you have the knowledge that you needed then. And so he basically says: the person who's wise, who learns, is a person who has advantage. Wisdom excels folly. You're a lot better off in life if you have wisdom. If you're a young person in this room, I want to encourage you. Listen to people who have experience in life. Now, a lot of us want to do it our own way. We want to learn the hard way. You don't want to learn the hard way, I promise you. It's not worth it. The reason that Solomon writes this book, the reason that the book of Proverbs is written is because he cares about young people coming after him and he says, I want you to be in a good place in life. He says, as far as the light excelleth the darkness, I think this is such an interesting illustration that he uses. A person who's standing in the light can see clearly. A person who's standing in the darkness doesn't understand what's around them. And so he says, the person who's wise has clarity. Has the ability to perceive, has the ability to be aware. The person in the darkness doesn't. A third thing he mentions is that wise people understand what's going on in the world around them. He says the wise man's eyes are in his head. The idea is that they have the ability to see the things that are coming up around them. Isn't it true that there are some people that when you talk to them, they they just don't seem to have a clue about what's going on in life? And then there's other people that you talk to them and it's like Is this guy a prophet or something? Like they they are they are really aware of what's going on. And I don't mean that they're a prophet, like God's revealing things to them, but because they study history, they go, I see where this leads. Yeah, you know, back when that happened in the 1800s, here's where it ended up. Why would it be any different today? Why wouldn't it follow the same process, the same pattern? Well, the idea is that a wise person has the ability to recognize and discern and see where things are headed because of the repetition of life, because people tend to follow in the same patterns. He processes his circumstances with clarity. The fool, on the other hand, is blind. He doesn't see clearly. He says, but the fool walketh in darkness I want you to think of it this way. When people walk in the dark, they stumble over things that they didn't have to stumble over. Isn't that true? Okay, let's just let's just use the illustration that one morning Pastor Joel gets up and he walks down the stairs and he doesn't turn the lights on and there are toys all over the floor in the living room. Not that that would ever happen. It won't happen on Monday night, Tuesday night, Wednesday night, Thursday night, or Friday night. But on Sunday night, that might be a different story. Comes down the stairs, doesn't turn the light on, and guess what happens? Step on a toy that's got little wheels and my feet go out from under and I crash on the floor and I get hurt. And here's the question, did I need to do that? No, I didn't. All I had to do was turn on the light. If I'd have turned on the light, then I would have seen what was there and I could have easily avoided it. And here's the very simple yet brutal reality. Lots of people live that way. They don't see clearly because they live in folly rather than in wisdom, and they get hurt by consequences that are completely avoidable. They didn't have to go down that road. They didn't have to experience that circumstance, that difficulty. The idea is that these people do not understand why they're dealing with frustrations. Folks, decisions have consequences. If you do this, then you can expect this outcome. It's like in Galatians where it says that the person who sows to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption, and he who sows to the spirit shall of the spirit leap reap life everlasting. And basically what the Bible says is what you sow you eventually reap. You get what you put in the ground. That's the way that life works. And so the idea is that when a person doesn't plan and they don't have discernment and they haven't learned how to live practically through situations This is a person that deals with frustration in life that was avoidable, and when they're in the midst of those frustrations, they can't understand why they're there. There's a big difference between wisdom and folly. You're in a much better place when you walk in wisdom. And that's what Solomon's expressing. But the third thing I'll mention here is he just doesn't process his circumstances with clarity. Not just not that that this person Deals with things that could have been avoided and they don't understand why, but the fact is they don't understand the entire situation that they're dealing with. Ask this question. Do you have wisdom? We need wisdom. We need God's wisdom. We need to be people of his word. People who are digging into the scriptures, who have the clarity to understand what's going on in life, so that we can avoid those pitfalls and we can understand what God is doing in our lives. But then we see a second fact. And this is the part that's kind of the catch. Even though it is true that a person who lives practically and plans is in a better position on this side of eternity than the one who does not plan and the one who is presumptuous. Both individuals end up in the same place. Now, when I say end up in the same place, I don't mean that one ends up that they both, no matter the decisions they make, end up in the same place as in the way they respond to the gospel. But the point is they both end up in the grave. And that's really what Solomon is communicating here. He says in verse like in verse 14 this way. He says, I myself perceive also that one event happeneth to them all. Then said I in my heart, as it happens to the fool, so it happens even to me. I was in the I wa I and why was I then more wise? I said in my heart that it is also vanity. There's no remembrance of the wise man more than the fool forever, seeing that which now is in the day to come shall be forgotten. And how dieth the wise man as the fool? Now it's kind of interesting. I'll put it like this. I remember when I was in England many, many years ago with one of my friends. We were traveling around London and we wanted to see some of the sites that are in London, and we went to lots and lots of different places. Well, one of the places that we went was a graveyard. You may say, well, why in the world was that significant? Well, because of the people that were buried in that graveyard. For instance, Isaac Watts is one of the people that was buried in that graveyard. Isaac Watts is one. There were a few other individuals that were of well notes. Daniel Defoe, I believe, was one of the people that was buried in that place. John Owen was another name that was buried in that place. We saw the place where the Wesley brothers were buried. And when you go into a place like that, what do you see? You see a stone that gives you a little bit of information about this person's life. The day they were born. The day they died. Maybe one very simple statement about their life. Well, you know what's really amazing about people like Isaac Watts? Isaac Watts was an amazing man. His hymns that he wrote, we still sing them today. We are blessed by them today. God used some of those men that were buried in that location in amazing ways. But the fact is that when you walk into that graveyard, there were people that lived disreputable lives, people that didn't walk in wisdom, buried in the exact same graveyard. People that lived lives that were very godly and people who live lives that were. People who lived lives that were foolish and people who lived lives that were wise. And guess what? Today, from our perspective, what do we see? A tombstone. And that's what Solomon's basically saying. Solomon's basically saying, you know, if all there is is this life, what's the difference? Now, Solomon knows and we know that there is more than just this life. But he's trying to communicate something to get our heart to think about this. There's not really a difference if there is no eternity. He says we're all going to die. I perceived also that one event happeneth to them all As it happened to the fool, so it happened even to me. He says we're quickly forgotten. There's no remembrance of the wise more than of the fool forever, seeing which now is in the day to come shall also be forgotten. And how dieth the wise man as the fool. We're left wondering at this point, what's the value of wisdom? He said, I said in my heart, This is also vanity. There's no remembrance of the wise more than the fool for ever, seeing that which now is in the day to come shall be forgotten. And how dieth the wise and the fool? But I want to remind you of a third fact that is extremely important. And that is that godless wisdom Is a wisdom that leaves us frustrated and empty. Now there's a difference between ungodly wisdom Godly wisdom and godless wisdom. You say, how in the world is there a difference? Well, one is a wisdom that is God's wisdom. It factors in God. It factors in eternity. It factors in the gospel. It understands that because there is a God in heaven who is just and righteous, And because there's eternity and because there's a gospel, there's a practical way to live in this world in the light of that ungodly wisdom as antagonistic towards God and his ways. But when I use the term godless, I mean that this is a wisdom that doesn't factor in God. In other words, it's the way that Solomon is kind of looking at this circumstance. It's a practical wisdom that considers nothing more than that immediate moment. I'll give it to you this way. A person who has good observation skills, thinks deeply about life, yet refuses to have a God-centered worldview is going to be pessimistic, frustrated, and he's going to conclude that life is worthless. You can have a person that's a scientist. They have tremendous knowledge in that field. If all you're talking about is the field that they're in, science, you'd say that person is wise. That person may be an unbeliever. That person may have a horrible marriage. In other words, they have wisdom in this one area of life, but they've missed out on the most important thing, and that is what they do with God. You might have a person that's a doctor. You know, you're really sick, and you need somebody to operate on your heart. And that heart doctor has the ability to save your life. You're glad for their wisdom, their practical insight, their ability to operate on your body. That person might be an atheist. They are very skillful in that area, but they're not considering the most important area of life. You might think of a person who's a financial advisor. They are very skillful with money. You trust them to manage your finances. They make very good decisions, and you benefit from those decisions. And you would say that person has incredible wisdom when it comes to financial matters. But on the most important things, they don't have it. Somebody who runs a business, somebody who teaches, a counselor, somebody who has great people skills. Practical wisdom, but they are not thinking about the most important things. That is what Solomon's talking about. It's a kind of wisdom that doesn't factor in God. And so the bottom line is: that kind of wisdom cannot and will not save your soul. It may give you a benefit for a moment in this life. You may really be in a better position than somebody else because of the practical insight that you have. in medicine, in science, in finances, and running a business, and being able to communicate and being able to help people with interpersonal skills. But because you have ignored the most important issue of life, it's not going to be helpful in the end. So the question is, how do you practically deal with such a topic? And I want to remind you what Jesus says in Luke chapter 12, verses 15 to 21. He writes, he states: a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. Now when Jesus makes that statement, he's assuming that the reason that a person has the stuff is because practically speaking, they are wise in a particular area of life. But he says that's not the end of the story. That is a portion. That is a part, but it's not the whole picture. That is a kind of wisdom that falls short of eternal wisdom. He spake this parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do? Because I have no room wherewith to bestow my fruits. He said, This will I do. I will pull down my barns and build greater barns, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years, take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. Now think about it this way. It's like a person who's running a business, and as they're running their business, they go, you know what? Things are really ready to expand. We're doing really well. I think it's time to take the next step. Let's expand this. Let's build some new locations. Let's go into some other areas. And all of a sudden this this business that starts out small because of the good financial decisions, the hard work ethic of the individual. because of the decisions they're making, practical wisdom in that particular area of life, they're expanding. That's the sense of the man that we're talking about. He says, I'm going to build my business. But he didn't prepare for eternity. In other words, the wisdom that he had was only good for the moment. This is what the Bible says. But God said unto him, Thou fool. Hold on a second. So you mean that a man that was able to excel in his field to the extent that he did could be called a fool? Well he could be called a wise man if all that mattered was what he was doing in his business. But in the eyes of God, that kind of wisdom was not enough. In the eyes of God, what was most important was not prepared for. He was a person who planned in life, but not for eternity. He says, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then whose Shall those things be which thou hast provided. So is he that layeth up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. And I think that's exactly what Solomon is expressing in Ecclesiastes chapter 2. There is a temporary benefit for certain kinds of wisdom. But that kind of wisdom isn't going to matter in eternity. That kind of wisdom is not going to set you apart in the end from the fool. From the presumptuous one. Because what mattered most, you all handled the same way. Whether you lived practically for 20, 50, 80 years in this world. Or you lived presumptuously or you lived foolishly. If you did not prepare for eternity, you're on the same level. The benefits of this life don't matter. It's what he's saying. And so the practical response is: invest in eternity. I want to encourage you to have practical wisdom in this life. But don't let that stop at just this life. Work hard, plan, think through issues, have practical wisdom in this world, but prepare for eternity because that is going to matter a whole lot more. In Matthew 16, 24, he says, Whosoever will save his life shall lose it. And whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. What is a man profited if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? For the Son of Man shall come in the glory of his angels. And then he shall reward everyone according to his works. I want to encourage you to live a God-centered life that includes a daily denial of self. Remember that there is an eternity and there's a God who will reward our faithfulness. And so I want to encourage you, don't just live practically in the moment. Live practically in the moment with preparation for eternity. The benefits of worldly wisdom are temporary. The benefits of godly wisdom are forever. And so by God's grace, let's be people who have godly wisdom. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Our Father in heaven, we were reminded tonight how important it is. That we don't just have momentary, temporary wisdom, just practical insight in a specific area of life where we prosper and we grow and we thrive. But Father, we're reminded we need a wisdom that considers eternity. We need a wisdom that prepares to meet God. We need a wisdom that humbles us before you and makes us live our lives investing in eternal treasure, not just physical treasure. I pray that you use these truths to help us tonight. Help us to live in the light of eternity, not just in today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.