Good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. Hope you're having a good week. And uh there's a mystery. We might have a snowstorm on Friday night and a Saturday. Um like every three hours it changes, so Maybe by tomorrow evening we'll know what's going to happen. And then we'll just uh be excited or sad. I'm a snow junkie. I can't wait. I want it three feet, just like that. Okay, well let's go ahead and uh bow for a word of prayer and then we'll sing our opening uh song and then get into our lesson tonight. Let's pray. Father, help us this evening to have quieted, focused hearts. Help me as I dig into this passage of Scripture to be able to communicate it effectively. Be with each person that's here tonight, speak to their hearts. Be with those who have joined us on the live stream, I pray that you would speak to their hearts as well. And help us to see the power and the significance of even the little decisions that we make. And how you bring to pass these things at moments that sometimes we overlook, but are very, very important. Help us to be sobered by that and encouraged. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, the song we're going to sing tonight is hymn 400, Take My Life and Let It Be. Hymn number 400, Take My Life and Let It Be. Let's sing Verses one, two, and four. One, two, and four. Take my life and let it be consecrated to thee. Take my hands and let it be And move at the impulse of thy love, at the impulse of thy love Take my feet and let them be swift and beautiful for thee. Take my voice and let me sing. Always only for my king, always only for my king on the last Take my love, my Lord, I pour At thy feet Treasure store, take myself, and I will be ever only all for thee Ever only all forth. I hope that's your prayer. Okay, the scripture we're looking into tonight is Ecclesiastes chapter 9, and we're looking at Verses 13 down through the end of the chapter, verse number 18. So again, that's Ecclesiastes chapter 9, and we're looking at verses 13 through 18. Let's go ahead and let's read it together, please. It says the following. This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seemed great unto me. There was a little city and a few men within it. There came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it. Now there was fought in it a poor uh there was found in it a poor wise man. He by his wisdom delivered the city, yet no man remembered that same poor man. Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength. Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised. And his words are not heard. The words of the wise are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools. Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroyeth much good. So when we look at these verses, uh one of the things I think is important is we need to recognize that this is uh almost like an illustration that could be viewed as a proverb. And the book of Ecclesiastes is wisdom literature, and this passage right here is one of those wisdom literature kind of proverbial statements. In fact, what's interesting as we look at it is there are really two concepts that are kind of different sides of the same principle that we're going to look at tonight. And so what we're going to look at tonight is the importance of little things. The importance of little things. There's so many things in life that we experience or uh situations that we have, decisions that we need to make. And a lot of times we underestimate the seriousness of those opportunities or the gravity, the weight of those decisions, those little situations, because they seem inferior, they seem small, they seem insignificant. But what we're going to see tonight is that the little things matter. And in this particular illustration, a person who was very small, very obscure, not known at all He actually played a huge part in the preservation of a city. So I want to begin by first of all giving you a summary statement and then digging into a couple of introductory thoughts that I think will help us. To kind of set the tone and understand what's before us. Here's a summary of the section in front of us. One person's actions have the power to save or to destroy. Let me say it again. One person's actions have the power to save or to destroy. God wants us to use what he's given us in the most effective way possible. When I say what he's given us, what I mean is our opportunities, our gifts. our minds, uh, our wisdom, our lips. God wants us to use what he gives us for his glory. And he wants us to do it in the most effective way possible. I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts. We need to kind of hold this concept of the power of being one individual. We need to hold this kind of with a sound balance. I'm going to be kind of focusing this evening on how important it is to be willing to stand alone or be willing to speak up alone if that's what we're called to do. But the scriptures do show us that teamwork and working together is something that the scriptures commend to us. God doesn't encourage us to stand alone. He actually encourages us to stand together, and that's why he created things like family. I mean, why did God create marriage? Because two are better than one. When God was looking at Adam in the garden, he said, It's not good that the man should be alone. So he made a wife and he created marriage. That's what God did. Why did God create the church? Well, he created the church because we're not meant to grow in isolation, but we're meant to grow in with within community. And so I have seen this over and over and over again. When you have a believer that does not spend time consistently in the local church, when they begin to distance themselves from the church, that's extremely detrimental to their spiritual well-being. It's almost like the illustration I gave this a long, long time ago, and I know that we've seen this illustration in other in other contexts But it's like you have a a bed of coals and all those coals are are hot. And so when you blow on those coals they they they begin to get very, very hot together. But if you take one of those hot coals and you remove it, you just set it to the side. And it doesn't have to be very far away. You just set it to the side, that coal will go out. What's amazing though is you could take a coal that's on the side and it's not hot anymore, and you can put it in the middle of those coals and all of a sudden It'll get warm again because all those other coals, they heat it up. That's a great illustration of why we need godly friends. This is a great illustration of why we need to be connected within the local church So it's so very important that we recognize that while there are times that we must stand alone, that is more of an exception rather than the rule. Let me give you some examples. First of all, Scripture commends teamwork. Ecclesiastes 4. 9. This is something we dealt with a long, long time ago, it seems like, but it says, two are better than one. Because they have a good reward for their labor. If they fall, the one will lift up his fellow, but woe to him that is alone when he falleth. He hath not another to help him up. Again, if two lie together, they have heat. But one but How can one be warm alone? Or if one prevails against him, two shall withstand him, and a threefold cord is not quickly broken. Scripture commends teamwork God encourages us to unite with people for our own good and for their good. And so when we're a part of a team, sometimes we're the one that's lifting up. Sometimes we're the one that needs to be lifted up. I mean, let's face it. Nobody in this room is perfectly consistent. There are times that we need someone to come along and strengthen us, to rebuke us, all kinds of different things. Secondly, Scripture commends getting sound counsel. God encourages us not to be a people who just isolate ourselves and make decisions based on what's going on in our own head. That's really dangerous. It's extremely dangerous because there are so many blind spots that we have. Our emotions become entangled with the decisions that we're going to make. We can't see clearly, but there are people around us who can speak the truth to us in those moments. And many times when we hear godly people saying the same thing, it emboldens us to do what is right. Or it warns us when we're not doing what's right. And so in Proverbs 11, 14 it says, where no counsel is, the people fall. But in the multitude of counselors, there is safety. Again, you see the balance. Sometimes you have to stand alone, but as a general rule, you need to be around others. You need to be strengthened and encouraged by others Thirdly, Scripture condemns a divisive spirit that refuses to get along with others. Titus 3. 10 says, a man that is a heretic after the first And second, admonition war. Now, when the Bible talks about someone being a heretic, we kind of think of the medieval dime period where you have the Inquisition was going after people and Martin Luther was you know, condemned as a heretic, but the word heretic in this particular context simply means someone who is divisive. It means someone that doesn't get along with other people. And it seems in the context that it's kind of disputes about theological matters that become very divisive, but the idea is that the person that just doesn't get along with people. They cannot be in agreement with others because of their pride. Proverbs 6:19, he says, These six things the Lord hates, seven are abomination, a proud look. He says later on feet that are swift and running to mischief, a false witness that speaketh lies, he that soweth discord among brethren. What's very interesting is you read those six things, three or four of them are the kinds of things that create disunity within a group of people. So God values unity. God values teamwork. But there's another side. There is a time, or there may be a time, when because of circumstances, God calls us to walk alone. He calls us to walk in isolation. Not the general rule, but most definitely there are times when this would happen. For instance, I think of Timothy in 2 Timothy 4 The end of his life, he said the following. At my first answer, no man stood with me. All forsook me. Notwithstanding, the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, that by me the preaching might be fully known, that all the Gentiles might hear, and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom. Now, as a general rule, Paul was a team player. Paul was a person who worked with others. But in this particular moment in his life, people abandoned him. They were afraid of him, or not of him, but of what they would get with their association of being with Paul, and guess what? He had to stand alone. So it was an exceptional scenario, but in fact it was his situation. Sometimes God calls us to step into situations that demand us to stand alone. For instance, in Ezekiel 2230, it says, I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none. So there was a time in Israel where there was nobody standing in the hedge and defending the truth. The entire society was was drifting to the side. Even those in leadership were not willing to stand on the side of truth. And so as God looks out, he says, I looked for just one person. Couldn't find anybody Now obviously Ezekiel is a prophet. Daniel was a contemporary prophet living around the same time. But these men lived in isolation. Daniel stood almost entirely alone in the king's palace. Ezekiel is standing alone by the river Chibar. All the Jews that were there at that place, they were essentially rejecting the message. Their hearts were hardened. Sometimes God calls us to stand in isolation. So I ask the question, are we willing to walk alone when that is what God calls us to do? Now, some people like walking alone. I didn't say, you know, walk alone because you don't get along with people, because you're contentious or proud. Because you don't want to listen. No. Are you willing to walk alone if God calls you to do that? There's a difference. And two, are we willing to embrace lonely places when that is what we are called to do? We have to be willing. So we want to see the balance here. With that in mind, let's jump into the first truth that we find here. And you'll find out we only have two principles we're looking at tonight. But they're very important and they are parallel, but they're also parallel in a contradictory way. Truth number one, God can use one person's wisdom or faithfulness to do incredible good. Let me read again these verses. This wisdom have I seen under the sun. It seemed great to me. There was a little city, few men within it. There came a great king against it, besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it. There was a poor, wise man, and by his wisdom delivered the city, yet no man remembered that same poor man. And at the end he says, the words of the wise are heard in quiet more than the city of him that ruleth among fools. Wisdom is better than weapons of war. So what is he saying? He's saying a person who is obscure and wise, who is willing to stand up and make the right decision at the right time could preserve a city because he saw it happen. Let me give you two examples of people who were in scenarios like this where they were standing alone, and their decisive obedience to God was something that God used to preserve. Well, in the first, we'll say humanity in the first example. First example is Hebrews 11, 7. We're talking about Noah here. It says, by faith Noah being warned of God of things not seen as yet moved with fear, prepared an art to the saving of his house. By which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. Such an interesting statement. By his obedience He condemned the world and became an heir of righteousness. You say, what's the point? When this man built the ark And God in the ark, that moment when the door was shut and he was in the ark, that is when God said, Now I'm going to destroy the world in the flood. And because this man obeyed, humanity was preserved. In other words, the story of Noah is not just about God's justice and God's grace and God's mercy and God's patience. And all those things, it is about those things. But it's also about God preserving a promise. There's no gospel if all of humanity gets wiped out in the flood. There is a gospel because God preserved humanity through the obedience of this believer, Noah. Very important story in the story of redemption. I'll give you a second example, and this is the example of Esther. Now I'm reading through Esther right now in my own personal study, and this is what I'm going to read tomorrow in my Bible reading plan. But the the story of Esther is an interesting story. In fact, when I read it, there's a part of me, you know, as a Westerner living in the 21st century going, Whew, there's a lot of awkward things going on here. But really, King Ahashuare is a wicked man. He's an impulsive man. He's drunk and then basically wants to dishonor his wife. And when she says, I'm not going to do that, what does he do? Well, he gets rid of her. And why does he do that? Because all of his advisors say, we can't have uh you know our wives rebel against us. We've got to keep everybody under wraps. That's basically what they're saying Well then later on this guy decides yeah I I'm kind of lonely and they go well we got to figure out a way to resolve this problem Can't go back to Vashti. So let's just have all of the beautiful young women in the in the kingdom come and you just pick the one that you want. And you just go one at a time until you decide who you want. I mean that's what they did That's a that's a pretty unsavory story if you really think about it. But do you know what's really going on behind the scenes? What's really going on behind the scenes with all of this stuff going on is that God is going to preserve the Jewish people Who, if it hadn't been for Esther being in the palace at the time that she was, would have been completely annihilated. Because what you see as you read the book of Esther , Is that there was a man named Haman who began to despise the Jews so much that he went to the king and he said, King, live forever. There's a group of people that live in our kingdom. They are evil people. They disregard our gods and they disregard our customs. and they disregard you and we need to wipe them out. And literally, a disarmed group of Jews living in Persia We're going to be completely annihilated on a certain day. It was set aside. And basically they said anybody can go and kill any of their Jewish neighbors and they can take their property and nobody's going to stop them. I mean, can you imagine living through such an event? And here's Esther, a Jewish woman, in the palace, and her cousin Mordecai comes to her and says, Esther, you know what's going on. You need to go into the king's palace and you need to tell him what's going on because if you don't, the Jews are going to get wiped out He said, actually they're not. Somewhere there's going to be a deliverer, but you will go down with everybody that doesn't survive. And I want you to think of this because this is kind of this key moment where one person steps in and the decision that she takes preserves the entire Jewish people that are living in Persia. It's not just Persia, it's really all over that empire. Listen to what it says All the king's servants do know that whoever, whether man or woman, shall come unto the king into the inner court, who is not called, there is one law of his to put him to death. Except such as whom the king shall hold up the golden scepter to, that he may live. I've not been called to come unto the king for thirty days Doesn't seem that Esther's a very high priority, does it? And knowing the customs of the day, yes, she was not. She was one of hundreds of women in this man's harem. And she said to Mordecai, I can't do this. Because unless he receives me favorably, I'm dead. And Mordecai says, You're going to die either way. That's basically what he says. He says, think not thyself that thou shalt escape in the king's house. More than all the Jews. If thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, there shall enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place. But thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed. But then listen to the next statement. Who knows whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this? He's basically saying, Esther, you're like the only person that can that can do this And maybe you have been appointed, and what's amazing is God is never mentioned in this book, but he is there. God has put you there to make this appeal. And she did it. And we know the story. The Jews survived. In fact, the tables were turned. There's a whole lot we could say about that. But the point that I'm making Is that here's Noah, one man, humanity has preserved. Here's one woman, Esther, in an awful situation. No woman in this room would would would dare want to be in such a situation. You know, we kind of Princess Esther, it was not like that. Nobody wanted to be in that situation. But God preserved the people through her action. So look at the situation here. You have this inferior little city with people living It's a little city, few men, poor wise, and this poor wise man. It's almost like Solomon is saying, here is this place that's obscure. Nobody knows about it. And the odds are against the city because this powerful king builds a great bulwark. I get in my mind when I read this, Jerusalem. And the Babylonians are coming in and they've demonstrated their power. They basically crushed every single civilization all around Israel, okay? And when when we talk about cities in the ancient world, they were built on hills. They called them Talmels. The reason they call them a Talmud is because when one city was built, a group of people would come in and they would destroy the city. And basically they'd leave the rubble and that would be the foundation for their city. And then the next group of people, they would come in and they'd do the same thing. Well, you know, after this happened enough Generations essentially, your city's on a hill, and the hill is all of the walls from former civilizations that lived on that particular location. And so here they are, they're building this massive embankment, and they're going to storm into the city. And this poor man did something, we don't know what it was, but his action preserved the city. I would guess that he probably made peace with them in some way. And the army lets go. I mean you think about, you know, everybody wants to be the last man standing. Well when you're the last man standing, guess what? Everybody else is gone. This guy goes, We're not going to do that. And so the city is preserved. But The man's wisdom that delivered the city was forgotten very quickly. So Solomon observes three things. He says, wisdom is better than strength. That city did not have the power to stand up against this massive king, this powerful king. But that poor man, an obscure individual, goes and he preserves the city. Strength is inferior to wisdom. That's what he says. Two. Obscure people are forgotten and despised. And that's what happened to this guy. Three, fools don't listen even when you tell them. And he makes this couple of statements later, and he basically says, if you're in a city and you're screaming wisdom and they're all fools, they don't hear what you're saying. Three very simple truths Well, what is the main point of what Solomon is saying in this illustration? His main point is that there is power and the courage of one person standing and doing what is right. Even if this man is weak, even if he's from an ex obscure location, even if he's soon forgotten, even if few people listen to what he has to say, The point is, his wisdom was the decisive determining of this city's survival. But that's not the main point of the proverb that we're looking at. Here's the main point. Verse number 18. But One city, one sinner destroyeth much good. The first truth we looked at is that one person 's wisdom One person's decisive action has incredible power. God can use it for good. And he spends all this time developing this scenario. To say this obscure man, God used him, he doesn't use those terms, but this obscure man is ultimately going to preserve the city. But the next thing he says, it's just a couple of little words. In English, it's a couple of words. It's even fewer in Hebrew. But one sinner destroys much good. In the same way, one person, obscure, forgotten, can preserve the city for goods, one sinner can destroy all kinds of good. And so the point is, be careful about the little seemingly insignificant things. This is a warning against folly Yeah, the Bible is full of examples that warn us about little folly, playing with sin, playing with things that are very destructive. For instance, in chapter ten, verse one, the next verse, which is kind of a continuation of this thought, he says, Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savor. So doth a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor. So I can remember a couple of months ago, this is about the time that we started getting cold weather. I was walking in the kitchen and I noticed that there were fruit flies in the kitchen. I was like, it's starting to get cold. And I don't understand why there's fruit flies. So I'm like looking everywhere. You know, bananas, no, the bananas look pretty good, the apples look pretty good. I couldn't find anything, but I'm seeing these look little fruit flies all over the place. So we get a we get a a a a cup, a glass, and we filled it with not filled, but we put a little bit of apple apple cider vinegar in there and we poked holes in in a plastic cover and put it on there, hoping we could, you know, capture some of these fruit flies. Did it work? Maybe it's worked for you, didn't work for us. I mean I'm killing fruit flies everywhere. I couldn't figure it out. I was like, where are they coming from? So one day I was in the pantry digging around looking for some potatoes And I found the culprit. There was one potato. These were potatoes I grew, okay? And uh it was growing all kinds of little things. It's going to get planted in the spring. Don't worry, it won't go to waste. But it was rotting. It was rotting. And because it was rotting, it left this little like stain on the floor. And then the potato next to it was rotting, and then one next to it was rotting, and one next to it was rotting. And you go, what's the point? One rotten potato, one rotten apple, it causes the whole bunch to go bad. And so you have this sweet-smelling wheat mint and something dies in it and all of a sudden it doesn't smell sweet anymore. And that's the way folly is. Scripture talks about pride. Proverbs 16, 18. It says, pride goeth before destruction. A haughty spirit before a fall. A person can be talented, a person can have opportunity, a person can have money, a person can have everything going for them, but their pride can destroy them. And could take all those opportunities and take all those skills and those talents and just wipe it out just like that. Can happen. He doesn't give any context. And you go, why is that? Well, because this is true in any context you can imagine. Family context, church context, classroom, workplace, community, you name it, this concept is true One person who's got a bad attitude or who takes some decision that's very destructive, it can just wipe out all the good that's being done in the place. Some of the common ways that we see this take place, we see abuses of authority. We see gossip, sowing discord, being dishonest, bearing false witness. People that are very angry. The point that I'm trying to make, that I believe is a direct application of the passage in front of us. Is that Solomon wants us to understand one person who doesn't have much going for him can make one choice that preserves people. One man preserves the city. One man builds an ark and preserves humanity. We're here today because Noah built an ark and he got in the ark. The Jewish people survived. And all the promises that were given to the Jewish people about the Messiah, they were all preserved because Esther said, okay, I'm gonna go into the cave, even if I die, I'm gonna I'm gonna take a shot here, and God used it. The point is, decisive action can accomplish incredible good. You know, the person you're afraid to witness to. The person you need to have a very heavy conversation with, and you just you don't want to do it, but you know you need to have that conversation. Those kinds of things, God uses them. But on the other side, the principle applies to the inverse. Good decisions can be used in incredibly good ways. Poor choices can be very, very destructive. And so we need to be sobered and encouraged by the principle that's in front of us. So let me ask a couple of simple practical questions to kind of let us digest what we have here tonight. First question. Am I underestimating the significance of what seems like an insignificant or obscure decision? Oh, it's just a little thing. It might not be. Might not be a little thing. Do I realize how much my words and my actions matter? You might have a person that is on the brink of collapse emotionally. And you say something really condescending and nasty and rude, and it just like Just crushes them beyond imagination. You may have a person in the same mindset and your compassion Those words of encouragement are what lifts them up and get them through that time of great, great difficulty. And I asked the question: which one would you be in that scenario? Third question, am I conscientiously investigating my life or investigating investing Investigating, am I conscientiously investing my life in the good of the people that God has brought into my life? You know, God brings people into our lives for seasons. The people that are in this room, some of them will be with you to the day you die Some of them will be with you for another year or six months or two years or whatever. You don't know the time limit. But the time you're given is a time God gave for a purpose. So invest in the time. Invest in it like it's ending tomorrow. Not, oh, it's ending tomorrow, so what's the point? It's ending tomorrow, so let me invest in it today. That's the way we should be thinking Number four, am I willing to think creatively about how to bless and impact others for their good and God's glory? Now I am not a notewriter. I've discovered that my ability to write by hand, as bad as it was when I was in high school and college, has gotten worse. So if you receive a handwritten note from me, you are a blessed person because it took me a very long time to write it. And uh if you can read it, then it really took me a long time to write it, as my wife can definitely uh vouch for. But you know, handwritten notes are something that we don't get anymore. We just don't dictate it. Oh, autocorrect got that one in it. That's a little bit rough. Write a note to somebody Send something to them that would encourage them. A little gift, a little text message. Be careful if you uh dictate that you didn't autocorrect into something strange. But think of creative ways to be a blessing to people. We all need those things. Am I willing to speak up when it doesn't seem to matter Or maybe it does seem to matter, but it's not gonna be easy to do it. Am I willing to do that? We've got to be willing to do that. And lastly, do I realize how much my words and actions matter? To cut into a wound or to build up and to edify. You know, every single person that has trusted Christ as their Savior, there were people that brought the gospel to you. Every single one of us. And for some of us, it might have been, you know, mom and dad took us to church. It was a Sunday school teacher, it was dad doing devotions. Some people it was uh it was a bus captain, it was uh a college kid. Um, it was a good friend. It was somebody that just randomly popped up at our house and knocked on our door and gave us a track. There's all different stories of how the gospel got to us, but the fact is the gospel doesn't get to you if people don't bring it. Somebody that has trusted Christ but is maturing. The reason they're maturing and they're growing many times is because somebody invested in their lives. They took them aside, they taught them God's word, they taught them the basics. A person that's going through a tremendous life struggle. Maybe they're involved in an addictive behavior. Maybe they're involved in a thinking pattern that is unhealthy. And they need a lot of help and they need to go through a process and they need somebody to kind of coach them and to work with them and to put them through exercise and force them to memorize the Bible and give them them accountability. The people that we invest in in that way, that is a time-consuming thing. That is an emotionally draining thing. But there's value in those things. That's the kind of implication that we pull from this text. So I bring it to you very simply. One person's actions have the power to save or destroy. Let's be on the first side. Let's be used by God in that way. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to apply this text. Father, help us to recognize the incredible power of words, of actions, for good or bad. Father, help us to be a people who are willing to step up and to speak the truth, who are willing to stand up and make the tough decisions. Willing to be vulnerable whatever it takes, because those things matter. Father, preserve us from being the kind of people who create contention and problems. Who cut and who wound, who discourage, who tear down. Father, I pray that we would be an edifying and encouraging group of people And that people's lives would be truly enriched and blessed because we are instruments that you're using to bring them to places of growth and to Christ's likeness. We ask these things in Christ's name, amen.