Good morning and welcome to the Lord's house today on Saturday. This is typically for us a day off. Today it's a little bit more of a Sabbath day today. uh that we're taking time to meet in the word and so glad to be able to be here. I spent twenty-nine years traveling as an evangelist And my children grew up in church. Literally, they grew up in the church. We would come to churches on Saturdays and we would begin on Fridays and we would conclude on, excuse me, we would begin on Sundays and we would conclude on Friday. And then we would travel to the next church. And so my children became connoisseurs of fine church nurseries. And they would often come and tell me after they arrived at the church on Saturday they knew exactly where to go. They would meet the pastor. Hello, Pastor, where's your nursery? They'd go and they'd come back and tell me all the cool things that were in the nursery. Or the lack thereof, one of the two. Uh but so for for really basically thirty years of our life we we lived in churches and so my life was spent with pastors in getting to know pastors, being a friend of pastors, being a friend of pastors' families. being a friend of the pastor's children. And that changed somewhat suddenly a little over six years ago. when I went to be the president at Bob Jones University. And I can tell you that a university is not a a church. It's two different worlds, two different things. But in many ways it's very similar because the focal point is centered on the authority of Scriptures. And any school today that is exalting the Word of God, first of all, is rare. And secondly, it is extremely important, especially for the sake of the people of God and the education of their children. Because really, next to our salvation experience, the most important relationship of our life is the relationship of our family, our marriage, and then the raising of our children. And the raising of our children, first of all, to be believers, Christians, and then to have a biblical worldview and they think scripturally. We all understand this, but it's it's very evident even today. that one generation of Christians can change in the very next generation very quickly. And so there can be another generation that rises up that doesn't know the Lord. They don't know God. And I can tell you, I'm old enough to remember many, many days. Uh people often ask me, how do you know all these people? I said, live long enough and preach around a lot. You'll get to know a lot of people. And I could say that today and 2020 is not what it was like when I became a Christian in 1975. And things are very, very different today and the world is a different day, and our young people are growing up in only the world they know. And God is not going to forsake this generation. He's not going to forsake them. But it's going to be different. And that's why having a firm biblical foundation is so vital. And a church like yours is so important. That you be true to the Word of God and you raise your children for the Lord, that they would be strong and they would stand for God, that they would be light. in the midst of darkness. So thank you for the privilege to be here this morning. And I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn with me, please, to Psalm chapter 51. This is, of course, a well-known Psalm. It's the Psalm of David after he was confronted by the prophet Nathan according to particular sins in his life. And so the entire psalm itself, every verse is a sermon in itself. And so this morning I'd like us to consider Psalm 51 in verse 10, and then we'll look at some of the verses that surround it. This is David writing under the pen of inspiration. It's actually in one way quite amazing to me that he wrote this psalm after his sin, because when I sin, I don't feel very spiritual. And this is the reflection of a man who is a believer, who is facing personal sins in his life, he's come under great conviction, and yet still the Lord is with him even in the midst of his sin. And I think it should be a comfort to all of us that even in the midst of our sin, God does not forsake his children. Just like you don't forsake your children in the midst of their disobedience. And in some ways your love comes out greater. And so we read in Psalm 51 and verse 10 this great and important prayer where he prays, Create in me a clean heart, O God. And renew a right spirit within me. There are times and there are occasions that we all as believers feel compelled. to renew our commitment and our dedication back to God. We feel that. We feel it very strongly. When we pass through various seasons of life, there naturally arises a desire to make a fresh devotion to God. Like, for example, when our first child is born, and we hold that precious child in our arms and we recognize that this child is is a responsibility given to me by God and I don't feel I'm ready for this. I don't feel prepared to be a good parent. Nobody feels prepared for marriage and nobody feels prepared for parenting. You have to go through it and and you realize your dependence on God. Or perhaps when a close friend or family member dies, someone you deeply love, somebody who perhaps has been a spiritual mentor to you and now they've stepped out in from this world into the next and you feel compelled to be faithful to God. Or perhaps when we're called to a new task or a new ministry. and we're overwhelmed with the responsibility. Or perhaps when we cross a certain threshold in our life, I discovered that when you When you turn about 40 years old, you start thinking differently. You realize the brevity of your life. You realize when you met people that were 40, they were really old to you. Now I meet somebody 40. I met your pastor. I said, man, you're really young. They all say they feel old. Well, you got five children, you're going to feel a little older. But I I guarantee you that when you get to be my age at 64 years old, 37 sounds extremely young. But you cross these thresholds in life and you feel a sense that you need to renew your devotion to God. It's like King Hezekiah, who was granted fifteen more years to live after he had a terminal sickness and God healed him and he wanted to freshly devote himself back to the Lord. So there are times like this in our life. And I think especially in the days in which we're living in, that so many things have pat happened over the past five months. But I think as Christians, especially as we're starting to gather back in the church, that there ought to be at least in our hearts a sense of the need of renewing a fresh devotion back to God, where we pray with David, create in me a clean heart, O God. And renew a right spirit within me. Let's consider just the past few months. We have gone through a major worldwide health crisis. There are some who question whether or not it's as bad as it really is. And I'm not going to argue it whether or not, I just know we're in the middle of it. We're having to live with it. We have been deeply affected by this in our own personal families. As I mentioned, my my own family has been deeply affected. Uh they can't work. My I have three children that have master's degrees, but the nature of their work created these particular issues. So we we've struggled within the framework of my uh relationship with my dear mother who cannot be seen and it's been very heart wrenching to the point that I was on the phone yesterday with my sister who's her caretaker and she's She's been in tears. She's kept herself away from people for five months, living in isolation, so that she can get to see my mother. And she's been carrying this heavy burden. We've been living under this. But we also have been deeply troubled because of the social issues of our day. I mean the the pandemic was bad enough in March, but then you have the death of George Floyd on the 25th of May. in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and that was the spark that lit the fire of the conflagration of protests all over the United States of America. and the social issues that we're facing, the civil unrest, the increased political polarization, the lifestyle changes that we're having to face. These are things that we are living with. We have been impacted by in our own family with sometimes financial issues. We have been drained spiritually because of the absence of our attendance to the local church. Or at least the church fellowship. I mean, come on, we've got to look at each other with masks. We've got to stay apart from one another. We can't even hug each other. I mean, I'm ready to become a hugging Baptist again. Amen. I mean, it's it's it's it's it's the distance and And we think about going out to eat or having folks over to our house and and that's been that's been the way we normally think and suddenly we say, well, we can't have large gatherings and we We can't have people over and we can't have the children's ministry and and and youth groups can't be getting together or they're meeting virtually and and all of those things I'm thankful for. At least we can do that. But but it's It's never quite what it was. We understand that. And we have been drained by these kinds of things. And Unfortunately, but sad but true that even in the time of isolation, instead of the people of God renewing themselves through the Word of God, there's been a decline even in the reading of the Bible over the last six months. So we are living in, I believe, in perilous times, and therefore the prayer request of King David in our text is an appropriate and a needed prayer. for such a time as this when he cries out, Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. I think this prayer is particularly appropriate, not because We are facing the exact same circumstance as King David, because he made this prayer as a repentant response over his adulterous affair with Bathsheba. But because Like David, we are living in troublesome and trying seasons, and our spirits have been deeply affected, and in some cases there has been sin. So this is a fitting and a proper opportunity to give ourselves fresh and anew back to the Lord. As the great Baptist preacher Charles Spurgeon said, our troubles should confirm our dedication to God. So my goal this morning is to orient our minds to this text. And to think about it in a more expanded way when David prayed, Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. So a number of things I'd like us to look at this morning. First of all, and that is the need for the renewal of our spirits. I mean, it's obvious because of the circumstances, and I think you would agree with me, but I would like for us to go deeper. And that is the need for spiritual renewal, is a need that is continual and perpetual. And the way we know that is discovered in the name of God Himself. For the name of God in the Old Testament, His covenant name is the name Jehovah or the name Yahweh The word L -O-R-D in capital letters used over 6,000 times in the Bible, is a reference to God's personal name. I have personal names just like you have a personal name. Now, I'm called all kinds of things. I'm called president, dad, brother, doctor, evangelist, preacher, and sweetie pie. So depending on my function, I'm given a name. But I only have one personal name. That's my first name. And that's Steve. And God has a personal name. And that name has a very clear meaning. For when the Lord was asked, What is your name by Moses, when God spoke out of the burning bush in the book of Exodus, what did he say his name was? He said, I am that I am. What did that mean? God was defining who he was. He is defining himself as the self -existing one. That is, he exists by himself and he needs no one else for his existence. But this is not only so of what God creates, for nothing that God has made is self-existence. For everything that God has created, of God he's self-existing, but what he has created is not. Everything needs to be perpetually renewed. Mountains crumble. Rocks Dissolve, even marble wears down. Rivers become dry if they're not refreshed by underground springs or melted snow. If this is true of inanimate objects, how much more is it then true of those who are endowed with life from a God? An animal cannot live without the refreshment, refreshment of sleep and food. I mean, one of the most common questions we constantly ask each other is: how did you sleep last night? Your pastor asked me that this morning. I said, not so good last night. I said, I'm sorry, but I just didn't sleep too good. Well, why do we think sleep is so important? Because it renews our strength. Our strength is renewed day by day. We can't survive without sleep. We cannot, grass cannot survive without water. And how much more Those who are made in the image of God need to be renewed. Consider the children of Israel as they went through the wilderness physically. They had to be sustained daily. by water from the rock and manna from heaven. Directionally, they needed the guidance of God, and the Lord led them by a pillar of fire by night and a pillar of cloud by day. You and I constantly have to be renewed through the Lord's leadership. Otherwise, we wander throughout life. It's always about what is the will of God? What does God want? And my conversations with my children. My daughter, my oldest daughter is 38 years old, and she has two master's degrees, and she's. trying to work through getting a doctorate degree and and she was told uh this week that a particular school did not accept her degree and I wrote her back and I said well at least now you have direction from the Lord where you're not supposed to go. We have to believe that. We need the Lord to direct us and guide us emotionally. We go through seasons where our Spirits are affected, whether they are downcast or they're disquieted, or we go through periods of time where we're spiritually dry or we're tempted, and we sense the need of God to renew a right spiritual. spirit within us. And I think of this season that we we have found ourselves in where we've been isolated And I mentioned it yesterday, but I want to go a little bit deeper today, that when we are isolated and we are by ourselves, we struggle with what Martin Luther said is the problem with human nature. And he used a Latin phrase entitled Incurvatas in Se, which literally means turned in on yourself. Where human nature turns in on itself. And when we turn in on ourselves, what do we see? We see the sinfulness. of our own heart, the corruption of our own nature. Paul said it in Romans 7, the good that I would do, I don't do. And that which I would do, I uh that which I don't want to do, I do. Oh wretched man that I am, it is no longer I that do it. But sin that dwelleth within me. And Paul said, even the law of God arouses the sinful passions of our own heart. And therefore we we have this sense. That we constantly need to be renewed. Isaiah says, they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strengths Psalm 23, David said, of the Lord, as a shepherd, he restores my soul. Acts chapter 3 speaks of Times of refreshing that come from the presence of the Lord. We need a renewal of our joys, a renewal of our hopes, a renewal of our loves. and a renewal of our very lives. We need to repair the broken down areas of our soul. And of course Psalm 51 is is one that is well known because it's written after David was confronted with his sin with Bathsheba and the murder of her husband, Uriah the Hittite. And of course, David had drifted from the Lord. He was a believer. He knew the Lord. He was a man after God's own heart. I think we're all sometimes puzzled. We're all puzzled how that a man can be a man after God's own heart and do what David did. But is it really a puzzle? What about your heart? If you did everything that came to your mind, what kind of person would you be And David was like us. David ended up in isolation. When the soldiers went out to battle in the spring of the year, he stayed home. He made a decision conscientiously and he put himself in a place of temptation and he yielded. What is the difference between David and you and I? We're all made of the same stuff. And we we see this decline in his soul. And we see that he drifted away from the Lord. And what happens to us if we don't repair the broken down parts of our soul than we find ourselves getting further away from God. Charles Spurgeon wrote, The unconscious drifting from God will certainly be upon you unless you have seasons of It's just natural for us to drift. This verse in Hosea has always been one that's interesting to me. It reads this way: gray hairs are sprinkled upon him, and he knows it not. He's referring to the drifting of what happens to people. And he illustrates this by people who are young and they have dark hair, and suddenly one day they look in the mirror, and what do they see in their hair? They see the little strands of gray hair. Now I'm looking around the building tonight, this morning, excuse me. And some of you have dark hair. And some of you have clearly gray hair. And a few of you have no hair. And so all of us here, our hair is in different stages. And I remember my hair used to be black, dark, but somewhere along the way I started getting gray hairs. And that idea is used in Hosea to speak about people who slowly drift away from God. Do you know that hungering and thirsting after righteousness should be the state of a normal, healthy soul? Let me say that again. Hungering and thirsting after God, His Word, His righteousness is the normal state of a healthy soul. Just like a physical appetite and the desire to eat at a particular time of the day is the norm of a healthy body. So it is true of a healthy soul. There should be a hunger. There should be a thirst for the Lord, a thirst for righteousness. But when that is absent, we know something's wrong. We know that things are not right. When you lose your appetite, something's happening. And there needs to be this renovation, this renewal, this this coming back. We as Christians live in this world and we are pulled by the desires, the appetites. of this fallen world and when we feed those appetites over time, we lose the appetite for God. So David says, Lord, create in me uh a right spirit and renew created me a clean heart and renew within me a right spirit. And that leads me to the second thing this morning and that is not only the need for renewal but the powerlessness To renew our spirits. I think it should be acknowledged by all Bible-believing Christians that without the Spirit of God, we can do nothing. The Bible says in John 6. 63, it is the Spirit that quickens, the flesh profits nothing. The doctrine of human ab inability is one that we must firmly believe in, for you can do nothing without the Lord's help. If a ship has sails, it is obvious it cannot sail without the wind. But how much more if a ship gets a hole in its hole and it starts to sink? And the problem with us is that we are all without wind and full of holes. If we can't make it when we are healthy, what about it when we are sick? If the child of God, even when he is in a healthy state, needs to cry out, for the divine spirit in his work, how much more when we've fallen under spiritual decay and we have declined spiritual spiritually in our life. So what power then must we be must must we require or need in our life to have our souls renewed? What is that power? Well I want you to know that it is directly opposite of our own nature. Our nature tends to go down. We need a power that brings us up. Our nature tends to death. We need a power that resurrects. Our nature tends to enslave us. We need a power that sets us free. What did Jesus do for Jairus' daughter? Or Martha's brother, or the widow of Nain 's son. What he did for them was against nature. He raised them all from the dead. So, how then does this renewal work? Notice he says, create in me a clean heart and renew a right spirit. What renewed us from our sinful life is what renews us in our spiritual life. Life. It is sin that gets us to grace. It is sin That gets us to the place where we turn to God for his favor and his grace and his blessing For by grace are you saved through faith and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. So when we come to God for salvation, it's not because we deserve it or we earn it. It's the exact opposite. We don't deserve it and we cannot earn it. But God favors us, and that grace is his empowerment. It is that grace that comes through Jesus and his death and resurrection. And so we come into a relationship with God through our own sinfulness. Sin is what gets us to grace. And sin is what keeps us at grace. We don't come to grace and get God's favor and then fall back into some self-righteous effort that we can do it all by ourselves. We don't live in a DIY spiritual world. Do it yourself. Sin gets us to grace, and it is sin that keeps us. At grace. It is that daily gracious dependence on God through the resurrection power of the Lord Jesus Christ. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Why? What motivates you to do it? Because it is God that worketh in you both the will and the do of his good pleasure. So what renewed us from our sinful life is what renews us in our spiritual life. And when we are renewed from our sinful life, what takes place? Number one, we repent. Repentance is always the starting point with God. What is the message of Jesus when he preached? He said, repent. For the kingdom of God is at hand. We need it now if we want to be renewed. We must repent of our sin There must be the humility over our own sinfulness. This is what David had to do. What was David's problem in his adultery? It's not that he didn't know that he committed adultery. It's not that he didn't know he murdered the the husband of Bathsheba is that he wasn't willing to turn, he wasn't willing to repent until Nathan the prophet came and confronted him. And then he sat down with a pen of inspiration and he said, Have mercy upon me, O God, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, blot out my transgressions. Cleanse me from my sin. There's repentance. Then also let me say that when our spiritual life is renewed, it comes not only repentance through repentance, but it comes through faith. And that is a faith and complete dependence upon Christ. That without him I can't do this. And I know this is simple, but it's the way that we have to live. We constantly keep coming back to Jesus. God connected us to Jesus at the moment of our salvation. This morning when I woke up, I have one of these iPhones here. I didn't know when I bought it you have to kind of you gotta renew it every day. You know when I bought it I thought it'd be like a uh a an an any other um uh watch that has uh this not iPhone, it's I watch, excuse me. Um I I thought it had something in it that kept it going. Well it doesn't have something in it that keeps it going. You gotta plug it in every night. And uh I I figured that out after a couple of days. And it has to be constantly renewed. This is dependent upon its connection to electricity to to renew it every single day. When you and I became Christians, we were connected to Jesus. We were baptized into him. We were, and it's the doctrine of the union of Christ, our union. We are united to him. And his life is our life, and his resurrection is our resurrection. And this spiritual renewal is not because I I I I work it out and do it myself and whip myself up. It is a complete reliance upon leaning hard on Christ to renew our spirits and renew our natures as we are re as we repent and we we depend on and rest on Christ by faith. And then number three, in that renewal of my spiritual life, just like when I believe the Word of God to be saved, then that renewal comes through the Word of God. We read it this morning when he speaks about quickening ourselves in Psalm 143. The Old Testament Psalms talks about a revival, a quickening, and he quickens us through his word. So we repent, we lean hard on Jesus, and we get in the Word of God, and what does God do? He renews a right spirit within us So it is sin that gets us to grace, and it is our sin that keeps us at grace. And David, though he felt powerless and was weakened by sin, what did he do? He ran to God and he said, God created me a clean heart and renew a right spirit within me. And that leads me to the third and the last thing, and that is, what is the result of this renewing? What happens? And if we'll go back in our text and notice what he says in verse 10, create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit. The word renew there means a restoration of what you of what you once had. It is a repairing. It is something that was lost that is brought back. And so he says, renew a right spirit. The word right there means steadfast. It's not righteous like in obedience to the law. It's the idea of something that is confirmed, that is something that is solid, that it's something that is steadfast, that is faithful. The nature of God is that God is faithful, He's unchanging. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. So it is to renew within us a right, confirmed spirit. And the word spirit there is the Hebrew word ruach. And it has a number of meanings. It means your breath. It's the idea of the wind in your sails. It's the word that's used for the Spirit of God. It's also the idea of your psychological frame of mind, the way you think. And so what he is saying is, when God renews, he renews and restores in you a right. spirit, a right frame of mind, a right attitude, a right atmosphere. And the result of this renewing of a right spirit is very clear. And what takes place when that spirit is renewed in a right way. Notice what he says in verses eleven down to verse thirteen. He says, Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. The first Result of this renewing of a right spirit is a renewal of God's presence in your life. When he said, Take not your Holy Spirit from me, we're dealing with Old Testament saints. And when you read the Old Testament and the New Testament, it becomes quite clear that what God does in the New Testament is far more permanent than the Old Testament. And we know the Spirit would come and depart. And that Spirit's presence was the presence of God in his life. When we are renewed with a right spirit, we have the sense of God's presence. Have you ever felt like you lost the sense of God's presence in your life? I'm not talking about conviction of sin. Because if you're a Christian, you're going to be you do wrong You're going to be convicted, and that's the sign that you're God's child. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about that that sense of his presence, that he is with me, and everything is right. It's like when you're with your family and everything's good, everything's good, and there's the presence of your family there. That's why saying goodbye to your family is always hard. You're departing from their presence. And what David is saying here is that when things are renewed in my life, I have that sense of God's presence in my life. If you're here this morning and you sense that God's presence has departed from you or something has happened in your life, I encourage you to cry out and ask God to renew this right spirit in you. And then secondly, notice what he says. And verse 12: Restore unto me the joy of my salvation and uphold me with thy free spirit. The second result of a renewing of a right spirit is a renewal of your Christian joy. And that Christian joy, the idea of joy in the Bible is the word enjoy. What do you enjoy? On a daily basis. My life's pretty simple. There are a few things that I like, and that's where I find a lot of my joy outside of my work, my family, and my relationship with God. I enjoy a good cup of coffee. Life is way too short to drink bad coffee. Uh your pastor, uh uh I'm I'm assuming that the secretary from Bob Jones told you what kind of coffee I like. You know, like like like who does he think he is, you know? Come on, man. He says, we have Starbucks coffee for you. I just went like that. I don't feel guilty about it. Life is too short to drink bad coffee. And then one of the dear ladies who the dear lady that uh that uh takes care of the room back there, I I asked her last night, I said, I noticed that there's milk there, but there's no half and half for coffee And so last night she went out and got me a little pint of half and half coffee. You know what? Life is good So every morning I wake up and I do the exact same thing. I I make a pot of coffee, I put half and half in it I put a little sugar in it. I put whipped cream on top. You say, that's not coffee, that's dessert. You drink coffee your way, I'll drink coffee my way. And I wake up every morning, make a pot of coffee, and I sit down in my living room and I take out my Bible, and every morning I try to spend at least an hour in Bible reading and prayer. And meditation and and uh that's that's that's that's the peak of my day. That's the high point. Sometimes it goes down real fast after that But I I know where the joy I know where the joy is. What does he say here? Restore unto me the joy of my salvation. What is my salvation? It's my relationship with God. What is it that brings you joy? What is it? When he says, restore unto me a joy, it's the enjoyment of the Lord. The chief end of man, what is that? It is to glorify God and enjoy him forever in his presence. is fullness of joy. David is saying, bring me back to that place where I find joy in your presence. And that can be, we can lose that. That can drift away. Joy is the Christian's billboard. It's the greatest thing that we have to attract people to Jesus. Because people see that we find joy in the midst of life. We are not excluded from the difficulties and the pains of life, but we find joy in the Lord, in his presence. There's a restoration of joy. And then thirdly, and notice the last thing, he says in verse 13 , when there's that renewing of a right spirit, he says, Then will I teach transgressors their ways. And sinners shall be converted unto un unto thee. When there is a renewal of a right spirit, there is a renewal of one's passionate desire to see other people consider. Where there is spiritual revival, evangelism is always the outgrowth. Because when our spirits are renewed, when we are rightly related to God, when we are aligned with the Lord and what He wants to do, What do we understand that God's burden is for the world, for those who are lost? Worldliness always squelches the passion for evangelism. Worldliness always squelches the passion for evangelism. If you love the world, you cannot love the Father at the same time. And so when there is the renewal of a right spirit, what do we want to do? We want to see, we want to teach transgressors their ways. And we want to see sinners converted unto the Lord. And we are living in a day where we are in desperate need of a revival of the Spirit of God. And in so doing, it will revive the hearts of God's people to get the gospel out to those that are lost. And so as we conclude this morning, let me urge you to pray with me this prayer. God created me a clean heart And renew a right spirit within me. May the Lord give us a gracious renewal. Would you bow your head with me, please, for prayer? Lord, we thank you this morning for your word. We thank you for your mercy. God, forgive us of our sins. Forgive me, Lord, of my sins. We depend upon Jesus, his life, his power, his resurrection. Lord, I pray that you will send a revival in our day O Lord, where there would be a moving of the Spirit of God among your people, and from that revived people, that we will go out and teach sinners, transgressors, their ways. And sinners will be converted unto you. God, I pray that you will do this. You'll do it for your glory and honor. Lord, we we know that you've promised to send the Spirit And we pray that you will do the the, we know the Spirit has come, but we pray for his manifestation of his work in our lives. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.