Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our evening service, looking forward to what the Lord has for us today, and also looking forward to fellowship at the end. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer. And then we'll get started with some songs. Lord, we're so very grateful for this day. We thank you for the time we've been able to spend together, the way you've spoken to our hearts through your word, the opportunity to fellowship with other Christians. And I pray this evening our time together would be very sweet and Christ-centered. Speak to us through your servant as he opens the Word of God. As we have the opportunity to share testimonies, I pray that these testimonies would uplift us. And pray that as one of our families will be moving soon, that we would just be able to send them out with encouragement. And we thank you for the time we've enjoyed together. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good evening, everyone. We will begin our song service this evening by turning into page 355. If you're so inclined to use a handle or watch the monitors and the screen up on the stage here, please stand with me. We're going to sing all four verses of Jesus Hate It All. Sing out with me now. I knew the same, I spray that he is born , Twilight was it great, I mean the first one. Is it the guy here? And then let's turn back to page 14. Page 14. Both verses of worthy of praise. My heart overflows with praise to the Lord. I will have. Uh , I'm not sure. I could say you 're on my bread, you are learning to go. Please have a seat. Well, while you're doing so, turn to page 277. Page 277? What if it were today? Jesus is coming to birth again. What if it were today coming in hour and long terrain? What if it were today coming to claim his chosen? Over redeemment cured by this over scared by what if it were Glory, joy to my heart will blame Glory, Glory, when we String that's not gonna wealth anymore , for yeah , no more , for a word. With the red eyes of God, on the truth we did the sky , we're growing over. And they met for I watch the other swim, okay? Morning light and day when die , morning. Oh really, when we are in the bed Amen. At this time we're ready for our missions moment. What does John have for us tonight? Free from guilt, free from sin. Okay. Dark the stain I cannot hide Stain of sin, my guilt to prove Guilt my own and foolish pride, Ride the reason for my I love God and shining down , I love the wind , white. Okay , now page five in the red book. Make sure I call your numbers out okay. The spring allergies have sat in, and uh sometimes my ears are crackling and I don't quite make it out. But page five In the Red Book. Oh, for a thousand tongues to sing. I'm thinking the first and the last on this one, because it's so short. Oh, for a thousand. Same book. Page 596. Hex going way back to the back. Okie dokie, the star-spangled banner, please snap. All said you see why the gods will so proudly we hailed at the twilight last night. Good rush and bright stars through the pair of last lights over the ramp arch we wise There's a galaxy, and the rocket 's red glare, the bump bursting in air, gave through through the night. That our flag was still there. Oh, say does that our sangle that are getting wave For the land of the brain and the home of the break. Amen. Go ahead and have a succeed. Go ahead. I'd say y'all were ready for any football game or baseball game rendition after that one. Page 144 in the red book. One forty four. Okay But thing through it twice. Don't think it through twice He owns the cattle on a thousand hills, the wealth in every mind We of the rivers and the rocks and rills, the sun and stars that shine Wonderful red hell in my own. I don't know if it 's more than I was doing my hand. Amen. That's good singing. So big, the shaman, so mighty there's something my captain I tell. I got it The big drop and white the maple and the mountain, the mountain lion, the body lion. The song of his hand, the song is almighty that come , I can not come for you. Oh, that is cute. With a wonderful, wonderful truth. We're going to be picking up our study here this evening in 1 Samuel 4. And I had a great reminder tonight that uh the reason why there's going to be no notes in the back is because if you send the email, be sure you send the attachment. But anyways, so we're just gonna have to listen tonight, but we're gonna pick up where we left off. We're gonna start 1 Samuel chapter 4. Just read the first couple of verses as we look into uh the Word of God this evening. 1 Samuel chapter 4, we'll pick it up in verse number 1. And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now, Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and pitched beside Ebenezer, and the Philistines pitched in Aphakh, and the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel And when they joined battle, Israel was smitten before the Philistines. And they slew of the army in the field about four thousand men. And when the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath the Lord smitten us today before the Philistines? Let us fetch the ark of the covenant of the Lord out of Shiloh unto us, that when it cometh among us, it may save us out of the hands of our enemies. So people sent to Shiloh that they might bring from thence the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord of hosts, which dwells between the cherubims, and the two sons of Eli, Hophnai and Phineas. were there with the Ark of the Covenant of God. And when the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again. Father, as we look at this chapter, would you use these words to speak to your children As we ponder these truths from 1 Samuel chapter 4, about your presence, about how we can make idols of things and make presumptions And Father, many times we just need to obey what we already know to do and to follow you first and foremost, despite our circumstances, what may seem easier or a good idea at the time. But would you do what you do in the hearts and lives of your children that the Spirit of God would comfort, convict, and draw them unto yourself As the Spirit of God uses the Word of God this evening for the cause, for the glory of our great Savior and for His name. Amen. So here in 1 Samuel chapter 4, the first phrase here in this chapter starts out, and the word of Samuel came to all Israel. If you notice, it goes from that to right into like a battle. You're like, what in the world is that first phrase doing there in this first verse? Well, it's kind of interesting here, and the word of Samuel came into Israel. I kind of wanted to back up just a little bit to help us with that first phrase of why it's here. I want to call our attention back to verse 19 of chapter 3, just to back up a little bit. And in verse 3 of chapter, I'm sorry, chapter 3, verse 19. He says, and Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground. So here in 19, 319, we see Samuel, the Lord is with him. He's abiding and he's living out the Word of God. It's not failing. He's doing the best he can with all that he has there. with the word of God and it's being made known. Look at this in verse 20. And all Israel, from Dan even to Beersheba, knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the Lord. So here what we're seeing is this is like saying like from Los Angeles to Boston or you know Seattle to Miami type of thing. I mean this is the whole nation, okay, all Israel. is getting the good feeling here that Samuel was going to be a prophet of the Lord. The whole nation is beginning to understand this. And then you look at verse 21, the last verse of chapter 3 in 1 Samuel. And the Lord appeared again in Shiloh, for the Lord revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the Lord. So we are getting some great information about the presence of God with Samuel and how other people are recognizing what God is doing in his life. And then you get to chapter 4. And in chapter 4, we see, okay, the word of Samuel to all Israel, but then all of a sudden they're going to battle. The interesting thing that's really probably not here is, did they inquire? about this battle? Do they go to Samuel as someone that the Lord was with, who was showing great leadership, that God was using this guy as a godly man and giving him wisdom? We don't see that. All we see, I'm not going to reread it for the sake of time, but they go to battle against the Philistines. They lose 4,000 men in one day. So they got a pretty good slaughter in one day. They didn't consult Samuel. And it makes me think that maybe had they consulted him, they could have won, they could have avoided, they could have waited, the result could have been different But they didn't seek whom the Lord was raising up to lead them and to guide them, which all the nation by this point we know from chapter 3 is taking place. So they have this battle. And also, I just want to point out some verses. If you turn with me to chapter 7. Chapter 7, really quick. I think this might be a lesson learned here from Samuel to the people, but if you go to verse 3 of chapter 7, and Samuel spake to all the house of Israel, saying, So he's talking to them now. Now they go to him. This is a long story, made it really short. But they go to him and he's saying, If ye do return unto the Lord with all your hearts Then put away the strange gods of Astaroth, and among you, and prepare your hearts unto the Lord, and serve him only. And he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines. Then look what happened. And the children of Israel did put away Balaam and Astaroth and served the Lord only. And Samuel said, gather all into Mizphah and to pray to the Lord to pray for you unto the Lord. And so they gathered it to Mizphah, and drew water, and poured out before the Lord, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against the Lord. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizvah. So we're looking there at Chapter seven of how it could have happened earlier So it's a bit of argument from silence here in chapter 4, but I don't see where they're seeking Samuel. They're not seeking the Lord in wisdom and how to handle this problem with the Philistines. It is absent. We don't see it. So I think that's kind of all captured in a little bit where we're hinted at is all the word of Samuel came to all Israel. So he is a well-known up-and-coming leader, and it doesn't seem like they sought him against the Philistines. So then we're going to, that's verse 1. Let's look at verses 2 through 5, as we're going to see where Israel was smitten by the Philistines. Just skipping very quickly to the end of verse 2, it says, And they slew of the army of the field about 4,000 men. So this is the Philistines, slew about 4,000 of Israel. And it gets worse. And the people were going to come into the camp, and the elders of Israel, where hath the Lord smitten us today before the Philistines? So the word of the these people from Israel, from the elders, they're saying, the Lord has smitten us Now I'm just thinking common sense here for a moment. If you think you go out to battle and you lose the battle and it's the Lord fighting against you, don't you think you'd want to turn to him? Don't you think you'd want to go to Samuel? God, where is it that we can repent from? What can we turn from? And maybe we need to turn to you. I still don't see it Instead, what they're going to start doing here is they're going to take matters into their own hands. They're going to make a presumption. They're going to assume that the presence of God is in the Ark of the Covenant. And they're going to treat the Ark of the Covenant like a good luck charm. Let's look at it. In verse 4. So the people sent to Shiloh that they might bring from thence the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord of hosts. which dwells between the cherubims. So they go, they go at the Ark, and look, the Ark had great company. It Hophnai and Phineas. The same guys that hang out with prostitutes in front of the temple. The same guy that's using the ministry for selfish gain. The same two guys that the country knows are not godly men. They are not going to be leaders to follow Eli. And they're trying to, hey guys, can you get out of our way? Because we we want to take this presence of this ark because we need God's help. And they're making a presumption, if we take this ark, we're going to treat it like a good luck charm. Then the power and the presence of God can be with us. It reminds me when I was growing up as a kid. When I was growing up, uh I I think I inherited one from a friend because he had multiple of them. But you ever remember those little um Rabbit's feet. Okay, did you remember the little thing? It was like a rubbit. I I never really understood it, but you have the lucky rabbit's foot. I don't know the backstory to that. And some of them had the little you know little chains you could put on your, you know, there was the keys. It was a lucky rabbit's foot. It's like, oh I can do that. Maybe you didn't have the rabbits, but maybe you had like a special shirt, you know, or something that was lucky you knew you were gonna wear, you know, that really stinks what you could wear because you usually win, you know, whatever. But you use that as like a good luck charm and all this is gonna help me. This necklace, this bracelet, this watch, this shirt, this rabbit's foot, whatever it is, this is gonna help me to have victory. That's exactly what's taking place here with Israel. They're gonna take God and reduce him to a rabbit's foot. They're trying to take God and reduce him to some good luck charm. See if we have this, it's almost like we're we're getting God in a headlock and saying, you have to help us because we got the Ark of the Covenant. So you have to be with us. Instead of what they should have done, which we jumped ahead to chapter 7 to see what they did after this. So then we look at this. So we're here. They're treating it like a good luck charm. They got the little rabbits, but they are going to the covenant. And look at their response in verse 5. So they are just beaten by the enemy, 4,000 men dead. The result is, okay, we think God's against us, so He'll be with us if we get the ark, so therefore we can win the victory. And look how they responded in verse 5. When the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again. There's this massive cry, they're excited, they're just pumped But the thing with this is they're excited about this good luck charm. This thing, they're reducing God to an object. And here's what is interesting. They end up losing this battle, but I'm just going to put this, insert this here into the message. But what happens if they were to have the victory? If they were to have the victory, so they get the Ark of the Covenant and they're putting all their energies, not into the God of the covenant, but into this piece of furniture. And that's what they're excited about. Had God allowed them to get the victory, do you think that they would have praised God like they should have? Or do you think they would have given credit to some box? To some thing. They knew better. They really knew better In Exodus 9, starting with verse 13, the Lord said to Moses, Rise up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrews, Let my people go that they may serve me. And catch this. Why did he want to do this? For I will at this time send all my plagues upon thine heart, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people that thou mayest know that there was none like me in all the earth. Why did God in Israel's history send those ten plagues? Yes, it was to get Israel out, but also a part of that was so that the whole world would know that there is no God like the God of Israel. Now yes, Moses did use a staff. But those plagues were to take down the gods of Egypt to show that he was the one true God, and so the whole world would know this, so that God Himself would get the credit. The children of Israel were very familiar with this history. They did not choose here to turn from their ways. to ask God to even seek in godly leadership. Another common passage, Deuteronomy 6. I'm just giving some brief history on Israel and how they should have known better. But instead they were continuing to trust in their own way and attempt to use God for their own motives, for their own desires, for their own benefit. In Deuteronomy 6, start with verse 10, and it shall be, when the Lord thy God shall have brought thee into the land which he swear unto thy fathers, unto Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, to give thee great and goodly cities which thou buildest not. And houses full of all good things which thou fillest not, and wells digged, which thou diggest not, so inheriting a lot of things that they did not do. Vineyards and olive trees, which thou planted not, and when thou shalt eaten and be full. Then beware lest thou forget the Lord. Be careful. You didn't work for this stuff, we're going to inherit it. And it's easy to forget something that you didn't work for. So he says, Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God, and serve Oh sorry, back of verse, and beware lest thou forget the Lord, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage. Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God, serve him, and shalt swear by his name. Then in verse 14 of Deuteronomy 6, He shall not go out, after ye shall not go out after other gods. Of the gods of the people which are around about him, and shall swear by his name. For the Lord thy God is a jealous God among you, Lest the anger of the Lord thy God be kindled against thee and destroy thee from off the face of the earth. He is warning them, you are going to inherit some things. You are going to have blessings, but don't forget God. You will be tempted to serve gods of other nations. God is jealous. He will allow these other nations to help remind you you will seek defeat if you don't seek the Lord. These are things that Israel has known. This is their history. This is their past. And here they are. They suffered defeat from the Philistines. They didn't seek Samuel. They're not seeking God, from what we can tell. They get the Ark of the Comfort. They're all excited about it. They got their rabbit's foot. They got their little uh genie in a bottle, you know, the rubber genie, give me, give me, because my name is Jimmy. And we need to beat the Philistines. And they're just doing it all their own way. It's okay to laugh. I got that from somebody else. One more. One more reminder of Israel's history. In Joshua 24. Now therefore, this is starting in verse 14, now therefore fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth. And put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. Then we get to the common fifteen. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell. But as for me and my house we will serve the Lord The challenge part is they have been drifting from God. They're going from a time in Israel's history where every man is doing that which is in their own eyes. To now they have a godly man that is obvious to the nation that the Lord is with him and his presence is with him, and they should be seeking his counsel. Are they forgetting the Lord? Are they putting their trust in our own way? We don't really want to get right with God because then he might have us do something different. It's easier just to go get the ark. Bring it to where we're at into the battle so that we can demand upon God what we think he should do for us. Are they forgetting the Lord? Are they trying to manipulate him? Are they trying to make God fit their own plan, but not ask for his guidance? for his wisdom, or even seek the counsel of Samuel. So they were smitten by the Philistines. And I think maybe Samuel had some of this in mind, because later in chapter 15, you don't have to turn everybody. In chapter 15, Samuel said, Hath the Lord. As great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord, asking them the question. This is several chapters later. He says, behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken rather than the fat of rams. Sometimes we can go through the motions. Hoth I and Phineas were there with the Ark of the Covenant. They were taking advantage of the Lord. They weren't doing what they should be. And it's like you think they would have had to talk to them in some way or another. It mentions their names right there with it Did they even ask them? They thought, no, we don't want to ask them. But did they ask Samuel? But he later, Samuel, God is after obedience. God desires for us to hearken to his words more than just going through a religious program. More than just getting what seems religious like the ark. We're going to do the religious thing. You can come to church and profit nothing if you're just showing up, warming a pew, and think, all right, Pastor, go ahead and you just preach. If your heart is not there, in a sense it's almost as if you're being sniffed in here. We're getting led astray. We must move on quickly. So we see that Samuel's word to all Israel In chapter verse 1. In verses 2 through 5, we saw that Israel was smitten by the Philistines. In 6 through 11, we're going to see a shout heard by the Philistines. This is very interesting. Look at this. So the in verse 6, Philistines heard the noise of the shouts, and they said, What means the noise of the great shout of the camp of the Hebrews? They're talk amongst each other. What is going on over there? Something big is going on. And then they understood that the ark of the Lord was coming to the camp. Verse 7. A very natural response here. And the Philistines were afraid, for they said God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! For there hath not been such a thing heretofore. So the Philistines were afraid. They are saying, God is with them. Why? The Philistines were idol worshippers. They would worship all kinds of gods. They hear that the Ark of the Covenant is there in the camp of Israel. What are they doing? They're associating God with this object. Very normal from them. So they're thinking the power and the presence of God is in this box. It's in this thing that man has made. And that is going to be like, whoa, woe is us, because now their God is in their camp. We are in trouble. And so they're afraid and they're scared. But Israel is almost treating it like the same way. The interesting part is Israel is almost treating like God and his power and his presence is there right there with them because now the Ark of the Covenant is there in the camp. The Philistines, the heathen are digging the same thing as Israel. Let's continue on. Verse 7. So they were afraid, verse 7, for they said, God has come to the camp, and they, woe unto us, verse 8. Again, woe unto us, he says a second time. Who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? You catch it, the gods? They're idol worshippers, thinking, okay, that we're in trouble here. There's multiple gods over there These are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness. We already talked about that brief history from Israel's perspective. Now we're getting it from the perspective of the Philistines. They remember the history. They know what happened. I mean when the mightiest nation, uh the military, is just destroyed by a bunch of servants trying to run. That will spread pretty quickly. Other people like, hey, that was a massive army just got destroyed. They probably feel relieved themselves. They remember what happened. So then in verse 9, I like this. I basically summarize verse 9 with, be strong or be servants. What choices they have with this battle here? Look at verse 9. Be strong and quit yourselves like men. It's not the idea of Stop being a man, it's it's man up. It's it's be a man and stand up and don't be so afraid and scared. Be strong, quit yourselves like men, oh ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews as they have been unto you, quit yourselves like men and fight. They're saying, We could be scared, wimpy, lose the battle, and serve Israel, or we can m be men about it. We can go into battle, give the best we got fight with great valor and strength, and if we're going to be their servants, they're going to earn it. What choices do they have? Be a servant or be strong? So you know what they decided? Let's find out. Verse 10. And the Philistines fought And Israel was smitten, and they fled every man into his tent, and there was a very great slaughter. For there fell of Israel thirty thousand men. It got worse. In a very bad way. They had the same understanding. We're going to drag God into this. We're thinking we have the power of God. The Philistines were afraid, but they said it's either them or us. And it actually made it worse. Just because you think God is in a physical possession, you got your good luck charm, you got your genita bottle, you got whatever it is, and you bring that into your presence. Does not mean that God is going to bless you if you're doing things wrong. You're not recognizing who He is. They are viewing that architecture covet no different than what the Philistines are at this point. We've got the presence of God. We've got the power of God with us. It is no different. And they suffered a very great Great slaughter, tens of thousands. I'm sorry, thirty thousand, thirty thousand footmen. And look at verse eleven, it continues to get worse. And the ark of God was taken. And the two sons of Eli, Hopni and Phineas, were slain. So they lose the Ark of the Covenant, and the two sons of Eli are now dead. Very bad day on the battlefield. Israel was making a God limited him to this Ark of the Covenant, thinking and assuming that his presence had to be there with them. And you know, this is what mankind does. We make gods out of things. Cars, houses, bank accounts, children, spouses. We make God out of a building. We try and limit God to physical possessions and things. One of my favorite illustrations with this is in Isaiah 44. Actually, you can turn to me to Isaiah 44. I love this passage with this Because we make gods out of stuff. We're limiting who He is. And these are things that we make with our own hands. And then we want to worship it. And then we expect the thing that we had made and created to give us special ability and just say it's from God. In Isaiah 44, we're going to start in verse 13, because we tend to make idols out of things and expected to do things that only God can do. Isaiah 44, 13. The carpenter stretcheth out his rule. He marketh it out with a line. He fitteth it with planes. He marketh without with the compass. He maketh it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man. Probably one like himself, who knows. That it may remain in the house. So it's very nice because he's keeping the house. The wife approves. That's put measured out, measure twice, cut once, that's what he's doing. He hewed down he hewed him down cedars, and taketh cypress and the oak, some good sturdy wood, which he strengtheneth for himself among the trees of the forest, and planth an ash, and the rain doth nourish it. Did he send the rain? Interesting. Then shall it be for a man to burn, for he will take thereof and warm himself. Yay He kindleth it and baketh bread. Yea, he maketh a god and worshipeth it. He maketh a graven image. He falls down hereto He burneth part thereof in the fire, with part thereof eateth flesh. He roasteth roast, and is satisfied, yea, he warmeth himself and saith, Aha! I am warm! I have seen the fire And the residue thereof he maketh a God. What? And the residue thereof he maketh a God, even his grave and image. He falls down unto it and worshipeth it and prayeth unto it and saith, Deliver me, for thou art my God. You have this guy. He goes out, he finds a tree, he hacks it down. Did he grow the tree? Did he bring the rain? Well he hauled it to his house. He cuts it down, making some good firewood. Okay, he's got firewood. He's building himself a nice fire. Oh I'm warm. Oh that was a cold day, long day. It's getting cold out. You know, it's still not quite summer yet. Mm-hmm. Spring, sort of. So he's building this fire, he's getting it going, and he cooks over it. He's warm by it. He's eating from it. He's gaining his strength back. All these good things are happening. And he's sitting there thinking, you know what? Man, this did this thing, it warned me. It fed me. Hey, look at me, there's a little stump left. Well, I'm gonna whittle a god and I'm gonna make it look nice so the wife can keep it in the house. So he wills this thing down, takes all this time to build this great God, and then it says he bows down and he worships the thing that he made. What? He did all the work. He fed himself. He made the fire. Now did he grow the tree? He didn't grow the tree. He did plant an ash, but he didn't grow that tree. Did that tree, did that God do anything for him? No. But what's his conclusion? His conclusion is very much like Israel. Deliver me, for thou art my God. What? You just burnt his friend or his cousin, his brother, whatever the rest of you called it. The other branches are burnt in the fire, and you expect that to deliver you? Uh-huh. Yep. That's what happens. We make gods of stuff. We limit God to things. And then we want to give it credit to deliver me, for thou art my God. That's what Israel is doing. They take this Ark of the Covenant. They bring it with them. And this is like our God. And his powered presence has to be with us. The Philistines are thinking, wow, they got the presence of God on their side. We're probably going to be their servants, but they're going to have to earn it. The problem is, was God really with them? Or they really doing things their own way. They were making a presumption on the presence of power of God and a possession and a thing. We must be careful because we do live here in this world. And we we do build things and we see things and we eat things. You know, we live in a physical realm. It is a struggle for man not to worship those things. The sun does warm us. The rain, you know. clenches the earth and we drink out of the wells and we use it to all these different things. It it can be very easy to give credit to the stuff and to the things that it is the God who actually supplies it all. A lot of times we're not any different than Israel. And I think as we come to a Text like this are really an angel. So we can get back, so they murmur, they complain. Really they're doing this? They didn't even seek Samuel? And we look back and we're thinking, how foolish was that? But then we do the same things today. We expect God to work sometimes through stuff and through things when there is a known leader. Who could have sought God. That's why I jumped to chapter 7. That's where eventually this is end up going. So the shout was heard by the Philistines, we see in verse 6 through 11. We're going to move on very quickly, verses 12 through 22, where you see Shiloh receives the message. Shiloh receives a message. I'm not going to read all this, uh, but in verse 12 you see that a man runs out, he was in the battle, he's got ripped up clothes, he's got you know dirt all over his face, and he he comes to Town. He starts sharing with the town. Something is going on. Look at this in verse 14. Eli heard the noise of the crying. He said, What mean is the noise of this turmoil? And the man came hastily and told Eli. So now he's working his way through town. He's telling everyone they're crying. Oh, all their boys are all dead. Hafni and Phineas are dead, and we're probably gonna have to end up serving the Philistines because we just got whooped. We had a really great slaughter. Then you look at verse 15 here. We're getting a little personal insight on Eli at this time. Eli was 98 years old. Not exactly a young guy. And his eyes were dim that he could not see. And the man said unto Eli, I am he that came out of the army, verse 16. And fled today out of the army, and he said, What is there done, my son? What is going on? And he answers and said, Israel fled before the Philistines in verse 17. And there was a great slaughter among thy people, and thy sons, Hopni and Phineas, were dead, and the ark of God is taken. Taken. They took things into their own hands, and we got beat in an amazing way. Look at verse 18. And it came to pass when he had mention of the Ark of God, not even the great slaughter, not even his two boys. I have a hard time imagining that, having two boys myself. You just hear that your two boys were just slain by the enemy. I don't know how he personally felt about that, but it didn't seem to affect him as much as the ark, losing the arc of God here. Because look at this in verse 18, he says, When he made mention of the ark of God, he fell from off his seat backwards by the side of the gate, and his neck broke. And in a good old testament phrase, and he died. You have a 98-year-old man that's blind, old, and well it says, for he was an old man, end of verse 18, and heavy. So he enjoyed food And he had judged Israel forty years. So he falls. He hears the news of the ark of God being taken. And to him that was so and it is devastating. It is very devastating. He hears this, he falls over somehow. How a large guy fell backwards. I don't know. But he break his neck and he died. And when we see that phrase, so he died, and he died, it's really ultimately a reminder of the consequence of sin. The wages of sin is death. We have to deal with death. Christ came to give us life He is not limited to a box, to a possession, to any physical thing that we could make or imagine and build. We need to let God be God and quit trying to tell him who he should be, how he should do it, and when he should do it. We can presume so many things about the presence of God and try and limit him in so many different ways. Here, Eli hears about this, and now he is dead. And this affects the rest of the nation. And it's a very interesting little note here. And the rest, when we look at what happened to his family, look at verse 19. His daughter-in-law, so this is Phineas' wife, was with child. She's pregnant. She was near to be delivered, and when she heard the tidings of the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, that's a rough day, and she bowed herself in travail, for her pains came upon her. So hopefully this doesn't happen tonight. We have some pregnant ladies in here. Okay. She just started going into labor with this great news and this great travail. of everything that happened. It forced her body prematurely. And I think the significant part about this is, as we fast forward here in verse 20, And about the time of her death, the woman that stood by her said, Fear not, for thou hast borne a son. She said, At least you're giving forth to a son, a birth to a son, a baby boy here. He's gonna be a little man She didn't say anything. Verse 21. She named the child Ichabod, saying The glory is departed from Israel. Why? Because of the ark of God was taken, and because her father-in-law and her husband. What they're saying here is she gives birth prematurely. She's in the midst of dying. She wants to name her son Ichabah. Now in the Old Testament, you know, names would carry a little bit more weight. It was usually more descriptive. But to name your son, the glory is departed, or there is no more glory? I'm not saying it's a good thing that they lost the Ark and a Covenant, but they didn't lose God But it was easier to look at the ark and to get upset at a material possession being lost than it was to turn to God and say, God, we really have sinned against you. So that's why I want to remind us very quickly. I want to turn back to uh chapter seven. They at least did learn, and why am I jumping to chapter seven? Because I believe we're going to be in chapter eight next time we study on a Sunday night. But in chapter 7, we read verses 3 through 6. But I want to point out, starting with verse 8. So we know, well there was five things he pointed out four things he pointed out actually in verse 3. If you do return to the Lord with all your hearts, God's not after Just stuff he wants your heart. He wants you to put away the strange gods, to prepare your hearts in the Lord, and to serve him only. Then he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines. You want to be delivered. It's not in a material possession. Don't expect God to come to your demands from a box and think that we have this, now we can win. It did not work. You need to serve the God of the box, the God of the temple, the God of the church. And so he gives them some great advice. And then they they started obeying that in chapter 7. And but look at the result. So they fasted, they did all those things, 4, 5, and 6, verse 7. And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together, I think we read that too. They went to Israel, the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines. Verse 8, the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Cease not to cry into the Lord our God for us. What a difference. What are they doing? Are they turning? They don't have the Ark of the Covenant. Sometimes it's like God puts us in a situation where we're not comfortable or we think he can go that way, and what's he do? He's saying you come to me They didn't have the Ark of the Covenant. The Philistines still have it. So what is he saying? Look at that. He says, cease not. The people are now going to Samuel in verse 8. Cease not to cry unto the Lord our God for us. They could have done that the first time. Look at this. That He will save us out of the hand of the Philistines. Do you see the difference? Who are they crying out to? It took loss, a huge loss of life. It took servitude to the Philistines. But God allowed them to get into a place to recognize it is me that you worship, it is me that you crowd to, it is me who can deliver you from your enemies. Nothing else can do. Now they seek the godly man that was positioned above them the first time. Could this have happened? I probably could have. I mean then we're speculating, but what we know is they learned their lesson and God allowed them to be in a position where now they have to turn to God because the ark is gone. They don't have a great military right now. You know, they're kind of serving the Philistines. These aren't going so great So then he does the offering in verses 9 and 10. And look at verse 11. And the men of Israel went out of Mizphah and pursued the Philistines and smote them until they came to Bethkar. And Samuel took a stone and set it before Mizfud and Shen, and called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, Hhereto hath the Lord helped us. What are they concluding? It's God that helps. Not making a God for ourselves, some idol, something that we're saying that God is in, that we will worship, it's God Himself, not the stuff And when we recognize that it's God who delivers us, it is God we run to and not things, that is what's going to help us. But what can delay us? What can prevent us from doing that, just like Israel? We don't want to get right. We don't want to repent. We don't want to change our ways. We kind of like having our ark of the comment. I like having my little rubbish foot that's all soft. Do I really want to turn to God? Sometimes that's hard. We feel guilty. We don't want to do it that way. We enjoy our sin. Sometimes we just do have ignorance. We think we're doing it right. We're serving God our way and not serving God his way. So we don't want to repent. We don't want to turn to him. We like the gods of the bank accounts and the cars and whatever else it may be. And we find security in those things. It's very hard sometimes. But would we be like the children of Israel on the latter side that recognize, you know what, the presence of God is not limited to something that we We need to let God be God. And recognize it is Him that delivers us from the enemy, Him that we seek for wisdom and Counsel and often in the Old Testament he used a man to help speak through to them, which we're going to see is going to lead to them actually Coming to the next downfall of, you know what, we need a king because God is working through men, like he did Samuel, like he did with the judges, so we're going to want a king, and that's up and coming. And I think they're taking a good thing and they're going to shift it from things. To man. Would we not make the same mistakes? Father, I thank you so much for this evening and the privilege we have to look through Some of Samuel 3 and 4, and then kind of jump ahead to chapter 7. Many times, Father, we try and limit you. We allow things to become our idols. We want to worship and serve you. That ought not be the case. We expect your presence to be in something other than who you are and what you actually are. Father, would you help us? You are the one that delivers. You are the one that knows us well, that can help us and to be with us. And if we are obedient to you, starts with recognizing that we are sinful people that need to repent and turn to you. Do we have other gods, talents? Abilities, whatever it may be, that's coming between you and us, could we get that out of our life and allow you to be the God who saves, delivers? That we can seek for wisdom and counsel. Would we humble ourselves and seek you the way we should? We don't have to do it the hard way. Father, many times We do. But by your grace and your mercy and with tender hearts, we can make it right and turn to you and serve you only. Would you be with your people and help us as we come to you through the name of your Son and our precious Savior? Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen. Sometimes we sometimes we think God's being harsh with us. What he's doing is he's allowing us to experience the real-life consequences of what we've chosen. And in times where things are really getting bad, the right response is to get back to the basics. And ask the question, what is wrong at the root? And I really want to encourage you, thinking about this passage of scripture, when we're dealing with trouble in life, we've got to get back to the root. What's the cause of this? The cause was they believed they could use God to do whatever they wanted and they could approach him any way they wanted. And God said, it doesn't work that way. I'm God and you're my people. And you don't own me and you can't manipulate me and you can't use me any way you want. You have to approach me in the way that I tell you you can. And so it's so important that we keep that in our minds. The song we're going to sing before we close in prayer and then head to the back for our fellowship is 368. And the song is A Tender Heart. Please let's all turn together in a hymn books and sing this song together. 368. A tender heart. Please let's stand together as we sing this. Take me now, Lord Jesus. Take me. I would give my heart to thee. Thy need for it may be only thy to be saved. I work in thee and be hard. Oh my God, I 'm I am not only God. Use me now for me, and use me as our tell of the world. May thy spirit flew within me, bringing soul to thee. Take along my heart and I will. Get it and we need to go to the bar, right? I am thy Lord here , I hear one. Send me now me and Danny, we be in thy birth. I can help always die and be I will pray who save your I will give me every form, but all time you're after I went on. I 'm ears I little sonic Right there. Alright, well let's go ahead and uh let me give you a couple of um explanation of how we want to do things in the back. Um first of all, uh if you are in our senior category I would like us to give you guys a preference so you can go to the back first to get the food. Our kids need to stay with their parents. Okay? So parents Do the best you can to keep your kids corralled to help them with the food. And also we have two different groups of chairs out there. We have metal chairs and we have cloth chairs. The cloth chairs are not for our children Therefore our adults, particularly our seniors. We put out the two different chairs so that those who are going to need that soft cushion will use that. So please do make sure that you guys follow that and also uh feel free to play in the back we may need to rope off an area so that um we don't have cars moving in and out So I might need a couple of guys to help me with that. Please let's bow together for prayer. Thank the Lord for the food we're going to have. And ask for God's blessing on Mount and Victoria and their family as They'll be moving very, very soon. Father, we're so very grateful for your word and the opportunity today to focus our attention on it. And we think about the children of Israel and we recognize that the same tendencies that they had are tendencies that we have as well. And so I pray that you help us when we get into places that are very difficult that we would pause and ask why. We would get back to the root of those problems and recognize where we have departed from you and where thinking is is wrong and where we need to turn back to you in humility and seek your face and walk in your ways and see you work in our lives lives to restore what has been lost and to strengthen what has been weakened. I pray that you will bless our time together, a fellowship in the back. Thank you for the Food we'll enjoy. Thank you for Matt and Victoria and their children, the blessing that they've been in our church, and the service that they have um given in this church and I pray that you will strengthen them as they'll be moving, give them safety and help all the coordination that is still being worked out to come together as smoothly as possible. I pray that you would minister to them spiritually as they'll be in a new place, help them to connect with godly people who will encourage them and people that they can minister to. And I pray that we would not forget them, but uplift them in prayer. And thank you for the bond that we enjoy in Christ with this dear family. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.