Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and we are in Luke chapter 9 again this morning. So if you have your Bible, please turn there and we're going to read verses 20 through 26 together. Here's what the text says. And he said unto them, But who say ye that I am? Peter answering said, The Christ of God. And he straightly charged them and commanded them to tell no man the things saying, the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day And he said unto them, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross daily, and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it For what is a man advantaged if he gained the whole world, and lose himself, or be cast away? For whosoever will be ashamed of me, and of my words, of him shall the Son of Man be ashamed, when he shall come in his own glory and in his fathers and of the holy angels. Now if you remember back to yesterday, we were talking about a critical part of understanding what Jesus is saying. And what we did is we we paused for a moment and we considered the weight and the significance and the implications of the cross. We see that the cross is what God used to satisfy his wrath against our sin. God's justice has to be satisfied. God is not able to compromise his justice. He's not able to forgive a sinner without payment being made. And so the scripture says that he is both just and the justifier. of the one who has faith in Christ. The reason that God can be just and the justifier of a sinner is because Jesus has paid in full the weight of the wrath of God against our sin. He has paid the ultimate price. He has given his own life. Well this morning what I'd like to do is I'd like to transition away from that discussion on the cross, and I'd like us to look at another key component to understanding why Jesus says what he does about taking up one's cross and following him. And so what the what we're going to talk about this morning is the importance of our identity with Christ. And when I say our identity with Christ, we're saying that a person, when they place their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is united with Christ, that is a spiritual reality, but then when they are baptized, they are identified publicly with Christ And so that union with Christ is something that changes them fundamentally. And their willingness to identify with Christ in their baptism Is something that forever changes how people are going to view them who have known them before and after their conversion So the question I want to answer this morning is what actually happens when a person is united with Christ When a person comes face to face with the gospel, they understand that they're a sinner, that their their righteousness is not acceptable to God, that their sin stands between them and God, that they deserve God's just wrath against their sin. And in a moment of humility, they turn to God, they place their faith alone in the finished work of Christ. What happens to that person on the foundational level? Is there any kind of change that takes place inside of them? And the answer to that is absolutely yes. A person who places their faith in Christ is not the same person that they were before their conversion. Their identity is no longer in who they were, but now who they are in Christ. Let me give you several passages of scripture that really emphasize this truth. And who they are today in Christ is going to fundamentally shape how they think, what they love, what they hate Every aspect of their life goes back to that position that they have in Christ and this fundamental root change that takes place inside of them. The first passage I'll invite you to look at is 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Here's what the text says. If any man be in Christ, that's talking about our union with Christ. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things have passed away Behold, all things are become new. To put it in the simplest terms, when you become a Christian, you are fundamentally changed forever. You are now a new creature, and the old man that you once were is dead. You are now raised up, as it says in Romans 6, to walk in newness of life. Another text of scripture that kind of helps us to see the practical and the theological implications of this reality set side by side together. It's 1 Corinthians 6 verse 9. In 1 Corinthians 6, Paul is writing to a church that he calls saints, but they have all kinds of internal strifes and divisions and struggles going on. And Paul is writing to people that he knows are saved, but are living inconsistent with the reality of their position. And so he makes an amazing statement in verses 9 through 11, and I don't want us to miss it. Very, very important. Here's what it says. He says The righteous, excuse me, do you not know that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Now Paul is going to describe the nature of what he means when he says, the unrighteous who will not inherit the kingdom of God. He says, do not be deceived, neither fornicators. nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates, nor abusers of themselves with mankind. Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor extortioners, nor drunkards, nor revilers shall inherit the kingdom of God Now, that list right there is a list that is including many people in the church at Corinth. Lots of people in the church at Corinth had been saved from lives of immorality. sexual immorality. They had been saved from lives of idolatry. They had been saved from lives where they had been unfaithful in their marriages. There were individuals who were involved in same-sex relationships that are sinful, an abomination to God. There were people that were involved in covetous behavior, that were involved and drunkenness and and parties that were full of all kinds of debauchery. The fact is that there were people who were guilty of every single one of the sins that the Apostle Paul mentions. But here's what's important for us to notice about the text. He says, and such were some of you. He says you once were identified by those sinful, unrighteous behaviors, but you are no longer identified by with those sinful behaviors, not because you are no longer a sinner, and not because you may no longer experience temptation towards some of these sinful expressions, but because you have been fundamentally changed by the gospel. Here's what he says. He says you are washed You are sanctified, you are justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. The idea is that the sins that had once identified these people They have been washed away by the redemptive work of Christ. And you are now set apart from those things unto God. And you are declared righteous on the basis of the righteousness of Christ. So while those things were the former way of life for these people, they are no longer their identification. Ephesians 2 also talks about this passage. It says, or this concept, he says, you have he quickened. That means he's made you alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world, according to the Prince of the Power of the Earth, the Spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we all had our conversation in times past. fulfilling the lust of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. So what's he say? You were once spiritually dead, and now you have been regenerated. You have been quickened. You have been made alive. You used to walk according to the course. of those who were also spiritually dead, and now your identification has changed. Your life is no longer connected to those things. He says, but God who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead, hath quickened us together with Christ by gracious your sake. You say, well, Joe, that's wonderful. So when a person places their faith in Christ, it's not just paying lip service to I believe in Jesus. It's a new life, and it's death to an old life. It's a new identity. It's a union with Christ. And the answer is yes, all of those things are true. And so then the question arises, well what happens practically when someone is united with Christ and their identity changes? And the answer is They now live different and think different than they once did. In other words, they're new creatures. They have a new nature. That new nature shapes their affections, their responses, their disposition, their values, their character. Everything flows back. To that spiritual reality and that identification with Christ. They lose their former identity and they're now rooted in an identity in Christ and in Christ alone. And so I asked this very practical question. When that happens to someone, how does the world respond to this new identification? How does the world respond to those new affections and those new responses and that new disposition and those new values and that new character. And the answer is either one, they are drawn to the truth through the Spirit's work through the Word, or They reject the truth and rebellion, and they turn against the one that God is using to reveal these things to them. And that really is the essence of why Luke chapter 9 tells us we have to be prepared to take up our cross daily. The same world that hates Jesus hates those who represent him. And so I want to leave you with a strong encouragement this morning. If you walk with Christ, And if you live consistent with your position, all those who live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. We need to be prepared for the simple fact that some people will not like what our lives reveal and represent. as it relates to pointing them back to God. And so I pray that God will help us to be strong and faithful and to live consistent with our position and even when it may cost us We will not cave in in shame and in fear, but in fact we will stand strong and we'll be faithful. May the Lord help us to do that If this has been an encouragement to you, I hope that you'll take some time to share that either with me or with someone else so they can be benefited by it. Hope you have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll talk again tomorrow. Bye now