Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to uh episode thirty-two of our Anchored in the Word morning reflection. And yesterday we started uh getting back into Luke chapter seven and so If you have your Bible, let's turn together there. We're in Luke chapter seven, verses thirty-six through thirty-nine. Here's what it says. And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisees' house and sat down to meet. And behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisees' house, brought an alabaster box of ointment. and stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with her tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with ointment Now when the Pharisee, which had bidden him, saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she is a sinner And Jesus answering said to him, Simon, I have some what to say unto thee. And he saith, Master, Sion, There was a certain creditor which had two debt debtors, the one owed five hundred pence and the other fifty And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me, therefore, which of them will love him most? Simon answered and said, I suppose that he whom he forgave the most, and he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. Now I want to remind you that yesterday we looked at some introductory topics, and in order for us to appreciate what we're reading in these verses, we have to start with a theological grounding in what the Bible has to say about the Bible. About sin. When we talk about this issue of sin, we need to see it biblically. We need to see it from God's perspective. And so rather than comparing ourselves to other people, we have to compare ourselves to God's righteous standard. And we need to be careful that we don't uh diminish our sin and downplay it. We also need to be careful that we don't raise it to such a level that we think that that sin is unforgivable, that The gospel cannot cover any sin. And so what we saw last week, or not last week, yesterday, is that the only sin that keeps a person out of God's kingdom is unbelief. It's a rejection of the gospel. Well, what I'd like us to do today is I'd like us to take that foundational concept that we dealt with yesterday, and I'd like us to keep this in the back of our mind as we begin to interrogate the passage. Now when I use the word interrogate, I don't want you to get the wrong opin uh impression of what we're saying. Um we want to dig into this passage and want to ask a lot of questions. In fact, if we're going to appreciate a passage of scripture, we're going to rightly understand it and interpret it. it and then properly apply it, we've got to ask the right questions and we've got to ask them carefully and methodically and we've got to really digest what's there. And so that's what we're going to do this morning. I want us to observe and then contemplate and then look at the implications. So first of all, let's begin with a couple of observations about this passage as we think about the importance of a healthy perspective. and how it really starts with an understanding of the truth. So observation. What do we see in the text? The first thing is we see three key players. We see a man named Simon, he's a Pharisee. A woman who is not named in the passage, but she's known to be a notoriously sinful person, and then we have Christ. Let's look at what Simon's part in this text is. In verse 36 it says, he was a Pharisee, and he desired him that he would eat with him. Jesus went into his house and sat down to meet. Now, in that statement, there are some things that are not mentioned that later on in the text we understand are true about this situation. When Jesus comes into Simon's house, it would have been expected that he would have had somebody wash his feet for him, or a basin of water would have been brought to him, a towel, he would have had the opportunity to wash his feet, and then he would be refreshed in some way with ointment so that when he sat down at the table, um they could enjoy the meal in a hygienic way. It's clean. And everyone's fresh and they're enjoying that time of fellowship. That was just common hospitality protocols in their culture. But that's not what happened. When Jesus came in, the man did not follow the proper customs, which would have been fairly shocking, and we would not have expected this from a man who was a Pharisee and was known to be a meticulous kind of person. The second thing is that the reason is ultimately because he's disrespecting Christ. He does not value Christ. He doesn't value Christ's message. He doesn't value his person. And so really what he's doing is a slight It's like a slap in the face. It's an insult. And there's a third aspect to this, he's not doing this uh in in in in his own house where no one sees it. It is in his own house where he's controlling the environment. But we see in the text that he had friends there. So he's basically disrespecting Christ before his peers. And this woman who was in the streets saw what was taking place. Secondly, I'd like to move on to the visitor, this woman. She's not mentioned by name, but she's a person who had a reputation. It says in verse 36 or 37, it says She was a woman of the street, which was a sinner, and she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisees' house, and she brought an alabaster box of ointment, stood at his feet, weeping, began to wash his feet with her tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head. kissed his feet and anointed them with ointment. What we see is while Jesus was disrespected by Simon in front of his peers, this woman received him and was very grieved by what she saw. And she was attempting in her own way to show Jesus the respect and the honor and the hospitality that Simon refused to show him. I want to move from the observation to a second point. We need to think about how how do we respond to this? Like, how would you how do you react when you think about it? Well, some of you might go, well I'm perplexed. I uh this is confusing. I don't know why f the Pharisee would do this and it it just makes me feel uncomfortable. Some people might be be really upset, say they disrespected Christ. Some people might say, I don't really know how to take this. Well, when I look at it It basically aggrieves me. That's the way I would look at it. And I say it's really troubling that this man would have such a disrespect for Christ. and that this woman would have to be the one who steps into the picture and kind of intervenes. But that's really not where I want us to stop. I want us to ask the question why? Why do we see these two different responses? I want us to kind of contemplate, consider the reason behind it. And so I want to start with Simon. Why did Simon respond the way that he did Well, ultimately he responded the way that he did because of what was inside of his heart. Simon was a self-righteous man, and that self-righteousness led to a disrespect of Christ. The woman, on the other hand, was someone whose heart was humbled, and she was grateful. What that shows us is she understood who Christ was. She may not have fully understood who Christ was, that she understands the cross and the resurrection, all those details, I'm not sure that she would have understood all of that at that time, but here's what she did understand. This man is the fulfillment of prophecies, and he is promising to redeem people from sin. That's what she understands She understands I'm a sinner and this man is here to save me from my sin. And so the reason behind the complete difference of relationship to Christ is a perspective difference. And we could even put it this way. One man's one person's perspective, the man's perspective was not consistent with the facts. It wasn't built on truth. How he saw himself How he saw Christ, how he saw this woman, it was not built on reality. This woman's perspective, which was healthy, was built on truth. She understood her sin. She understood who the Savior was, and she understood He's come to save me from my sin. You might say, well, what exactly uh is the implication of that? Like Like, why does this matter? Well, the reason that it matters is because Simon's view of sin was wrong and her view of sin was right. And so that leads us to a very important implication. It is impossible for a person to have a healthy perspective of themselves and the world that they live in without having a biblical view of sin and redemption. That means that the gospel is the starting point to a healthy perspective. We might know how to handle money We might know how to get along with people. We might know how to make good choices that ultimately give us some measure of fulfillment in life. But these skills Don't form a truly healthy perspective. They might be part of a perspective that is healthy, but they're not the foundation for a healthy perspective. The foundation for a healthy perspective is the gospel that helps us to know ourselves. our God, the way of redemption, and then how everything in life is oriented around the gospel. The difference between these two people is that one has the foundation right, the other one doesn't have the foundation right. In fact I think about what Jesus says in Mark chapter eight. He says whoever will save his life shall lose it. But whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's the same shall save it. For what is it profited at What what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? In other words, Jesus is drawing us to to see this fact. It's not it's not about what you get in life, it's about your relationship That's where a healthy, vibrant perspective actually is rooted. Or in Luke chapter 12, verse 15, Jesus says, Beware of covetousness. A man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. In other words, life's not about money and about power and prestige and how people perceive us. It's about our relationship to God A healthy perspective starts with knowing God and interpreting everything in life in the light of who He is In fact, that's what Solomon told his sons in Proverbs 9, verse 10. He says this, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And the knowledge of the holy is understanding. If you want to be a person with a healthy perspective, your life has to be built on the truth. And it's got to be built on the truth of knowing God. Think about the illustration of the way that people thought about the universe during the Middle Ages. Lots of people believed that the world, the earth, this ball, this sphere that we live on, was the center of the universe and everything revolved around the earth. Well w now what we know and what people knew actually before them as well, is that The Earth is not the center of the universe. In fact, the Earth rotates around the Sun. And so the sun is really where it starts. And a lot of people, like that illustration, believe that they are the center of the universe. They believe that everything orients around them. And that is the foundation for a flawed and really a very dangerous perspective. But a person who recognizes that life doesn't begin with me, it begins with God and everything is oriented back to him. That's the beginning of a healthy perspective. A healthy perspective begins with The truth. The truth about God, who he is, what he's done, where I come from, and why all this matters. That's where it begins. So the question you might be asking yourself in closing is this What do I take away from it? What's the practical implication? Well, let me give you a couple of simple thoughts that I think we can carry with us throughout the day as we reflect on the fact that our perspective has to be built on the facts. the truth oriented toward God. The first is this. We need our our thinking to be continually renewed. I need God to change the way that I think so that it is conformed to His truth, okay? When I say his truth, I mean the truth, alright? And I don't mean that in the way that people use the term my truth and your truth. God is the truth, okay? He is the one that our lives have to be oriented around. And so we continually need our minds to be oriented back to him. We need our thinking to be renewed by the scriptures. The second thing is this. We need to constantly be confronted with the truth. Confrontation is not necessarily a bad thing. thing. In fact, when it comes to a person's perspective changing, their perspective has to be constantly confronted. And they have to be reconsidering in light of the standard of truth. And so that's one of the reasons that opening up the Bible on a on a on a daily basis and and letting the scriptures Uh sink into my heart being in church and hearing the Word of God preached week in and week out. One of the reasons that's so important is because My mind is renewed as I am being confronted with the truth. And so there might be certain truths that I I'm aware of them intellectually, but I'm not applying them in my life. And so what happens is that I hear a sermon, I I read the scriptures, and the Holy Spirit takes that little truth and he drives it down into my heart and he says, you know what, you know that truth intellectually, but you're not living in the light of it. That's confrontation. That's what I need. My perspective has to be built on truth. Thirdly, we need to develop a pattern of humbly responding to the truth as we come in contact with it I have learned by experience in my own life and in dealing with other people that when we are not confronted with truth on a regular basis, and humbly responding to that truth that we're being confronted with on a continual basis. That what ends up happening is we become desensitized to the truth. We become hardened to the truth. It becomes much more difficult for us to submit our wills to the truth. But when we are continually reading Scripture, Being confronted with truth, humbling our wills to it, and then growing in the light of those truths, you know what happens? It becomes a very healthy pattern of being willing to examine. of being willing to submit, of being willing to obey. That's what we need. I think what we need to take away from this passage is I've got to have a renewed mind continually. I've got to be confronted with the truth continually. I need to I need to have an established pattern of humble response to Scripture so that I am growing into Christ-likeness, being transformed through the renewing of our minds. The big takeaway this morning is a simple one. A healthy perspective starts with truth. The beginning Of knowledge, or the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. I hope that that'll be an encouragement to you this morning. If it has, please share that. Share it with somebody else who could be encouraged by it. And I hope that you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, tomorrow we will be back at it as we continue to dig into Luke chapter 7, verses 36 to 50. Have a blessed day. Bye now.