Good evening. That mic is pretty hot. Okay, well I'm looking forward to our study tonight. Let's bow together for prayer, and then we are going to look at our second section in the Sermon on the Mount. So let's bow for a word of prayer. Father, we are so grateful that in the middle of the week we can pause and we can spend time in your word. I pray that as the scriptures are opened and as we reflect on these truths, that you would speak to us in a very significant way. The things that we'll talk about are foundational to this next section of the Sermon on the Mount we're going to look at And so as I dig into this passage and as we talk about these things, I pray that the Spirit of God would take the scriptures and really impress them upon our hearts. We ask that you be with the children in the back as they're having their class. Help that to go very well. I pray that you would work in the hearts of our young people and be with those who are learning English in the back. I pray that you'll bless that class as well And be with those who cannot be with us, whether it's a health issue or travel, I pray that you would give them strength, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Matthew 5 is where we are tonight, and this is not an introduction, but it will be kind of like an introduction because we are beginning to look at the section called the Beatitudes. This evening, we're going to look at who the blessed person is. Matthew chapter 5, verse 1. Here's what it says. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And when he was said, his disciples came unto him. He opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you. And shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now, whenever we look at Christ's teaching, the way that Christ teaches is often through parables and through illustration. Lots of Jesus' teaching falls into this category. And the Beatitudes you could say are presented in a way that is kind of like a parable. And the reason that I say that is because or excuse me, excuse me, a lot like a proverb. And the reason I say that is because Jesus is making statements that when you and I hear them we go, that doesn't make sense. You mean somebody who mourns is actually blessed, and someone who is poor in spirit is actually blessed? or someone who is persecuted for righteousness' sake is a blessed person, the world would say there's absolutely no way that can be true. But the fact is it is true. Jesus said it. And Jesus says it because he wants us to ask the question, how is it that a person who is poor in spirit is actually a blessed person? And how is it that a person who is hungering and thirsting or mourning, how is it that that person is actually a blessed person? And really what it does is it teaches us that the way that the world looks at someone being blessed and the way that the Christian looks at somebody being blessed is not the same. Now there are times that there are overlaps. I do understand that. If an unsafe person has a family that is that is healthy and doing well, you say that person is blessed. And that is technically true. But the kind of blessedness that Jesus is talking about is in a different category altogether. And so let me begin by first of all giving you a summary statement for what we're looking at, and then I want us to dig into the first statement about these truths that I think is important for us to understand. Here's a summary statement. True blessedness in many ways contrasts the world's common perception of blessing. Because these qualities are unnatural to people in their fallen state and must be viewed in the light of eternity. So the things that that Jesus is going to talk about, they're not normal or natural to people. So people are not by nature poor in spirit. People are not by nature merciful. People are not by nature falling into these categories. In fact, they're the exact opposite. It's God working in a person that causes them to have such qualities. And so that's a really important point for us to notice. And then the blessedness that he talks about is something that's not just looking at this temporary moment that we're living in. But it's going beyond the temporary moment and it has an eternal perspective. A lot of the way that we view things as Christians is not just about, well, how does this affect this moment? But it's how does this affect this moment in the light of eternity? That is a huge difference between the Christian and the unbeliever. So God wants us to be a genuinely blessed people, but in order for us to be a genuinely blessed people, we have to understand what He's teaching here. So let me begin with a couple of introductory thoughts that I think are important for us as we get into this passage. The first statement is this: we need to understand the purpose of man. Why are we here? Why did God create us? Why did He put us on this planet? Do we have a purpose? For for people out in the world that don't believe that there's a creator and don't believe that there is order in the the universe and that there's not a lawgiver who is righteous and who is good. They have really no way to establish a reason for our existence. They really don't. They have absolutely no basis to say a human is of more value than an animal. They really don't. Why? Because you have to have the Christian mindset to in in order for us to recognize the dignity and the value of people. So one simple statement that I'm going to break down quickly. Genesis 126, it says God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness Let them have dominion. Simple verse. Now when God says, let us make man in our image, he does not have a physical image that we reflect. That is not what he's saying. Okay? God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. So when he talks about it's being created in God's image, he's not talking about a physical likeness. He's talking about something that is fundamental to us as humans. And there are three things I'm going to mention about this. We are to reflect the character of God. The goodness of God. That is one aspect. Number two, we have the ability to have communion or fellowship with God. You know, why did God give us the ability to talk? Why did God create us with rationale that we can actually think and process things? Why did God give us the ability to recognize there is moral right? And there's moral wrong because all of those pieces are a part of our ability to have fellowship or communion with God. And so God's desire for us is that we would know him personally and we would be able to fellowship with him forever. So he creates us to reflect his goodness, to commune with him forever, and to take care of his creation. Those three pieces are very, very important. Second thing I'm going to mention is this. The nature of life in a fallen world. Though God created us good, and God created us with dignity and a purpose, and that was not lost after the fall. We still are image bearers, we still reflect God's character to some extent, okay? But there is now the effect of sin in a fallen world. And here's the passage I want to mention that's very important. Job 14,1. Man is man of man born of woman is of few days and full of trouble. Let's go catch that. Man born of woman is of few days. And full of trouble. Now, that few days is in the light of eternity. We were not created just to live 50 or 60 years or 80 years or 90 years. We were created to enjoy God forever. Okay? And on this side of eternity, it's a very short time. But he says that short time that God gives us is full of trouble. And then he says, he cometh forth like a flower and it is cut down. He fleeth also as a shadow and continueth Not. Now, what is Job saying about people? He's saying, even though we were created in the image of God, we are to reflect God's goodness, we can enjoy God forever. He created us with the ability to have communion. We're supposed to take care of his creation. We're fallen. We live in a fallen world. Everybody we interact with is fallen. And we have a great adversary, Satan himself. So because we're fallen creatures, living in a fallen world, interacting with other fallen creatures who have this vicious adversary, Satan, guess what happens in this world? A lot of trouble, a lot of difficulty. A lot of turmoil. So those two pieces are very important as we dig into this Matthew 5 passage. But then there's a third piece that is vitally important. And this is where the good, we could say the encouragement comes. That is our identity in Christ. If it were not for the gospel, and if it were not for what Jesus did for us, we would be living in a fallen world and it would be absolute misery now and it would be absolute misery forever. Does that make sense? If it weren't for what Christ did for us, all of that misery would continue into eternity. And so listen to what it says in Colossians 2. He says, Beware, lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, not after Christ For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principalities and powers. So all of these blessings that we're going to talk about in Matthew 5, the reason this person can be called blessed Is because that blessing is connected directly to his position in Christ. Now I understand that the Sermon on the Mount was preached before the cross, but he's talking about those who Believed in the coming Messiah. They were anticipating the Savior. All of those blessings come back in some way directly to what we have in Christ. If we don't have Christ, if we don't have the gospel, we don't have any of these blessings. We do not have any of this blessedness. But because of Christ, because of the gospel, all of these realities are true in him. And so we talk about redemption, the penalty of our sin. It's been removed. Restoration, God is conforming us to the image of Christ. That's what sanctification is. It's about our thinking being renewed. It's about our character being changed. It's about us growing into Christ's likeness. And then the this this concept of purpose, we have an eternal inheritance that is sure forever. So I start with those things because that is an important thing for us to keep at the back of our minds as we get into the Sermon on the Mount. Whenever you have struggles in the Sermon on the Mount, you have to think in terms of the piece that you're looking at in terms of the whole of the Sermon. Okay? We have to think there's a big picture here. Don't just take one little statement, isolate it out, and then ignore the rest of the sermon. It fits within a general context. And so I want to begin with this first truth. The world's view of blessedness is broken. The world's view of blessedness is broken. Today I was I was out at a at one of the companies in the area that I go to as a chaplain. I sat down with a guy. And we had some conversation. He says, hey, I want to talk to you about, you know, what what you do. And I said, well, I'm a pastor. Oh yeah, well, why are you a pastor? So I start talking about how the Lord worked in my heart about being a pastor. And he starts telling me, well, I'll tell you what I believe about God and this and that. And I say, okay, well let's hear what you have to say. And he you know he's telling me all these things and going on and on and on and on and on. And I was like, well, would you like to know what I believe about God? I said, this is the fundamental issue for me. If it's not true, I don't believe it. He's like So yeah. So I'm convinced that what the Bible says is true, and that's why I believe it. Not because I want it to be true. Not because somebody told me it's true. I believe it because I'm convinced that it's true. And I'm building my life on it because I'm convinced that it's true. I don't know that that's something you really thought about. Kind of an interesting thing to consider. But the fact is that the average person out there that you would talk to, you know what? They believe what they believe, not because they're convinced it's true, but it's because it's what they want to believe. They do not want to consider the implications that might be true if this is true. And so what they do is they just kind of casually glance Buy it. And that's going to come out in the values that the world lifts up. And what we're going to see is that the values that the world lifts up and the values that we hold as Christians. They're in contrast. They're in conflict. They're in contradiction. And you know it is so common for a Christian to get back on their heels and get back into the corner and somebody go, Oh, you believe that? I can't believe you believe that we're We were talking uh back and forth today about what's going on in the SBC and women ministers and all that kind of stuff, okay? And and we were reading the New York Times um the the the the comment section on the article and it was like, whoa. You want to talk about some pretty intense hatred for Christianity and what the Bible has to say about those things. And the level of condescension was just It was stunning. Absolutely stunning. Why is that? I thought that the world, like, kind of believes everybody can just believe whatever they want, right? I don't believe that. Are you kidding? As soon as something says Jesus is the way, the truth, and life, and no one comes to the Father except through him And if the Bible is God's word and it is inerrant, it is our sole authority for faith and practice I go , I don't believe that judgmental stuff. I'm judging your judgmental stuff by my not wanting to be judgmental. You're like, well, this is a completely contradictory thing. There's a reason I'm bringing this up. Because the world's mindset is inconsistent. It's inconsistent. It is entirely biased. It is a form of stumbling in the dark. And the Bible has a lot to say about it. Listen to some of these scriptures. Proverbs chapter 1, verse 11. It says, discretion shall preserve thee, understanding shall keep thee, to deliver thee from the way of the evil man. From the man that speaketh forward things, who leave the paths of a brightness, and the next statement's important, to walk in the ways of darkness. Did you catch that? When someone leaves the path of a brightness, they walk down a path of darkness. That's why there's an inconsistency in the secular worldview. How someone can say that's wrong and then they can say and you say, Well, what's the basis of that wrong? And they go, uh, because they have no moral basis for secular Such a statement. None at all. Why is that? Because it's a way of darkness. It's a way of inconsistency. Proverbs 419. The way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. Philippians 3, 17 to 19. Brethren, be ye followers together of me. Mark them which walk as ye have for an example. For some walk of whom I have told you often, and now tell you weeping they are enemies of the cross of Christ. This next statement is amazing. Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, whose glory is their shame, who mind earthly things. Does that not describe our society today? End is destruction. God is their belly. Glory is their shame. They mind earthly things. The world's disposition is broken. Their values are broken. They are inconsistent with reality. And I'm going to walk through some very specific examples of this. The things that the world elevates and says, you want to be happy, then go after that. You will find it is an empty hole. It's going to leave you more empty than you were before you pursued it. And so we see this. The world embraces values that fall short of God's goodness or inconsistent with reality. And they're against God's natural purposes. Let's just take an example of money and possessions. Now, I mean nobody wants to live in poverty and and have to struggle through life. I'm sure nobody wants to do that. But the fact is the vast majority of people in the world believe that if they can make a little bit more money and they could have a little bit more stuff, maybe not a little bit, maybe a lot more money and a lot more stuff. They would be a very happy person. But you know what's amazing what you see in life? Some of the most wealthy and prosperous people are some of the emptiest and troubled people in the world. Why is that? Something that has the ability to give us access to power and friends and build our sense of value. Why does that leave people empty? Well, it leaves people empty because as you accumulate wealth, you have to pay something to get it. You have to pay for it with your sweat. You might have to pay for it with your values. You may have to pay for it by breaking relationships and destroying things along the way. You're gonna make great sacrifices to become financially prosperous. I know it is true that some people uh get wealth in lots of different ways. But as a general rule, the accumulation of wealth is the result of what? Of paying a price personally. on some some level. The more a person accumulates, guess what? The more potential to experience anxiety. The more anxiety that is associated with wealth. It's true. The more you have to manage, the more you have to worry about. And the more you have to manage, the more you have to worry about, the more it weighs you down. It can be stolen By lots of different means. Somebody could take it by force. Your money could lose its value because of the government's policies. I mean, something as simple as that. You could have a war It could be lost through mismanagement or unfortunate circumstances that are outside of your control. It can't buy the things that are most valuable. It can't take you. You can't take it when you die. Now you think about it this way. A person who believes money will make them happy. And financial prosperity will make them happy. And they give everything for that. Guess what happens? At the end of their life, they recognize something. It's empty. Now, it may not be till the end of their life. It might be earlier. It might be when they start realizing that the consequences of the price that they paid to get themselves in such a position. or the incredible burden of anxiety that they carry. But the fact is this, the world lives for stuff, and stuff doesn't really give you happiness. Happiness. Health and longevity. Better quality of life. Healthy people do lose their physical abilities. That's how I've learned. It's true. The strongest eighty-year-olds cannot do what a twenty-year-old can do physically They can't. Why is that? Well, because even a healthy person as they age, they lose abilities. They lose the ability to see clearly. They lose the ability to physically do the things that they do, that the stamina that they once had, they don't have those things anymore. While we can manage certain factors about our health, there are other things we can't control at all. You can't control the parents that you had and the genetics they passed down to you, but that that is a huge it has a lot to do with your health down the road. And longevity can be both a blessing and a curse. Think about someone who's older and is like, yeah, went to another funeral. Went to another funeral. Went to another funeral. I don't have any friends alive today. Everybody that I know is 20 years younger than I am. What's going on here? If people in their mind think that good health and longevity is where is where life really is , There's going to come a day when they recognize it's not the case. Think about power. Allows people to control their circumstances to some degree. But what does power often do to people? It corrupts them It destroys them. They become full of pride. They become vicious tyrants They also have rivals to their power, and they have to defend their power. And there are certain factors that you just can't control. And so if someone thinks power is is the end, and it's not. Relationships, giving them a sense of well-being. Relationships come with responsibilities. Relationships bring us limited satisfaction of joy. And Relationships are going to end one day. Now, obviously, as Christians, we know that when someone is absent from the body, they're present with the Lord, we're going to see them again. But on this side of eternity. The closest relationships that you have. One day, one of you is going to be at the other person's casket. And all of a sudden you recognize something. Relationships with other people is not where true joy lies. Honor, giving us a sense of accomplishment, separating us from others. And I ask the question: by whose standard are we judged? What about those who receive honors unjustifiably? Lots and lots of people in this world. They are honored and they are praised. And if we knew the whole story, we'd say, take that away. That's not true. One day God will bring those things to light. Then there are other people that the fact is they probably should be honored. And they're not. The the the truth of what they've done and why they've done it and and the value of that is been it's concealed through deceit. Or through people being so busy they don't take the time to look. And what's the point? The point is even honor has an end. And then I think about pleasure. Giving people an outlet for their affections, pursuing pleasures, often leads to disastrous personal outcomes. Think about what it says in Proverbs. He says, can a man take fire into his bosom and not be burned? Like, can you take fire and put it in your cloak and you cover it up and just sit there for a while and get away? He's like, of course you can't And he said, that's what happens when a person commits adultery. That's what happens when a person is involved in immoral relationships. They hurt themselves. They hurt the person or persons they're involved in. They they hurt their family members. They hurt their associations. And it's all because pleasure, following their body and their appetites Is what they think is the center of happiness. It leads to irresponsible and truly dehumanizing behavior. Leads to self-destruction in society. Why is our culture breaking down? It's because we're hedonists. I say we. Her society is hedonistic. People don't want to be responsible. They don't want to get married and have kids and just Just live an ordinary life raising their kids to honor the Lord. They want to be the center of the universe and do whatever they want without any kind of consequence at all. And what's the end result? The end result is devastating. You say, well, Joe, why did you take the time to do this? I took the time to simply say this: all those things that people value And they believe it's going to give them happiness. And they believe that's the real blessing of life. Every single one of those is an empty hole. They all are. They're going to give you a temporary moment of joy and happiness, but that temporary moment of joy and happiness doesn't last long, and on the end of it is a great hook that is going to be disastrous. And so I summarize it this way: any source of joy that is built exclusively in one of these worldly values will be transient. Has the potential to bring just as much sorrow as it once brought joy. We need a joy that is rooted in something that is unchanging, eternal, and good. We need a joy that is rooted in our Creator's design for us. And so pause and think about that for a moment. We as Christians have the opportunity to live life richly because we can know the God who made us. We can know his design and his purpose is for us and we can live conform to that purpose and that design. We can actually delight and enjoy something that lasts forever, no matter the circumstances. Nobody can take away your salvation. Nobody can take away your position in Christ. No one can take away your relationship to the Lord. No one can take away those eternal purposes. If that's really where your joy is, that is unshakable No matter circumstance, everything can be falling apart in your life. But that is solid, and that's what holds you. That is the anchor for your soul. So that moves me into a second truth. We need a distinctly Christian view of blessedness. Now here's what I want to do. I want us to work our way through the statements that Jesus makes in the Sermon on the Mount here. And by the way, we are going to take each of these and just hit them one at a time each night, okay? Tonight we're just we're kind of getting a survey of this. But I'm doing this because I want you to see the contrast between the way the believer who is thinking scripturally and living in the light of his position as a believer, how they think versus how The common man thinks. I want you to see the contrast. So here's the first one. Poor in spirit. What does the world preach? Be self-confident. Be self-reliant. Be the center of the universe. It's all about you. The guy with the biggest ego in the room is the one who's really in charge. But what does Jesus say? The poor in spirit. What does that mean? You don't think much of yourself at all. Now, it's not to say you think that you're unva that you're on value. That's not what we're talking about. We 're talking about you don't believe you have the right inherently to stand in the presence of a holy and righteous God because you know that you are morally and spiritually bankrupt. We're going to dig into that in just a little, well, not tonight, but another night. Poor in spirit. You see the contrast? They that mourn, the proud who revel in their sin. I mean, what are they calling this Pride Month? The absolute antithesis to what the Bible teaches about how a person should think and act? People mourning over their sin versus people in arrogance, reveling in it? Can't get a greater contrast than that, can you? So what does the Bible say? The blessed man isn't the one who revels in his sin. Who stands up in pride and shakes his fist at God? It's the one who weeps over their sin and recognizes its offense before a holy and righteous God. Huge contrast. The next one, the meek versus the vindictive. A person who is meek is someone who they're restrained. I could go this far and I'm I'm gonna hold back and I'm gonna be restrained. A vindictive person says, I'm gonna crush. You. I'm going to make you feel what I felt, and you're going to feel it worse than I did. I'm going to punish you. It's amazing. A lot of the Old Testament laws actually were to keep people from doing that to other people. Like like for instance where he says an eye for an eye and a tooth for a two, he's not saying, hey, if somebody plucks out your eye, then go take theirs. That's not what he's saying. He's saying if somebody plucks out your eye, you can't take two He's saying there are limits to how far a person can go when they're trying to get even. That's ultimately what is at the root of it. We'll get into that at another time. But the idea is you have one person who is restrain in response and one person who's vindictive. The contrast is very clear. They that do hunger and thirst versus they that hunger and thirst after their own appetites. People who literally live day after day after day as slaves to their passions That's one of the ways in Ephesians chapter 2 he talks about the unbeliever. He says, You have he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, and in times past you walked according to the course of this world. We all had our our our our our lives and times best fulfilling the desires of the flesh and the mind, and we were by nature the children of wrath. Ephesians chapter 6 talks about people being slaves to their flesh. Romans chapter 8 says that those who are in the flesh cannot please God. They're not subject to the law of God. These statements are very, very strong. What it's telling us is that the way that an unsaved person lives is what I feel like doing, I do it. The believer says, hold on. He's my Lord. I belong to him. This body isn't mine. I've been bought with a price. And the believer says, you know what? I hunger and thirst after righteousness, not just satisfying my fleshly passions. Contrast is huge. He says, Blessed are the merciful versus the self-absorbed. A person who is merciful is someone who notices the other, the plight of others, and has compassion. That's really the sense of mercy. You look at somebody, you say, I'm moved by what I see. I want to help them. I want to show compassion on them. That's the way that God views us as sinners. He looks at us with great compassion, though he is the righteous judge. He hates sin. He sees the brokenness of our painful plight, and he is compassionate towards us in such a situation. But the average person in the world, what? They don't have time for others. They don't have time to think about others. Completely self-absorbed. The pure in heart versus the duplicitous. Pure in heart means when I tell you something, I mean it. I'm not twisting the truth. I'm not presenting something to you to make you think this and this is actually what's going on. Whereas the way that the world often thinks is how can I position what I say very carefully so that I can make sure that you think what I want you to think, not necessarily what is true. There's a great difference between those two things. Yet the contrast is so clear. The peacemaker versus the contentious. I promise you it is much easier. To be contentious than to resolve conflicts. I promise you it's true. It is so easy. It is so natural to be vindictive. It is so easy to be unforgiving. It is so easy to speak evil of other people. It is so easy to create problem after problem after problem. It is so difficult to take two individuals who are at odds. And to sit them down and help them work through an issue. That is physically exhausting. That is mentally exhausting. That is a spiritual struggle. I promise you it's true. And then in the end, many times it doesn't happen. After all the work that you've done, it still falls apart. What kind of a person is willing to do it? The godly person. I'm willing to go the extra mile with this person, help them resolve their difficulties. And the world says, why would I waste my time? Why would I waste my time? The contrast. And then lastly, those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, men being reviling you and persecuting you and saying all manner of evil against you. you falsely versus being celebrated by society, giving them a platform to influence others and to shape how they think. The contrast is huge. One says, My allegiance is to Christ. If it costs me, so be it. The other one says, I'm in it for me. Whatever you want to hear me say, I'll say it as long as it gives me something. The contrast is clear. So why is it that some people have these qualities and others have these others? It's all about what's going on inside. That's what's going on inside. Let me make some observations here. These qualities aren't natural to anybody. Nobody is naturally inclined to these things that Jesus talks about You say, well, then how does anybody have them? Well, it's because they're what we call Christian graces. We can say the work of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer. For instance, in Galatians, it talks about the fruit of the Spirit. The fruit of the Spirit being love, joy, peace, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Well, those aren't qualities that you work to develop. There are qualities he produces in you when you're walking with him. There's actually a huge difference between that. A Christmas tree is what you hang lights on. It's what you hang tensile on. It's what you hang Christmas ornaments on. A fruit tree, you don't hang stuff on it. It just produces it. Why? Because one has life. And life produces fruit. Healthy life produces good fruit. The Christmas tree is the way a lot of people live. Just give me something so I look good. But it's not produced by anything living, okay? It's just hanging in it's just hanging in the leaves. That's all it is. The Christian lives like that and thinks like that and responds to Like that, because he has a new life in Christ. These are qualities we don't pursue. They're qualities that are characteristic of a specific kind of person. The blessed man. If somebody reads the Sermon on the Mount and they go, Wow, you know, I need to be a little bit more of that merciful thing, so I'm going to work on the mercy thing, work on the mercy thing, work on the mercy thing, then you're misunderstanding what Jesus is saying. He doesn't say, blessed are those who pursue mercy. He says, blessed are those who are merciful. It's different, okay? One is this is who I am. The other one is this is what I'm trying to make myself out to be. different. Healthy Christianity produces spiritual living. The blessed man's happiness is rooted in something that is objectively good. Objectively consistent, objectively sure, in complete contrast to what the world has. What the world finds as the place of happiness is not good. It's not consistent and it's not sure. And so that leads me to a final thought. This blessedness is found in only one place, and that is in Christ. If you know the Lord is your Savior and you're walking with Him, these are the qualities that as you grow in grace and as you mature in your walk with the Lord, these become more and more evident. And if you're not a Christian, no matter how hard you try to develop these qualities, it will not happen. It will be a pharysitical facade. It won't be the real thing. We do not find blessedness by seeking it. We find blessedness in Christ. He produces it, he gives it to us. Salvation is a gift, not a reward. It's not something we purchase by our works. It's something that is given to us freely by the work of Christ. And the blessings we enjoy as Christians are not gifts, they're not things that we earn, they're things that are given to us freely as a gift. And so I leave you with these final verses. Ephesians 2, 8-10. Ye are complete in Him. Romans 12, 2, be not conformed to this world. Be transformed through the renewing of your mind. James 1 21, lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness. Receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls. Psalm 1: Blessed is the man whose delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. 2 Timothy 3. 15. The scriptures are able to make thee wise unto salvation. That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished, unto all good works. The only way that these qualities are produced is number one, you're a Christian, and number two, the word of God is dwelling in you richly. You do not see these things in any kind of person in the world outside of those two realities. If somebody's not a Christian, they can read the Bible all they want. Those things will not be produced in their life. If someone's a Christian, they neglect the Word of God. Guess what? You're not going to grow. And you're not going to live consistent with that position. They go hand in hand together in Christ, growing in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. So as we work through these verses, we should see these qualities developing in our lives. They're evidences that we are Christians who are growing in that position and living consistent with that position. They'll sharpen our understanding of the way the scriptures shape us as believers. And so here's my encouragement. Let's grow into Christ's likeness. Let's get into the word. Let's allow the word to get into us and to shape us and to mold us. So that the things that we read about, we say, you know what? I see that God is working that in me. We could see it in others as well. Let's bow for prayer. Father in heaven, I thank you for this passage of Scripture. This great contrast between the world and And how it thinks and what it loves and what it values, and the Christian, what we value, and how we think and what we love. Father, we see this great contrast. And I pray that you would help us as your people not to be ashamed of that contrast, but to be very grateful that it's there because it reveals That we are walking with you, and that we are living consistent with the position we have in Christ. I pray that you'd help us to be godly people. To be filled with these fruits that are being produced by the Spirit. Help us to love one another dearly and richly, and help us to grow together as we encourage one another in the Lord. I pray that as we have our time of prayer this evening, that that time of fellowship would be very sweet, that we would be able to encourage one another as we lift up these requests. I pray that we would see the evidence of you at work in lives. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen.