Good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we're going to pick up where we left off yesterday in Luke chapter 11, verses 14 through 23. So if you're with us yesterday morning. We opened up the section by looking at Satan's dominion or the area that he rules and the limitations and his strengths and weaknesses, all those kinds of things. So what I'd like us to do now is pick up and look at how this moment in Christ's ministry was ultimately a watershed issue. And let's go ahead and look again at the text, Luke chapter 11, verse number 14. And he was casting out a devil. And it was dumb. And it came to pass when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake. And the people wondered. But some of them said, He casteth out devils through Bilzebub, the chief of the devils. And others tempting him sought of him a sign from heaven. And he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. And a house divided against a house falleth. If Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? Because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub. And if I by Belzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore shall they be your judges. And if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God has come upon you. And when a strong man armed keepeth his palace, His goods are at peace. And when a stronger than he shall come upon him and overcome him, he taketh from him all his armor, and therewith he trusteth and divideth his spoils. And that is not he that is not with me is against me. He that gathereth not with me scattereth. Now, yesterday what we talked about was the fact that Satan does have a real kingdom and a real dominion, a real realm that he's able to do terrible things in And we saw the limitations of that. We saw that there were limitations when Christ was tempted, when Job was tempted. There are limitations uh in the world and what what is able to be permitted. There are limitations even in how God allows Satan to uh to tempt and frustrate our our plans and our desires, the things that are going on in our lives. And so ultimately what we see is that we can take comfort in the fact that God would never permit something without there being a genuine way of escape, and he would never permit something without there being an ultimate good that he is working to accomplish. And I heard this statement a couple of weeks ago, and it really has resonated with me. God will permit things that he hates in order to accomplish things that he loves. Especially when those things that he loves can only be accomplished through allowing certain things that he hates. And one of the greatest examples of this is the cross. Jesus was permitted to be crucified on the cross because that was a necessary part of what allows you and I to be redeemed to God. And so without the cross, there was no remission of sins, and there was no basis for us to be forgiven and cleansed. God had to permit the death of his son so that there would be resurrection. and triumph and ultimate redemption. And so we have to remember that simple principle. Now in this passage as we continue working on, what we're going to see is that this visible sign that Christ permits or or we could say he accomplishes or he uh that the thing that he does by uh casting out the demon from this person who could not speak is that this visible sign created a watershed moment Now I can't remember exactly where I saw this. I think uh I was in a museum, but one time I saw uh this the screen in front of me and what it did is is it showed all of the streams and the tributaries that feed into the Mississippi River and it lit them up. And what you could see is that all of these lines ran from the Rocky Mountains on the one side, and they ran from the Appalachian Mountains on the other side. And then we were able to look at all of the streams that feed into the Atlantic Ocean and all of those that feed into the Pacific Ocean. And what you saw is this these lines that that fed from the other side of those mountain ranges. And so what you see is that there is a peak. where the water runs down into the Gulf of Mexico through the Mississippi River, and there is another side of the peak that runs ultimately down into the Pacific Ocean. And then we see the exact same thing. um on the Appalachian spine on the east side of the United States. We could say that it's the watershed. The water's going to go one way or the other. Sometimes when we're driving in our area, you'll see this is part of the Chesapeake Bay watershed. And so it's saying that that river is a tributary that ultimately runs into the Chesapeake Bay Now, when we talk about this issue in front of us, what we see is that when people witnessed this sign, they were going to go one way or they were going to go the other way. And we see that in verses 14 to 16. Listen to what it says. And the people wondered, but some of them said, He casteth out devils through Bilzebub, the chief of the devils, and others tempting him, sought of him a sign from heaven Now we can see three distinct responses when this happens. The first group is a group of people who were awestruck by what they witnessed. It says that they wondered. Sounds very similar to what happens during uh the the the the time where the uh the shepherds are out watching the sheep in the fields and there is uh An angelic host that says that the Savior has been born in Bethlehem. Or we think about Mary watching the the Magi come to give gifts to Christ there uh in that home there in Bethlehem and it says that she held her peace and she wondered at those things. So there were times in the Bible where we see there were certain events that people saw this and it struck them in a way that made them think. And this particular moment was one that did that. And the implication is that some of those people, as they wondered in amazement at what they had witnessed, they began to recognize that Jesus is the Messiah. And if they understand that Jesus is the Messiah, then there are certain implications that flow naturally from what is beginning to develop as a conviction that Jesus is the Messiah. You could say those who are convinced that he's the Messiah or those who will ultimately believe on him unto salvation. But not everyone had the same response There were others who were actually hardened and calloused. They saw the exact same event, and rather than being awestrunk and saying, truly this is the Messiah. Their response was, this could not be the Messiah. This person is casting out devils by the power of Satan. And so these people were hardened, and they brought accusation against Christ. And they said that Christ was ultimately being empowered by the kingdom of darkness against the kingdom of darkness. Now I'm not going to get into this this morning, but that kind of a claim makes absolutely no sense, and Christ is going to confront it head on. But the idea is that there were some people, they did not deny what they saw. What they did is they denied the reality of the cause of what they saw. I'll give you this example. It's like a person who studies the universe. Maybe they study astronomy, or maybe they they study certain things in science. And they can see the tremendous order and the tremendous beauty of the creation. And as they study these things, they anticipate that they will discover laws that they can actually use. And they believe that there is order out there to be discovered. Yet they don't take it to the next level to ask, and where did the order come from? Why is there beauty? Why is there order? Why are there predictable realities in the universe? Why are there laws that we discover and laws that we can use? in science and in physic physics and in and in and in chemistry and these other disciplines. Why are those things there? Well the reason is because there's a creator. Yet there are some people who will come to the conclusion that that it was an intelligence designer who could not have been God. Or it would be a big bang that just exploded and over time things began to evolve into the order that we see. Yet we we never see something like this in creation anywhere at any time. And so what do we see? We see that sometimes the same facts that cause one to believe are the same facts that cause one to rebel. And it's all about what's in the heart. God's not responsible for your rebellion or my rebellion or another person's rebellion. And so these people were hardened. It was a watershed issue. Thirdly, some people demanded more signs than what they had been given Now, if the if the second response is not one of ultimate arrogance, I would say perhaps the third one is. Because not only were there people that said, oh, it's true that this happened, but it's happened by the power of Satan Another group said, this isn't enough. We need to see more. Do more. Give us more. In other words, they were demanding that God give more signs and more verification than were necessary. And so these people tempted him seeking a sign from heaven. Say, well, what's the point of this this? Well the point is that this is a watershed issue. And the watershed issue is faith in Christ. And so when we talk about faith, and we see this even pictured here, illustrated, faith involves a reasonable body of evidence presenting a compelling case to respond in faith But that reasonable body of evidence is not absolute. It's something that is going to leave you with some level of, well, I'm going to have to take a step. In other words, God determines how much evidence is presented to a person. And the evidence that's given is enough to be compelling and to be a reasonable reason to embrace these things and to rest in these things. But the evidence always calls us to make a decision. And the evidence can never give us absolute certainty. So when we read the Bible and we talk about the crucifixion and the resurrection and we talk about the implications of the things, there's plenty of reason in the Bible to believe those things. We have all these prophecies from the Old Testament. We see all of God's faithfulness throughout human history. We see that there were people who gave compelling cases that Jesus was crucified, literally died, and rose from the dead, literally bodily, and they proclaim this as eyewitness accounts. And there's lots and lots of evidence. But the simple reality is you and I do have to make a decision without absolute certainty. In other words, we weren't physically there. We were not able to handle the risen Savior. We weren't able to witness with our own eyes his death and resurrection. Yet that lack of absolute certainty should not leave us with an excuse or giving us the thought that we could have an excuse. to ignore the evidence and choose to disbelieve it. Even those who saw Christ's ministry, heard his teaching, and had all of these things right there before their faces, even many of them said, we don't believe it. And so it shows us that faith is something that ultimately is rooted in a compelling case. despite the lack of absolute certainty. On the other side, unbelief is not something that a person has because of a lack of evidence. Or because God has chosen to not give us enough information. The problem is a willful rebellion against the evidence that's given that is sufficient. It is more than enough. And so this passage of scripture really illustrates this. Really, we could say it this way. This passage in front of us is ultimately the climax. of the Jewish rejection of Christ and his deliberate shift from a ministry of focus towards the Jewish people to one that's really going to be primarily on Gentiles. And we see this in verses 29 to 32. We're not going to deal with this portion of the text in much detail this week. We will do that, Lord willing, at another time. But notice what it says. When the people were gathered thick together, he began to say, This is an evil generation. They seek a sign, and there shall no sign be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet. For as Jonas was a sign unto the Ninevehes, so also the Son of Man shall be to this generation. The Queen of the South shall rise up in judgment with the men of this generation. and condemn them, for she came from the utmost part of the earth to hear the witness, the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, a greater than Solomon is here. And the men of Nineveh shall rise up in judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonas, and behold, a greater than Jonas is here. Now what is Jesus saying? Jesus is saying that the people of Nineveh and the Queen of Sheba, someone who came from the regions of Africa, who heard the story of the wisdom of Solomon and heard the story of Solomon's God. And the Ninevehes who heard the preaching of Jonah, those people repented and believed and turned to God. And he said, they had far less information than this generation sitting before me and witnessing my ministry. That's what Jesus is saying And so I want to remind you of this simple fact. Our job is simply to give the message. And we should be burdened when we give it, and we should give it thoroughly, but we must remember that when a person chooses to reject the gospel, it's not because of our deficiency as the communicator, as much as it is an unwillingness to accept the clear evidence of Scripture that is laid before us. Faith involves a reasonable body of evidence, a compelling reason to believe. But that evidence cannot give us absolute certainty. And when people reject a compelling case, they reject it not just in unbelief. but in willful, rebellious, unwilling unbelief. My prayer is that God would help us to understand this. so that it will shape the way that we relate to others as we pray for them and as we relate to them, even in the giving of the gospel. May the Lord help us to think about this the rest of the day. Hope that you have a good rest of your morning, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue in this study by now.