Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back again to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And if you joined us yesterday, you saw that we introduced a new topic and we were in Psalm 34 looking at verses 1 through 9. So If you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's all turn together to this text, and I'm going to read through it, kind of remind you about what we talked about last uh last time we were here, and then we will continue in our study. So here's what it says, Psalm 34. 1. And remember that this is a psalm of David when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed. It says, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord, the humble shall hear thereof and be glad. O magnify the Lord as me, let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears. They looked upon him and were lightened, and their faces were not ashamed. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. O fear the Lord ye his saints, there is no want. to them that fear him. Now, if you remember yesterday we talked about the introduction and really the setting of the psalm that was written. And when David was writing this psalm, he was reflecting on one of the lowest moments in his life. Now, knowing the whole story of David's life, obviously he had some very dark moments that were even darker than this one. But at the point that he's writing these verses, Psalm 34, he's a very young man, and he's experienced a very difficult period. In fact Now he's running for his life. He's afraid for his life because Saul wants to kill him. He's separated from his wife because he had to flee for his life. the weight on his shoulders of what had just happened um with Ahimelech and Ahimelech had been murdered by Doeg and David had lied to these men and part of the reason that they faced the wrath of Saul and Doeg is because they had assisted David. And so David was carrying the weight of those things. He was also thinking about how he pretended to be a madman. That's how he was able to escape from the land of the Philistines. And so with all those things in mind, I want to focus in on what he says in verses 1 and 2, really draw out the principle that it's communicated. David writes, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The way I would summarize this statement is that David's experience was a catalyst for a godly resolve. And before we look at the way that he expresses this, I've noticed as I read the scriptures, and I'm sure you've noticed this as well, is that trouble is an inevitable part of life And whenever people experience trouble, that trouble is a catalyst for some kind of change in the person's life. And the change can go one of two ways. It can go in the negative direction or it can go in the positive direction. For instance, when a person has experienced great trouble, they can become very bitter and resentful and angry and hateful. they can become very discouraged and disillusioned. Think about what it says in Hebrews chapter 12. He says, look diligently lest any man Fail of the grace of God lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many are defiled When a person experiences pain, that pain can lead to bitterness, and that bitterness can lead to a resentment that ultimately undermines relationships and causes all kinds of trouble And so the change that can be developed as a result of trouble could be greater degrees of misery and difficulty. On the other side, you can see what happened with someone like Joseph. Joseph experienced hardship, but Joseph grew and he matured. He became a much godlier individual, a refined individual. Job is another example of someone who is rev refined through the process of suffering. And so we're reminded in James 1. 3 that the trying of our faith worketh patience. 2 Corinthians 4. 16 says that our light affliction which is for a moment worketh for us a far more an exceeding eternal weight of glory. And so the same trouble that can be a catless to provide greater decrees of misery could ultimately be a catalyst that produces spiritual insight, disciplines, and growth and maturity. It ultimately comes down to how a person responds in the midst of the troubles that they're experiencing. It also could be a situation where a person initially responds the wrong way, but then as time moves on, God in his persistence draws this person to a place where they mature and they grow and they develop and they experience God's hand of blessing. An example of that is in the story of Ruth. Think about Naomi. Naomi was a woman who follows her family into Moab during a time of hardship in Bethlehem. And then in chapter one, we see that her two sons get married, and then they die. Her husband dies, and she's left alone in the land of Moab. And she's a very broken woman. And when she comes back to Bethlehem and she has her daughter-in-law Ruth with her, this is what she says in verse 20. She says, Call me not Naomi. Rather call me Mara, for the Almighty hath dealt bitterly with me. Now at that point in the story, Naomi is a broken discouraged, wearied woman who says, I am in a bitter state. And by the end of the story though, things completely change. And Ruth is one of the most beautiful stories and all the Bible. Not only is it a beautiful story because of the content, but it's an essential component in the life of David, the person who God used to write Psalm 34. And so in Ruth chapter 3 we see that Naomi is now at a position where she has come full circle and she's experiencing God's blessings and she recognizes it. And this is what it says in Ruth chapter 3, verse 14. It says, And the woman the women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman. It's talking about they're talking about how God provided someone to redeem Ruth and ultimately raise up a child in the place of his deceased father. And so he says, He's not left you without a kinsman, that your name may be famous in Israel. He shall be unto thee a I love this statement, a restorer of thy life and a nourisher of thine old age. And the women saw her and they said, There is a son born to Naomi, and they called his name Obed, and he is the father of Jesse, the father of David. What's great about the story of Naomi is that even though Naomi drifted and was bitter and broken, God in his grace continued to work in her life and ultimately by the end of the story She's a woman who's experiencing the sweetness of God's grace, and she understands that God is good, and it's because of God's kindness. So you might say, well, how does this relate to what we read in Psalm 34? Well, here is David, who's just gone through one of the lowest moments in his life, and this is what he states in verse 1. I will bless the Lord at all times. What's David saying? He has learned that God can use anything that he experiences, even the things he's just walked through, and he says, I have no choice. understanding that this is true, but to bless and magnify and glorify the name of the Lord. The second thing that we see later in verse 1 is he says, His praise shall continually be in my mouth. Now why would he say, His praise is constantly on my lips? Well he'd say it's because I have learned through the hardships of life that it is God who is continually sustaining me when I go through the midst of hardships. And so David is expressing, look, God can use anything. He is always sustaining my life. And then the third thing is what we see in verse 2 He says, my soul shall make her boast in the Lord. So he learned that God alone is the one who deserves glory in the midst of these circumstances. You might say, well, Joel, what is the takeaway from this? Well, here is the simple takeaway. Every single one of us is going to experience hardship in life The question is, what will that hardship ultimately become the catalyst for? Is it going to be the catalyst for someone becoming more matured? And strengthened a more gracious and loving and godly person who recognizes the goodness of God even in the hard times, or Will it be a catlass for us to become a broken and miserable person who lives in bitterness and ultimately expresses that bitterness towards everyone around us? The answer is, well it depends on what you choose to do with your circumstances Either we're going to submit to God in the midst of those trials, or we're going to resist God. And so I asked the question to you this morning, in the midst of the challenges that you may very well be encountering at this moment. Which catalyst is it becoming toward? Is it a catlist toward growth into Christ-likeness? Like David blesses the Lord at all times and his praises continually on his lips. And he makes his boast in the Lord, is that the direction that this hardship has pressed you? Or is it pressing you to say like Naomi at the beginning? of the book of Ruth, God has dealt bitterly with me, call me Mara, not Naomi. My prayer is that God would help us to be a people who have the wisdom to be able to see how we ought to respond and that by his grace that is what we will do. Hope that you have a wonderful morning and by God's grace, tomorrow we'll continue our series. Have a blessed day. Bye now