Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we are beginning a new series today And uh we just finished our series in the book of James. Today we're going to start in the book of 1 John. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and let's go together to 1 John chapter 1. 1 John chapter 1 and we are looking at verses 1 through 4. Let's read it together. That which we have, that which was from the beginning. Which we've heard, which we've seen with our eyes, which we've looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of life. For the life was manifested And we have seen it and bear witness and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested unto us. That which we've seen, we have heard, and declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And these things write we unto you, that your joy may be full. We come to this passage of Scripture where looking at really the opening statement that is given for the entire epistle of 1 John. And so let me give you a real simple summary statement, and then we'll dig into a couple of truths with that basic point. This first section of 1 John tells us that true joy can only be found in a relationship with God through the person of Christ. Now this isn't suggesting that a person can't go through temporary happiness because of money or position or something like that. But what we're talking about is a sustained, lasting joy, something that can carry you through whatever situation you're dealing with in life. And so if a person wants that kind of joy, there's really only only one place they can find that, and that's in the person of Christ. And so this first section is going to be establishing that fact. And the rest of the book of 1 John is going to be dealing with ways that our fellowship with God is hindered or strengthened, and how it affects our joy and our stability and how how it either weakens or strengthens that. So let's look at a couple of simple truths here under that mean point. The first truth we see is that Jesus was a real man. Now you might say, why would he make a point of saying that? Actually, it's very significant Because today there are a lot of people that view Jesus as kind of a mythological figure, almost like Santa Claus or the Easter Bunny They look at Jesus as a person that people put in high regard, but what we read in the Bible isn't actually what took place in his life. And I want you to realize that John understands that even within his own day, there are people who took that kind of an approach to Jesus. And he wants to establish the fact that Christ was an historical person, that he knew personally, he ate meals with him, he interacted with him, and everything that he's revealing about Christ is true, it's reliable, it's based on facts. Here's how he put it in verse 1. That which we've seen from the beginning, which we've heard, which we've seen with our eyes. which we've looked upon and our hands have handled of the word of life. For the life was manifested, and we have seen it and heard and bear witness Notice the phrase, that which we've heard, what we've seen, what we've looked on, what we've handled. The life was manifested. We've seen it. We bear witness of it. There are two things that should really stand out to you about what he's saying. The first is the repetition of the word we. John is saying myself and this group of other people were eyewitnesses of Christ's ministry. And when he talks about himself as a witness and these people as witnesses, he's really referring to their apostolic ministry. If you've been studying our discussion on canonicity, you'll see that the apostle had to be someone who was an eyewitness of Christ's ministry. John is emphasizing that. He's saying, I have the authority to speak on these matters because I knew the man personally. But then there's a second aspect that really stands out. We see that John is a witness of a real person. He heard him, he saw him, he interacted with him, he actually physically touched the person. He's saying, I know the real man. Jesus was a real man. And that's a very important point for us to see this morning. A second important truth we find is this. Christ was the fulfillment of numerous Old Testament prophecies and pictures. Now, as as John is going to begin to develop this, and really as all of the apostles write about the ministry of Christ, One of the things that's very important for us to notice is how many times they refer back to Old Testament statements and say This happened that it might fulfill which was spoken by, and they might say Matthew or Moses, I don't know, see David or Isaiah or Jeremiah or some other prophet. There's a reason that they did that They were helping us to understand that Christ's life and Christ's ministry was connected to the Old Testament. It's not like the Old Testament was just thrown to the side and it's no more valid. The Old Testament was pointing to Christ. It was giving us information about who he would be, what he would do, why he would do it. And so there's this connection between Old and New Testament. And when we look at Christ's ministry, if we were to examine his ministry, in light of the things we read about in the Old Testament, we would say, clearly this man fulfills all of those prophecies. There's a third truth that's very important. Much of the New Testament is an eyewitness account of Christ's ministry. When we read the Old Testament passages, we are reading a story that's based upon eyewitness accounts. Now, if we go into a court of law and you have A dozen people that stand up and they tell you the same basic story from various different vantage points. Yes, some would be be giving some details that another person didn't give. One person may forget to mention one thing, one person may clarify, well he said this and this is what he what actually happened, what he meant. In other words, all those eyewitnesses giving their account from different vantage points From their own perspective, what are they doing? They're giving us this this this powerful, convicting, uh, convincing argument that this actually took place and here are the details. When we come to the New Testament, we need to realize that In some sense, the gospels are that right there. Now there is another element to this that each of those gospel writers are giving us an accurate account because it's not just their own recall of these events. But they're writing under the guidance of the Holy Spirit. And the words that they're writing are the very words of God. And so there's an additional element to that. But let's not remove ourselves from the thought that these people saw, handled, interacted with. All of the New Testament really is focusing on the account of Christ's ministry on some way. Either it's explaining it or it's giving the significance of it. The fourth truth we find, John wrote this letter so his fellow Christians could experience a vibrant Christian walk. And that's really the point of everything that he's saying here. The reason that Jesus' life is so important, so significant, is that you cannot have a full, satisfied, truly joyful life. without God being in the center of that life. It doesn't mean you can't go through moments of satisfaction, those kinds of things. But when you come to the end of your life, you're going to look back and you're going to see there was a missing element. unless God is the center. And our ability to interact with God comes through the person of Christ. Here's how we put it in verse 2. For the life was manifested. We have seen it and bear witness and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested unto us. That which we've seen and heard, declare we unto you. And here's the reason why. That your joy may be full. That you may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. These things write we unto you that your joy may be full. He's saying the the reason that Christ's ministry in life is so important is that this is how you can know God This is how you and I can have this intimate connection of fellowship, and this is how we can have joy That means that the way that Christians have closer relationships to other Christians is because both sets know God very well The way that a Christian can have a full, satisfied, joyful life is going to be connected to their knowledge of God and their fellowship with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the entire book of 1 John is going to be driving on this point that God made you so that you could know him and enjoy him forever. And if you don't know him and if you're not enjoying him, you are missing out on really the central reason that God made you. If we want joy, we have to have it through the person of Christ. So you might say, well, how is this practical? Here I am. I'm sitting here this morning. And we're talking about someone who lived 2,000 years ago. He died. He rose from the dead. He's with the Father today. We're reading about his life, but how does this practically impact me right now, as I sit here? Well let me give you some thoughts that I jotted down today. First of all, realize that this book is not a storybook full of myths made up by individuals hundreds of years ago. This is reliable historical fact. Two, this is a carefully recorded history written down by numerous eyewitnesses. who would later die as Christian martyrs holding fast to their testimony. Let's not forget that the people that wrote these words were willing to die for the record that they were presenting. Okay, they were willing to put their lives on the line to say, we saw Christ, we walked with Christ, here's why his ministry was significant. They were not willing to die for a lie. What they were speaking of was truth. Very important. A third point. You can't stay neutral when it comes to the person of Christ. You must either choose to embrace him as the one and only sin-bearing substitute, or you reject him, and you will face the eternal consequences of rejecting Christ So when we come to Jesus, we can't say, well, I like him, but I don't embrace him. I'm okay with him, but I don't want to actually fully embrace this message. Either you have to say, it's true, it's reliable, I embrace it, I'm depending my eternity on the person of Christ and what he did for me, or you say, I don't, I don't believe this, I reject it. The strongs of Christ are too strong. His claims are so are so uh exclusive that you can't you can't accept and reject at the same time. It's an all-or-nothing kind of a thing Fourthly, realize that every blessing that you desire in Christ, that you desire is ultimately in Christ. And really the rest of the book of 1 John is going to be an explanation. of how the things we do or the things that we don't do either strengthen that relationship or they undermine that relationship. And how we can have fellowship with God strengthened or it can actually be something that is hindered. And so as we come to the book of 1 John, I think we're going to find a lot of practical, helpful things. I want to remind you of this one last little simple thing. You cannot, I cannot have sustained joy apart from fellowship with God. This is why He created us. He created us to know Him and to enjoy Him forever. And so as we get into the book of 1 John, I hope that you will really enjoy this study. It's a book that I preached on a little over a year ago And we're going to go through it verse by verse, section by section, in our studies, just like we did the book of James. And I think that it'll be very practical. And I think it'll be encouraging each time we come to it. If you've enjoyed this study, just jot down a note for us. Consider sharing it, and we'll look forward to the next time we're together. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, it's been good to be in your word. It's been good to be reminded that the Lord Jesus Christ is a real person. He lived 2,000 years ago. He died on the cross for our sins. He rose from the dead. And because of his person and work, we can have fellowship with God. We can know you. We can have a sustained and lasting joy because you give significance and value to what we're going through every day. I pray that you would help us to understand these truths. Strengthen us through these studies and help us today to just live in the light of these very simple truths that have been laid out this morning Pray you bless those who've joined us. Give them a wonderful day. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning, and I'll look forward to our study next time, continuing in the book of 1 John now. Bye now