Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word morning reflection for this week. And if you've been joining us throughout the week, I hope that you have been encouraged and spiritually challenged by the things that we've talked about As we've been working our way through Luke chapter 9, we've been talking about several important foundational matters. What I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to kind of take everything we've talked about. and just kind of lay it out with some simple applications that I hope will will be something for us to reflect on into the weekend. Again, we're in Luke chapter 9, we're reading verses 20 through 26. So If you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to that passage and we'll read it together. Here's what it says. He said unto them, Whom say ye that I am? Peter answering said, The Christ of God He straightly charged them and commanded them to tell no man that thing, saying, The Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be slain and be raised the third day. He said unto them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross daily, and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. For what is a man advantaged if he gain the whole world and lose himself, or be cast away? For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of Man be ashamed, when he shall come in his own glory, and in his fathers, and of the holy angels Now as we've read this passage of scripture, we've looked at some important foundational matters. The first thing we talked about in introduction is that this passage is not telling us how we become a Christian, but rather it's telling us what we should anticipate as a person who is identified with Christ. Someone who's understood the gospel. Christ died for our sins. He rose from the dead. It is his righteousness and his shed blood alone that can give us forgiveness and a righteous position before God. We understand those truths. We turn to Christ. We place our faith in the finished work of Christ. When a person has trusted Christ as their Savior, they're now a new creature in Christ, and old things have passed away, and all things have become new. And now that person is united with Christ, and they're identified with Christ. And so this week what we've been doing is talking about the implication of such truths. We've talked about the nature of the cross and how the cross shows us. Christ, uh God's hatred for sin and his righteousness and his holiness, and then we've seen his incredible love for us as people, as He sent his son to die on the cross for our sins in our place. We've talked about uh w the the the thing that happens to us when we place our faith in Christ, how we are regenerated, we are now new creatures in Christ and some of the implications that are related to that. Well what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to pull it all together with some final points of application. Some implications and applications. So here's what uh uh we're gonna say first of all Being a Christian is something that fundamentally shapes us in a way that cannot be concealed. There's another passage in the New Testament where Jesus says that we are the light of the world. And he says, a city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. The idea is that if you're in the dark and you have a city in the desert that's on a hill, there's absolutely no way to conceal it That's the way the Christian is. Our life is distinct, it's different. The way that we think and act, the way that we reason, our values, our affections, all of those matters are fundamentally different. than the world around us. And so that can't be concealed. The second thing that we saw is that in application, we will face pressure from the world on some level. And when that happens, we're going to be tempted to attempt to conceal our identity and the distinctiveness of that position that we have. The idea is he says, a city that's set on a hill cannot be hid, and then he says, Let your light so shine before men that they might see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. The idea is, Jesus says, because you can't hide the light, don't try to. That's the idea. A third point, the temptation to hide that distinctiveness is ultimately rooted in the fact that we are, by nature, self-centered. And we desire to advance our own interests and our own comforts, sometimes at the expense of revealing God's glory. The reason that we in shame are tempted to hide and withdraw and conceal these things is because we would rather be comfortable Than to declare the glories of God through our life. And that's really what it ultimately comes down to. And that's what Jesus is warning we as disciples to do. to not be ashamed of him, to not try to conceal the distinctiveness of that identity The fourth thing I'm going to mention. When we're tempted to compromise, we've got to look beyond that moment and consider the fact that one day we are going to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ at the judgment seat. We're not going to give an account for every sin we've committed. We're going to give an account for what we did with what God entrusted to us. How did we serve him? Were we good stewards of the gifts that God gave us and entrusted to us? And so as we think about these things, some of you this morning might say You know, Joel, I I hate to say this, but I have failed. I have stumbled. I have been ashamed of the Lord. There have been times that I have kind of concealed that distinctiveness. I've been quiet in conversation. Because I didn't want to face the the difficult reality of someone not being happy with me because, oh, you're a Christian and I know how those Christians think. And I've stumbled Is there any hope for me? Well, there is hope in two parts. The first is that we do not become a Christian by our boldness. By our willingness to stand beside Christ. We become Christians by faith alone in the finished work of Christ. By grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. We are kept by the power of God, and nothing can separate us from the love of God. Which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. That is a comfort to us when we have stumbled. But there's a second area I want to mention, and that's the story of Peter. Every single person that we read about in the Bible, except for the Lord Jesus Christ, was a flawed person. It was a person who stumbled in many ways. Think about people like Daniel, or not like David, great example, or somebody like Moses, somebody like Abraham or Isaac or Jacob. These people were flawed and they demonstrated that flaw at moments in their life of weakness where they drifted and they made poor decisions. But one of the greatest examples is Peter. The very person that Jesus was talking to in these verses who said, You're the Christ, the Son of God. Well, there was another point later on in Jesus' ministry where he begins to talk about how he's going to suffer and he's going to die and he's going to rise the third day. And Peter says, let this be far from you, Lord. And Jesus says, get thee behind me, Satan. You don't understand the things of God. Later on, Jesus, when he's talking to Peter, Peter says, if you die, I'll be willing to die for you. And Jesus says to Peter, before the cock crows three times, you're going to deny me. Well, you know what Peter said there's no way that's true, but it was true. There was a day that Peter saw Jesus uh betrayed and he saw Jesus standing on trial. And there are people who came alongside Peter and they said they said, Aren't you with him Don't you know him? Aren't you one of his disciples? And three times Jesus Peter says, No, I I'm not one of them. I don't know this man. I'm not a part of those people. He denied the Lord three times. He did exactly what he said he'd not do And Peter was broken. He felt tremendous shame and grief. And Peter went back to fishing. But I want you to know Jesus didn't leave him there. Jesus pursued Peter, and Jesus re-established Peter as one of his apostles. He said, Do you love me more than you love these? He says, Yes, Lord, you know I love you. He says, Well, to feed my sheep. He said that three times. And the reason he did that was to emphasize to Peter, though you denied me three times, I tell you three times You will feed my sheep. That's what he's saying. And you know what Peter did that? Peter was a faithful apostle. He preached at Pentecost. He later did die as a martyr. Peter was a great man, not because he was perfect, and not because he was sinless, but because when he fell, he got back up. And Peter's life is an encouragement to me and it should be an encouragement to you. So I want to close with a couple of final questions and a couple of resolutions. The first question is, are you a Christian? Have you placed your faith in Christ? If you are a Christian, have you considered the real-life implications of identifying with Christ? Have you been tempted to compromise and to conceal who you are in Christ? Don't you see that this is a very inconsistent way to live? To place your faith in Christ, to stake your eternal destination on what he's done for you, and then to deny that you are associated with him, that's a terrible inconsistency Have you considered the implication that one day you'll stand before the Lord? Have you considered the implication of the cross? And its weight and what it says about God's love for us and his wrath against our sin and how the world hates Christ. Think about those things. How do you answer those questions? So here's my challenge. I pray that God will help us to be a strong and principled people. That we will not shrink back from Him and shame when we are put in these moments of pressure. And that we will never get over the tremendous significance of the cross of Christ. What it says about God's love for us, his hatred for sin And the world's antagonism to the holiness and the righteousness of God and the redemptive work of Christ. My prayer is that this weekend, as we reflect on these things, our hearts will be filled with and strengthened and challenged and encouraged. I hope that you have a wonderful weekend. I hope that you have a wonderful Father's Day, fathers, and I look forward to seeing many of you, Lord willing, on Sunday at Anchor Baptist Church. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.