Let's go ahead and turn in our Bibles again tonight to 1 Corinthians chapter 12. And we are looking at uh A fairly lengthy portion of scripture, the last couple of weeks what we've been talking about has maybe stepped away from the text a little bit. and uh just kind of tried to categorize in our minds this issue of spiritual gifts. And I know that there are a lot of different opinions about the topic of spiritual gifts. And what I want us to do tonight is I want us to really focus in on what Paul's primary purpose is as he's dealing with the text in front of us. So 1 Corinthians chapter 12, we're going to read verses 4 through 7, and we're going to skip down to verses 11 through 14, and then verses 24 to 27, which is what we did last week. Here's what it says. Now, there are diversity of gifts, but the same Spirit, and there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord, and there are diversity of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit with all. Verse 11. But all these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will. For as the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink into one Spirit, for the body is not one member but many. Verse 24. God hath tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to that part which lacked, that there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care one for another. And whether one member suffer, all members suffer with it, and one member be honored, all members rejoice with it. Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular. Alright, so the passage in front of us deals with this topic of spiritual gifts. And if you remember last week, what I did is I tried to take All these various gifts that we've been looking at, a lot of passages in the New Testament mention the gifts, and I've kind of tried to categorize them so we could sort of understand what were the purposes of these various gifts. And I know that In the big picture, the purpose of these gifts is to edify the body. But different gifts fit in different purposes toward the edification of the body. So the first category we talked about were gifts that were for signs. And we could say these are gifts that were given to verify divine revelation. So when we talk about prophets in the Old Testament, we talk about prophets in the New Testament, and then apostles who were prophets who are appointed to an office. There were several different gifts that were given to validate that in fact these people were genuine prophets or apostles. And so we mentioned word of wisdom, knowledge, faith, healing, miracles, prophecy, the discernment of spirits, diverse kinds of tongues, and interpretation of tongues. And all of this is ultimately to point people to validate the message that's come from God. And when we talk about the message that comes from God, we have the scripture. So that is the standard that we judge any impression that a person might have. And I'll say it like this. I do think that God Most definitely the Holy Spirit can stir our heart, stir our affection, give us an impression about something. I wouldn't call this God talking to us and speaking through us in a prophetic sense, but I think that the Spirit really does. move us and influence us. But the question we should always ask is how do I know if this is really God moving me in that area? And the and the answer is well what That impulse that you're experiencing that you're attributing to the Spirit of God, it's got to be consistent with Scripture. So really the Scripture is the standard, and you could say that there's a sense in which God seems to be moving and influencing you in the light of what is there in the scripture. And so those sign gifts were given to validate the offices and ultimately the message that came to those individuals. Secondly, we have what we would call ordinary gifts, or that's what I'm calling them, okay? Gifts that were given to build up the body, we could say in the general course of church life. So things like helps, faith. Governments, not like the government, but we're talking about administrative gifts, ministry, teaching, exhortation. Giving, ruling, mercy, love, speaking, these are all gifts that I would have categorized in sort of the general course of life in the church. And then we have a third category, and those would be gifts that would be also considered offices. And these would be the offices of the apostle. And then we have that of the pastor, and by the way, when the Bible speaks of pastors, the term that's most commonly used is elder And then we also see the term overseer, or in the King James Version, it's usually translated bishop, but it's really talking about an overseer. And so the term pastor and elder and overseer or bishop, these are all referring to an office and office, not offices, that it shows you the various aspects of that. And then we have the deacon. Now the reason I bring this up is because those three offices, which are also referred to as gifts, come with certain qualifications. And so if someone desires to be a pastor or a deacon, that's a good thing. But they have to meet certain biblical qualifications. Doesn't mean that they're perfect individuals, but what it does show you is that they're spiritually mature. And they're not functioning in that role as someone who's compromising the message, but in fact they're they're holding to that that standard that's expected of God's servants. And so we have with those offices, we have certain standardized expectations from the scripture qualifications that the church is to evaluate and say, yes, we can see that this person does meet that criteria, or no, they don't. So that's what we talked about last week. This week I want us to get into the analogy that Paul uses. And we find this in verses 12 down to verse 20. I'll read it to you again, and then we'll work our way piece by piece through what he says. It says, as the body is one and has many members. And all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. And everything that he's going to say from here on is going to kind of fill out that illustration that he uses. So first of all, we see truth one, the church functions like a human body. Verse 12. As the body is one and has many members, and all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. Now, here's his point. We are one body. One body. And by the way, when we step outside of our individual local church, I think that sometimes churches can get a little bit um overly territorial in their mindset about this issue like we're the only real church out there. The truth is that in Arumba County, there are lots and lots of churches that are preaching the gospel. They're trying to make disciples. Doctrinally they're they're pretty much sound churches. Now I know they all have different you know cultures and Some churches are stronger in one area than in another, but the reality is we're not the only church that is preaching Christ, trying to make disciples, and is a doctrinally sound church in our community. And so when we talk about this issue, there's a sense in which we as a local church are a body, and there's also a sense in which we as a local church are one part Of a big body, the body of Christ, which is made up of many, many local churches. And in all these various local churches, and some of it's the personalities of the people, some of it's the personalities of the pastors, sometimes it's the maturity of the individuals. Sometimes it's uh philosophically how they approach things. And each church is going to have certain strengths and weaknesses. Certain areas that they do very, very well and other areas where they're They're actually kind of deficient, okay? And so as much as possible, we want to be a healthy, vibrant church, and we want to function the way that God Put us all together to function as a body. But we have that concept of a body. We're not a church with a bunch of little bodies. We are a body, one individual body. But this individual body is made up of many different individual members. So you could you could say it like this, like I have a hand and my hand is different than my foot, but my hand's a part of the same body that my foot's a part of. Okay, so if I cut my hand off, or maybe if somebody cut my hand off And I lost my foot, well, I mean, my whole body would suffer as a direct result of that injury. And so in the same sense that our physical body would be affected if we lost our hand, lost our eye, lost our foot. The body that God has planted us in and has connected us to, in his providence, brought us together. This body will on some level suffer if we as individuals are not participating in the body in a healthy way. There's a sense in which there's an interdependence. I mean, think about watching a sport like football. And yes, even the kickers are athletes, okay? I mean like some kickers are like real athletes. There's this one guy in the NFL, he's like the biggest kicker I've ever seen Like this guy looks like a linebacker. Unbelievable. So anyway, back to this issue of the body. Just think about what has to work together to throw a ball down the field and to make that catch. I mean all these parts of the body have to go together. A guy's toe, his fingers, his eyes. His upper body, I mean he's got it he's gotta get open and and and you just you you think about all the different parts of the body and if you watch somebody that can really play the sport of football or You watch somebody that's really good at at a sport and you just see how their body is able to all work together in a coordinated way to do this. It's a pretty like remarkable thing to observe But the truth is you have a a great athlete and you take out his eyes and guess what? He can't catch a ball anymore. You got this guy, he's a phenomenal athlete. He's in the gym, he's strong, he knows the sport, and then he gets a toe injury and he can't play. It's the craziest thing. Why is that? Interdependence. And by the way, every single member of the team is very important. Everybody talks about the quarterback. And talks about the rip. You may be an incredible running back, but if they can't open the line for you, you're not taking the ball anywhere. If you can't protect the quarterback Like the Super Bowl this year, right? You can't protect the quarterback. He can't throw the ball down the field. And so the point is this. There's an interdependence. that God created in the body. We're all individual members, but one body, and we're to work together. It's an amazing illustration. By the way, I'll add this too. We are a body, not a machine. And that's actually really important for us to realize too The truth is that we get tired. We wear out. We can get burned out. We can get pushed too hard. God created this pattern of work and rest and work and rest and work and rest. And he doesn't have one individual who's supposed to pull the whole load, but he spreads out the work amongst all these people. Why does he do that? Because we're a body, we're not a machine. It's very important. We can have a general health. Just like your body can be healthy. And every aspect of your body is connected to that. In the same way that you could be a generally healthy person, but one little injury affects the whole thing. And I would even add this to our context is very important. I love that life analogy. Like go into the garden scenario. I know that we're not quite ready for this. Actually I'm kind of ready for this. I'm ready to plant my seeds and do all that kind of stuff. And the truth is that a plant is going to do well if you create an environment that is conducive to growth. You give it the right amount of light. You give it the right amount of water, you give it about the right amount of nutrition, you make sure that there's pollinators around and all the different things, you make sure that it doesn't get fungus and all that stuff. So your job as a gardener is to make sure that the environment is conducive to vibrant growth and then it just does its thing. And guess what? When people are a part of a body that's vibrant and healthy, like they thrive, they do well. And when people are a part of a body that's not very healthy, they look kinda like the plants on some people's yards that are you haven't been watered in a week. It's like well I guess that That plant may not make it a whole lot longer, or it looks kind of dwarfed, or man, we got some problems here. So the context we're in does affect us. We need to be a healthy, vibrant body. If one member is struggling, on some level it affects the people around them. The second thing I'll mention here is that the nature of this body is a testimony to the power of the gospel. Look down your Bible, verse 13. He says, by one Spirit we are all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles. whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink into one spirit. Now, I believe that this statement, we've been all baptized into one body, is not referring to water baptism here. But this is talking about spirit baptism, when we are by the Spirit placed into the body of Christ. A water baptism is a symbol. That is a picture of what is being talked about here. But the reality he's talking about is he's saying, the Spirit of God who has drawn you and convicted you, when you place your faith in Christ. He took you and he planted you into this body. And when he planted you into this body, he has taken all kinds of different people. And planted them into that body. And interestingly, in these verses, he talks about some of the different things. He talks about Jews and Gentiles. He talks about people who are bondservants and people who are free. And the point that he's making here Whether Jew or Gentile, bond or free, he's saying those distinctions that really create massive barriers in the world that we live in, those distinctions are all secondary And they don't matter in the big picture because God takes you and he plants you into this one piece. I mean, think of it like this. There are certain places that when you go into those communities, it's like you can see the difference between who's a blue-collar worker. And who's sort of like in a profession. You know what I'm talking about? Or you have people that are what we could say of one ethnic background versus another ethnic background. Or people that they're in that neighborhood and they go to that school because they make that money. And uh then we have people that go to that school because they they live in that community and they and you know what ends up happening is in that particular context, there are natural divisions that are there. And by the way, those divisions may not be because people are just trying to be nasty to each other. I mean really, I mean it can be, but not necessarily not necessarily. It may simply be that because the kind of work that you do The people that you are friends with, how much money you make, the people that you're associated with, that just kind of becomes your little niche group And and and you know what? In the world that we live in, it's very natural to find people that have similar occupations, make similar amounts of money, live in similar neighborhoods, their kids go to the same kinds of schools, they have the same kinds of interests. It's very normal for those people to all get along. And hang out together and have their little group. But you know what the church does? It says, that neighborhood there and that they need to be a part of the same body. Because it's the same gospel that they've embraced. The same Spirit has planted them together. So whether this person makes a ton of money or whether this person is just barely getting by Whether these people go to an elite school or these people are going to a very rough school, does not matter. The gospel equalizes. And I mean, you want to talk about Jews and Gentiles? Peter didn't even want to eat in the house of Gentiles. When he was given this vision, take the food and eat it, he's like, no way, I've never done that. And God had to say to him, no, no, you need to do this, Peter, you need to do this. And then when he understood that, he was supposed to eat with the Gentiles and that These Gentiles, they embraced the same gospel that he did. They had the same spirit that he did. And they need to be baptized just like he did and added to the church in the same way. When things got tense there in Jerusalem, you know what Peter did? He actually compromised. And he withdrew from Gentile brothers. And Paul got in his face. Wonder what that was like. They withstood him to the face, it says. And he's like, Peter, what you're doing is absolutely evil. Jews and Gentiles. I mean, God could have easily said there's the Jewish church and the Gentile church. He did not do that. Why? Because the gospel demonstrates the power of God to save people from all different backgrounds. Or you have bond and free. We're not talking about like the boss and the people that work under. We mean bond as in slaves. And free people who were Roman citizens. And by the way, in the Roman world, there were more slaves in the empire than free people. Crazy to think about. And you know what the gospel did? It said, whatever your status in society, irrelevant, you're a Christian. You're a part of this body. You've been planted into this body. And so what does this do? This body just completely cuts against the grain of human nature. It reverses, it absolutely reverses what society does by nature. And so he talks about them being united into one body, united by one spirit. And what does this do? It shows you the power of the gospel. And I I remember experiencing this as a missionary living in West Africa. And I remember sitting down across from me and he's actually now with the Lord. And we would sit down and I would I would give him my notes for what I was going to preach on Sunday and we'd sit down and we'd go through and and he would explain to me like the Fonti words and And he would give me these illustrations and give me these fonty proverbs and I would write them down and uh and then and then he he would uh I would I would record him saying it and then I would like practice it so that in the message I could like throw out a fonty phrase and people would think that's hilarious. So they're like, oh, Pastor's trying really hard to say something in front of you. But there was something that was really interesting about those interactions that he and I had. Here's a guy that was older than my dad. He grew up in a village, village, village context. I went and visited his family in the village that he grew up in. No water, no electricity. In the 2000s, uh actually in the 2010s. Okay. Isn't that crazy to think about? No water, no electricity, just a village setting. His dad had five wives. Polygamist. He had lots and lots of children. I don't even know if he knew all of his siblings Crazy to think about. His oldest, or his his father's last wife, went to school with Mr. Biney. Okay. Crazy. And you go, how in the world could I have anything in common with a man like that? One way. The gospel. And we just had the sweetest conversations, the sweetest interactions, because it was all about Christ. And that's what the gospel does. It takes people that live in different worlds and different cultures and have s you know on paper there's no reason that they would get along and that they would have anything in common and it unites them. And so what does this body do? It's a testimony to the beauty and the power of the gospel. I absolutely love it. I mean that's why missions is such a such a big deal in our church is that we have the opportunity to send people out, to partner with them, and to be involved with reaching people from every kindred and tribe and nation. The body is a testimony to the power of the gospel. Third truth. Each member of the body serves an important function. Verse 15. The body is not one member but many. If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? If the ear shall say, Because I'm not the eye, am I not of the body? Is it therefore not of the body? If the whole body were an eye, where would be the hearing? And if the whole body were the hearing, where were the The smelling. I remember several years ago when we lived over in Ghana, I was charging a car battery in my office. Don't ever do this Because it did not end well. Charging his car battery in the office. And it had been charging for probably seven or eight hours. And my kids were in there, they were wrestling around, and I went over there and I I grabbed that little little cord and it sparked and the next thing that I know is it it was like the this explosion shout sounded like a shotgun blast in my in my rim. And battery acid was in my face and It was on the kids and on the Matt and it was it was really terrible. Blew the whole top off the car battery. And in just like a split second, I went from being able to pick up my Bible and read it and do everything normal to not knowing if I'd ever see again. Just like that. Just like that. I'm thankful that I can see, but for several several days, almost a week, I didn't see anything out of my right eye. And the point is this, you can have healthy feet and healthy hands, and your brain's working fine, but if your eyes are gone. You're you're debilitated. Your whole life changes. The way that you used to live, being able to read and Being able to do all things you do, everything's changed. You'd have to learn how to function in life in a totally different way. And so what's his point here? Don't tell somebody else in the body that they don't matter, because they do. Every part of the body is important. Fourth thing. God assembles the body according to his wisdom. Such an important point here. Verse number 18. Now hath God set the members, every one of them in the body, as it pleased him. If they were all one member, where were the body? But now are they many members yet but one body. I love this little statement. God set the members, every one of them, in the body to He did it as he pleased himself. And so we don't pick the roles that we play. We don't say, well, I want this gift and so I'm gonna just I'm gonna pursue it, I'm gonna make it happen. What actually ends up happening is that as we get involved in our church body and as we get plugged into different areas, we start recognizing based on how we function in those roles, how God has gifted us. And the people around us, they start noticing this as well. And those who are in leadership, they start noticing that as well. And what ends up happening is As you serve, as you grow, as you interact with people, you start learning how God has gifted you as an individual. Now, God is the one who decides what he gives you He's the one who decides how he shapes you, how he molds you, how he fits you into the body. You don't make that that choice, that decision. You discover it, you recognize it, you cultivate it, you serve in it. That's the idea. I don't get to pick who does what. Okay? Like let's say you have a missionary, he's a church planter. And he goes and he starts seeing people get saved. And we we did this when we were when we were missionaries as well. So, you know, as people started coming, it's like, well, you know, who's gonna be the future of the church? Well, somebody from this group of people that has gotten saved and is getting discipled. Some of these people are gonna be future leaders. And so we just had Bible Institute classes and we taught and we taught and we taught and answered questions and had conversations and all those things. And what ends up happening is you you know you see a guy and you're like, hey, this guy seems to ask really insightful questions in class and He seems to be able to explain things very well, and there seems to be a hunger for the Word of God. There seems to be a love for people, and you say, hey, would you be interested in teaching a Sunday school class sometime? And they're like, I don't know if I could do that. Well, I wouldn't have asked you if I didn't think you could do it. I mean, you might not be ready to just like go without any any any help, but I'll work with you on this. And so you give a person an opportunity. And when they start doing that, maybe it goes a little bit rough for them. I mean not horrible. It doesn't mean they shouldn't do it again, but you know the learning curve is a little bit challenging. But you can see that there's an ability to study the word and to communicate the word. It's a little in the rough. But it's there. And it can be developed. Or you go and you visit somebody. And you take this person alongside with you and you notice that this is a very compassionate person. You know, some people they walk into a room and they notice the needs very quickly, and others it's like nobody exists. There could be somebody's got a huge problem over here. They don't even know it. They're just totally oblivious to the issue. And so you you bring that person alongside of you and they may not say a lot, but you have conversation on the way back from a hospital visit or visiting a shut-in or something like that. And and as you're as you're in the car and you're talking, you can tell. That person has a real compassion for people. Guess what that is? Spiritual gifts. And you start giving them opportunity or, you know, there's a situation going on in It's a little chaotic and maybe somebody needs to organize, you know, and and and there's certain people you can just tell that they are they are better inclined towards this organization than others. Or you have a situation that's very complicated. And as you are discussing this issue with people that are, it would be appropriate to discuss it. This person has very insightful ways of looking at that issue. They can figure out where the problem lies. They can come up with a solution to how to address the issue. And when you talk to them, you're like, that person has a gift of discernment. They have a gift of wisdom. And so the whole point that I'm trying to make here is this. As you have opportunity, what God has put into you starts coming out. And by the way, what you see is it's a little bit rough. It's not fully developed, but as you have opportunity, those things begin to develop and they begin to happen a little bit at a time. I think especially of our young guys that want to go into ministry. And I and one of the things that I love about our church, this is why I came here in 2008. It's because there was a heart to work with younger men that wanted to go into ministry. And so that's that was one of the reasons that that I came here. And and the thing about it is when you get a guy up here to preach for the first time It could be rough. It could be rough. It might go a little longer than it should, or a lot longer than it should. It might go like so fast, did that guy even preach? Like, what happened? What was this? And he like sits down. The guy's like, you know, he's sweating. He's really nervous. And and but God's put that in their heart and with a little bit of work and a little bit of encouragement they they develop in those areas or the first time they get up you're like I cannot follow there I'm sure there's a logic in that person's head to how to present this, but I'm not following it. But with some help, some encouragement, that person develops those skills. The point is this. God gives each person the gifts that he wants for them. And we what we need to do is we need to be serving in a capacity that allows that to start to come to life. How we process situations, how we engage in them. And let God open the door for us to see that. He does it according to his wisdom. I'm going to stop there because the next part is some of the pitfalls, and I I think that rather than digging into this, we're going to open up a topic that goes a little bit further than we have time for. So we're going to stop there, but I want to leave you with this very simple thought. This body, each member matters. Each member of the body matters. Don't allow yourself to think that the way that God's gifted you is pointless and it doesn't matter Don't allow yourself to think that you're like God's gift to the church and everybody needs to like think you're the greatest either. Don't do that. Don't think because you have not fully developed in certain areas that God hasn't maybe planted in you the desire or the ability to do those things. Those things have to be cultivated a little bit at a time. Get active in the opportunities that are available to you and those things will start to come to light. When somebody around you notices something and they share it with you, you know, take note of that. You will notice when people have been wired and gifted in certain ways. And God can really use that in the body. Let's bow for prayer. Ask the Lord to help us in these areas. Our Father, I thank you for this text. That reminds us that we're a body. Each member is important. There's an interdependence here. As we serve, as we rub shoulders with one another in ministry capacity, I pray that how you have fitted us and how you have gifted us would begin to come to the light. Help us to get active and busy in the areas that you have strengthened us. Help us to grow in those areas. Help us to be selfless in those areas. Help us to really minister to the body of Christ and minister in this local church. As we continue to ponder and process this topic, I pray that you would use this teaching and use these scriptures to ultimately bring glory to yourself. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen.