Good evening. Welcome. You know it's gonna be chilly tonight, 42. So kind of weird. But uh anyway, looking forward to our study tonight. Let's be all together for a word of prayer and then uh We'll sing a song and then get into our study tonight. Let's pray. Father, we're so grateful for your word and the opportunity tonight to open it up, and I pray that you would use the things that are presented to Be helped each of us. Help me as I work through these passages to be able to articulate consistently with clarity what the scriptures are saying. And I pray that That you would use them to stir us up and to work in our hearts. We ask it all in Christ's name, amen. 445 is where we're going to be tonight for a song. We'll sing verses one and four together, four hundred and forty-five Stand on to the god , standing, stand on the club, my sweet things. And the busy meeting, I standing on the ground and brought me on the ground and still I can on the floors, and see every ball that you Scandin , everyone scent , standing It's a good song. Okay, well, if you have your Bibles, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the book of Hebrews tonight. And we're in Hebrews chapter 10 and what we're going to be doing is digging into, I feel, a very important topic, and obviously we've been talking about issues related to the family. And tonight I'd like us to begin a discussion. a focus on the importance of the local church in our family life. And one of the things that always is a little bit sad to me is if I'm doing this on a Wednesday night, probably The people that are the most regularly here are the ones that are going to hear this. Not that I don't want you to hear this, but this is something that really I'd like the entire church to hear. But uh this is still important for us tonight. So it's online. Some folks are joining us on the live stream. Uh but we're going to talk about the importance of the local church and we're going to work our way through several different questions that fall under this topic and I also want to at the end of our study or we'll won't get into it tonight But I want to talk about some practical things that they're really on my heart as far as why we do things the way that we do them. And uh some of those issues are not necessarily I can go to the Bible and tell you this is exactly how you're supposed to order your church service or uh those kinds of things. But what I'm gonna do is say these are the ways that we are actively trying to actually do what the text of scripture teaches us. We're trying to take those principles and apply them in our church context. So it might give you some insight into a little bit of how I think about some of these issues. And I'm not presenting those because I'm expecting you to necessarily agree with me 100% or feel like, oh, that totally makes sense. It's to help us to understand why we do what we do. Hebrews 10, verses 23 to 25, here's what it says. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is. But exhorting one another, and so much the more as ye see the day approaching. Now I know that whenever people in a congregation hear a past a pastor go to Hebrews chapter ten and read, Forsake not the assembling of their cells together. In their minds, it's almost potentially like a weapon that is used against people. And that is not in all it at all the way that I want you to look at this passage. I want you to understand that within this context He's not really talking in terms of, are you in church this many times in the week? That's really not what his point is. His point is that there are a group of people that are being tempted to turn away from the gathering of the local church. The reason that they're being tempted to turn away from the gathering of the local church is ultimately because they are facing internal family pressures. cultural pressures and because of the pressures that they're experiencing, they're being pragmatic and they're saying, you know what, it would be easier for me to just kind of go back into Judaism and just assimilate back into my own Jewish culture, my family will be much happier with me, and I'll just pull away from the local church and If I do that, then it's going to take a lot of pressure off me. That's really ultimately what's going on in Hebrews chapter 10. So it's people that are saying, you know what, I'm going to withdraw from the church. because of ease. It's going to make my life a lot easier. Now, the reason that this passage I think is so instructive for us in this discussion Is that it gives us a lot of insight into what the church's function is in our lives as believers, why it's so very important. We shouldn't be going to church simply because we feel guilty if we don't. We really should be attending church because we recognize that I will not grow spiritually the way that God intended if I neglect this body. And so because I care about my spiritual well-being, I I cannot afford to withdraw from this body because I need this body. I need what goes on Within this context, I cannot afford for my children to be withdrawn from this body because if we do that, there's going to be a downstream effect. It's going to actually hurt me spiritually. Okay? So I don't think people should be coming to church simply because they feel guilty if they don't. They should be coming because they recognize the value of the body of Christ, the value of the assembled church. And so in in order for us to do that, I think we have to step back and ask, well, what is the purpose of the church? Why does it matter? We're going to get into all those things tonight. So let me first of all give you a summary for the text that we looked at, and then a couple of introductory thoughts that I think are uh they're very instructive to us. They they they should make us think a little bit. In Hebrews chapter 10, we're exhorted to not neglect the regular gathering of the local church because it is an unavoidably necessary part of growing into Christ's likeness. Notice the way that it's worded. Hold fast your profession of faith without wavering. So the implication is that if I withdraw from the body, then what's going to happen is not that I stopped being a Christian, but I'm not going to have the strength and the depth of faith I'm going to get shaken if I neglect it because there's something that God uses the body of Christ assembled as a local church. He uses it to strengthen my faith. Or let us consider one another to provoke to love and good works. Now, we all get provoked in lots of different ways. You get provoked at work. You get provoked sometimes by your children. Sometimes you get provoked by your parents. Sometimes you get provoked by your your sibling. There's so many different ways that we get provoked. But the local church is supposed to provoke us to love and to good works. Well the idea is that when someone provokes you, their action kind of elicits some kind of response from you Well, the response that should come from you naturally when you gather together with other Christians is: you love these people. You want to serve them. You want to actually do what is best for them. And then he says, not forsaking the assembling of yourselves together as the manner of some is, some have done this, but exhort one another. And so much the more as you see the day approaching. And the idea is that exhortation, the instruction of God's word, challenging us in our thinking, challenging us in our living. challenging us in lots of different areas. That is an essential part of the church. So what you can see in these verses is a lot of the the nature of what the church accomplishes, how God uses it as a tool, it's in these verses. So let me give you a couple of stats that I thought were well both sad and interesting all at the same time. From 1940 to the year 2000, okay, this is right before 9-11. If you were to ask people in a survey, do you have an affiliation within a religious organization? This could be a church, a synagogue, a mosque, okay? Primarily churches, though. What percentage of people do you think that would have been? It was over 70% of Americans would say I'm connected to some kind of religious organization. And what's also unique about it is that from 1940 all the way to 2000, it it was very much a steady line. It was 70, 71%, 72, 69, 73. It was very consistent. But then in the year 2000, things started going a little bit down, and then the last two, three years, it's just like it's dropped In fact, in 2021, the number fell to 47 %. Now, half of Americans have no affiliation with any religious body at all. We're not just talking about Christian churches or gospel preaching Christian churches, any kind of religious affiliation. That's pretty significant. Amongst millennials, that's what I am, I'm a millennial, uh 36 % of millennials are attached to some kind of church, synagogue, mosque. And only 20% of Americans in 2022 said that they regularly attend religious services. So, if you have a hundred people in your area, then 20 of them go to some kind of religious service on a fairly regular basis. But what does that tell you? Well that what that tells you is that in American culture things have completely changed. So when you guys were kids, and I'm talking about Some of our 50 and 60 plus year olds, when you guys were kids, the vast majority of Americans went to church. Easter Sunday, people came to church. Vacation Bible school, kids were sent to churches. Christmas Eve services were a big deal. Today, that's not the way that it is. In fact, people kind of look at the church with suspicion many times. And so here are a few thoughts. First of all, going to church is not equivalent with going to heaven. People that go to church are not necessarily saved people Okay, many of them are, but not all of them are. There are people that do not go to church that are genuinely saved and you're gonna uh it you're gonna enjoy their presence for all of eternity But not every single person who is going to a faithful church is, or not every person uh who is faithfully attending church is going to a gospel preaching church. So if you were to think about that number, 20% , a piece of that is people that regularly attend a gospel preaching church. And not every person attending a gospel preaching church is actually saved. You know, in our church we try to be careful. We ask people, do you have a profession of faith? When did you trust Christ as you're saved? We ask them to articulate the gospel. We ask those questions. Have you been baptized after your salvation? And that gets into a whole nother conversation. So in a church like ours, where we believe we only bring in members who are believers, it is it is we're more careful about it. But that doesn't mean that everyone who says they're a Christian really is. It's not necessarily the case. And so the point that I'm making is that the number of people in this culture A society that attend church regularly and know the Lord as their Savior, it's pretty small. It really is. And so that asks that leads us to some questions. Does church actually matter? Obviously, 80% of Americans don't believe it is. 80% of Americans do not regularly attend any kind of religious service. If it does matter, then why does it matter? Your kids are going to ask you, mom and dad, we go to church. Why do we do it? Well, that's what we've always done. Bad answer. Because we love going. That might be a bad answer too. I don't know. There's lots of different answers that you could give, but the question is: can you give a good solid biblical answer? Well, your children walk away and they go, you know what, there's a biblical duty, responsibility here. I want to be there because of what God uses it for in my life. Are we passing on our values to our children? You know, we could be very faithful in this issue, and we have a very strong conviction about this issue, but we don't pass it on to the next generation. And the question we can also ask is, well, are we sending mixed signals? Lots and lots of parents will tell their children, church is very, very important, and then they don't go. And then they get upset when their kids get out of the house and they walk away from church and they go, I don't understand why my son or daughter doesn't go to church. It's like, well, you kind of demonstrated that it wasn't your highest priority. For the years that they grew up in your house. So we need to ask this question, why does church matter if it does? And so in order to answer that question, I want us to begin by looking at what the church is. And then from what the church is, I want to look at what the church does. And how the church does that and what a church should be if it's a healthy and vibrant and a biblically founded church. So these are the kinds of things that we're going to be dealing with. And then obviously eventually I will get into the into the realm of how it affects the family. But we've got to start with the doctrine. We've got to start with the Bible, what it teaches about this issue. We can expect people to prioritize church or value church the way that they should if they don't understand why it exists. They've got to understand what it is. They've got to understand why it's important, or they won't choose to prioritize it. And it would be sensible for them not to do that if indeed they did not understand it. So let's begin first of all with the church is the body of Christ. Now I'm going to make a distinction between what we call the church local and what we would call the body of Christ. And I want to make that distinction because there are many passages where the scriptures refer to the Church, and they're not talking about a body in a location. Now that's not the most common way that the scriptures refer to the word church, but there is a called-out group, a body of Christ. For instance, in Matthew 16, 18, Jesus says, On this rock I will build my church. Now, some will argue, well, he's talking about the Jerusalem church. Fine. But Jesus left that church, okay? And so I believe that what he's saying is I'm going to build a body of called-out people, an ecclesia. that encompasses all those who have placed their faith in the finished work of Christ. So he says, I'll build my church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Ephesians 5. 23, Christ is the head of the church, and he is the savior of the body. That would be a reference to not just an individual location. Obviously, it would encompass an individual location, but it's talking about the body of Christ. Ephesians 1 13 to 14. It says, In whom also you trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and whom also after you believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of his glory. Notice that little statement. You were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. So there's a group of people that God has stamped as his possession. They belong to him. Well, how do we refer to that? We would say it's either the body of Christ or it's the church in a universal sense. So let me break down exactly who's a part of this body. People who have embraced a biblical view of Christ, they understand who Jesus is. So if you believe that Jesus is just a man, he's not God in flesh. Okay? You've choosed chosen, I don't believe Jesus is God in flesh. You're not a part of this body. Because that's an essential aspect to the gospel. These are people who have embraced a biblical view of the completed redemptive work of Christ. What I mean is that Jesus Christ died as our sin-bearing substitute. Christ died for our sins. Okay? So if I don't believe that Jesus died on the cross, shed his blood for my sins, And that he died in my place, he took the wrath of God for my sin. If I don't believe that, I'm not a Christian I may go to church, I may say that I'm a Christian, I may pray, I may say I'm a spiritual person, I may have a Bible in my house, but if I do not believe in the real literal Jesus of the scriptures, That he literally physically died, that he literally physically rose from the dead, that he bore my sins on himself And that his righteousness is imputed to us in order for us to be saved. If I don't believe those essential marks, I'm not a Christian. It doesn't matter if I prayed a sinner's prayer when I was four. Or 10, or I got baptized three times from the time I was a little kid, teenager, and all that. If you don't believe the gospel, you're not a Christian. Very, very simple. They've also embraced a biblical view of self. This is a very important, essential aspect of the gospel. They recognize that they are incapable of securing salvation through any work on their own part. When the scripture in Romans 3 and 4 says, there is none righteous, no not one. I have to admit, that's me. Which says, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. I have to admit, that's me. When it says, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. I have to admit, that's true. I cannot earn salvation. You say, well, well, Pastor Joel, obviously this is common sense. Everybody knows that you have to believe those things to be a Christian. I'm not convinced that's true. I'm really not. I'm not convinced that every kid growing up in the church really affirms the deity of Christ. A biblical view of self, their incapability of earning their salvation. Many times people grow up in a church in context, And they're like, when I was four, I prayed that and I don't think about it again. And the bottom line is they don't understand the gospel. And so for someone to be a part of the church, They have to have personally responded to the gospel in repentance toward God and faith alone in the finished work of Christ. For by grace are you saved through faith, not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, thus any man should boast. Now, this is an important thing for us to understand. There are many people who have placed their faith in Christ that disagree with us as a church or me as a pastor in all kinds of different areas of doctrine. Okay? Areas that I believe strongly different than they do. But we are brothers and sisters in Christ. We're going to spend all of eternity together. We we may have disagreements about mode of baptism. Paedo-baptism versus Credo-Baptism. We may have debates about something like Bible translation discussions or all kinds of different issues. Those are not gospel issues. Those are not heaven and hell salvation issues. I mean, they do affect church life. There's absolutely no question about it. But they're not issues of whether or not you're a Christian. So then that moves us to the second aspect, which really is the focal point. And that is the local church. God instituted this body. He has his people throughout all of church history that he has been gathering to his people through the preaching of the gospel, repentance toward God. Faith alone in the finished work of Christ. But then those people, God calls them and plants them and places them in local assemblies. And the vast majority of the New Testament is written in the context of local church, visible church. There are aspects to church life that you cannot involve yourself in outside of the local church. You know what is what is the Lord's table? It's a local church ordinance. What is baptism? It's a local church ordinance. So I might say, well, I got baptized. I I I went and dunked in my pool. So I felt baptized, so I'm good to go. You know, I I celebrate the Lord's table on on Saturday afternoon with my wife and kids. Well, you may be remembering the Lord's death until he comes, but you are not practicing the ordinance of the Lord's table in the biblical sense. And so that leads us to a question, what is a local church? What is the point of the local church? I think this is a very, very important discussion. So let's work our way through some of these concepts that I think are very, very important. The very first concept is this These are a people who are bound together by the gospel. More than anything else, the thing that unites us is the gospel of Jesus Christ. I mean, within our church context, there's lots of different personalities, lots of different backgrounds, lots of different strengths and weaknesses. We're all gifted in different ways. Some of you pull for different football teams, whatever. The bottom line is what unites us isn't our personality. It isn't all these superficial things that unite most people in society What binds us together is the gospel. And that's why one of the most important distinctives of the local church is that to become a part of the body, you have to have a credible profession of faith. Very, very important. The next thing I'll say is this. These are people who are assembled together, and I'm going to use the word on a minimum weekly basis for a very definite purpose. Now, when we read the New Testament, it's very clear that the early church did not just meet once a week. It's also very clear that they didn't just meet in the morning. They met in the morning. They had a meal together in the afternoon, and they assembled again in the evening. It's very common that they probably even met multiple times throughout the week. Now, their society was different, their culture was different, their work schedules were different, and so I'm in no way suggesting that that's what we need to do. But what I can say is this. On a minimum, they were meeting at least on the first day of the week. And they didn't say the Lord's morning, they said the Lord's day. Because the entire day was dedicated to focusing in on the Lord. And we see these words used many, many times when referring to the local church. Words like gathered together. Come together, assembled. In fact, ten times in the book of 1 Corinthians, Paul refers to the church as being gathered together, come together, or assembled. Ten times he mentions that in 1 Corinthians alone. In the book of Acts, another ten times he uses the words gather together, come together, assemble. So the idea is that for people to be a part of the local body They weren't just like casually acquainted with one another. They were physically bound together by meeting together in person. Okay? Very, very important. Now, is it true that some people physically cannot assemble? Of course it's true. Should we come down hard on people who can't do it? Of course not. The fact is that we have members in our church. Physically, they cannot come to this place. So we need to go to them We need to go and minister to them. We need to look out for them. We need to go sit in their house and spend time with them in fellowship, pray with them, those kinds of things. They physically cannot be here. There are also others who, frankly, will say they can't be here, but that's between them and God. It's a little debatable. They have to work that out in their own minds. I think it's very easy for us to make excuses. To prioritize lots of other things. Oh, well, I have this thing going on this weekend, this thing going on this weekend, this thing going on this weekend. And all of a sudden you start getting getting the feeling that, you know, sports is a little more important than the gathered body. You know, family gatherings every single weekend, like, they're Saturdays too. You don't cancel work week after week after week The reason I bring that up is these are issues of conscience. You have to sit down and work these out in your mind. The scripture doesn't say Here is the number of times you're supposed to be at church in a given week, or if you come this many times in a month and you're okay, but if you're one short, you're in church. He doesn't do that We simply see pattern. This is what they did. And the reason they did it, again, it wasn't about I've just got to get this off my conscience. It was I value the body. I want to be here. These are my brothers and sisters in Christ. These are the people that I love. These are the people that I serve with. These are the people that I minister to. These are the people that we are growing together, learning together. That's the idea. Behind those things. So we see, bound by the gospel, assembled together on a minimum of once a week. And the third thing I'll mention is this: there was a very definite purpose for their meeting. They came to celebrate the ordinances. This is not the only thing that they did. We're going to talk about some of the things that they did. But they clearly came to celebrate the ordinances. Some of those gather together, come together, assembled type of statements in 1 Corinthians are associated with the Lord's table. When you are gathered together and you're celebrating the Lord's table, this is what Jesus commanded, this is what he taught me, this is what I'm teaching you, this is how we're supposed to practice this. The Lord's table. And when we talk about baptism, obviously baptism is what was the symbol so that people knew this person is publicly stating, I have placed my faith in Christ. And now I want to be joined to the body. I'm willing to identify with God's people. And they moved to that local location and on their profession of faith through their baptism. That's when they came and they joined me. into the body church. And some might say, well, Pastor, there's no such thing as church membership. They didn't have church membership roles. You've never read church history, folks. How do you church discipline someone who's not on the is not a part of the body? You put them out of what? There's got to be some kind of structure. And so the two ordinances that were practiced in the local church were baptism and the Lord's table. Baptism is a public confession of one's faith in Christ alone through the symbolic immersion of believers that will formally unite them to a like-minded local church. The Lord's table, a sacred, symbolic corporate remembrance of Christ's body that was broken and blood that was shed, to give us as individuals forgiveness of sins, a righteous position, and part of a fellowshipping body. So as a church, we should regularly be practicing the ordinances. We should see people get baptized We should be celebrating the Lord's table. Again, the scripture doesn't tell us how often. It's very likely that in the early church they they did this every single week. Because the fact is that this was a very important part of their worship. In many ways, one of the reasons we don't is because we're reacting against the way that the Roman Catholic Church took the practice and twisted it. So it's a bit of a reaction. But again, the scripture does not clearly state here's how often you do this. So many of these issues are issues of conscience. There are issues where we take the principle and we try to apply the principle within our context. So we see that they're bound by the gospel, assembled together on a minimum to gather for worship on a weekly basis. And number four, number three, they were com or four, they were committed to biblical authority. Now, what we're saying is that when people assembled, they weren't thinking in terms of what do we want to do. Or how do we want to meet? Or what does our pastor want to do as much as what is God command? What do the scriptures prescribe about worship? Now, what that tells us is there are certain things that we would never anticipate ever seeing in a worship service because we don't find them in Scripture. The scriptures are the authority. Christ is the head of the church, not us, not even the pastor. It's Christ. 1 Timothy 3. 15. If I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God. Which is the Church of the Living God, the pillar and the ground of the truth? The church's job is to hold fast to truth. And truth is not just something that is subjective that we're like, oh, I feel that we hold to the truth. Holding to the truth involves something objective. I am standing on something. I am proclaiming something. I am living in the light of something. I'm obeying something. It's objective. The scriptures are that objective standard. When Paul says, if I don't come, I'm giving you a letter that tells you How you're supposed to conduct yourself on the authority of Christ as an apostle, what he's saying is the authority of the church is not me or you, it's Christ. And so when we assemble together, we are committed to biblical authority. If a church is not committed to biblical authority, then it is a worthless organization. And I say worthless, I mean it's not functioning the way that God intended it. It's not accomplishing what God intended it to accomplish. And you say, well, how does the church hold fast to the truth? And where does this authority come from? Well, it's from the doctrines of the faith that we find in the scriptures. 1 Timothy 1:3. I besought thee to abide in Ephesus when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge them that they teach no other doctrine. Titus 1. 9, holding fast the faithful word, as you have been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gamesayer. Titus 2. 1, speak thou the things which become sound doctrine. What is doctrine? It's biblical teaching. It 's taking the authoritative word of God. His authority is bound in the scripture, and we take it and we preach it and we teach it and we seek to live it to the very best of our abilities. That's what the church is supposed to be. Number five. Don't worry, we won't go on indefinitely. Guided by biblically qualified leadership. Now, this is very important. A church can say they believe in biblical authority, but one of the great tests of their belief in biblical authority is what they do with the things that our culture says are acceptable or not. Okay? You want to know if a church believes in biblical authority? Ask them what they believe about marriage. I'm serious. Ask them what they believe about human sexuality. Ask them what they believe about pastoral qualifications. Ask them those questions. You say why? Because culture says it's okay to have women pastors. Scripture doesn't say that. Hey, it's okay for people to be involved in sexually illicit relationships. You know, they're not married, but that's okay. You know, it's two guys, but you know, they're gonna be faithful. But the scripture doesn't say that. The scriptures establish a foundation. And if we believe that's the authority, we're going to obey it. We're going to submit to it. Listen to what it says. 1 Timothy 3 verses 1 and 2. This is a true saying. If a man desires the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. A bishop then should be picked out if he wants it. That's not what it says. It says a bishop then must be blameless. And then from there he explains what he means by blames. He talks about their family life, he talks about their children, he talks about their ability to teach, he talks about whether or not they're hospitable. He talks about whether or not they have a good reputation in their community. He talks about whether or not they have a bad temper. He talks about whether or not they're intemperate. He goes into all kinds of areas of life. He has to be blameless. So someone may say, I'm called of God to do this. Fine. But you're not biblically qualified. So, however, you work this out in your mind, a church that believes in the authority of Scripture is not going to accept you as a pastor. It's that simple. Titus 1:7, a bishop must be blameless as the steward of God. God. First Timothy 3. 8. Likewise must the deacons be. What's the point? The point is that God lays out very clear instructions About who can and who cannot be in charge of guiding the church when it comes to this issue of oversight He gives the instruction. Hebrews 13, 17, obey them that have the rule over you. Submit yourselves. They watch for your souls, as they that must give an account that they may do it with joy. And not with grief, for that is unprofitable for you. It 's a very heavy issues. So we talk about the local church. One of the reasons some people don't like the local church is because the bottom line is they've never been in one that's functioning biblically. And it's been a total mess. And they say, I don't want no part of that. Well, I mean, if that's all you've ever experienced, I could kind of appreciate that Or they've been in a church that they do follow the scriptures in these areas, but then they completely ignore in these areas. And they see the hypocrisy. Or maybe someone has been in leadership and everybody in the church knows this person's disqualified to be a pastor. But they have a they have a you know a They're a very upbeat person, they're very persuasive, and so people get behind it. And there are some principled people in that congregation that say, I want to know part of that. And so when we see those kinds of things, we go, you know what, it makes sense. Or the world looks at the church and they see all the hypocrisy in different places and they say, if that's what a church is, I want to know part of it. Well, just because there's a lot of bad examples doesn't mean that the real thing doesn't exist. It doesn't mean that we shouldn't seek with all of our ability to do things right. Are there bad doctors out there? Of course there are. Do you go to the doctor? Yes, hopefully a good one. If they're a bad one, you don't go there anymore. You get a good doctor. The fact is, there are problems everywhere you look. And so to the best of our ability, we understand what a healthy, biblically foundation church is. And then we say, that's what we pray this is, and that's what we pray that it stays. And I'm only going to be a part of such a church. I will not participate in a church that is not functioning biblically. We need to have this kind of a mindset. The last thing I'm going to mention, this perhaps maybe is the one that's the most controversial, is they take seriously the command to provide biblical accountability. 1 Corinthians 5 9, it says, I wrote unto you in an epistle not to keep company with fornicators, yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world. Or with covetous or extortioners or with idolaters. For then must ye needs go out of the world. But now we have written unto you not to keep company, if any man that is called a brother be a fornicator. Or covetous, or an idolater, or a railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner, with such an one know not to eat, By the way, when he says not to eat, I don't think he's saying, oh, you know what, my husband just got excommunicated, or my wife just got excommunicated, so I can't have a meal with him. He's talking about the Lord's table. He's saying they cannot be a part of the church gathered as a member in good standing, coming to the Lord's table and communing and fellowshipping as if everything is good. What's the point? The point is that God expects the church to do what's right, to be holy, to be set apart to God. Now these passages are not saying if a person is struggling with sin that we just that's not what he's saying. It's not saying that when a church has to take a hard action, that there is this arrogance and goes, huh, we got rid of that person. No, no, no. In fact, the the words church discipline typically use, it's really not about discipline as much as it is about God bringing that person to a humbled position so they can be restored. in a godly way. That's what it's all about. And so many, many churches either they do this really wrong, or they don't do it at all, or they attempt and they think they're doing it, but they're really not. The bottom line is this. That's what a church is. It's a body of people that have been gathered together with a credible Profession of faith. They practice the ordinances. They've been baptized, joined to the church. They celebrate the Lord's table together. They're under the authority of Scripture. They hold fast to sound doctrine. There is regular preaching and teaching that is clearly biblical, not just off on the side, people running on tangents and saying whatever they want to say. They take seriously walking consistent with their position. That's what a local church is. Now I'm not going to answer the second question side, but I'm going to pose it so that you will know where I'm going next week. What qualities are most important in the life and ministry of the local church? So if this is what a church is, then when we think about our own church, what should we see here? Or when we think about someone who's moving to a new area, what should they be looking for when they think about the church that they will be bound to? That they will that they will come into that congregation. That's what they'll serve and that's where they'll worship and that's going to be their their sir their their church. Even within our community. We're in a situation where there's lots and lots of churches that are frankly going very far to the left. Going to the right, going to the left. This is your left. Going to the left doctrinally. And all of a sudden people are going, whoa, well what what's happened? I I grew up in this church and now I'm hearing things that I know are not biblical. What happened to the authority of Scripture? And they say, I don't even know where to go. I don't even know what to look for. What are the things I should be looking for? So, Lord willing, next week, that's where we're going to go with that. So you say, well, bring this to a conclusion, Pastor. What is the whole point? Here's the point. Church matters. The church matters. And one of the reasons that people do not are not faithful in the local church is because, number one, they don't understand it. Or number two, they don't actually value it because their hearts become a little bit too cold and a little bit too complacent. And so what we've got to do is we've got to go back to the basics and ask the question: what is the church supposed to be? Frankly, a lot of people have given up on the church because they've been very wounded. And they've been hurt. And it's been a tough experience for them. And they say, I I I don't think I can go through that again. And so we need to strive as God's people to be a godly healthy church. That's what it's all about. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father in heaven, thank you for your word. We recognize that you love your church. You love the church as in the universal body of every Christian, every redeemed person. You love them dearly. And you love the local church. As we are assembled this evening, your spirit is working in our midst, not just in us as individuals, but in our midst. And so I pray that you would take the word and use it. Help us to recognize the incredible value of this body, why it is so important that we don't neglect it. We recognize the word We need it. We need each other. I pray that you'd help us to function biblically, help us to be a strong and vibrant local church that's really doing things the way that you've commanded. We ask it in Christ's name, amen.