We are in Luke chapter twenty-one again this morning, and I believe this is the fourth uh time we have gone to this portion of Luke, and the reason that we have gone so slowly through this portion is because There really is a lot to digest here, and this section is going to kind of present to us a balance. One would be the terror of the last days, and then ultimately those days that are right before the return of Christ. And then that is going to be set right alongside the tremendous comfort that is provided in this passage of Scripture for those who will live through those events. Who'll be saved during that time period will be looking for Christ. And in fact, us, as we look at that day with great anticipation, to where the Lord will make all things new and right. And so let's go ahead and read this passage of scripture together, and then we'll bow for prayer, ask the Lord to bless our time, and then we will dig into the contents that are here this morning. God's word says the following, and when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh. Then let them which are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let them which are in the midst of it depart out. Let not them that are in the countries enter thereunto, for these be the days of vengeance. That all things which are written may be fulfilled. But woe unto them that are with child and to them that give suck in those days. There shall be great distress in the land, and wrath upon this people. They shall fall by the edge of the sword and shall be led away captive into all nations, and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles. until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. There shall be signs in the sun and in the moon and in the stars and upon the earth, the stress of nations. With perplexity, the sea and the waves roaring, men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth. For the powers of heaven shall be shaken. And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, lift up your heads. For your redemption draweth nigh. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, as we read this text , we spend time reflecting on its contents. I pray that what is presented this morning would provide that balance that we find so perfectly laid out in this passage. One of a sober reminder that there is judgment upon the world when they reject Christ. But one of great comfort and consolation. That God preserves his people, he keeps them, he strengthens them, and ultimately he rescues them. And Father, we look forward to that day where Christ will come again. He will make all things new. We will have the privilege of being a part of his kingdom for all eternity. And we do not come into that position because of anything we've done, because of any goodness in us, but entirely by the grace of God, the purchase of Christ's sacrifice for us. We stand before you and will enjoy you forever because of your grace. And so may these truths really dig and root in our hearts. And may we be strengthened and encouraged by them. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I was reading an interesting article about something that happened in Florida this week. As people were driving down the road, there was a light that went straight down from the sky, and that light was a meteor. In fact, it actually not only fell out of the sky, but it left this tail and it went through a person's roof. It burned a hole right through the roof. through the HVAC in the ceiling, all the way down to the floor in their house, and it left a hole where it hit the house. That's terrifying. I'm glad it was little because what would have happened if it was huge? The truth is there are a lot of things that can go wrong in this world. And you and I don't have any control over them. I mean none. If that guy had been laying in his bed and that thing came through and he just happened to be where the thing landed, that would have been, well, the end of the story for him. And the truth is that as we look at what can go wrong in a fallen world, we need to realize it could always be worse than it is right now. And not just it can be, it will be. And in fact, the text in front of us talks about a time in history. Actually, it talks about several periods of time in history where things were worse and things will be worse. But they also point us to great comfort and consolation in Christ. I would take the passage to be summarized in the following way. Despite the terror of the last days, Christ offers real hope with the promise of his coming. We must process everything in our lives through the process of the imminent return of Christ. Everything that we encounter, we need to realize that we're living in a world that we could say has an end date on it. And the Lord Jesus Christ is coming And he has started a thing that he has promised to complete, and all those who have placed their faith in Christ are going to experience the fullness of what God has prepared for his children. First thing I want you to notice as we dig into this passage of Scripture is how it describes what we call a prelude to the return of Christ. There are four facts in the text that are laid out. The first fact is this. There will be, and I say will be, from the time of the people that we're hearing this. There would be a time in history that there would be a horrible siege on Jerusalem. If you look down in your Bibles, look at the way that it is described. Described in the text, it says this, When ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, know that the desolation thereof is nigh. Then let them which are in Judea flee to the mountains, let them which are in the midst of it depart out, and let not them that are in the countries enter thereunto. For these be the days of vengeance that all things which are written may be fulfilled. But woe unto them that are with child and to them that give suck in those days. There shall be great distress in the land and wrath upon this people. Now whether you realize this or not, that statement has a lot of interpretive challenges associated with it. If you're to pick up different commentaries and read how they interpret this passage, You would find that there's not absolute conformity on how they would understand this text. But I'm going to give you what I think it's actually talking about, and I could potentially be wrong, but I think that it fits very well into what Christ is presenting here. This event that is being described is an event that would be a specific judgment against a generation of people who willfully rejected Christ. and viciously persecuted his church. In fact, I want to take you to a couple of passages of scripture that give us some sense of what we are talking about here. The first one is Matthew 27. Listen to what The scripture says in verse 24, it says, when Pilate saw that he could not prevail, But rather a tumult was made. He took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. See ye to it, then answered all of the people and said, listen to the statement, his blood be on us. And the next statement is fascinating. And on our children. Can you imagine a people that had such animosity towards the Lord Jesus Christ? That they would make that statement? They did. And the fact is, God heard their cry. In Acts chapter 2, after the death of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, and then the ascension, we see at Pentecost, 50 days later. That Peter is preaching, and this is what he states in verse 23. He says, him being Jesus, being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God. You have taken and by wicked hands crucified and slain. Now do you catch what he's saying? You, the people that Peter is preaching to, took the Lord Jesus Christ and you delivered him to Pontius Pilate. And you pressed Pontius Pilate and said, take him, kill him, crucify him. And even as Pilate was reluctant to do that, you said, It's okay. His blood be on us and on our children. And listen to the response of the people as they process what Peter is so very boldly and shockingly saying. It says in verse 37, when they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts, for sure. And they said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, men and brethren, what shall we do? Now this is what's really amazing here. These people still had opportunity to turn to Christ. Here are these people that had just a few weeks before said, kill him for us. They're not now saying, what shall we do? And the Bible says that as Peter was preaching, he basically says this, turn to Christ. Repent, believe. Be saved, be baptized, be added to the church. And listen carefully to what he says in verse 40. It says, with many other words he did testify and exhorted, saying, Save yourself from this untoward generation. What does he mean by that? Distance yourself from the people that said, His blood be on us and our children. Now, why does all this matter? This all matters because I believe this is the context of what Jesus is saying here. What Jesus is describing is when God is going to follow through. with what he said he would do to a generation that rejected Christ. In fact we can read about it in history and we know exactly what happened. It was a horrible and tragic time. And as we work our way through the rest of what Christ is saying here We're going to see that there are more details than just the destruction of Jerusalem. In fact, there are a lot of references in the New Testament to this concept of judgment and deliverance. James 5. Be patient, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Verse 8, be patient, establish your heart. The coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Verse 9, grudge not one against another, brethren, lest you be condemned. Behold, the judge standeth before the door. A lot of New Testament texts have we could say a duality what is to what is actually being talked about. And here are people who are part of the dispersion all throughout Rome. These are Jewish believers and they're experiencing great persecution. from their communities and he's saying, I'm going to rescue you from what you're going through. Second fact, I want you to notice in the text. It's not just the emphasis on the destruction of Jerusalem, but secondly, that the Jews would be scattered throughout the nations indefinitely but not permanently. And this is a really important concept. We see the next statement here where it says this, and they shall fall by the edge of the sword and be led away captive into all nations. This would be a decisive and painful action. In fact, I'm reading through the book of Jeremiah right now. What's really interesting about the book of Jeremiah is here is a prophet who was living in a an apostate nation at the time and he's the one who's supposed to minister to the king and as he's preaching and as he's prophesying and as he's saying what's going on, all the people in the city are like, Don't you dare say these things because People are going to give up and they're going to they're going to surrender the Babylonians and he basically says, you surrender to Babylon or you're going to die in the city You're going to be led away captive, but God has a purpose for you in that captivity. So submit to his purposes. Do what he says to do. He's going to bring you back to the land when this is all said and done. And so we have a story of Jeremiah talking to the king, and he throws him in a pit, and then he's pulled out of the pit, and they're having these conversations, and the king basically says, Don't tell people this, keep it quiet. Because I don't want them to be discouraged. Well, the reality is, whether he didn't say it or not, it was going to happen. And the people who listened to what he was saying and obeyed the word of the Lord, in fact, their lives would have been preserved, and some of them could have potentially even come back when it was all over. At least their children or their grandchildren. But these events that are described in this text, in fact, they're going to be a decisive and painful period in Israel's history. Luke 23, 29, 28, as Jesus is being led up to, he's carrying his cross up to Galgazah. He's about to be crucified, and the women on the sides of the road are weeping as they see his physical agony. This is what Jesus says to them. It says, he turned and said unto them, daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves. For your children. Why'd he say that? Because of what we're talking about here. But this is not going to be a permanent Sending away. In fact, in Isaiah 11, verse 12, listen to what the text says. It's fascinating. He shall set up an ensign for the nations and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel and gather together the disperse of Judah. From the four corners of the earth. So he talks about this time that people are going to be spread all over the nations, and then God's going to bring them back. You say, when? How? How is this even possible? Well, if God says he's going to do it, then he's going to do a thing And then we see something to develop this even further. In Romans chapter 11, God speaks of his promises regarding Abraham. In fact, Romans chapters 9, 10, and 11 are a very important part of the entire discussion of the book of Romans. Because from chapters 5, 6, 7, and 8, Paul is demonstrating that when God justifies people, he glorifies people. And God gives salvation and he completes everything. And it's all of his grace. And then the people are listening to this and they're saying, well, hold on a second. You say that God follows his promises 100%, but what about his promises to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob? And look at what has gone on in the world at the time that we are living through. How can you say that God is faithful and he says, well, let me give you chapter 9, chapter 10, chapter 11 to say, I am going to do what I said I was going to do. And listen to his words in chapter 11, verse 25. And this is a profound text of scripture. I would not, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery. Lest you should be wise in your own conceits. That blindness in part is happened to Israel until interesting word here, the fullness of the Gentiles become in, and so all Israel shall be saved. As it is written, there shall come out of Zion the deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob. This is my covenant unto them when I shall take away their sins. As concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sake, but as touching the election, they are beloved for the Father's sakes. For the gifts and calling of God are without repentance. If God says he's going to do a thing and change his mind, that's what he means. They're without repentance. For as ye in times past have not believed God, yet now obtain mercy through their unbelief. Even so, have these also now not believed that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy. For God has concluded them all in unbelief that he might have mercy upon all. I could spend a lot of time developing this, but I'm going to put it this way. God is going to do that in his own way, his own time, by his own power. But this passage speaks of this dispersion all throughout the world. The third fact we see is that Jerusalem will be dominated by the Gentiles during that period. It says, and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles. Until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. I was um I was watching some videos that talk about uh the history of the Jewish people. Over the last two thousand years. What a mess. What a mess. This empire comes out and stamps out these people and then this empire comes out and stamps out these people and these people get spread out here and they're persecuted here and then the up here. And it's just a total mess. But what does God say? There's going to be a period of time that that land is going to be dominated by the Gentiles. But here's fact four. There will be an objective visible objective sign that precedes the second coming of Christ when he will make all things new. What's interesting about this passage is that it deals with something that's about to happen. It deals with something that's going to happen for a lengthy period of time, and it deals with something that's going to happen at the end. And he doesn't necessarily explain all the details. Well, here's 10 years here, and here's 100 years here, and here's 800 years here, here's 2,000 years here. He doesn't do that. He says There's a judgment, there's a dispersion, there's a domination by the Gentiles, and oh by the way, there's going to be a day when Christ returns. That's what he does. Listen to what it says. There shall be signs in the sun and in the moon and in the stars on the earth, distress of nations with perplexity. The seas and the waves roaring men's hearts failing them for fear and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth. For the power of heaven shall be taken. I'm just going to make a comment here. There's a difference between what the Bible calls the day of the Lord and the second coming of Christ. Now, if we were doing a class on eschatology, I would have to like flush all this out. But when we talk about the day of the Lord, we're talking about a period of time That is described in the Old Testament. It's described in Christ's preaching during his earthly ministry. And it's also described a lot in the epistles, and then especially in the book of Revelation. We talk about the day of the Lord. This is a time period that is not a part of the last days, but is actually God fulfilling these final things in preparation for the second coming of Christ. The Scripture tells us that the day of the Lord is going to come as a thief in the night. Anybody in here ever been robbed in the night? I have. I lived overseas, so it's happened a few times. But the reality is when a thief comes, they don't announce I'm coming, they just do. And so the day of the Lord is going to come like that. But when we talk about the return of Christ, there are a series of clearly defined events. that will take place during the day of the Lord that are described in the book of Revelation. In fact, if you go to the book of Revelation. . You'll see that it breaks down into three basic things that are, we could say, preparations during the day of the Lord for the second coming of Christ. There is a picture that is described in Revelation 6 through 8 of this title deed to all of creation that rightfully belongs to Christ. And they say, who is worthy to open this scroll? And they say, nobody in heaven and earth is worthy to open the scroll save one, that is Christ. And Christ takes that title deed, and there are seven seals in this title deed. And he takes one and he breaks the seal. And then the Bible describes things that will take place. And he takes it and breaks the second seal, and it describes things that will take place all the way to the seventh and final seal. And when he breaks that seventh final seal, there are seven trumpet blasts that announce that judgment is coming on the world, and also God is coming to rescue his people. And so Revelation 8 through 11 describes what takes place after each of those trumpet blasts. And then in verses 15 through 19, there are seven bowls. In fact, uh the people that check my sermon notes, they sent it back and said, you put bowels, not bowls. And I was like, oh, that would be a bad thing, right? Seven bowel judgments, right? Seven bowls, bold judgments. You say, what are these bold judgments? When the scripture talks about God judging the nations, there are many times that he describes a cup or a bowl. And as he pours out that cup or that bowl, it is God's judgment upon a nation, the nations, various situations. As he pours out that bowl, it is God pouring out his judgment on the people. Do you remember Jesus in the garden? If it's possible, remove this cup from me. Why'd he say that? Because the cup was God's judgment. And he drank it fully so that we could be redeemed. But as you see those seals broken, as you hear those trumpet blasts, as those bowls are poured out. All of these things are signs pointing to one simple fact. Jesus is coming. So we talk about this period that is coming down the road, the last days that we are living in, looking to the day of the Lord. That is going to catch people off guard. When we talk about this final event, all those living at that period are going to see those things and go, I know Jesus is coming. A couple of observations here. One is Christ's teaching is very general and it is silent on a lot of details here. His purpose was not to articulate a detailed timeline or address all their curiosities. He wanted them to understand the big picture and face faithfully persevere. Suffering is a real part of living in a fallen world. God preserves his people. He gives grace to sustain them. His deliverance is absolutely certain. Be looking for the return of Christ. It is imminent. That's what he's saying. Second thing I want you to notice here is I want to give you a little bit slightly fuller understanding of what Christ is teaching here. If you look at this passage, he's giving you a couple of, you could say, signposts, but there's a lot more in scripture that's talked about this. And so I just want to dip into this a little bit, but not too much. That might make some of you frustrated. But if you want to be here for two hours, we'd have to go deep, right? We can't do that. So, first of all, I want to mention something about this concept of a mystery. When the Bible uses the term mystery. It uses this term to describe something that is true but has not yet been fully expanded and given to us. God has remained silent. Because at the time it's not necessary for these people to know it. In fact, I'll say it like this: it's not necessary to have an absolute understanding of concepts to trust God and faithfully obey Him. If I'm talking to my children about salvation, I can lead a child to the Lord, and I don't have to be able to expound every single little detail in the book of Romans or The book of Ephesians, I don't have to parse every single verb so that I can explain the gospel to my child. They need to know the basics of the gospel. Christ, who is he? Died on the cross for what reason? For our sins. He rose from the dead, and through trusting alone in what he did for us on that cross, we can be saved from our sins That's a very simple, it's a very basic message. And that child may not have an understanding of every single detail, but they say, I know I'm a sinner, I believe Jesus is a savior, I want to trust Christ as my savior. They can be saved. And over the rest of their lives, you know what they're going to do? They're going to grow in a knowledge and understanding of all these things. Overly complicating basic truths can be a really dangerous thing. It can cripple people. It can especially cripple those that are very introspective. And so I want us to be very careful about this. People who are young, who have limited foundational information, but information that is true, or have a very simplistic understanding of that information can live vibrant and godly lives There are Christians throughout church history that live far more godly lives than you and I do. They didn't have logos, they didn't have Bible works. They didn't have all of these wonderful commentaries that are available to us today. They didn't have the ability to listen to podcasts and watch sermons on YouTube. They simply knew the basics that they got in their local church every single Lord's Day that they gathered together. They heard the word of God read. They heard the word of God expounded. They sang the hymns of the faith. They trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ. They were committed to walking in faithfulness to Him. They were not ashamed of that. God used them. And we need to keep this in the back of our minds. We could see this in people like Abraham. Simple promise. I'm going to make your descendants as the stars of heaven and the sands of the seashore. And Abraham said, I believe that. That's pretty simple, right? Did he have all the details that you and I have? No. But there was enough information given that he trusted in the coming Messiah. Or look at Moses. Go talk to the Pharaoh. Oh well I don't think I can do this. And he goes all the goes through all these little things and God says, Well I made you. I can I can I can I can work through you and he gives him all these reasons and he says, just go do it, Moses. Just go do it. What's the point? The point is that God uses people who are willing to take action on what they've been given, trust simply in it, and obey him. That's what God does. A mystery is a biblical concept that's always been true, but not clearly communicated in Scripture yet. And the details that Christ chose not to include are very significant and helpful to us, but were not necessary to them. So let me give you a couple of real basics here. The first passage that's very important here is Daniel chapter 9, verses 24 to 27. Now we already read this passage of Scripture, and I'm not going to read it again for sake of time, but I want you to notice in that text a couple of statements that tell us That God has a timetable and God has a purpose for everything that He is going to work in that time. We have the following statements. This is going to happen to finish the transgression. To make an end of sins. To make reconciliation for iniquity. To bring in everlasting righteousness. to seal up the vision and prophecy to anoint the most holy. What is he saying? All that prophetic information given to us in Daniel 9 Is meant to address the issue of the greatest injustice in humanity, to finish the transgression, to reverse the terrible effects of sin on this creation, to make an end of sin. To reconcile mankind to a righteous God, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to establish everlasting glory and righteousness, to bring in everlasting righteousness. To accomplish everything that he promised, to seal up the vision and prophecy, to establish Christ in his rightful place for eternity, to anoint the most holy. We talk about the day of the Lord and the second coming of Christ and the tribulation and all the things that are a part of that discussion. You know what it's all about? It's all about those details that were just given. God deals with sin. God fulfills his promises. Christ will reign forever. That's what it's all about. And people in the first century were very fearful that they were living through those events. Listen to what it says in 2 Thessalonians 2. It says, I beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord, that you be not soon shaken in mind, or troubled, neither by spirit. Nor by word nor by letter. Why is he saying that? There are people in the church that took this very basic understanding of the return of the Lord. They saw the things that were there in the scripture. They conflated a bunch of things and they basically started writing letters and telling the church, hey, we're living through this time period and we're going to go through all the horrible things that are talked about and they made the people absolutely terrified. He says, do not be shaken in mind, do not be troubled by spirit or word or letter As from us, because that didn't come from the apostles. He says, let no man deceive you by any means For that day shall not come except there be first a falling away, the man of sin be revealed, and the son of perdition, who opposes and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped. So that he as God sitteth in the temple, showing himself that he is God. Remember ye not, when I was yet with you, I told you these things. And what's he saying? Whatever you're being told isn't true. So don't let it cause you to be fearful. He then writes a second epistle, or another, in another epistle, 1 Thessalonians 5. He says, Of the times and the seasons, brethren, you need not that I write unto you, yourselves know perfectly the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night When they shall say peace and safety, suddenly destruction shall come upon them. Did you catch that? They, them, but ye brethren are not in darkness. That that day should overtake you as a thief. God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. And so I'll give you these very basic thoughts. One, everything talked about in that eschatological discussion is to deal with sin once and for all. The people who were very fearful in the first century that they were living in the tribulation, he said, you're not. Because there are certain things that are going to take place that haven't. And his comfort to them is this, God will preserve you from the wrath and trouble and misery. of those terrible days. You say, what does all that mean? What it means is this. When all those signs of the second coming are here, we are going to be here. You say, why is that? Because we will be caught up together with the Lord to meet him in the air. And so we see that comfort. Third thing I want you to notice is the ultimate comfort. Here's what he says. Then shall they see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. When these things begin to come to pass, then look up and lift up your heads. Your redemption draweth nigh. Despite the terror of the last days, there is absolute hope. I want you to think about it like this. Jesus will come when history is at its darkest point ever. As bad as it was in the days of Noah, it says that's what it's going to be in this period of time. He will come with great power and glory. He will set everything right and he will do it forever. His coming is something that we must process all of life through We must think of the promises. We must think of the promise of his return that is imminent. And as we go through the challenges of life, we always focus it through that lens. You know in Ephesians chapter 6 where he talks about putting on the whole armor of God? One of the pieces he says is this, put on the shield of faith. And then he says, put on the helmet of salvation and take the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And he he emphasizes focusing on the Word of God and the truths of Scripture and trusting in them. But that helmet of salvation is one that I don't want you to miss. That helmet of salvation is talking about a very specific detail in the scripture regarding the return of Christ. And so one of those things that arms are thinking is this: Jesus is coming again. And we can endure until he does. That's what he's saying. Christ's return will be history's greatest triumph. It will be triumphant for those who have died in Christ and are coming with him. If you go to Revelation where it talks about the second coming of Christ and his return, guess what? It says that the saints are coming with him. Who are those people? Us? We who have been brought to be with him? So what's interesting is when he comes, there'll be people with him and there'll be people looking for him. Why is that? Because of the timing of these events. It will be a triumph for those who have lived through the misery of this period and are being rescued in their darkest hour. Read through the book of Revelation and notice something. As dark and miserable and painful as that period will be, many, many, many people will be converted in those days There 'll be 144 evangelists who go all throughout the world and preach the gospel. God will even use the angels to bring the gospel to the nations during that time. And so while it'll be a time of persecution, it'll also be a time of great reviving of people turning to the Lord. And those who are caught in that time, who are looking for Christ, living through the misery of that period, they will find his coming as the greatest triumph and the greatest comfort you could ever imagine. It'll be the decisive triumph over the kingdom of darkness forever. It will be a triumph for eternity. And so the question we should ask is: how do we apply all that? I mean that's a lot to process. But I want to give you some final simple thoughts. The first is this. Sin has turned this world upside down. It has wreaked havoc on this world since the garden. And God in his infinite love and goodness has not abandoned his creation. Did you catch that? He's not abandoned it. He knows what must happen to reverse the curse without compromising his character. That's why we have the cross. That's why we have the incarnation. That's why Christ took on flesh and he went to the cross and he died in our place and he rose from the dead. That's why we have the gospel. He knows exactly what might take place, and he has determined to do it. He has promised that he will do it. He has put his word on the line. The cross and the resurrection have already established a basis for that final redemption. And his second coming will finish what he promised to do. You know, most of Scripture when we read it, we read it in terms of looking back at what God did. That's how we face most of Scripture. So we we look at the promise to someone like Abraham and we go, well God promised that he was going to give him a son and he did. Or we look at the promises that were made uh all all throughout the the scriptures, like the during the the the the seventy years that they would be uprooted from the land and then they would be sent back. We see that that was fulfilled. Or we see that when Moses goes And he speaks to the Pharaoh and we have the plagues that he ends up going back to Mount Sinai as God said he would. Or we know that God promises that there's going to be a cross and a resurrection, and then we see that it has actually happened. But there are still a few things we're waiting for. That's what applies in this text. Out of all the generations of history, we have more to look back at than most. But we still have some to look forward to. And so this same Savior is our Redeemer, our redemption. He will make all things new. But I want to step back just a little bit more and ask the question, what about the details of my life on a daily basis? Does that Christ care about those things? The answer is yeah. This same Savior who will come, who has promised, is active, and graciously working in our lives personally every single day. He has promised to never leave us or forsake us, and that's true. He has promised to give us strength when we are weak, and he does. He has promised to give us wisdom when we're confused, and he does. He's promised to rise to our defense when we are unjustly attacked, and he does. He promises to rescue us when there's no other place to turn, and he does those things. His work is not just in the future, it's in the present And so as I think about these passages of Scripture, I'm reminded of the character of our God who promises and who keeps his promises. Who cares deeply for his children when they're going through life's greatest struggles? We have to process everything in life through the promise of his return. I want to close with this passage of scripture that we read at the end of the book of Revelation. It says, I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. I John saw the Holy City New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. He will dwell with them. They shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their gods. God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. There shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain. The former things are passed away. He that sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. He said unto me, Write, these words are true and faithful. When we think of the big picture, this is what I think we need to take away. God said he would do something, he did it God promises to do a thing he will. All those times in the past he has demonstrated his faithfulness, and what little things we are looking forward to in the future that he has promised are not yet realized. They are just as certain as those things that he has promised and He is coming again, and when he comes again, there is a timetable involved. And at the end of it all, what is he going to do? He's going to give us eternal glory. May we never get past this. May we glory in it. May it give us strength each day. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. It may be that this morning there's someone here who you heard this message and you go, the biggest takeaway I have is I'm afraid. You don't have to be afraid. My one question to you is, have you placed your faith in the finished work of Christ? Have you placed your faith in what he did for you on that cross? Because if you have, all of these things are things that point to not your misery, but your deliverance. And this same God who made these promises and fulfilled is the same God who cares about the little details of your life. If anyone here doesn't know the Lord is their Savior, please don't leave this place without coming and having a conversation about how you can know for sure that you have eternal life. Or maybe somebody here is really struggling in some areas. You are very weighed down and very burdened. You want to talk through the issue. No worries. Reach out. I'd be glad to sit down, take a Bible, work through your questions, be as much of an encouragement as I can from the Word of God. May God help us. To take these truths to heart and to live in the light of their comfort. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we think about your word , Yes, it describes some terrible events, but it also describes a glorious and triumphant and comforting Time when Christ will bring us to be with him. Or bring us with him to take his own. I pray that we would look forward to that day with great joy. And comfort as we deal with the burdens of life, may we not be consumed with grief and terror, but may we find strength and stability in our Savior who loves us. Who died for us, who rose from the dead, has given us eternal life, is coming again for us. I pray that you use the word of God to strengthen us today in Christ's name. Amen.