Father, I pray that you help us this morning in our Sunday school hour to have clear minds to understand the passages that are before us. I pray that as we talk through some of these concepts that You'd give me clarity in areas where I need to communicate it. And I pray that we have great questions and that this would be a very practical time of study and instruction. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you have your Bibles, I want to ask you to take them, turn to 1 Samuel 18. And Last week we were we had a missionary in, and I hope you enjoyed that question and answer time. That was very, very insightful. It was good. I enjoyed it, and we had some great questions. We'll be having a lot more of those in the next couple weeks because we'll have missionaries in. And some of these missionaries haven't actually been on the field. Just take what they say with great salt. I'm sorry, it's true. Yeah, I've been there and noticed like, you know After two weeks on a trip you think you know everything about a country. It doesn't work that way. Um three or four years into it, all of a sudden it's like, wow, I had a lot of ideas that are not really true. And so um but it'll be good. And it's you know it's really a good thing for us to interact with folks who Maybe they don't have the same amount of experience as others, but they really do have a passion. And uh they're willing to try things that uh others say, oh, that doesn't work. Well Might not have worked for you, it might work for them, you never know. But that that excitement, that zeal is a wonderful thing, and so sometimes we have to keep that that pessimism in check with someone who is young, maybe a little naive, but they're excited about what they're going to do. So I look forward to the question and answer times we'll have. Basically, what what we were talking about the last time we were here in our first Samuel study was we were contrasting the difference between David and between Saul. And in that contrast, we were really emphasizing the fact that God's presence in David's life versus God's presence not being in Saul was something that really contrasted the way they live their lives. Now, when we take David and we take Saul, we put on a piece of paper their sins and their high points and low points, what you'll find is David committed sins like beyond Saul, if you really want to be honest about it. We have no uh record in scripture of Saul committing adultery. We don't have uh any example of him murdering somebody. No, he certainly tried. A couple of times, including his own son, alright. But the truth is that really what it came down to was when Saul sinned, he would cover that sin. He wouldn't he wouldn't address that sin And David, though he did cover for a season, when God finally got through to him, he was very humbled by that And I was reading something the other day where it was talking about leadership and talking about biblical examples. And one of the things that the writer of this article was saying is that we have no examples in the Bible other than Christ of a person who didn't make some mistake when they were in leadership We have some that were pretty good examples, like Daniel. I don't know if I can think of anything off the top of my head that really stands out, but Most biblical leaders, even the best of leaders, had some really dark moments. They made some really bad decisions. And so the fact is that God works through very Weak people, through people who are still in a learning process, people who make bad mistakes, people who've had a rough past. He continues to work in and through them. And so When we go through this passage, or when we go through kind of the practical side of this, I hope it'll be an encouragement to you to see that even though David had terrible flaws , God still worked through him, and God loved him, and God used him in a mighty way. And God can use us in spite of our many, many flaws that we have. So let me kind of give you some feedback from the last couple discussions. First of all, we saw that our greatest need is a life that is filled with the presence of the Holy Spirit. And we talked about Saul and we talked about David, but the passage that we really emphasized was Psalm 51, verses 10 to 12. And this is what David writes. After he's been confronted and really humbled about his sin, he says, Create in me a clean heart, O God. And renew a right spirit within me. Now we talked about God creating a clean heart in him, it's emphasized in the fact that he didn't have a clean heart When he sang that. His heart had been soiled by sin. And he felt the effects of that. When he says, renew a right spirit within me, he's indicating that he at one time did have a right spirit before God and that spirit had been compromised and now he was in a position where he needed God to restore him back to a right place. He says, don't cast me from your presence. He doesn't want God to distance himself from David. He doesn't want God to withdraw himself. And obviously God didn't do that because God is the one who sent Nathan to David David didn't ask Nathan to come and talk to him. And that's a really important thing for us to realize. Even when when we are in this place where we've sinned. God sends people to us. He sends circumstances our way. And he does that because he wants us to be restored. He says, Don't take your Holy Spirit from me. And what we talked about was the fact that in the Old Testament the Holy Spirit was present and at work in people's lives, but his relationship to the believer was different. than it is now in the new covenant, under this dispensation, however you want to refer to it, after the cross, now that God is working through believers His Holy Spirit indwells them in it and it's a different than it was in the Old Testament. But the Holy Spirit came upon David, and the Holy Spirit spoke through David, and the Holy Spirit ministered to David And so David understood what it was like to have the Holy Spirit presently working in his life. He then says, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation and uphold me with thy free spirit. And really what David is indicating here is that his loss of joy was really a result of one his sin and two the fact that God's presence was not near and close to him like it had been earlier in his walk with the Lord And so our joy as Christians really is in many ways connected to the presence of the Holy Spirit at work in us. So what I'd like to do today is I'd like to pick up with talking about truth number three Understanding the New Testament ministry of the Holy Spirit. This is a really important lesson. If I was teaching a class on the doctrine of the Holy Spirit, we'd spend a lot of time here. We would spend a lot of time developing each of these points. I'm going to just state them, maybe open it up for questions if you have any questions. Because I want us to really understand how the Holy Spirit works in our life. I don't have all the answers, okay? Um, and I recognize that. But this is something that I thought a lot about and especially as a missionary in the context we're working in. discussion about the Holy Spirit and his role in in the church and believers. It was something that was a very vibrant discussion. So it's a really important doctrinal concept. So let's begin first of all With this statement. In the Old Testament, the Holy Spirit was active, but he did not indwell every person. So there are some people that will give you the impression that the Holy Spirit didn't exist in the Old Testament. He now exists in the New Testament. For instance, they'll say, well, God in the Old Testament, he was, you know, God the Father, and then during the intertestamental period, and then during the Gospels, you have God. displaying himself as the Son. And now in the in the New Testament era, now that we're in the church, we have him as the Holy Spirit. That's called modalism. That's a false doctrine, okay God has not revealed himself as three different persons at three different times. He has always existed as a triunity. There's always been Father. Son and Holy Spirit. Those three persons of the Godhead have always had a distinction of person, yet they're of the same essence. And so the Holy Spirit was just as alive and present in the Old Testament as he is today in the New Testament. But the function that he or the role that he played in the Old Testament towards believers was different than it is today. In the New Testament, every believer has the Spirit And when I say has the Spirit, I don't mean just that he relates to the Spirit, but the Holy Spirit indwells him. I want you to go to Romans chapter 8 if you could Romans chapter eight. And this is a really interesting passage because Basically, in Romans 8, Paul is talking about the fact that when a person becomes a believer, there is a very distinct change that takes place in them. So in Romans 8:1, he says that there is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. That's just a statement of a fact. If I'm a believer, if I place my faith in Christ, I will never stand before God's judgment throne to be condemned in a legal sense. That will not happen. It cannot happen. It states that clearly. Then we see a phrase that follows it. that says, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Now that little phrase is actually repeated a couple of times in this passage. And are in this section here, and that's not saying that, well, there's no condemnation to believers who don't walk after the flesh But there is condemnation to believers that do. That's not the point of that statement, okay? The point of that statement is to identify the character change of the nature that takes place after a person's conversion. So if I'm saved, if I'm a new creature in Christ, That means that old things pass away, all things become new, and there's going to be a distinction in how I live. Now, that doesn't mean that I become sinless and perfect. that I just all of a sudden miraculously stop sinning and all those things that I struggled with before I got saved, they're gone. I don't deal with them anymore. There are some Christians who struggled with you know maybe major addictions and huge problems before their salvation. And after that they get saved, they just they stop entirely. There are others that don't. Okay? It's not that they're Christians. It's that they don't get an immediate victory over that. And it's something that they may actually struggle with their entire life. Your natural disposition before you're saved, your personality, the way that you think about things, the way that you wire it doesn't like miraculously change after you get saved. You know, if you're an extrovert before you're saved, you're an extrovert after you're saved. You've been introvert before you saved you're an introvert after you're If you're a person who just like makes decisions easily and never second guesses yourself before you're saved, you do it after. If you're a person that labors and thinks about every single intricate detail before you make a decision, And after you make it, you struggle with it, you know, on and on and on before it's the same after. The way that you're wired doesn't actually change. What does change is that you have a new nature. In other words, the you that you were before you're saved is now spiritually alive rather than spiritually dead. Now, God made all kinds of personality people, and he wanted it that way. I mean, imagine if everybody in the church was an extrovert. It'd be really wild in here for one thing. The church would be complicated. But then if everybody was very introverted And uh just kept to themselves the same thing. So what does God do? He puts people with these two very different personalities into the same body to provide nice balance. And that's what he wants But then he goes on, he says, this for the law of the Spirit is life in Christ Jesus, and he hath made us free from the law of sin and death. What the law could not do and that it was weak through the flesh, God, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh. Now basically he's stating that it was impossible for you to keep the law fully as an unbeliever. Now I'm not saying that an unbeliever never does good things. Not saying that at all. Unbelievers do have what we call common grace. They have a conscience. You can have an unbeliever that has incredible disciplines, far better than some of the people in the church. You can have an unbeliever that has very good character in certain areas. You can trust that unbeliever to do a better job in your project at your house than the Christian in your church. Who, well, you know, do the job for you. Just because someone says they're a Christian doesn't mean they do good work or that they're honest. Well, just because someone's an unbeliever doesn't mean that they're as bad as they can be But this is what he's saying. You cannot keep the law in your unbelieving state. You don't have that ability Yes, you will at times do right, and that reflects that you're created in God's image, but you will not fulfill his law. But then he says this. The reason that God sent his son in the flesh was to, yes, condemn sin in the flesh, but the next verse is very important. That for the purpose of The righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Now, don't miss this statement. That the righteousness in the law might be fulfilled in us basically means this. You'll start doing the things that are in the law. Now that You say, well what is it that changed? Like you're not trying to get to heaven by keeping the law. No, it's because there's a new principle inside of you. In other words, because you're a new creature in Christ, and because of the presence of the person we're going to talk about in just a second, because he's there, the way that you live will change. You have a different outlook, you have a different disposition. In other words, you had no ability to fully keep the law as an unbeliever, but now as a Christian Because there's a new principle working inside of you, you begin to do things that you didn't do before. You begin to do the same things, but for a different motivation than you did before. And your motive isn't like I want to get to heaven. It's that there's something inside of you that prompts you to want to do the right thing And it's different than it was before. Well, what is it that does that? Here's the answer. After the flesh. But excuse me, not after the flesh, but after the spirit. In other words, when I was an unbeliever, that primary motivation in me to do what I did was my flesh. Even when I made good decisions, I was making good decisions for somewhat self-motivated reasons Okay? And you'll find this a lot. A lot of times a person has great character and good disciplines. Their motive ultimately is a self-helping kind of a motivation. But the Christian can work from a different disposition. It's not really about me. It's really about the Spirit of God motivating me and working in me. Then he goes in verse 6 to say this, to be carnally minded is death, to be spiritually minded is life and peace. The carnal mind is at enmity against God. It's not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be, so that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. Verse 9, very, very important. And this is the verse that I wanted to read to you, but context is important. But You're not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the spirit of God dwell in you. If any man have not the spirit of Christ, he is none of his. Now, when he says you're not in the flesh, he doesn't mean that you don't have a body anymore. He's saying that you now have a new person indwelling you, who's motivating you that you did not have before. All you had before was the flesh. Now you have the Holy Spirit who indwells you and He's motivating you. And if you don't have the Spirit, you're actually not a believer. That's what he's saying. So we know in this passage that every person From the time of the cross and the ascension and the resurrection, the resurrection and the ascension from Pentecost and the Holy Spirit came upon the believers, from that point on, every believer has the Holy Spirit. Now that doesn't mean that the Holy Spirit equally has that person. Okay? In other words, there are times that while he indwells us, we don't submit to him. While he's pushing us, we don't respond correctly to him. And the more that we respond correctly to him, the more our lives are patterned after God's commandments and they reflect God's righteousness and God's character is displayed in our lives. But that's a very important principle. The Holy Spirit indwells every single believer. So let's talk a little bit question before we talk about some of the ways that the Holy Spirit relates to the believer today. Any questions here? And I could go to a lot of other passages that deal with that concept, but this is a really pivotal one. Okay, so let's talk about a couple of different words, but talk about the way the Holy Spirit relates to the Christian. The first word is baptism. What does the word baptism mean? Reverse A. Well A reverse. I thought I meant sprinkle. No, I didn't. Just make sure you guys are awake. It means to place into. Okay? So that word that word baptismo uh isn't always talking about Christian baptism. Christian baptism is a technical use of the term, but the term had the idea of to be placed into. And it wasn't always being placed into water, it could be being in place into something else as well. And that's really important for us to understand when we talk about the baptism of the Spirit. Now, the baptism of the Spirit, I will admit to you, is uh it's a concept that is fairly debated. And I think if I got fifty independent Baptist pastors together and I put them in the same room and I asked them to take a vote on what they believe the baptism of the Spirit was talking about They would not agree. I promise you. Because some people view the baptism of the Spirit as a moment of anointing. In fact, uh, this was very, very popular. during the time of Ari Tori , D. Al Moody, others who viewed the baptism of the Spirit as the Holy Spirit comes upon me at a moment, maybe as a pastor preaching Particularly as an evangelist, because most of them were evangelists. And so when they went into a meeting and they saw this unusual power from God, they would say they were baptized with the Spirit I don't hold that new person, okay? I'll just I'll put that out there. I have read a lot of books that that is the case that they make, and I do understand the position But I believe that the baptism of the spirit is talking about something that's different. And I kind of have a different category for what those individuals are talking about when they say baptism of the spirit. And it's more of a moment where God anoints an individual who's in his service. In fact, if we're in the Old Testament and we're talking about the kings and the prophets, there were times that God's Holy Spirit came upon those individuals and they were able to do things that were unusual. I don't mean unusual like that unusual, I mean uh they were able to do What they needed to do in that moment that was beyond their natural ability and it was a part of what God wanted them to function in their role And so we see examples of this all throughout the Old Testament. We call it a theocratic anointing. God comes upon David in a moment. He's able to do something that he needs to do as a leader. He comes even upon Saul, okay? God came upon Samson. Alright? And Samson 's over there's some crazy stuff, right? Well the idea is that if somebody is preaching and teaching God's word, a missionary, the Holy Spirit can come upon them in an unusual way, and we can have a word for that. But when we talk about baptism, I want you to turn to 1 Corinthians 12, because this passage is pivotal in explaining to us what we mean by the baptism of the Spirit. Now one of the reasons that people believe that the baptism of the Spirit is something that is an unusual moment where the Holy Spirit comes upon you and you can do amazing things comes down to the use of the baptism of the Spirit in the book of Acts. And we see that at Pentecost the Holy Spirit came upon those believers, and they were baptized with the Spirit, and they were able to prophesy and speak in tongues and all kinds of different things. Now the question is, was the baptism of the Spirit there the same as the way it works in the normal situation? Or was that an unusual circumstance accompanied with certain signs because God was trying to demonstrate, authenticate something for people? I would be in that second category. That the reason that we saw these signs that accompanied the baptism of the Spirit at that moment was that God was trying to authenticate that these people were indeed being placed into the body of Christ. And we see that happening at Pentecost where it's a primarily Jewish audience. We see that a couple of chapters later with the Samaritans who are Gentiles, we see Cornelius, we see uh people who are disciples of John who hear the gospel preach And then the Holy Spirit comes upon them. And the reason that we have those three or four examples mentioned in the book of Acts is not because that's the normal way that people are baptized with the Spirit, but it's to help those Jews who are there to understand that. It's not just Jewish believers who are part of the body of Christ. It's Gentiles as well. It's people who are, yes, even Samaritans. Even people who understood John 's baptism but didn't understand the fullness of the gospel and that Christ had died for their sins and rose again and ascended up to heaven Those individuals, once they understand the gospel, are also placed in the body of Christ. So the baptism, what we're talking about here was accompanied with signs to demonstrate to people, to authenticate to them, to understand , that indeed these people were being placed into the body of Christ. But when we talk about the baptism of the Spirit in the normal sense, it's not something that's accompanied with sign at all. It's something that actually happens instantaneous to when we are converted And we're placed in the body of Christ. 1 Corinthians 12, 13 says this: By one Spirit, we are all baptized into one body. Whether we be Jew or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, and have all been made to drink into one spirit. Now in this passage, Paul is trying to emphasize to the people at Corinth. That everybody in the church who is saved is a part of the body of Christ. That's the Jewish people that are assembled in that that that church, that's the Gentiles, that's people that had been slaves and were still slaves in the Roman Empire. That's people who are politicians, those people who are very powerful and influential in the city. People who were very affluent, people who were very poor. It didn't matter, male or female. All those people that had placed their faith in Christ were what? Baptized by one spirit into one body. And so when we talk about the baptism of the Spirit, what we're basically saying is that God places you into the body of Christ at the moment that you place your faith in Christ. And so the baptism of the Spirit is really not about being able to speak in tongues as Some people believe, or being able to prophesy as some people believe, or being able to perform a healing miracle, as some people might believe. It's about being placed in the body of Christ When I trusted Christ as my Savior as a little boy, I didn't have any miraculous abilities, but I got saved and I was placed in the body of Christ. Simple. It happened just like that. And it's the same thing for you. It wasn't accompanied with anything miraculous or unusual. The reason that we see the baptism of the Spirit being accompanied with signs and acts. is to authenticate God's movement of the gospel going from one people group to another people group to another people group. And so it's very, very important. Any questions on that point? I know that that's a very complex discussion. Lots of books that are written about it. So the fact that I'm dealing with it in seven, eight minutes doesn't mean that I don't think that there's a lot more to say about it. Yes. uh just a couple verses that would will drive that further home is where the Jews, you know the Jews were very biased against Gentiles They were lower substrat of people, so God was working through signs and wonders. And so if you if you remember uh Philip going down to Samaria and Samaritan came say , uh then uh They think if you look at uh uh Acts eight seventeen uh verse sixteen, the Samaritans had already believed and confessed, but they hadn't received the Holy Spirit until the apostles came down and put Anthem And so there's a transition to it. Then we go to the uh the uh conversion of uh Cornelius stuff Uh it's very interesting that why don't Peter They didn't they didn't want to baptize them and the point was if they're part of the body of Christ, I guess we should baptize them. But I don't know why Peter was speaking before he laid hands on it, the Holy Ghost fell on him. So there's a transition going on there. Peter did not lay hands on, the Holy Ghost fell on him, and now it's it's a sign. To those Jews and to the Gentiles, that what you're reading in in 1 Corinthians 12, uh it's a logical progression. Yeah. And you know it's interesting, even those uh individuals, the apostles who had the ability to perform signs and wonders and clearly did, and we have you know quite a few examples of that Later on in their ministries, they generally speaking did not do that. So for instance, you look at uh Paul talking about a person who is sick and he's basically saying I'm praying that you get better You know, I mean Paul isn't saying, well, I'm gonna heal you. The truth is that even when when it comes to the signed gifts Once the the the the apostles' ministry had been authenticated, once the spread of the gospel had been demonstrated to be for Jew, for Gentile, for Samaritan, the uttermost parts of the earth. Once that had been demonstrated by signs, then you don't actually see those continuing on. Even when we talk about speaking in tongues, which is the one that's this is a digression, I know. But that's the one that would be the most heavily debated. Um When we look at what Paul says about tongues, he says it's a sign, not to the believer, but to the unbeliever. And he quotes from Isaiah. And when he quotes from that passage, it's actually a it's a messianic passage. It's talking about how The Jews were going to reject the Messiah, and the way that God was going to, we could say, get their attention was to speak to them through stammering tongues, in other words, languages they didn't know. And Paul refers to that passage basically saying this is why tongues are going on. It's to be an authenticating message to the Jews that Yes, this is truly the Messiah. Yes, you've rejected him and you shouldn't. Yes, you're gonna be judged as a nation because of your unbelief And yes, these people are now my people. And so um yeah, very interesting discussion. You know, we could really digress a lot there. Frank, do you had a question? Well, so Really the ethic of what you're talking about really is basically a document, right? I mean that's as far So for instance So adoption's a dip okay. Well replaces a stuff so it replaced into the body pressure or into the family as as God's children. Which Christ was first. Christ was the only begotten and He was He was the true begotten so child of God, but we're adopted into into Christ, into that same family. And the the indwelling, the difference between the indwelling of the beliefs that have depended on us is that of God as our Father, we as His children and and members of His own. Well what I was thinking was like talking about if David was in fact talking about taking not my Holy Spirit from me, he was talking about God you the Holy Spirit is dwelling in. It still wasn't the same as after Pentecost. Yeah, you're correct. Yeah. So when when David is saying that, Frank He is basically talking about a theocratic anointing, and that's the category I put it in. So the idea is that David understood that that his wisdom, his ability as as a king. And that wasn't just like his like his justice, his ability to rule and all those things. Even when it came to the defense of Israel, and it came to fighting uh to to defend God's people, those kinds of things The Holy Spirit would come upon him and empower him, enable him for service. And I think that that's really what he's talking about there. And so so so Old Testament believers in fact I don't know if I would use that term. Well yeah, I mean but speed but like Like the the the apostles and the disciples is talking about they were doing this and they were doing that and then it says you know the Holy Spirit. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, it's it's like that whole um adoption. So they would have been regenerated. They would have been regenerated, meaning that they had new life, spiritual life, spiritually dead versus being spiritually alive. That would be true. We talk about adoption. We tend to think of adoption in our culture as something that happens in order for you to become a child. to that person. So you go through the adoption process and when that child is adopted now they're your son, now they're your daughter. But in the Roman world it was different legally So basically adoption meant that when you came of age, when you became a legal adult, then you received the full benefits of being a child to that particular person. And so adoption meant that when you became eighteen, whatever the age it was, I I don't know for sure what it was in Roman times. But when you came of age, you received adoption, meaning that you're now a full-fledged heir, and you have all of the benefits of being a son or a daughter, just like you've been born into that family. And so when Paul talks about adoption, he doesn't talk about when we're born again, regeneration, but he actually refers to adoption as when we are glorified Being that we won't have a sinful body anymore, we've died, we receive our new body, and that we're now present with the Lord. So That that word adoption, we have a different understanding of it in our culture basically because of our legal system. So Yeah, old I mean you gotta parse those out. Regeneration is new birth. When I'm regenerated, I'm not adopted. I'm going to be adopted. It's a guarantee. Then the Holy Spirit indwells in me and He's He's the guarantee of my adoption. He is the one who, you know, He steals me, so He marks me as His own. These are all concepts we're going to get into, but we gotta be precise in how we how we deal with those. But regeneration means spiritually born again Adoption means I receive all the benefits of being a child, and that happens at glorification. Well isn't this Isn't spiritually different. Oh absolutely we are. But we don't have all the benefits of that position yet. Because you're not in heaven. I mean, I am I am fully saved in Christ. Um But I haven't received all of the benefits of that yet. Because I still sin, I still struggle with temptation, I still get sick, proving that today. I get tired. You know, I'm gonna die But once I have received my glorified body and I'm in God's presence, that's when the adoption takes place. And in Romans 8, he really talks about the concept of waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our bodies. But the reason I talk about the cultural side is that we think of adoption in our culture as We want to adopt this baby, this young person, and we go through the legal process. And once they're adopted, now they're ours. And now, you know, they're six years old, they're eight years old, they're ten years old But in Roman society, if you wanted to adopt somebody at six years old, they actually, yes, they were your child, but they were not legally your heir like they would be when they came of age. And then they would receive all the benefits of that. So that's how they use the term adoption. So all right. Good discussion. The second word I want to use is the word indwelling. Go to First Corinthians 3:16, please. And we kinda dealt with this passage, uh I want to say it was Two Sundays ago from the Sunday morning service. He takes up our body as his very temple. First Corinthians twelve thirteen says this By one Spirit, we are all, oh excuse me, 1 Corinthians 3:16. Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. So not only does God give me new life in Christ, I'm regenerated, not only does he place me into the body of Christ, meaning that I'm now identified with God's people. But the Holy Spirit literally comes and indwells me. So in other words, when I sin, the Holy Spirit as he's right there, okay, when it takes place. And so it's not just that he can come upon me, it's that he is in me. And, you know, I know sometimes we'll you'll hear somebody pray, you know, I pray that the Holy Spirit would come into our midst and that he Well, honestly, if you have to pray that he comes into your midst, then you're basically assuming that there's no Christian in your midst So let's let's send some believers there, why not? Okay. You know, I mean like really, I mean that's that's theologically what's going on there. So, you know, don't don't use that terminology please when you pray. Um not that I'll correct you or anything. At least not publicly I wouldn't, but but when we ask the Holy Spirit to come into our midst, like that's a prayer that we don't need to ask. He's here, okay In fact, we even mentioned when we were looking at the first Peter passage that not only does the Holy Spirit indwell us as individual believers, but there is a sense when we're gathered together, you know, where two or three are gathered together, he's in the midst of them. Basically, what he's saying is, my temple is not just in those individuals, but in the midst of those believers who are gathered together for worship. And so his presence is here. And not just uh in me, but in us in that kind of a sense. And so he basically is indicating you need to keep in mind that what you're doing as a Christian is important Because the Holy Spirit indwells you. You're his temple. And when we go to the book of Ezekiel, a book I'm sure lots of you spend lots of time studying, right? Um one of the things that that is interesting about and sad about the book of Ezekiel is that Ezekiel really emphasizes the kind of desecration that was going on in the temple during that time period. And people were coming into the temple and they're worshiping idols. And there's a point in the book of Ezekiel where Ezekiel sees God's presence leave the temple Leave the city and go up to the mountains. And he's basically saying, while my presence has dwelt amongst the people in that temple, it's not now. But it's going to come back. And that that's part of the the good and the bad of uh that we we see given in the book of Ezekiel. But The idea is that even though God's presence was there, the people were not living in the light of God's presence. And it's a very sobering thought to think that as Christians, it's both comforting and sobering, kind of depending on how you're relating to God at the times. God's presence indwells with Question or comment? Three, failing. And this is a really uh a really again uh fairly debated um But I think an important concept. Turn with me to Ephesians five, seventeen to eighteen. He influences and controls us through the mighty work of his word in us. Ephesians 5, 17 says this. Wherefore, be ye not unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is, and be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Now if you go to Colossians 3, what you're going to see is there's a parallel passage, and basically he says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly And he basically goes on to to give a list of things that will kind of accompany the word of Christ dwelling in you richly. And in Ephesians chapter 5, he gives the exact same list, basically. of things that accompany the filling of the spirit. Now when he talks about someone being intoxicated, the idea is that alcohol affects you, uh it affects you in lots of different ways. It affects how you think and What you feel like you can do, what you feel like you can't do, and what you're willing to do or not willing to do, uh, your ability to control yourself Alcohol affects you internally. And basically he's saying alcohol affects you internally in a negative way. The things that you do because of the influence of alcohol are Dangerous sometimes, troublesome. They affect other people. They bring shame many times. They cause you to do things you wouldn't do On the other side, the presence of the Holy Spirit indwelling the person and now filling them has an influence as well. But his influence is not a negative influence, it's a positive influence. And he even gives the specific things like speaking to yourselves in psalms and hands and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your hearts to the Lord And basically what he emphasizes that when the Holy Spirit fills us, there's worship and there's instruction and there's unity and there's a change where we begin to live in a more righteous and more consistent manner. In other words, the filling of the Spirit has to do with the Spirit's influencing us internally, and it's through his word primarily. And when his word is working in our heart and he is stirring us up and working within us, he motivates us to live and to do things in a way that we would not naturally do them apart from his presence. In fact, when we talk about the fruit of the Spirit, what's the fruit of the Spirit? Love, joy, peace, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Okay? It's interesting, the things that are mentioned as the fruit of the Spirit are not the things that some people tend to think the Spirit does. The fruit of the Spirit is godly character, godly responses. Right attitudes, things that are not natural to us, but can be in us as the Spirit of God is influencing and working in our lives And so we talk about the filling of the Spirit. The filling of the Spirit isn't something that we beg God to do. The filling of the Spirit is something that God does as His Word dwells in our heart. And so if I'm not a person who's in the word, then I'm limiting how the spirit works. Yes? But I I can't strike it out in my mind. Um, the spirit dwells with us, it's something that's done to us. But in this passage, it's be, it's something that you do, it's a command. It is a command, but it's a passive command. Yeah, it's weird. If you look at it in the original language, it's actually a passive tense. So the idea is you need to allow this to be done to you. That's the idea. I know that's confusing. Commanding somebody to be passive. I command you to let this be done to you. But that's really the sense of it. Is that just like the same word system calling an election should be? I'd have to look at that. I haven't I haven't studied that passage up thoroughly enough to answer that that way. It's very abstract and that It's just not concrete enough for me to grab. 's what I'm I cannot explain this to my children, I expect it's not clear. So so we'll go to Ro go to Romans. Well, I tell you what we we can look at each of these passages and kind of see how there's a harmony between them. A similarity of thought. So go to Ro Romans twelve, okay? Romans twelve one and two. He says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Now that's clearly a command. Correct. Yes. So I need I need I need to present my body to be used for God's purposes. That's basically what he's saying. He says, Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Now You're commanded to be transformed, but you don't transform yourself. You're transformed by the renewing of your mind. So who renews your mind? It's a joint effort. Exactly. It's a cooperative element. And it really this comes down to the nature of Like what we you know what we understand about our sanctification. So I have responsibility in my sanctification, but I don't have the power to make it happen. So I have to put God's word in my mind. I have to be willing to submit to what God says. I have to have a humble spirit towards Him. But ultimately it's His power that does this. Yes. You know co uh it's cooperative. So like in like in Romans twelve, the transfer my transformation of the believers thinking Is it's it's cooperative element. So I'm submitting myself to God, I'm putting his word in my heart, but the Holy Spirit is changing me. Like I don't really have the power to change me But I do have the power to put into my life the things that God uses to change me. Does that make sense So I mean like it's like you want to use a little gardening illustration, like I can prepare the soil and I can plant the seed and I can water it, but I can't make that seed. Produce lie. I can't. Now what's interesting is if I take care of all the elements that I'm responsible for And I I do it consistently, there's a wonderful product there. , And so I did, I, you know, my labor played a part in that But it's really not what made it happen. You know, I I didn't have the power to make that life come there. And I I guess that's an illustration kind of what we're talking about. As we assume our responsibilities then God does the work that He only can do. And it's kinda like when we're working, you know, we're working our with our kids. I have no ability to make my kids become believers I have no ability to make them faithful disciples of Christ. It's God who saves, it's God who transforms, it's God who does that. But if I will do what I'm responsible to do Then I just I trust God to do what I can't do. It's out of my hands. And the way He does it is a marvelous thing But it's him who does it, you know. And I mean we it's not our sanctification isn't entirely our work. But it's also not entirely God's in the sense that He does everything. Like we have a responsibility. And if we don't do what we're supposed to do then he will not act as he's certainly capable of doing it. And so when we go to Romans 12, when we go to Ephesians 5, when we go to Colossians 3, we're going to see the same kind of language. It's like a it's a it's a It's a a command to be passive. You take your responsibility and God will do his part. So you're taking an action in a trustful manner. Does that does that make sense? Yes. With like a glass or a jar thing, but we filter with silk or whatever whatever. Yeah, yeah, I guess. Yes. That needs to go on. I can memorize as much scripture as I can possibly memorize. But if I'm not willing to submit to the scriptures that I have memorized, which is the Holy Spirit working in me through those what I have memorized, if I continue to resist Yeah, so like there's some there's some people that read their Bible like every single year And they do not live in a godly manner at all. They're not transformed. No, it it's it's an academic exercise. Now they may not even look at it that way, like, oh they almost look at it as like I'm a very spiritual person, I know the Bible, I read it regularly. But it's not it's not impacting them. And so it's not just the presence of God's word, a lot of it has to do with how our heart is inclined towards it as well. Yeah, uh-huh. Yes. Yeah, go ahead. position and my practice of my position right. But like position is only one time more than third states was patient. So in practice um we will So um our when we get saved, we still have those things plus we desire. Now our desires are changing Yeah, yeah, it's it's another way of saying the same. The truth is that this concept is really expressed by Paul from different angles, but it's the same concept. The concept is that God's Spirit, through his word, changes me And my responsibility is to submit to it, to put the word in my heart, and all those kinds of things, like reading it, studying it, meditating on it, submitting to it. And if I'm not doing that, then it's not that God's unable to change me, but that's not the means that he uses to change us. And so if I'm neglecting what I'm supposed to do, then he won't act as he as he can and really desires to. Philly. Alright, now empowering for service. And I I will hit this very quick. He gifts us. 1 Corinthians 12, 4. He says, there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. I'm going to kind of talk about a couple of ways that God does this when it comes to empowering for service. He motivates us. Romans 5. Hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. You know, there are times that it's very unnatural for us to love a person in a set of circumstances. Yet because of our time in God's Word, our time in God's presence The Holy Spirit presses our soul and puts an affection in our heart that is not naturally there. And I'm sure you've experienced this at some point. And that's one of the ways that the Holy Spirit does this. He presses us and motivates us. It's God who works in us both to will and to do of his good pleasure, Paul writes. He separates us under his purposes, 2 Timothy 1. 14 That good thing which was committed unto the key by the Holy Ghost which dwelleth in us. And Paul is referring to how Timothy had been set apart for an area of service. God sets us apart and He empowers us to do the things that He wants us to do. He energizes our labors. 1 Thessalonians 1:5. Our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance, as ye know what manner of men we were among you, and for your sakes. So the the ministry that you do has an effect. It actually accomplishes something. You know, it's one thing for a person to teach and to preach and what they're saying is true. It's another thing for people's lives to actually be impacted by it. And so one of the things that encourages, especially a younger person who's involved in ministry, is as they're ministering, they're able to see that people's lives are being impacted. What is that an indication of? That God's working through them. He's making their ministry effective. And that's an encouragement. We could really get into a lot more things as it relates to that, but the Holy Spirit empowers us, He enables us, He works through us. We need his presence at work in our lives. So I close with this thought. We cannot risk neglecting this wonderful doctrine of the Holy Spirit. We should walk in humility before God, not resist his work in our lives, put into our hearts what he uses to influence and control us, not quench his spirit through sin. And realize that unless we walk in fellowship with God under the Spirit then fluence, we'll fail in the Christian life and the ministries His calls to. Just want to encourage you with those thoughts. We need to live our lives by the Spirit's power. That's very important. Let's go ahead and close in a word of prayer and then we will head to our service.