Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And if you're joining us today, we are in the book of James. And we are starting a new chapter. We're in James chapter 5. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with me to James chapter 5. We're looking at verses 1 through 6. My plan yesterday was to deal with this passage. And uh had a lot of issues that I had to address throughout the day and wasn't able to get into it. So we're gonna go ahead and pick it up today, and I think we'll see in God's providence that this is actually a very appropriate passage of scripture. for us to consider this morning. James chapter five, one to six. Go to now, ye rich men, weep and howl, for your miseries that shall come upon you. Your riches are corrupted, your garments are Moth eaten. Your gold and silver is cankered, and the rust of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it is were it as it were fire. You have heaped up treasure together for the last days. Behold the hire of the laborers who has reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth. He cries unto them which have reaped, and they're entered into the ears of the Lord of Sebayoth. Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth and been wanton. Ye have nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter. Ye have condemned and killed the just, and he doth not resist you. This morning we are looking at a very important topic. And James is addressing the abuse of power that affects God's people. And so if we were to give a summary statement for this passage, We'd put this this statement together. Living for material possessions isn't a good long-term investment, and being willing to abuse your power to accumulate wealth will eventually catch up with you. You know what's really interesting when we come to this passage of Scripture, James has been talking to Christians, to the church. And in James 5, he actually is going to change from talking to the church to a group of people that are outside the church And it's kind of ironic that he would say it that way because the truth is that the people that he's addressing here probably aren't going to listen to what he has to say. They're not the original recipients And what's interesting is we see that God does this in other places. I'll give you an example, like if you go to the book of Isaiah, there are times that God is prophesying against the nation of Israel, against Judah. because they have been disobedient and they've been stubborn. And then in the midst of this discussion of warning to the nation of Israel, prophecies against them, God basically says, here's how I'm going to deal with Moab, here's how I'm going to deal with the Babylonians, here's how I'm going to deal with another group of people that are stubborn and abusing their power. And you might say, well, why is God addressing Moab, Babylon, nations that had nothing to do with the scriptures? They don't care what God says, and why does he address them? Well, the reason he addresses them is actually for the sake of God's people. He's basically saying, look, I want to comfort you by helping you to realize that even people who are outside the church that don't submit to my authority, that could care less about what I think, I'm gonna deal with them. I'm gonna vindicate you. I'm going to judge those who abuse their power in evil ways. And so that's really what we're dealing with here in James chapter 5. God is addressing to the churches, to these believers. A rebuke to those who are ultimately treating them uh inappropriately. And so let's look at a couple of truths that we find in these verses that will help us this morning. The first truth is this materialistic people need to look past their current situation to the seriousness of the judgment day. Here's how he puts it in verse 1. Go to now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries. And notice how he puts it, that shall come upon you. Now, it's interesting he's addressing a group of people that have ease in life, and they have ease because they have power. And the reason that they have power is because they have money And the reason that they have money gives them influence in that society. And so in those days you had people who had power, money, influence. And because of their position, they lived lives of ease, and they were in a great position to abuse their power and to abuse the people that were under them. And so James is basically saying, look, you have it easy right now, but you need to stop and you need to think about the fact that there will be a day of reckoning. There will be a day that God holds you accountable for the way that you use the power and the money and the influence that you had in this world. And so you should humble yourselves now, or you will have to humble yourselves later We come to a second truth. Your wealth depreciates in value as you accumulate it over the course of your life. Notice how he puts it in verses 2 and 3. He says, Your riches are corrupted. Your garments are moth-eaten, your gold and silver is cankered, and the rust of them shall be a witness against you and shall eat your flesh as it were fire. You have heaped up treasure together for the last days. Now what's very interesting is he's saying that people who have a lot of money and who are able to accumulate wealth and power often become very confident, self-confident in what they're able to accumulate over the course of their lives It's as if they get lulled into this thinking that by accumulating wealth I can get to a place where I'm going to somehow skip this eternal judgment and the fact that I'm going to have to stand before God someday. And basically what he says is look at the stuff that you're that you're accumulating. All those wonderful clothes that when you when you bought them and when you wore them for the first time, they were really nice and they were beautiful and They really demonstrate your position in society. Look at them now. They're beginning to deteriorate. They don't look like they used to look. Look at some of the material possessions you have that you've accumulated, that you're finding your source of stability and your power and this self-satisfaction. He says, those things are deteriorating. They're falling apart. And he's basically saying if you live for material possessions and wealth, eventually you're going to realize something. Those things depreciate in value, and there's going to be a day that they have absolutely no value to you. A third truth we find in the text: wealth gotten through unjust practices. May give you temporary ease, but it will testify against you when you stand before God. Let me say it again. Wealth gotten through unjust practices may give you temporary ease, but it will testify against you when you stand before God. You know, one of the most common things we see in human history is that when people get money and keep people get power, And people get position, they abuse it. They abuse it over and over and over again. And basically the more people get power and money and position, the more they lust for power, money, and position. And the more they're willing to abuse people to get power, money, and position. And so what's James saying here? He's saying, listen , You better watch out that you don't allow your power, money, and possessions to get to your head where you think that all of a sudden you become immune to God's judgment someday Here's how he puts it in verse four. Behold the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which you've kept back by fraud, crieth. The cries of them go out, which have reaped and are entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabbath. In other words, he's saying you have huge expanses of land, you have people that you employ and they work for you, and you are actually becoming wealthy and prosperous and powerful because of the work that they're doing. And when you should be paying them so that they can take care of their families, so they can earn an honest living, instead, you're cheating them. You're not giving them what they deserve for the labors that they've done. In other words, you're stealing from them. And he said, when I see that, I see the cries of those people. I see that they are in a broken and humbled position. And you know what? I'm listening to them. And he would use the tur term Lord of Sabyoth. The idea is he's the Lord of hosts. If you remember the hymn that Martin Luther wrote, A mighty fortress is our God, there's a little refrain that says, The Lord of Sabaoth is his name, from age to age the same. The idea is he's the Lord of hosts. God has all of creation at his disposal. And when he determines enough is enough, he's going to step in and he's going to deal with people who've been unjust. And so he's reminding these rich, powerful people who are abusing their authority and abusing the people under their care that God is listening to the cries of the people that you're taking advantage of. And he's going to step in and you better be careful. That's what he's saying. He then goes on to say this. You have lived in pleasure. On the earth and have been wanton. In other words, you've lived for yourself and you've wasted your entire life. You've lived for yourself when you could have used those things for the glory of God. He says, you've nourished your heart as in the day of slaughter. You've condemned and killed the just, and he did not resist you. Basically, what he's saying is this, you are setting yourself up for a very harsh reality when you stand before God. Basically, this section is a stern warning that God is going to judge people who abuse power. We then see a fourth truth. When God's people are being treated unjustly, God will vindicate them in the end. In verse 6, he has this last little statement that's very interesting. He says, Ye have not, ye have condemned and killed the just And he does not resist you. Now, maybe the reason he didn't resist is because he had no power to resist, okay? There was a day, in fact, most days in human history where uh authoritarians could pretty much do what they wanted to do. People were not able to vote in and out people. People didn't really have the kinds of constitutional rights that we are supposed to have in our nation. And the reality is people really didn't have the ability to resist. They were at the mercies of those in power. But there's another aspect to this. He's saying that godly people are very slow to push back. Godly people are trying to be good citizens and they're trying to be peaceable people. And you've taken advantage of that And this is what the whole point of the passage is. I haven't ignored this. In other words, I've seen it all. And I'm going to In other words, the reason that we have these verses, James 5, 1 through 6, is it's God's encouragement to the Christian who is under this heavy load of burden that is unjust. That really should not be taking place, an abuse of power and authority, God is going to deal with that matter in his time. And so, as God's people, we recognize that these verses are here to encourage us. So, how can we practically apply the passage in front of us? And by the way, there's a lot I'd like to say that I'm going to refrain in this context. But let me give you a couple of simple practical observations. The first is this. Don't live for material possessions. There are people whose lives are consumed with making money, accumulating stuff Ultimately vying for power and authority so that they can control and dominate the people around them. And I will tell you that this passage is a warning to us. to not be amongst that crowd, to not be a person who's living for stuff and power and position. A very second, a second practical observation or encouragement for us is don't abuse people to get stuff. In other words, you have no right to put more value on things than people. Things are not created in the image of God. Things are resources that we use. People are creating God 's image and they have value. And so we need to put a higher value on people than stuff. And basically what he's saying is when people get into power and they begin to abuse it so that they can accumulate more power and more money, what are they ultimately doing? They're putting stuff above people. They're putting their own interest above the interest of the people that they're over. A third practical observation, encouragement, is trust God to vindicate you when others use their money and position unjustly. Like I said, there's a lot more that could be said here, but I think that this will be a very appropriate encouragement for us this morning. I hope that as you've read this passage together with us, And as you reflect on the things that we've talked about this morning, that there'll be an encouragement to you, there'll be a help to you. And I pray that we would take these words to heart and that we would be people who are praying that God will work uh in the lives of the people that are over us, and that God will vindicate his people when we are put in positions where we feel or truly are powerless. uh to protect and defend ourselves. And so may the Lord take this and just use it mightily in our lives today. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. If this has been an encouragement to you, I hope that you will uh share it or share uh just a word of encouragement like it and uh we look forward to the next time we'll be together we're willing tomorrow let's bow together for prayer father we ask that you take these words A passage that is really not directed to the Christian as much as to the one who's abusing the Christian. Not the one who is a part of the church, but the one who's outside of the church. But using their money and power and influence to do things that are unjust. I pray that you would protect your people. I know that these are troubling days These are days where your people are pressed to the limits, and we pray that you would protect us, that you would go before us, and that you would do a mighty work in the lives of of the people over us who are pushing agendas that are unjust. And I pray that you would accomplish your purposes through these things and help us to grow and learn to trust you more. Through them. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see you this morning, and I hope that you have a great rest of your day, and we'll catch up with you next time. Bye now.