Let's all turn together to the book of Luke. And we are in Luke chapter 1 this morning. And don't worry, I'm not going to preach through the whole book again, except for today. And uh today I'm gonna do something that uh I personally don't think is that ambitious, but some of you might be surprised when I say this. We're gonna preach the entire book of Luke in one setting. And um what we're going to do is we're going to kind of look at the general flow of what the purpose of this book is. One of the things that I think that we often do very well when we are preaching verse by verse, chapter by chapter through the Bible, is we really dig into concepts sequentially. And a lot of times we really dig into those concepts and we absorb them and we think deeply about them. But sometimes in our desire to dig deeply into the individual concepts, we fail to realize that there's actually an entire flow in this particular book of the Bible In fact, if you're a musician and you enjoy music and enjoy listening to music, a lot of times you hear something called a melody. And you know what a melody is? It's this line that flows throughout the song and it's often repeated throughout the song. And if someone is a good uh musician or maybe I should say a person who writes good music, um one of the things they'll do is they'll think very carefully about what they want to put in there and they craft everything exactly how they want it so that when you listen to that music it just Strikes a tone right there and it's repeated all throughout. Now if you're not a musician, don't worry about it. You just listen to the music and enjoy it. But if you really think deeply about the music, you understand what I'm talking about Did you realize that each book of the Bible has a melody that rings forth in it? You say, well, they weren't musicians. Actually, a lot of them were musicians. David was a musician. But what I mean by that is as these individuals sat down to write these books, they are being guided by the Holy Spirit. So what we have is the very Word of God, not just the thoughts, the concepts, the words, the very words of God. But it's also important to make sure we understand is it's not just that these people are writing the Word of God, but God is working through them. Their minds are engaged. Their emotions are engaged. When the apostle Paul is writing things, his heart is being moved And they think about what they desire to write as the Spirit of God moves them and guides them. And there's an actual order. There's a flow of thought. There's something that we could say is woven all throughout that particular book or that epistle. Do you realize the book of Luke is like that? In fact, it's not just the book of Luke, but it's the book of Luke and the Book of Acts put side by side together because these are two sequels to the same story. And so that's why we opened up our service this morning looking at Luke chapter 1. And then in the middle of our service, in our second second scripture reading, we went to the very end of the book of Acts. And we read that little portion because how he starts and how he ends tells you something about the overall flow of what he's written. In fact, whether you thought about it or not, each individual story, each individual conversation, each individual teaching that is laid out in this book, it serves a purpose in flowing from beginning to end to tell the story. You say, well, what's the story that Luke wanted to give? Why did he want to do it? What was the point? Well, let's read Luke 1, verse 1, and he'll tell us. For as much as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us. Even as they were delivered unto them, even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were I witnesses and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus. that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. You know what the whole point of the book of Luke and Acts is? Is to show you that the gospel is certain. It really happens. And not just to convince you of the certainty of those events. But in fact, the power of the gospel. That's what this entire section of Scripture, Luke Acts, is all about. So as Luke writes these details, he is meticulously recording the details of Christ's life. And his ministry to convince the Ophelis that the witness he had heard was fully reliable and should be trusted. That is what Luke intended to do. And so as we dig into these verses again this morning, as we reflect on all that we have talked about since I think it was 2019 or something, I don't remember when we started the series. What we want to do is we want to pull this all together and say, what does God want? He wants our faith to be strengthened. He wants us to rest in the reliability of the gospel and its power to save. And to change lives. And so that's what we're going to look at this morning. Let's bow for prayer. Father, take your precious word and convince us. Convince us of its power. Convince us of the reliability of this record. If someone's faith has been shaken, I pray that as we go through these things, you would strengthen them and build them up. If someone is a skeptic and they've never turned to you and placed their faith in the glorious message of Christ alone, dependent on his death and resurrection. I pray that they would see that they must choose, based on this passage of Scripture and what has been given, that in fact what has happened is true. It is their one and only hope, and they must turn and place their faith in Christ. I pray that the Spirit of God would move in our midst, move in our hearts Strengthen our faith. May this be a very sweet time of continued worship through the preaching of the word. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. So, how can our faith be strengthened by this book? I want to look at this in several parts. The first thing I want to do this morning is I want us to note. the careful documentation of history that Luke gives here. What we are reading is a document that was carefully written down. It was carefully compiled. All of the details that are recorded for us in the book of Luke and the Book of Acts. They were written for a reason. And we know that because he tells us in verses one through three. He says, Many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us As they delivered them unto us, which from the the beginning were I witnesses and ministers of the word, it seemed good to me also. having had perfect understanding, that's a very interesting statement, of all things, another very interesting statement, from the very first, another very interesting statement, to write unto you also. Now, key statements, and I kind of emphasized them as I was reading it. The first statement that I really want us to note is the statement, many have taken in hand to set forth and order a declaration of those things. I want you to pause and realize something. It wasn't just Christians who documented the life and the crucifixion of Christ. It wasn't just Christians who documented that in fact his disciples believed and were so convinced of this truth that they were willing to lay down their lives and die as martyrs. They were willing to give up everything that they had. It was not just Christians who wrote those things. There were Jewish historians that wrote about it. There were Roman historians that wrote about it. There were people that mocked it, but they did not deny that the Lord Jesus Christ really lived. He was really crucified under Pontius Pilate. And in fact, his disciples Believe with all of their heart that he was risen from the dead and he had commissioned them to proclaim the gospel all throughout the world. Many people documented this event. Do not let people convince you that this is some fairy tale. It really happened. It's really true. Even secular historians have to work through the details and ask themselves the question What does this mean? Not did it happen, but what does this mean? And how does this apply to me? They have to ask the question Second phrase that I want you to notice is the phrase, most surely believed among us. Now, when he talks about the us, he could just be talking about believers in general, but more than likely Luke is actually narrowing this in on a group of people who were commissioned by Christ as apostles to represent him and to take the gospel to the nations. Now when we talk about someone being an apostle in the sense as it is used in the New Testament. We're talking about a person who with an eyewitness, they were literally called by Christ, They were commissioned. They were sent out. They weren't just saying, I heard about Jesus. You should believe on him. They're saying, I sat at his feet. I ate meals with him. I heard what he taught. I saw that he was crucified with my own two eyes. I know he was placed in the tomb. He rose from the dead. I literally saw him after his death and resurrection. I really am speaking as a witness. Like someone who's taking the stand in a court of law and they put their hand on a Bible and they say, I swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me God, where they still do that. These men are saying, we saw, we testify, it's true, we're willing to put our lives on the line. It's pretty amazing to think about. The basis of their faith was solid. There's been no generation in history since this time that has had a greater opportunity. Yet you know what's amazing? Many rejected him even though they saw. It's crazy, isn't it? But it's true. In fact, that's going to be highlighted in Luke and in Acts. The third statement I want you to notice is in verse 2, he says, even as they delivered them to us, Which were from the beginning eyewitnesses and ministers of the word. The record was based on eyewitness accounts Formal commission was given. What Luke is talking about is not some whimsical person that says, I heard one time about Jesus. And this is what I heard. My grandma told me, my auntie told me, my brother told me, I saw. That's really different, isn't it? Fourth thing, Luke's record was more reliable than just natural recall. And this is important for us to note in verse 3. It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first. Now that's a pretty incredible statement, is it not? He's saying I have a fully comprehensive understanding of what took place. And this comes all the way up from the top. Now, some people would say, well, when he says the very first, he's not talking about God gave me this revelation. He's simply saying from the very beginning of the story, I've got all the details. But I'm going to tell you whether that's what he means or not, there's some clear text in scripture that indicate that when these men wrote, they were not just writing off of their recall. They were writing something that was guided infallibly by the Spirit of God Every word that they wrote, in fact, it is the word of God. 2 Timothy 3. 16, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. That statement literally means Every written word of Scripture comes from the breath of God. That's what the Greek means. Every word. In fact, in 2 Peter 1, it's stated even more explicitly, and I love how Peter puts this. He says, I will endeavor. That you may be able, after my decease, to have these things always in remembrance. We have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus. But were eyewitnesses of His Majesty, knowing this first that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. I think a lot of times people don't understand what he means by that. When he says it's not of any private interpretation, he's saying this. When we write these details and we comment on them. The commentary we're giving is not our spin on what happened. It's not our interpretation of the events. It is God's Spirit guiding us to write what we're writing there. That's really important to understand. He says the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Interestingly, in the same passage, He says what we're writing is more sure than our ability to recall those events. Have you ever had situations from like, say, 20 years ago or 40 years ago or whatever it is? And you know, you and your wife or you and your husband or you and a friend that you haven't seen in a long, long time, you're talking about the event and your remembrance of the events different than theirs is. And you're like, well this is what happened. They're like, no, no, no, no, it's not exactly how it happened. And they kinda like correct you and you're like, oh I don't think that's true. Here's the truth. Unless you wrote it down, you don't really know who's right Of course, I'm right. You're right, right? No, no, no. We don't really know. That's why we write things down. We write things down to document in the moment what actually happened. So if there's ever a question, we go back to what's been written down, we say, uh you know, I don't remember this word, but now I'm reading it and it's oh now it's coming back to my mind. We write it down to document it. And so what Peter is literally saying is, we want when we're gone, you to be able to go to something that is written. that is preserved, that is solid, that comes directly from God. There's no ambiguity. We can go back and we can read what it says and know exactly what took place. That's what Luke is all about. It was written to preserve the purity of an understanding of what took place. Second thing I want you to notice this morning is that it was skillfully presented as a series of arguments. Now, a lot of times we miss this when we're reading the Bible. We tend to look for the moral story, the little lesson that's here, some little nugget of truth. But what we fail to realize sometimes is that as Paul is writing in the book of Romans, he is laying out arguments He's laying out a case. He's trying to convince you that in fact this is true and you need to do it. Hopefully, when a person is preaching, they're not just talking, but they're actually laying out a case and saying God says this, we need to do it. Let's take action on the word of God. Do you realize that Luke is doing that in this gospel? He's not just telling a story, he's telling a story with a conviction it's true, and he's compelling this man, Theophilus, to actually act upon what he's saying. And verses three and four it says, It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the first to write unto thee, in order, most excellent Theophilus. And the little phrase that I that I kind of focus in on is, in order. He is thinking through the details and he's laying them out in a very specific way. A couple of distinctions just to take note here. What he wrote was completely accurate, perfect understanding. He did his research. He had multiple first-hand accounts. He was being guided by the Spirit of God as he wrote. Secondly, he considered the whole picture. It was of all things, a complete record. The account considered the flow of events and many fascinating conversations. It considered the prophecies that were anticipated, predicted, these events, and conversations about those things. It gave a divine commentary on the significance of those events. He's thinking of the big picture. And interestingly, when we read the book of Luke, you really see this in the book of Matthew. But he talks a lot about Old Testament prophecy. Why? Well, because that's a part of the story. It 's not just what took place here, but it's what God promised and how this unfolded and how he revealed progressively these things and then how it played out exactly as God said it would, and then why that matters. That's all a part of the story. Thirdly, it was personal and practical. He says, I've written this so that you might know the certainty of those things. Not everything was included, but what was included was deliberately included. It's kind of like you're having a conversation with someone and uh they just kind of meander. Okay? I'm I'm a little bit like this actually when I have conversations. Like I can like go down this road and then come back to here and then I'll go down this road and come back to here And probably one day I'm going to go down this road and not come back to here because I forgot like where I was going, all right? Some of us kind of get into that position sometimes. That's not what he's doing. He's not meandering. He's very deliberate in what he's saying and why he's saying it and where he's going. There was a point that he was given. And the order that was given actually mattered. And what that shows us is that our faith is built on a sure foundation of reliable facts. Now that doesn't change the fact that it's faith. You have to make a choice, and you've got to actually choose to rest in what God says. You can't just say I'm aware of this and that's a compelling story and it's very interesting and that's good for you but not good for me. I mean that's unbelief. It's that simple. You have to actually choose to place your faith in Christ. And so you can lay out all of these arguments. But at the end of it all, you have to make a choice. You have to take action on what is actually there. It's like in a court of law. Beyond a reasonable doubt, what are they saying? The case is pretty clear, but I guess if I'm a truly introspective person, probably something else could pop into my head and I'd have another question because there's always going to be something that's kind of left out there. But our faith is built on a sure foundation. The case was laid out, and it was laid out in such a way that it should strengthen confidence and say that our faith is built on something objective. Faith's not a feeling. I'm not saying that emotion does not play into our response to the gospel. We respond in the head, we understand facts. We respond in the heart, we're moved by those facts, but we respond in the will by actually choosing to depend on them. And all of that is a part of faith. It's not just intellectual and it's not just emotional. It's the blend of intellect, emotion, and will coming together in the simple choice to depend on what God has said. And so what we see is that faith isn't just some feeling. Emotion's part, but not the whole. It's a decision to commit. To rely based on a reasonable case. And that's what we see in the text. So what was the flow of Luke's record? This is what I think is important for us not to miss. As Luke writes these verses, as he writes this book, and then he moves into the book of Acts, where does he go in the flow of the story? This is the whole book. Well, from chapter 1 all the way to chapter 4, verse 13, he's giving the story of Jesus of Nazareth and presenting him as a real person. He's not a ghost. He's not some mystical thing that we talk about. He's a real man. He came. He was born. He lived a life. He grew. He matured. And so what does he do? From chapter one to chapter four, he talks about the promises in the Old Testament. I especially love chapters one and two because there's so many rich statements made. The prophetic statements was Zechariah Simeon, I love those statements, some of the best statements that are connecting the prophecies of Old Testament to what Jesus came and did. His descent from David in the flesh through the Virgin Mary. By the way, when we talk about the lineage of Christ in Matthew and the lineage of Christ in Luke, they're not the same. Well, it's because one is following his descent biologically through Mary back to Adam, his humanity, and the other is looking through Joseph. Who's not his father? The text couldn't be more clear, he's not his father, but he gives him his legal right to the throne as his guardian. Interestingly, he's a son of David through both sides. And so he lays out that story. Why? Because he's a real person. He grew up in obscurity like every other Jewish boy of his time. He increased in wisdom and stature and favor with God and man. He was truly tempted. before he began his ministry. Then we move secondly to another section of the book. That's chapters 414 through 950. And we see that he has this compelling ministry that validates his claim to be the Christ. He demonstrates his power over Satan, casting out demons on numerous occasions. He demonstrates his power over sickness healing many, many individuals who were very sick, and he truly objectively heals them, not gave them the impression they were, he really healed them. He demonstrated his power over death. He raises multiple people back to life, recorded in Luke for us. He demonstrates his power to create And the same way that the Lord God took the dirt of the ground and he shaped the man and he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and he became a living soul. What does the Lord Jesus Christ do? He takes a little boy's lunch and he creates enough food out of that one little lunch to feed thousands of people. How does he do it? Well, he's the creator. He demonstrates that he understands his role, his purpose as he teaches on the kingdom of God extensively. Then we move to chapters 951 to 1927. In fact, a really big chunk of our study on Luke. We probably spent like a year in that section. I have no idea how long it was. Is really the story of how despite all this evidence, the people rejected him. Isn't that crazy? Over half of the book? Half the book is written to show that people rejected him. Not to teach you a bunch of moral laws, to show you people rejected him. Approximately 40% of the material recorded in Luke is dedicated to that one topic. This portion of Luke could have covered as short as one week or two of Christ's. Three and a half year minist uh weeks of ministry. Isn't that incredible? Three and a half years of material, and he spends 40% of the book talking about what was probably one to three weeks of time. Why is that? Because Luke was trying to demonstrate that despite all of this overwhelming evidence, lots and lots of people who saw it, who heard it, said, I don't believe. It's pretty unbelievable. So chapter 951 all the way to 1927 is his descent up to Jerusalem. Ascent, not descent. Ascent up to Jerusalem. And then Luke seems to be emphasizing the shocking rejection of Christ despite all this overwhelming evidence. Then we move to the third portion of the book, and this is chapter 19, 28 to 24, 53. Now, this is also a pretty large chunk of scripture. I mean, let's just think from the time that Jesus was born to the time he starts his public ministry, we're talking about 30 years of history. He just gives it in a just a couple of a couple of chapters. And then out of three and a half years of ministry, he gives a couple of chapters to all of these different things that he's done. And then a week or two, what does he do? He spends 40% of the book dealing with them rejecting him. But then we see he spends several chapters just talking about what happened the last week of his life before the crucifixion and the resurrection. The remainder of Luke's testimony was dedicated to this portion of ministry. He carefully documents Christ's arrest and trials. He carefully documented the crucifixion with a longer narration than any of the other gospel writers. We know the story of the thieves on there's a thief on either side of Christ And the Bible says that they were railing on him. But in Luke's record, he shows us that though these men railed against him, one of them at some point as he's railing realizes, we're wrong. I'm wrong. He tells the other guy, you better stop it. It's pretty interesting, isn't it? Luke takes the time to show the mocker becomes the believer. As he hangs about to die right beside the Lord Jesus Christ. He documents eyewitness testimonies to the resurrection. There are many. And he records three compelling witnesses to close out his case. So if we were to kind of boil all this down, we could say this. Luke tells us Jesus was a real man who lived. He demonstrated who he is by the things he taught, the miracles he performed. And then lots of people heard this, lots of people saw this. And they rejected and they rejected and they rejected. And then he went to the cross and he died and he rose from the dead. And let me give you some compelling reasons to believe he's alive and this gospel is true. What are those closing arguments that Luke gives? I'll mention three. The first witness were skeptics who were disillusioned as they walked on the road to Maeus. And we see this in chapter 24, verse 20. Listen to what it says. As these men are walking on the road, Jesus comes along beside them and they don't realize it's him. And as they're talking, Jesus says, what are y'all talking about? I mean he didn't say it like that. They said, what are you talking about? They're like, you don't know what just happened in Jerusalem? Well, what happened? Jesus of Nazareth? Somebody that we thought was the Messiah? Somebody that we'd given up everything for to follow? He was crucified? And all of our hosts were dashed. And now, three days later, these women went down to the to the to the place where they buried him, and they're claiming he's not there, and they think he's alive? He 's like, okay? Listen to what they say. The chief priests, our rulers, delivered him to be condemned to death. And crucified him. We trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. And beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre. And when they found not his body, they came, saying that they had seen a vision of angels, which they said he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it, even so as the women had said, but him they saw not. Question, do they sound like believers? Or do they sound like skeptics? Do they sound like people are disillusioned or people are like strong in faith? You say, well, why does Luke Like close out this whole thing to convince Theophilus he should believe in Christ and what he's heard is true. And like here's the story of these two guys that walk with Jesus and they don't even believe that he rose from the dead They're like, yeah, the ladies came and told us he's alive. We don't believe him, but why does he do that? Because he's going to drive a nail in the coffin to their unbelief. Then he, Jesus said unto them, O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Wow, this guy, he's preaching, man. Slow, hard to believe all the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to have entered into his glory in the beginning at Moses and all the prophets. He expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. You know what Luke's saying? How in the world could you not believe what has been stated to you is true? It was predicted. It happened. It was fulfilled. What's interesting is Jesus has a meal with them. They don't even understand who he is, but when he's gone, then they go. That was Jesus. Witness number one. Witness number two. Terrified disciples. These are the people that these strangers on the road to amazed. By the way, do you know how long those people traveled that day? I mean, they were going this way and then they get there and then they gotta travel back. I think it's something like fifty miles. I can't remember what the math was off the top of my head. I have to go back at my research at some point. They traveled a huge distance because they want to go back and tell the guys, hey, we we just saw Jesus. It's true. And so they come and they're telling him that the disciples don't believe. And listen to what it says in Luke 24, 39. As these men are giving the story, and the disciples are not believing, Jesus stands in their midst. And he says, Behold my hands and my feet. That it is I myself. Handle me and see. Take your hands and put them through the nail prints. You say, no thank you. Why'd he do that? Because he wanted them to understand this really happened. I'm not a ghost. I am the risen Christ. By the way, John talks about this event and he gives us a little bit more details, and Thomas says, unless I can take my hands and put them in the prints and thrust it in the side, I won't believe. And Jesus said, Alright, go ahead. You have your chance. He says, see, I'm a spirit hath not flesh and bone, as ye as ye see me ha see me have. And when he had thus spoken He showed them his hands and his feet. And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which are written in the law and the prophets. And in the prophets and in or in the law of Moses and in the prophets in the Psalms concerning me, then opened he their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoove Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. Ye are witnesses of these. things. Witness two. You say, well, that's the end of the book of Luke. You're right. So he decides witness number two is going to be his second book. You know who witness number three is? Three. The Apostle Paul. The story continues in the book of Acts. And we're introduced to this character in Acts 8, verse 1. His name is Saul of Tarsus We know him as the Apostle Paul, same guy. And this is what it says in Acts chapter 8, as this man is witnessing the death of the very first Christian martyr recorded scripture It says, Saul consented unto his death. At that time there was great persecution against the church, which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. As for Saul, he made havoc of the church. Entering into every house, hauling men and women, committed them to prison. Therefore they were scattered abroad and went everywhere when preaching the word. So if you're reading the book of Acts and you don't know about the Apostle Paul and who he is, you're just reading this book and your mind you're like, this Saul guy is the villain of the story, right? He is at this point. And then in chapter 9, we see that this villain, they continue to talk more about him. Saul yet breathing out, threatening and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord. Went unto the high priest and desired of him letters to Damascus to the synagogue, that if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem. Why in the world does Luke give us the story of Saul of Tarsus? It's because witness number three is the most profound and compelling of all of them. The problem with the guys traveling to the road to Emmaus is they doubted. The problem with the disciples is that they were afraid and they doubted. The problem with Saul is he hated the gospel. His greatest passion at that season of his life was to stamp out every remembrance of this message in this way. In the mind of this man, this was an offense to the true faith. And the view of this man, these were people who were leading this This twisted sect of Judaism that needed to be stamped out and crushed. And anyone who followed this way needed to be killed or imprisoned. It had to be stopped decisively. He does not sound like a person who will one day preach the gospel to the nations, does he? Why is that? Because we understand how it works in life, right? If that's who you are, that's who you stay, right? But the grace of God interrupted his life. In fact, Acts chapter 9 doesn't stop in verse 2, but it tells us how Saul of Tarsus meets Jesus. And his life has radically changed. And by the way, when Saul of Tarsus becomes a Christian, the believers at Jerusalem did not want him coming to their assembly. They're like, we don't trust this guy. Barnabas had to say, hey, he's okay. You can let him in. And they're like, I don't know. I have a feeling there were some people they didn't want to come to church for a little while. Okay? It's like, you know, I until until he's been vetted and and and we know for certain that this guy's legit. I'm not coming to church, man. I'm gonna just kinda hang low for a little while. I think I could understand that. I'm not saying it's right. I'm just saying I could understand it. But you know what the rest of the story is? How that man's life was so transformed by the gospel that the man who hated and persecuted the church and would do everything in his power to stamp it out became its greatest proponent. There's no man in the New Testament that was more passionate about preaching Christ to the nations than this man, the Apostle Paul. And you know what that tells you? Something really happened. That man really met Jesus. That man really understood the gospel. That man was gloriously converted. That man's life was transformed by the gospel. And let me tell you something. The gospel that transformed that man transforms people's lives today. There are people in this church or people that are watching the live stream today, people that are gathering in assemblies all over the world today. That they aren't Paul, but their lives were an absolute miserable mess, and they hated God, and He got a hold of them by His grace. And when Luke is writing these things, he says, Theophilus, believe these things because Jesus really came in the flesh. He demonstrated who he is by the things he said and by the miracles he performed. He was rejected and rejected and rejected and rejected and he died and he rose again and his own disciples didn't believe it. And they were skeptics and they were fearful, and there's no reason in the world to believe that they would take the gospel to the nations and turn the world upside down. But they did. But the guy who hated the church more than anybody living at that time was unstoppable in his preaching of Christ. And so how does Luke end his record to Theophilus? He ends it with the Apostle Paul sitting in a house as a prisoner under house arrest. Giving the gospel to anybody that will come and talk to him. It says, We desire to hear thee what thou thinkest as concerning this sect. We know that everywhere where it is spoken against, when they had pointed him a day, there came many unto him into his lodging. To whom he expounded and testified to the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses and out of the prophets, from morning until evening. Paul, the guy who wanted to destroy Christianity, is trying to convince people it's true. And he's imprisoned because he's put his life on the line and ultimately he'll die as a martyr for the faith. It says, some believe that the things which were spoken and some believe not. And Paul's looking at these people is like, I know what it's like to be in your S. I was once in that place. When they agreed not amongst themselves, they departed after that Paul had spoken one word. He says, Well spake the Holy Ghost by Isaiah the prophet unto the Father, saying Go to this people and say, hearing you shall hear and shall not understand, and seeing you shall see and not perceive, for the heart of this people is waxed gross And their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have they closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and should be converted. Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, received all of them that came in unto him, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching of those things concerning the Lord Jesus. With all confidence, no man forbidding. And what does Luke say? Witness number three, Paul. So what do we take from this passage? This book, from beginning to end, all of the story as he's laid it out, what do we take away from it practically? The first thing I'll mention is this, faith and unbelief. God does not call us to step out by faith without compelling reasons to believe. He doesn't say, hey, give it a try, see what happens. He says, Let me convince you. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. As the gospel is preached, the Spirit of God draws. And convince us. There is a conviction of sin that draws us to Christ. Despite overwhelming evidence, many will wofully reject this witness. You know what happens when people reject the gospel and you present like the clearest plan you can you can imagine and you've done everything in your power to give the gospel clearly you go why Because their hearts are dull. Their eyes are heavy. Their ears do not listen. Even people who saw these events firsthand hardened their hearts to the message. But this hardness does not invalidate the reliability of the witness. And that's what Luke is trying to demonstrate. Even though there's people that want to destroy this message, they won't prevail. And history demonstrates that they don't. Even though there are skeptics who actually saw firsthand and said, no, that doesn't change the fact that it's true and that it transforms people's lives, faith and unbelief. Secondly, Luke's key witness. Luke highlighted the hardest skeptic as his most compelling witness. Paul's conversion is perhaps the most compelling witness to the power of the gospel in history. Galatians 1, the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ. In times past beyond measure, I persecuted the church of God and I wasted it, and profited in the Jewish religion above many of my equals in mine own nation, being more exceeding zealous of the traditions of my fathers. But it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace. He which persecuted us in times past now preaches the faith which once he destroyed. And Luke says, Theophilus. Rest in the gospel. And you know what? We need to do the same thing. We need to embrace the truth. The testimony is clear, the witnesses are numerous and compelling, but we've got to make a choice. You've got to depend on what God has said, and you've got to rest in this testimony. To those who come to Christ and place their faith in his finished work, not only are they forgiven and cleansed and have eternal life, but God makes them new creatures in Christ. And their lives are never going to be the same again. Might be somebody here this morning that says, I've never believed. What are you waiting for? There might be somebody here, you've placed your faith in Christ, but you've experienced a shaken faith, doubts. Let your confidence when you are shaken be rooted firmly in the gospel. Go back to what God has said, remind yourself of it afresh, and say, God, what you've said is true. And I rest in it, and I will not be shaken. May God help us to have a faith that is strengthened by his word. Let's bow together for prayer. Before I close in prayer with every head bowed and every eye closed, I just have one very simple question. Is there someone here this morning that'd say, Joel, I've never placed my faith in Christ? I needed that message, and I need to talk to somebody to make sure that I understand the gospel. I want to trust Christ. I don't want you to leave this place without an opportunity to let me know that you want to speak with me. If that's you, would you just quietly raise up your hand? I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to ask you to stand up. I'm not going to ask you to come forward. I'm simply going to note that you need to speak with me Anybody like that at all? You might say, not raising my hand. Okay, send me an email this week After the lit conference, there are people that walked out, were heading to their cars. They said, Can I get your contact information? I need to talk to you this week about some of the things that you said. I said, sure. Gave them that information. They've already reached out. Maybe you need to do that. Don't sit on that. If you are uncertain, if you have doubts, if you know for a fact you've never trusted Christ, then take care of business today or get the help you need so that you understand. how to respond properly. Let's bow for a prayer. Our Father, I thank you for the word. What an awesome book that lays out a case. To convince us that Jesus came in the flesh. He is God in flesh. The righteous one, holy and sinless. He went to the cross and he was nailed on that cross. Our sin was placed on him, and you punished him in our place. Through his death on the cross, satisfaction has been established, the payment of sin is paid in full, and we must simply receive a gift by faith alone. Christ has triumphed over death as he rose on the third day and he calls us to repent and believe. I pray if someone here this week has not trusted Christ, today would be the day. Those whose faith has been shaken, may they turn to you and remind themselves afresh of the power of the gospel. The objectivity of what Christ has done for them, and the theological significance of it, and may their heart be strengthened by that. I ask this in Christ's name. Amen.