Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh today we are back in Luke chapter seven and uh sorry this is a little bit late. I had a rough start to the morning, but uh I am excited about the passage we're looking at. We've been looking at a section where Jesus was invited to a dinner, and he was invited by Simon, a Pharisee. And we and we see some of the interaction back and forth between Jesus and Simon and a lady who was observing what was going on uh at this dinner invitation. And so Yesterday we focused in on the heart of the issue. Simon was a Pharisee. He was a very self-righteous man. And we dealt with some very important introductory information on Monday. This morning I'd like us to look more at the context of the situation that really revealed what was going on in the heart of Simon. So let's look down at verse 36. It says this. It says, one of the Pharisees, very important word, desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee's house and he sat down to meet. Now as we get later into this passage, what we're going to see is that there were some some things that Simon did not do that were very important, and uh Jesus is going to make note of that, and I do think that that factors into uh the reason that this woman responds the way that she does to Jesus. But before we get into that, which is an important uh part of our discussion today, I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts that will help set the tone for what we're going to see. The first issue Is that our heart is ultimately the source of our behavior. Everything that Simon's going to do or not do, and everything that this woman is going to do or not do Is ultimately a reflection of what's going on under the surface. And so in Proverbs 4, we're reminded that we're supposed to keep our heart with all diligence, because out of the heart is the all the issues of life. Or in Luke chapter six, verse forty five, Jesus said, A good man out of the good treasures of his heart bringeth forth good, and an evil man out of the evil treasures of his heart bringeth forth evil. Before we look at the symptom, let's recognize that the symptom is nothing more than a reflection of what is within. The second point that I want to make is that Christ's culture had certain hospitality expectations. Things were that that were actually absolutely normal. And so if someone was invited to a person's house, there were certain cultural expectations. If someone was interacting with someone in a in a private context or in a public context, there would have been certain uh normal behavior what was expected. Kind of an example of this is when I uh was a missionary in Ghana If someone came into your house, you are expected to offer them a seat. You are expected to offer them something to drink, perhaps something to eat. And then you would have some very specific back and forth questions that you would ask, you know, how is your day going? Um, how is your family doing? Before you ever got into the topic of discussion, there were certain expectations, and they were common, didn't matter whose house you went to, what the circumstances were, those norms were there. Well, the same was true in Jesus' day. And there were things that were expected of Simon who was hosting Jesus. We're going to find out in these verses. Simon didn't do that. The third thing I want to mention is that we know for a fact, because Simon was a Pharisee, that he was a meticulous man. He was somebody somebody that paid attention to detail. The letter of the law was a big deal to the Pharisees. And so, by implication, we could say this: if if Simon is a religious man, We would expect him to be a person who has a high level of morality. And if he is a moral man, we would expect him to be a person who goes above and beyond what is expected in the traditional sense if they're inviting a guest. We would also expect that Simon would be a person who would be consistent throughout all areas of life. You say, well, why would you make that expectation? If someone is religious and someone walks with God and someone uh actually cares about what they're doing, they're going to cover all areas of life. It's going to be something that guides them as a principal. And so those are some expectations that we would have of Simon. But that's not what we're going to see in these verses. We're going to see that rather than Simon being a religious man who was a moral man, Simon was a religious man who was a hypocrite. He was able to bury what was really going on inside of his heart, but he couldn't conceal it entirely. When Jesus was welcomed into his house, he wasn't welcomed in the way that you would expect him to. You say, well, how do you know that? The reason I know that is because of what Jesus says later on in this conversation. If you go down to verses 44 to 46, here's what Jesus says. He says, I entered into thine house. And thou gavest me no water for my feet, but she has washed my feet with her tears, and wiped her hairs with her head. Thou gavest me no kiss, this woman since the time I came in, hath not ceased to kiss my feet. My head with oil thou didst not anoint, but this woman anointed my feet with ointment Now, let me pause and explain what Jesus is saying. He addressed three areas. One is washing the feet, one is greeting with a kiss, and the third is anointing him with oil. Now, we don't really uh have these practices in our own culture. If someone comes into your house, uh you don't bring a basin of water and say, Can I wash your feet before you come into my house? No, you don't do that. What you might do is you might say something like Could you please leave your shoes at the door? Or a person who comes to your house may say, would you like me to take my shoes off? And you take them off and you put them there. Why is that? Well, because we don't want to track dirt into the house. That's what we would expect in our own culture. In Jesus' day, a person was walking on dry, dusty roads in sandals, and that's what they did everywhere they went, and so when they came to somebody's house There would be a person at the door who would greet them, pull out a basin, and begin to wash their feet. Or they would give them water and a towel so they could wash their own feet. That's not what that's not what happened to Jesus. He talks about a kiss. A similar scenario in our culture would be we greet someone with uh with with shaking of the hand. And so when a person comes, you shake their hand and you say, Welcome to my house or uh nice to see you today, how are you doing? He's talking about uh uh a f uh an example of you could say a welcoming gesture that's the that's what it what he's talking about a hospitality gesture and then the third is anointing him with oil And and what he's basically saying is that when someone came on off the street, their feet are dusty, they need to be greeted, and they probably don't smell the best, so they would use some kind of an ointment or a perfume That would kind of make the person a little bit more presentable when they came to be a dinner guest. Those would have been expectations, those would have been norms. A person uh who was just being culturally uh appropriate would have done those things. The fact that Simon didn't do those things speaks volumes. What it actually says is Rather than him welcoming Jesus as a guest of honor, he is bringing Jesus into his house for a very different purpose He's not coming to welcome him as a guest of honor. He's coming to basically uh to find accusation with him. He is not he's not respecting him, he's not honoring him, he's not treating him in the most basic way that you would expect someone to to treat them. And I actually think that this is at the heart of why this woman responded the way that she did Here she's watching Jesus being a guest in someone's house, and she sees his feet haven't been washed, he's not been greeted appropriately. And hi and he's not had his head anointed with oil as a welcomed guest, and she says, this is wrong. Somebody needs to do this. Well what does it really come down to? What it really comes down to is one man values Christ, the other person doesn't value Christ. One person is is demonstrating a spirit of love and affection toward Christ, and the other person has a cold, callous attitude towards Christ. And really what we're looking at is a reflection of the heart. Simon was a hypocrite. He deliberately insulted Christ when he invited him to his home. This woman recognizes Christ is Messiah, he is Savior, and I can be saved from my sins and my broken life. Because of what Jesus has done. You might say, well, what's really the practical thing to take away from this, other than just understanding background information and seeing what's going on? There's really two great takeaways. The first takeaway is that the context that we live in are the things that reveal what's in our heart. So our interaction with people, so you know, uh things that would not normally be a big deal, uh a conversation that I have, uh something not working out the way that I would anticipate it, a person's response a certain way. Those little situations are all opportunities to Bring up what is going on inside of my heart. And it might just take the littlest thing or or or something that I wasn't anticipating that all of a sudden kind of it exposes what's going on inside The people we interact with, the circumstances we experience, all those things, they play a vital role in God revealing what's in our hearts. The second thing is this. What's inside will come out. That's what happened with this woman. That's what happened with Simon And so it's important for us when we see responses that embarrass us or responses that are sinful, when we see that we are acting in a way that is inappropriate and consistent with our position as Christians. We need to go beyond just the behavior and ask what caused the behavior under the surface. We've got to address the issue at the heart. level. And that's what this passage is really all about. This passage is all about showing how the gospel fundamentally changes the person from within. And when a person is a new creature in Christ and they are forgiven and they are cleansed and they have a new nature, it begins to manifest itself. in a very different kind of life. We are not saved by our works, but a real life in Christ changes the way that we work. It changes the way that we think. It doesn't make us perfect. There's no question about that. But there is a fundamental dispositional change that takes place within us. And so that's what I wanted us to look at this morning. This passage is really rich. There's a lot more that we're going to unpackage, Lord willing, on Thursday and Friday. But I hope that those two things will stick with us. Number one, our context reveals our heart. Number two, our behavior and our response and our speech, all those things. They're really a reflection of what is within. May the Lord help us to think not just about behavior, but source. Because that really is where we have to deal with the issues that we face on a daily basis. Hope you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will be back again tomorrow. And Lord willing, I'll get this out at the normal time tomorrow. Bye now