Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and not just another episode but a new week and uh really looking forward to the passage of scripture we're going to deal with this week. Today we're going to look at an introduction to this study. And if you joined us for morning worship on Sunday, you'll have heard some of the things that I'm going to talk about this week already. But I think that these are going to be extremely important, and extremely important, especially as we prepare ourselves for uh what we would consider the Holy Week, uh where we remember the death of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, Palm Sunday uh very important time for Christians as we reflect on that. These verses are going to help us to think very biblically about those things. So if you have your Bible, let's turn together to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 And I'm going to read uh a lengthy portion of Scripture, and then I want us to talk for a few minutes about why we're a Christian. Or perhaps you're listening to this video this morning and in fact you're not a Christian and so we're going to look into that a little bit this morning. Here's what it says. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel. which I preached unto you, which also you have received, wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I have preached unto you, unless you believe in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, But that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures, that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve, after that he was seen of about about five hundred brethren at once Of him the greater part remain unto this present day, but some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James and of all the apostles. Last of all he was seen of me also As one born out of due time, for I am the least of the apostles that am not meet to be called an apostle because I persecuted the Church of God But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain. But I laboured more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was in me. Therefore Whether it were I or they, so we preach, and so ye believed. The first thing I want us to do is I kind of give you a summary statement for this passage, and then I want us to ask some very important questions that I think are going to get to the heart of what is going on in these verses. So, first of all, our summary statement, this portion of 1 Corinthians, 1 Corinthians 15 Which, by the way, is probably one of the most expansive texts in all of Scripture dealing with the question of the resurrection, the nature of the resurrection. First Corinthians 15 reminded the church of the historic reality of the resurrection and the way it had been personally impacting on their lives. And so we're we're talking about the resurrection not as a tradition but as a fact. And that's extremely important as we look at this text of Scripture. And so as we look at this, what we're going to see is that this entire passage is meant to drive home the point That we need to have a faith that is strengthened as we think about the resurrection of Christ and the implications of those things. And so that leads me to a couple of questions I want us to think about this morning together. The first question I'm going to pose is the question, why are you a Christian? If someone's just to walk up to you on the street and say, hey You you claim to be a Christian, you go to church, you're passing out tracts, gospel literature. Why are you a Christian? What would you tell them? Well well some people would say something kind of like this. Well, there was a time in my life that I was I was very empty. Uh I was pursuing all kinds of things that were leading to dead ends. And As I was going through those things, my life hit rock bottom. And then at a point I started going, you know what? I would really like to find meaning somewhere. And then I turned to God. Now, that might be your personal experience, and God may have used that. Very common way. Another example, you know, my life was spiraling out of control. And I needed something really quick that could change the direction of my life because if I didn't I was gonna end up in prison, I was gonna end up with all kinds of legal issues, I was gonna end up in financial ruin, I was I was gonna end up dead because of uh the lifestyle that I was living. And so I turned to God in desperation and said, God, please take over my life. You know, something kind of like that Or maybe another person says, well, you know, my I had relational problems. My marriage was falling apart. My relationship with my children was falling apart. My relationship to my parents was falling apart. I needed something to put it back together and I realized that the Bible has the answers to all those things. I would say probably one of the most common uh experiences that someone might say is, you know, I I I was at camp when I was ten or when I was fifteen or when I was uh when I was a child, I was in vacation Bible school and I felt moved, I felt compelled, my emotions were uh were overwhelming me as I thought about man I don't I don't know if when I die I'm going to heaven and so I had this emotional experience. I don't remember all the details, but I remember that my heart was moved and I remember I cried and all these different things happened or You know, another person might say, Well, I grew up in a Christian home, so I didn't know anything else. All of these answers are common answers. And I'm not going to say that God can't use those things or that a person that gives such a testimony is not a Christian. I don't want you to think that at all. But here's what I'm going to tell you. That is not why you should be a Christian. By the end of this study, we're going to see why we should be a Christian. Why we should be a Christian is because we are convinced of some truths about Christ. who he is, what he did, and why it matters. And we have personally, out of the conviction that it's true, have placed our trust in our eternity. And those facts and those actions that were accomplished by Christ. Because that question that we just asked, why are you a Christian could be turned around the other way and say, well, why aren't you a Christian? And there are lots of people that say, Well, yeah, I don't feel that empty. I've got a great job. I've got a great marriage. I make a lot of money I've never gone to church in my entire life. Why do I need church? There are lots of people living in America today. That's exactly how they feel. I'm an educated person, and so I believe that faith is something that's for weak people, it's for needy people, people who can't to cope with life, people who need a crutch to get through life. And I don't need those things. So I'm good. My marriage is good. My finances are strong. I've got a job that I enjoy. I've done all these things without God. I don't need God. I'm not even convinced that he exists. And someone could turn around on the other side and say, that's where I am. By the way, a person who's a part of a cult group could could say a lot of the exact same things that were said in that first section. Some people might make the charge, well, you know, Christianity is just purely an emotionalism. It's anti-science. It goes against reason. No rational, reasonable person could ever believe in the Christian faith They actually have some kind of this condescending attitude towards Christianity because it's anti-science, pure emotionalism. Another argument that someone might say is, well, I can never be a Christian because Christians aren't inclusive enough They're not loving and they're uh they're they're condescending on everybody else. And so that would be the charge that someone brings against Christianity. Well, all of those things that I've mentioned, whether it's on the positive side, here's why I'm a Christian, on the negative side, here's why I'm not a Christian, does not wrestle With what really should drive someone to their knees to place their faith in Christ. You say, well, why should someone be a Christian? They should be a Christian because the gospel is true. That's why they should be a Christian. And because the gospel is true and the gospel is exclusive, there is no other place that they can turn to find an escape from God's wrath against their sin. So the reason someone should become a Christian isn't because they can't cope with life and they need something to help them through or because they have all this instability and that's where they can find stability or because They don't have a sense of purpose, but that's where they can find purpose. Or, you know, I've got this uh emotional experience that's kind of compelled me to do this. Or, you know, my morality is really messed up, and I I want to be better with my finances, I want to be better with relationships, I want to get along with people, I want to live a morally pure life. And so they turn to Christianity. Now please don't misunderstand me. I believe very strongly that because the gospel is true and because the gospel is transformative, that a person who's not able to cope with life as an unbeliever can find tremendous stability in the scriptures. And they can find uh tremendous encouragement and comfort and purpose and that it can build and strengthen their relationships. But that's not why you should be a Christian. You should be a Christian. Because the gospel is true. And someone might say, well, how do you know it's true? Well, amazingly the way that the Bible is written is is written to compel us through reasoned arguments that this is true. By the way, you think about when Peter was preaching at Pentecost. What did he ultimately appeal to? He appealed to facts. Think about what Paul did when he would go into the synagogues. What would he do? He would reason from the scriptures. He would say, here's what God said in the Old Testament. He'd go from Example to example to example that was pointing to Christ, and he would say, This man, Jesus of Nazareth, is the fulfillment of those things. And he would work his way through that. In other words There was a reasoning. Or when we read to the epistles, it's amazing how before the Apostle Paul or before Peter goes to practical implications, he deals with Theological truths, things that are true about God, things that are true about our position in Christ, things that are true of us because of the gospel And then from that, he reasons, here's how you're supposed to live. In other words, Christianity is not just an emotional appeal Christianity appeals to your head and it says, here's what is true, and here's how you can know it's true, and here's why you should believe, and it calls you to respond to facts. That's really what Christianity does. And the passage in front of us is a passage that makes such an appeal There is an overwhelming case to be made that the Bible is God's word. There's an overwhelming case to be made on every single level that the things that we read about in the scriptures, in fact, they're true. We have a creator. He's designed this world. He sustains this world. He providentially orders circumstances to the ends that are best And ultimately bring glory to him and he can use them to shape us and to mold us and to point us to himself. We are sinners, we are guilty. We do need a Redeemer. God has made these promises of redemption. He has fulfilled these promises of the Redeemer. And ultimately what happens is that we can glory in God forever because these things are true. That's where we're going this week. We're going into the scriptures and saying, why should I believe that Jesus died for my sins? and literally, physically rose from the dead, and one day I'm going to spend all of eternity with him, not as some spirit floating around in the netherworld, but I'm going to have a glorified body And I will enjoy my Savior and the redeemed forever. Why do I believe that? Well, this passage is going to give us a compelling reason to believe that those things are true. And so if you'd like to get into that with us this week, I hope that you'll not just watch this video, but that you'll share this video and that you'll follow each of these episodes throughout the week. I'm really looking forward to this passage. It's something that I enjoyed preaching on Sunday. It's something I'm very passionate about, and it's something that I think can be extremely helpful to all of us. I hope that you have a great Monday morning. It's been great to spend some time sharing these truths with you And uh if this has been an encouragement to you, please take a moment, jot a note, and uh and just just mention that if it's something that you think would be helpful to another person. Please share that with them. And ultimately, if you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. I'd love to field those questions and be a help to you. Hope you have a blessed rest of your morning. And Lord willing, tomorrow we'll talk again. Bye now