Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'm very excited about the study we're going to do this morning. We are back in Luke chapter 7 and we're looking at verses 1 through 10 together. So if you have a Bible I'd like to invite you to go ahead and take that out. And let's turn together. We're not going to read the entire section like we did on the first day. We're just going to read verses 1 through 3. But I'm going to go ahead and do that. And then uh draw your attention back to what we've been discussing the last couple of days. Luke chapter seven verse one says this. Now when they had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum. And a certain centurion servant who was here to him was sick, and was ready to die. And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him Now, the last two times we've been looking at this passage, we begin with an introduction and talking about the uniqueness of Luke Picking this particular moment from Christ's ministry and uh using that to strengthen the faith of Theophilus. We also uh talked yesterday about Uh the person that was involved in this, a little bit about the centurion, a little bit about his servant, um his servant's uh relationship to the centurion, and a little bit about the way that the centurion actually appealed Well I'd like us to go deeper into that concept of how this man appealed to Christ, and I want us to look at the humility of that appeal and how it was ultimately an appeal to Christ's mercy. There were three words that I mentioned the last two times we've met together. That are at the heart of understanding this passage. The first word is the word authority. And I reminded you that the reason that authority is so important is it demonstrates, these verses demonstrate that Jesus has the power, the right, the power, to be able to actually heal a person who is sick. The second word that we looked at was the word mercy And that was giving us an understanding of the motivation behind why Christ is doing this. It wasn't just to display his power, though that was obviously an important part. of what he's doing, but it was to demonstrate his mercy. He actually cares. He's compassionate toward people in these kinds of situations. And then the third word that we looked at was the word perspective. And the word perspective is very important because it shows us that the man that is appealing to Christ thought about himself, about Christ and why Christ should do what he was going to do. He thought about those things correctly, and that's really contrasted with the people that are going to Jesus on his behalf. So let's dig back into this passage and look at that third section, the humility of this man's appeal to mercy. I'm going to go back to verse number three, and I want us to read it again, and then I want us to dig into these parts. He says this, Luke writes in verse 3, when he heard of Jesus He sent unto him the elders of the Jews, and I love this word, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant. Now let's notice some of the details. The first thing that I'd like us to notice is that the centurion didn't think the way that a person would have typically thought in those days if they had been in the position of this man or if they had had the character of this person and they'd been as benevolent as this person had been. We notice when he goes and appeals to Christ that he doesn't rest in his physical or legal strength. I mean he is a Roman centurion He doesn't rest in his financial strength. He is a very uh financially strong individual. He has the ability to to actually build a synagogue for the people in the community. He also didn't rest in his religious credentials. And that is something that the Jews are going to appeal to Christ, saying, look at all the good things that he's done. We're going to see that this centurion does not rest in those things. So he doesn't rest in his physical strength, his legal status, his financial strength, his religious credentials, and that is very different than the typical way that people naturally tend to think about these issues. The second thing I want us to notice is that word beseech. That is such a graphic word. That word beseech has the idea of to implore Implore. And so when he sends these people to Christ, he is pleading with Christ, please have mercy on me and ultimately have mercy on my servant. That's expressing humility. That's expressing a sense of deep need. And that's a very important part of this section. The next thing I want you to notice is the way that he goes to Christ. He didn't go directly to Christ. Initially he sends representatives on his behalf to appeal to Christ to say, please Uh consider my my appeal, what I'm asking you to do. And then when Jesus actually begins to come, he doesn't come out of his house and go and speak to Christ directly. He sends out close friends to appeal to Christ as well. What does that show us? Well, it shows us humility again. We even see that he Ask Christ not to even come into his house. And and you say, well, why would he do this? Well it's because he recognized his unworthiness. It may have also had something to do with the fact that he recognizes Jesus is a Jew. I'm a Gentile Jews don't generally go into Gentiles' homes and have fellowship with them and eat meals with them because of all the differences and the dietary laws and the the laws that that the Jews were supposed to follow and the Gentiles didn't follow. So he is as as as much as possible he is demonstrating his humility. He's appealing to Christ's mercy And I want to camp out for just a moment on this concept of humility. When we talk about humility, humility isn't about me saying, you know what , I'm really this great person and I need to go ahead and lower my view of myself and it's it's almost like it's inconsistent with what we really are, but we're making ourselves feel more lowly. That is not What humility is. Genuine humility is about our point of reference and where it starts And so when we talk about a person being humble in the biblical sense, it means that their point of reference where they're starting, that starting point, is objectively consistent with a few things. The person standing before a holy and righteous God, comparing ourselves to the perfection of God, our human limitations. We are creatures, not creators. And so humility is about recognizing I fall far short of the perfect righteous standard of God and His righteousness. I recognize that I am limited as a creature. I'm just a mere mortal. And it's also emphasizing the brevity of our own short lives. And so when we talk about humility, it's really about seeing things as they actually are. Not about us lowering our perspective of ourselves as much as us having a correct perspective as the world actually operates and as we stand before a holy righteous God. In other words, our point of comparison is not us to our neighbor It's us to our Creator. And when we compare ourselves to our Creator, all of a sudden everything begins to fall into place. It's about us thinking about ourselves in the light of eternity. That's what humility is all about. And by the way, humility is not inconsistent with a person feeling a sense of value or purpose or being motivated. You can be humble and be an absolutely motivated individual. You can be humble and and have this very strong sense of purpose. You can be a humble person and believe that you have tremendous value. The question is why do you have tremendous value? Why are you so motivated? What is driving you as a person? It needs to be consistent with the value that God ascribes to you. It needs to be consistent with the purpose that God has for you. That's really what it ultimately lies with. So the the fact that a person is is motivated or driven or feels that they have value is not inconsistent with humility. It's all about why they feel that sense. So let's kind of go back to this man's request. What really is ultimately at the heart of his request And there are three things that are at the heart of his request. The first is he's making this request, recognizing I'm not He's not saying I'm not valuable. He's not saying I have no purpose. He's not saying God doesn't care about me. He's saying I don't merit. I don't deserve this kind of favor That I'm asking God to give. That's the first point. The second point is that it's made with this very firm conviction That Christ has the right and the power to be able to do this thing. He's going to say this later on in these verses. I'm a man under authority. I understand how authority works. He's saying, I know who you are, Christ. I'm not worthy. You are The God of creation, you are God in flesh. That's ultimately what he's saying when he says, I know who you are, the Lord And then the third point is that he's appealing to Christ's mercy. He not only recognizes the power, the authority that Jesus possesses, but he recognizes the goodness of Christ, his mercy, his compassion. his kindness. So those three qualities are bound up in this appeal that simply is found in the word beseech or I implore you, please have mercy on my servant. You know, humility is something that we desperately need to continually have in our hearts. We continually need to have this sense of our need. to be continually reinforced. Like in Lamentations three it says, It's of the Lord's mercies that we're not consumed. His compassions fail not. Or in or in Psalm eighty six, verse three, he says, Be merciful to me, O Lord. when I cry unto thee daily. I lift my soul up unto thee. Or Psalm 103 he says, It's like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pities them that fear him. He knows our frame. He remembereth We are but dust. This is the perspective of a healthy believer, someone who recognizes dependence and need, but not someone who is just Wallowing in the dirt saying I'm a worthless person. They're not the same thing. So what can we take away from this section of scripture? This little portion of the story that we've been looking at this week. Well, let me give you a couple of thoughts that I jotted down that I hope will be an encouragement to you. The first is this. We need to keep our point of reference healthy Whenever we start beginning to become proud in our perspective, we need to go back to asking the question, who am I? I am a creature. I'm here for a limited period of time. When I compare my righteousness to the righteousness and the holiness and the perfection of my Creator I don't just fail to measure up to some small degree. I fall so far short that there is no comparison. I'm an unworthy person. I'm in need of God's mercy and God's grace. Instead of comparing myself to the people around me, I need to compare myself to the God of eternity. I need to remember what I am. I'm a mere mortal who's a sinner who's been saved by grace. The second thing is this. We need to recognize that our lives are very short And so the moment that we begin to puff ourselves up, we need to recognize that it is God's mercies that keep us from being consumed. He's the one who literally preserves and upholds our lives. We are not self-sufficient enough ourselves. We have no ability to lengthen our days if we want to do such a thing Our lives are in the hands of God. Third thing I want to mention is that this is going to give us a rich sense of value as a person creating God's image. Even though I will be having a humbler view of myself I'm still going to see that I am created in the image of God and I do have value to Him. And so rather than me puffing myself up as if I'm, you know, some self-sufficient individual I'm humble in the presence of God, but I still recognize the value that I have. This will also give us a rich sense of purpose because I'm here by God's design. He's given me the breath of life for a period of time and he's given me a job to do. So humility is not inconsistent with value, and it's not inconsistent with purpose. Another thing that it's going to do is it's going to make us humble. It's going to make us grateful to God because we are reminded that every good thing that we have, every good and perfect gift, it comes from above. And it is of God's mercies that we enjoy these things. So we're not entitled to these good things. We see them as gifts. We haven't earned them. We don't deserve them. They're given to us freely by God's good hand. And I think a final thing that it's going to do is it's going to help us to be more gracious in our interaction with other people. We start recognizing that we are all on the same level. When it comes to human nature, when it comes to the brevity of our lives, when it comes to our need of a savior, when it comes to the position that we enjoy in Christ There is equality at the foot of the cross. And so these truths are very helpful in keeping us gracious in our interactions with one another. As I think about this passage of scripture I think there's a lot that we can glean from it. I hope that our short little study this morning has been an encouragement to you. And I pray that we will begin to develop the heart of humility that this centurion had. Though he was strong, though he had status, though he had money, though he was a very benevolent person. That's not where his purpose and his value came from. His purpose and his value was rooted in the fact that he was a humble creature created in the image of God. Who had a purpose in a moment of time that was given to him by God. And he recognized God's goodness and he appealed to that goodness. That's what we need to do today. I hope that it's been good for you to be with us this morning in God's Word, and Lord willing tomorrow we will continue our study looking at the centurion's faith and Christ's tremendous mercy towards this man. Have a great day. Bye now