Weather we've had this week. It's gonna get a little bit warmer today in this upcoming week. Um but to get get things started off for September, we had the first installment, if I can say it like that, of our Anchor Baptist Bible Institute, the ABBI, as we were probably going to refer to it in the future, in Sunday school. That's going to start this upcoming Tuesday as well. Pastor can talk more about that. So but we have our first session there starting on Tuesday. On Thursday, we have a ladies' Bible study. It's on the Bolton board. By the way, all of the Bolton boards have been redone. So if you want to take a moment to just walk through and um I guess admire how nice they look. Um but there are some new information. There's for the two trackers, there's a true tracker board right above the SOS table. Um Friday there is a teen event. Again, we have UnoBall. And then, oh, on Wednesday, Josh. Pastor Josh asked me to uh announce the PE classes are getting started for the homeschool uh initiative for those who'd like to come and be a part of the PE classes. This Saturday as well, we also have door-to-door visitation. Please come join us. Before I read our opening scripture, I was a had a Special blessing this morning. Someone I've known for a very long time, uh since I was nine years old, Steve McGetrick and his family, uh Sarah, I have known him. We were on the wrestling team together in Washington State, we were the West Olympia Mat Rats. So we go back a long time, even longer than I've known Pastor. So when his son came into teen classes, oh I'm Leon McGettrick. I'm thinking, I know McGettricks. And then I think I scared him because I knew a lot about his family and his mom and dad. And he's like, I have never met you before in my life. It's not that I'm getting older, you just start learning and knowing more people in life. Anyways you can get around there, see a couple there. Actually, you do live in Florida? uh North Carolina. Oh North Carolina. Okay, North Carolina. But he's a Marine uh now. Wh where are you at in that major? Yeah we're at the Yep. Alright, so he's been serving the Marines, but actually we were all in the re same wrestling team together, even at Penskill Christian College, another little crazy fact of life. But anyways, so just wanted to welcome them. That was a crazy neat opportunity this morning. And the look on his son's face was priceless. All right. Now for opening scripture, Psalm 12, starting with verse 1. The word of God reads. Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth, for the faithful fail from among the children of men. They speak vanity, every one with his neighbor. With flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue shall speaketh proud things. Who have said, With our tongue we will prevail Our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? For the oppression of the poor For the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. The words of the Lord are pure words. As silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them. O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. Our theme of worship today is let's pause and reflect deeply on the personal ways God has revealed His goodness in our lives. What a great passage. Let's bow for prayer and ask the Lord to really work in our hearts through his word. Father, we are so grateful that we are your people, and we recognize the tremendous sacrifice that has made us your people, that Christ died on the cross. He suffered a humiliating and painful death so that we could be forgiven. That our sin debt could be paid in full. Your wrath against our sin could be satisfied. And he triumphed over death by rising from the dead. And this morning as a body we celebrate the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, and we glory in the Lord Jesus and what he has accomplished for us to make us his own people. And Father, I pray that as we go into this week, that our hearts would be stirred up with tremendous passion. to proclaim your glory. As we think about how good you are, as we marvel at how you preserve your people and how you have promised that no matter what goes on in the world, you will continue your work. And your word is absolutely trustworthy. I pray that we would rest in that. That we would recognize in spite of all the ups and downs, we still are your people, and you are working both in us and through us. Father, I pray that this week as we take time to reflect on some very, very dark days in America as we think about 9-11 coming up, that we would We would be reminded that there was a time in our nation where we pulled together. We recognized our vulnerability. People were humbled and people flocked to churches. I pray that we would see you work in hearts through difficult, different circumstances that you would draw people back to yourself. I pray that as we think about the truths of the text that's in front of us, that we would understand it, and we would understand the weight of it, and that we would understand the applications of it, and we would live in the light of these wonderful truths. I pray that you would bless every person that has joined us, whether in person or on the live stream, that you would work in their hearts today, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church. Esteemed guests, thank you for joining with us this morning, both in person and those that are on live stream with us. As we start our service this morning with the sing, singing. I want to ask you to stand to your feet. We're going to turn to page 26. Page 26 and sing all four verses of praise to the Lord Almighty. Sing out. Pray to the Lord , pray God, pray the Lord , pray to you , pray God , I can 't believe you. No, we got a lot of people. That's good singing. I think you're just getting started though. So let's turn to page 81 or follow along on the screen. All four verses of a mighty fortress is our God. Родовій Дуди , на того , навіть наша родиня, хорони головне , прийти на них. Pray pray to me and the end of the Lord for his dream Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. As long as you keep singing out like that. Well, we turn to page 99. We're going to sing all four verses of a shelter in the time of storm. Пожалуйста, приветствую вас, а я буду. Amen. Now at this time we'll have Scripture reading. We're going to go to Psalm 34. Psalm chapter 34, verses 1 through 9. Follow along in your Bibles or on the screen with me. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear thereof and be glad. O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears. They looked unto him and were lightened, and their faces were not ashamed. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them. O taste and see that the Lord is good Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. O fear the Lord, ye his saints, for there is no want to them that fear him. May the Lord add his blessings to the reading of his word. Amen. Amazing grace Alright, now for the next couple songs, you're going to need the blue book sitting in front of you in the pew. So put up the red one. We're going to turn to page 65 for the first one. right there. We're going to sing all three verses of God has spoken. So keep singing out. All three verses. God has spoken. Every day we can do the right meeting. Well, you're a hand like for you and any remote. Right. Amen. Now turn back to page 41 or follow along on the screen with us. Worthy of worship. We're going to sing all three verses. The last verse will sing acapellos without the instruments, okay? Worthy of worship. Please stand with me. Worthy of all we can Worry God be hungry to be great to our All my Why don't you love your friend? We were back for You are what you 're being all your everyday. Say the Lord before it. Amen. Please be seat. My life are going to my grace. When hardness comes his benefit to rest and cause we spell God on you are my servant. And I will learn this for God 's And the family adoring. I want it more, I want a lesson all you give in me You gave your all my lady for life at Calvary to life. All my best to you my kid and bring you now for hearing me a brief. You 're not allowed everything, all my need , all my need , isn't it? Your family, and your great husband You know my heart 's launch or all I need, all I need , very Yeah. Okay, well I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn with me to Psalm thirty-four, and our children can be dismissed to the back for their classes or class. Psalm 34, and we're not going to read the entire Psalm as we often do when we are working our way through the Psalms. This week we are just going to look at a portion of the Psalm. Because I think that there will be a lot to digest, even in the portion that we're going to look at this morning. Psalm 34 We'll begin not reading in verse 1, but we'll actually read the little prefix that is at the beginning of the Psalm. Here's what it says. This is a psalm of David. When he changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed. Verse 1 says, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. My soul or the humble shall hear thereof and be glad. O magnify the Lord with me. Let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. They looked unto him and were lighted. Their faces were not ashamed This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. O fear the Lord ye his saints, for there is no want to them that fear him. Let's bow our hearts together. Ask the Lord to help us to understand these very important truths and some very rich applications that I think will flow from this text. We understand it very well. Let's pray. Father, as we read this psalm, I pray that we would understand the kind of things that were going on in David's heart as he wrote these words. Help us to recognize that it was one of the lowest moments in David's life, in those early days when he was running from Saul. And as we think about the incredible strength that he gathered in that moment from your presence and the way that he began to appreciate your presence. and the way that you worked in his life, I pray that no matter where we find ourselves this morning, we would be able to take these very rich truths and apply them personally. Help us to recognize that you are an immensely good God. You love us tenderly as your children. You care for us. You nurture us. You uphold us, you strengthen us, you defend us, you protect us. You have saved us, you keep us, you have promised an inheritance for each of us. I pray that these truths would just resonate in our souls today, and as we walk out of this place, May our hearts be changed a little bit more to think about these truths. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The Psalm before us is a fascinating psalm. In fact, this first section that we're going to look at this morning is one that reminds us that sometimes God chooses to allow things into our lives that we experience that are very troubling and very difficult. And the reason that God chooses to allow those kinds of things into our life is not because he hates us, and it's not because he wants to ruin our lives, it's not because he wants to break us down. The reason that God allows these troubling circumstances into our lives is because he wants us to understand what David expresses in Psalm 34. He wants us to taste and to see that he is good. And so really when we summarize this first portion of Psalm 34, that is the sense. It is God reminding us that sometimes he chooses to allow hardship and trouble to ultimately teach us that He is good. Now when I make that statement, some of you might be going, how in the world does God take trouble and hardship and teach goodness? Those things do not seem like they can go together naturally. And that is a fair question to ask. But as we dig into the text, I think you will understand that in fact not only is it possible, but it is the way that the Lord works. As we read these scriptures, God would have us to stop and reflect on his goodness. And I'm going to invite you to do that this morning. As we think about the text, I hope that you'll go home this afternoon. And I hope that you'll sit down and you'll process the things that you've heard, and you'll think about the things that we've read, and you'll consider all the implications that we find in the text in front of us. And that you will take those truths and you will take the pattern that's in front of you and you'll practice it yourself. And you'll bring glory to the Lord by saying, God, thank you for this and thank you for this. Listen, thank you for this and thank you for this lesson. And you'll work your way through a reflective time of remembering God's goodness In order for us to do that, I think we have to begin, first of all, with understanding that Psalm 34 starts not in a high point in David's life. But in fact, one of the lowest moments of his life. Now, as we study the life of David, we recognize that during David's early years, he was known for being a triumphant warrior. a strong man, a gifted man, a loved person. But in those early days after he kills Goliath and becomes a national hero, his father-in-law Saul begins to envy David. And as he envies David, he begins to watch him carefully and he tries to think of ways that he can kill David and remove him because he does not like the fact that this man is rising in interest in the eyes of people, and he, King Saul the leader, is diminishing in the people's eyes. At least that's the way that he saw it. And so the setting of this is actually what we read in the little prefix. It says that this is a psalm of David when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed. Now some of you might say, I remember the Bible talking about a man named Akish, but I don't remember it talking about a man named Abimelech who interacted with David. And if you remember that, then you would be correct You don't remember the name Abimelech being used. But Abimelech is a title. It's not his name, but it is a description of the title that he had. It's basically another way of saying King Akish. That's what Abimelech means. And in order for us to understand what's going on, there's another person's name that's going to be important to us, and that is the name Ahimelech. So we have Ahimelech, we have Abimelech, and we have Akish. And I will probably mess this up as I'm telling you the story. So if I do, please give me some grace Well, as David is running from Saul, he decides to go a certain direction through a town called Nob. And there in Nob he meets a man who is a priest. The man's name is Ahimelech. And when he meets Ahimelech, Ahimelech immediately asks him some questions about the way that he's traveling. David doesn't have weapons. David doesn't have the normal group of men that he would travel with. He didn't have food. He seemed like he was in a hurry. And when Ahimelech meets David, he says, is everything okay? And David basically says, everything's good. And he says, well, why aren't you traveling with anybody? And why are you in such a hurry? And he says, I'm on the king's business. And I'm in a hurry, and it's a secret mission, and nobody can know about it. Now, when David told him those things. David was lying. He was not speaking the truth. David was fearful for his life. He was afraid that if he told Ahimelech that he was running from King Saul and he asked for his assistance, then Ahimelech will not help him. But Ahimelech knew that David was an honorable man, at least he had traditionally been a very honorable person, and so he trusted him and he said, Okay, I I can help you. And David said, Well, is there any food for me? And it it appears he might have had a few people traveling with him. And Himelech said, well, the only food that we have is the food that the priests use. And that's forbidden. You can't use it. And he says, but, you know Maybe under these circumstances, these people are famished. They're going to die. Perhaps to preserve life you can give us this food. And Ahimelech works out an arrangement with David and he gives him the food. And then David says, Do you have a weapon? He says, well I do, but you would actually know about it. It's a sword. It's the sword you used to cut Goliath's head off. This is massive sword. And David says, I could take that So David takes the showbread and he takes the sword and he runs. And Ahimelech believes he's helped a loyal subject to King Saul and he feels really good about the situation. But a few days later, he finds out that he was wrong. Because Saul shows up, and when Saul shows up, he says, What's going on? Why did you aid and abet my enemy? That's what he said. Himelech said, What are you talking about? What enemy have I helped? He says, David. He says, David is, he's your most loyal subject. He says, no, I'm going to kill him. And I want you to hear what it says. In verse number 10, it says, David, or excuse me, 1 Samuel chapter 21, it says, David rose and fled for fear of Saul, and he went to Akish, king of Gath, and the servants of Akish said unto him, Is this not David the king of the land? As David is beginning to feel the pressure of now being in the land of the Philistines, on the other side, there is a man who's having a very difficult conversation with Saul. And by the end of the story, Saul gets a man named Doad who kills every single member of the household of Ahimelech. Man , woman, child , infant. Killed them all. And one of the people that was a member of that household was able to flee. And you know what he did? He found David. And he said, David, let me tell you what happened. And when David hears the story, he is smitten in his heart. He said, I'm the reason that those people Died. And he penned Psalm 52. But that's not the worst thing that David was dealing with. That was a part of it. But in addition to that, where David went was the land of the Philistines. And as it reads in the beginning, it says, David changed his behavior before Abimelech. That is Akish, his name, Akish, Abimelech the king. And he drove him away and he departed. And so if we go back to First Samuel twenty one it says, Is not this David the king of the land? Did he not sing unto one another of or did they not sing one another of him in dances, saying Saul has slain his thousands, and David is ten thousands David laid up these words in his heart and was sore afraid. And Akish the king of Gath, and before Akish the king of Gath, and he changed his behavior before him. and feigned himself mad in his in their hands, and scrambled on the doors of the gate, and let the spittle fall on his beard. Then said Akish unto his servants, Lo, ye see the man is mad, wherefore then have ye brought him to me That I need a madman that you have brought this fellow to play the madman in my presence? This is what's going on. David is carrying the internal weight of this entire family being wiped out. He is hiding in the land of the Philistines with Goliath 's sword. And the people say, Why are you letting this this guy run around near us? He's killed so many of the Philistines. He's a national hero. Why are you allowing this? And so David goes, the only thing I can do is pretend like I'm crazy. And he acts like a wild man. And then finally they say, get this guy out of here. We don't need a wild man in our presence. Do you realize that that is what was going on when David wrote Psalm 34? That's what was going on. All of those things that were going on in David's heart, all of the weight of the pressure, the guilt, the trouble, the dishonesty. That's what was going on when David wrote Psalm 34, one of the most encouraging Psalms in all of the Bible. In fact, you may not have even realized that that was the case, but indeed it was. And you say, well, why does that matter? The reason that that matters is because of the second thing we'll see, and that is that David's experience, as low and troubling as it was, it was a catlass for a godly resolve. Notice what it says in verses one and two of the Psalm. He says, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. Now, a very simple observation about life, and I think everybody here that has lived long enough to observe this in people's lives knows that trouble is an inevitable part of life, and trouble is something that is a catlass for change. When you go through some kind of hardship in life, it does not leave you unchanged. It can change you physically, it can change you emotionally. It can change you in your spiritual walk. It can change you in so many different ways. And the reality is that a challenge in life can take you this way or it can take you that way. It's true. In fact, the difference between somebody becoming bitter and angry and frustrated, and the difference between them becoming gentle and and loving and merciful and and more committed and having a greater desire to follow the Lord. The difference between those two things are the choices that they make when they experience difficulty. Hebrews 12, 15 says that we should look diligently lest we fail of the grace of God, lest a root of bitterness spring up, trouble you, and thereby many are defiled. So in Hebrews chapter 12, he is warning these believers that bitterness doesn't just destroy you. It destroys the people around you. In fact, I've heard bitterness described this way. Bitterness is kind of like wanting to kill a rat, eating rat poison, and then hoping that the rat dies. That's what bitterness is. We're actually killing ourselves while we are in such a position. And that's one of the directions that a person can go in troubledness. But there's another possible way. And that is the catalyst that produces spiritual insight, discipline, and growth. Some of the wisest people, some of the most gracious people. Some of the strongest people, some of the most loving people you will ever meet in life, are people who have experienced the kinds of trouble you cannot even begin to imagine. And you say, how is it that a person can grow in such a direction having experienced so much heartache? The answer is it's the choices they make. make when they find themselves in such situations. And so in James 1 he says that the trying of your faith worketh patience. And our light affliction, 2 Corinthians 4, which is for a moment, worketh for us a far more and exceeding eternal weight of glory. I think one of the most fascinating examples of this dynamic is someone who is actually in the lineage of David himself. We know the story of Ruth. It's one of the greatest books in all of the Old Testament. Written in a very tough time in the life of the judges And we know the story of Naomi because Naomi was a woman that her husband decided to take her and their two boys into the land of Moab because of the hardships they were encountering there in Bethlehem. And when they went into Moab, there in Moab Her children, who tier boys, end up marrying Moabite women. And when they married those two Moabite women, something tragic happened, and all three of the men in that family died. And so what was left was Naomi and Ruth and Orpah. And Naomi decided, I don't know anybody in Moab, this is not my homeland. I need to go back to the land of my people. I hear things are going better in the land than it was when I left, and so I'm going back. And she told her daughter-in-laws, go back to your people, go back to your gods, don't follow me. But Ruth said, I can't do that. She said, I want to follow you. And so in Ruth chapter 1, verse 20, when Naomi comes back and the people are so excited to see her. They say, Naomi, Naomi, so good to see you, she says. Ruth chapter 1, verse 20. Call me not Naomi, call me Mara, for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. She's basically saying, I am not a happy woman. I'm a broken person. I'm a discouraged person. I'm an angry person. God has been so cruel to me. Do not call me Naomi. Call me Mara, because that's what I am. But what I love about the book of Ruth is that that's not where it ends. In fact, by the end of the book, what we see is that God takes this woman, Ruth, who is a Gentile, and he plants her into the lineage of Christ. And he not only gives her a husband, he gives her a child. And that child is a child that Naomi had the privilege of caring for in her old age. When I say old age, I don't think she was an elderly woman because people had children very young in those days, okay? But this is what it says about her at the end of the book. Ruth chapter 3 verse 14. The women said unto Naomi , Blessed be the Lord which hath not left thee this day without kinsmen. He shall be uh without kinsmen, that his name may be famous in Israel. He shall be unto thee I love the statement. a restorer of life and a nourisher of thine old age. Here's this woman who had experienced so much hardship in life and God didn't give up on her He continued to lovingly work in her life. And then this is what it says. The women, her neighbors, gave it a name, saying that a son has been born to Naomi, and they called his name Obed. Who is the father of Jesse? Who is the father of David? Isn't that neat? Great example of someone who experienced both the bitterness and the encouragement of God's hand. And so whenever we experience difficulties in life, we're going to go one of two directions. In fact, you may be sitting in this room today and you're finding yourself more on the bitterness side than the side where you are growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. And I want to remind you that you don't have to stay in such a place. Don't eat the rat poison and hope the rat dies. Turn to the Lord and let him use your hardship to Grow you in grace and the knowledge of the Lord. And so we see in this Psalm that David says in verse 1, I will bless the Lord at all times. He literally learned that God could use anything to accomplish good. He says, I will praise, his praise will continually be in my mouth. He learned that God continually sustained him. And in verse 2, he says, My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. He learned that God alone deserves glory in these circumstances. The third thing I want you to notice in these verses is that the way we respond to hardship is something that affects other people. Look carefully at the way that he puts this in verses 2 to 3. He says that the humble shall what? What's the next word? The humble shall what? I can't hear. The humble shall hear and shall be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together Do you notice that when David writes this psalm, he's not writing the psalm in isolation. He's writing the psalm in community. And so he says, there are people that have witnessed what I've experienced. And they've seen how I've processed it, and they've seen how I've worked through this and what God has taught me, and the humble hear, and they're glad. And I tell them, hey, let's magnify the Lord together. It's like a person on a Sunday night who's giving testimonies and they say, here's what God taught me. And everybody's sitting there, that's a great story. And we just say, praise the Lord for what he's done. That is the sense that David is giving. I want to remind you that we are not isolated people. His choices are meaningless. Hey children, your decisions affect your parents. Did you know that? It's true, especially if you're waking up a lot in the night. Parents, your choices affect your children. The future of your children in many ways is being shaped by the way you're raising them today. Employers can make life really miserable for the people they employ. And people who are being employed can make life really miserable for the people that employ them. We're not isolated. God created this concept of family so that our lives will be built together and interconnected. And so when we make good choices, it helps the people around us. And when we make poor choices, what does it do? It weighs them down. This is both a negative and a positive principle. It's true in a national context. It's true in the family context. It's true in every single area of life I've reflected on this a little bit this week. Think about how the Great Depression affected people. Anybody have a family member that you remember that grew up in the Great Depression? My grandparents? My my grandmother and my grandfather grew up during the Great Depression. Some of you are going, my mom grew up in the Great Depression. Okay. I don't think anybody in here is old enough to say they grew up in the Great Depression. But you know what's funny is I re as I reflect on the kinds of choices my grandparents made, the kinds of choices they made in their home, like the kind of food they ate. The way they handled the lights and showers and baths and flushing toilets and and and what they did with the loose change that they found and the things they would buy and they wouldn't buy, those decisions were directly affected by what happened when they were little kids It's true. And the next generation, well, the way they raised their kids affected them too. Think about people who lived during World War II. How it pulled a nation together. People that think about, well a lot of you lived through the Vietnam era. Some of you were actually involved in the Vietnam conflict. The fact is it affected the nation. 9-11. A lot of the guys that I went to school with, they went into the military after 9-11. You know why? Because they said we want to defend our nation. There's a reason I bring this up. The reason I bring it up is to say this. The things that go on in a family, in a nation, in a church, in a workplace, everybody responds to it. It shapes them in some kind of a way. The question is, how does it shape you? The example that I really want to mention is Christian ministry. Now think about what the Apostle Paul said in 2 Timothy 3, verse 10. He's writing to Timothy, this is at the end of his life, and he says this Thou hast fully known my doctrine, that is the teaching. Then he uses the word manner of life, the way that he conducted himself in ministry. He says, you've known my purpose, what drove me and what motivated me. You've known my faith, how I trusted God You've known my long suffering. The idea is that he dealt with a lot of messy situations and he was patient with people. He endured those kinds of hardships with people. He says, you've known my charity. The idea is how he loved people and how he loved God. His patience. And then he says this, persecutions. Afflictions, which came into me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra, what persecutions I endured. But out of them all the Lord delivered me. Yea, all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Now you may not realize this, but when Paul reminds Timothy of Iconium and Lystra and the persecutions he experienced, that's when Timothy became a Christian. So Timothy becomes a Christian as a very young man, and he is the Apostle Paul's dear friend. And he's the person that Paul spent all this time with. He invested him. He treats him as if he's his own son. And what does Timothy observe? He sees people who hate Paul because he preached the gospel. People who stoned Paul and left him for dead. He saw the Apostle Paul get back up and go to those very same cities that he had been cast out of, and he just goes right back to doing the work of the ministry. And what does Paul tell Timothy? He says Remember the way that I did this. What's the point? Very simple. People are watching you. Your kids are watching you. Your spouse is watching you. The people that are over you are watching you. The people that are under you are watching you. And the way you respond to difficulty matters not just to you, but to the people around you. And these details he realized that people in hard places were uplifted by the way that he responded to God. The humble shall hear and be glad. He called people to join him in exalting the Lord. Oh, magnify the Lord with me and let us exalt his name together. There's a fourth thing I want you to notice. God allows hardships to give us a deeper sense of his goodness. Now I mentioned this at the beginning, and some of you are going, hardship, goodness. I don't see how this works. If God has the power to protect me from difficulty, then why doesn't he do it? That's the question we all ask. And I ask this question: Is it always good for you to have the easiest road? Is it always good for everything to just come easily for you? What does that do to people? You know, what would happen if a person did not have to work and they could live a lavish lifestyle without having to do any labor? What would happen to your children if you did all their schoolwork for them day in and day out for twelve years of their first to twelfth grade education? What would happen when they became adults? I'll give you a very simple clue. They wouldn't know how to work. Not only would they know how to work, they wouldn't know how to think. They wouldn't know how to reason. They wouldn't know how to take the information that's around them and apply it. Why? Because you did it all for them. And so you have to make them work when they're kids. You have to help them develop those skills and those tools. And so to develop character and to develop skills, people have to go through a process. And that is what basically is being alluded to in the text in front of us. Because of what David experienced, God did some very important things in his life. Let me highlight them for you. In verse 4, the first thing is he says, I sought the Lord. You know what that means? David was going on in life and things were going well and all of a sudden trouble came and he says, you know what, I think I need God. And when he said, I think I need God, he turned to God, and God worked in his life, and so God used trouble to humble him to the point that he turned to the Lord. He needed to be turning to the Lord at all times. But sometimes it takes a little bit of a nudge to make us do that. Psalm 119, 67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now have I kept your word. Verse 71, it is good for me that I've been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. And so God takes hardship and difficulty and trouble and he uses it to press us to himself, because that's where we need to be. And if it wasn't for that catless in our life, we wouldn't be there when we should. The second thing. They were teaching how prayer works. Now in verse 4, he shows us how God responds to people who pray. And I think it's fascinating the order that's here. The first thing we see is in verses 4 and 5. He says, he heard me and he delivered me from all my what? Does anybody know what it says? Fears. Now, what you wanted to hear it say was, He delivers me from all my troubles, right? We don't want to be delivered from fear, we want to be delivered from trouble so that we don't need to fear anything But that's not the way God works. God deals with the heart before he deals with the context. And so when a person prays, they need to recognize that sometimes the first thing God does is not remove the issue that they're dealing with, he begins to change how they think about it. He begins to change how they process what's going on around them. He literally strengthens them. And so he says, he heard me, delivered me from all my fears. They looked unto him and were lightened and their faces were not ashamed. So God uses trouble to drive us to himself so that our heart is thinking right But that's not the only way God answers prayer. And I'm thankful for that too. Because in verse 6 he says, This poor man cried, and the Lord heard, and saved him out of all his troubles. And so not only did God just strengthen him, but God also delivered him. Okay? So he doesn't just like deliver, deliver, deliver, and not deal with the heart. Sometimes he deals with the heart and he allows the experience to go on a little bit longer. Why? Because he's building us and he's maturing us and he's growing us. But the idea is this, he deals with both The third thing we see is that they remind us that God is constantly protecting us even when we are not able to see it. Now, have you ever considered how many things can go wrong in life? Some people, that's how we think. Okay? So there are some people that when they go to make a decision, they're like somebody standing on the edge of a cliff, looking down at the water, and they're like, well, here goes, and they just jump. That's how some people make decisions. There's other people, but that's not the way they make decisions. They sit at the edge and they're like, how far down is that? How deep is that? How long is it going to take to fall down? And they're thinking about all the different things that could go wrong. You understand what I'm saying? And so what happens when we experience trouble is all of a sudden in our minds we start realizing something. You know how easy it is for that kind of a thing to happen? A few weeks ago my son was playing football and he broke his collarbone. Now, when I was a kid, we played football all the time We did tackle football. Now, kids in those days weren't very crazy like they are today, right? No, that's probably not true. Kids were pretty crazy in those days. But you know, I don't ever remember a a guy breaking his collarbone. I mean I coached wrestling. And I don't remember seeing well there were a few guys that they broke their collarbone, but it wasn't a real common thing. But you know what I'm reminded of when my son breaks his collarbone? Every time you get tackled, there's a possibility. You understand what I'm saying? All of a sudden I start asking this question, why is it that when we played football years ago, we we didn't all break our collarbones What trouble does is it reminds us that there's a lot that can go wrong in life. And the bottom line is there are so many things you and I cannot control at all. If our safety was entirely dependent on what we could control, then we'd all be in huge trouble. It's that simple. So what God sometimes has to do is just give us a little reminder that, you know what, I'm the one who keeps things going the way they should. But sometimes you need to be reminded about the person you forgot that protects you. And who works in your life, and who is actively at work in your life. And so he says in verse 7, The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth him. And he said, you know what? All of a sudden I'm reminded God is always at work in protecting me. The next thing he mentions. Is that they give us an experiential understanding of God's goodness. And verse 8 he says, Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. There's a big difference between reading about a football game in a book And watching that football game on YouTube. Big difference. There's a big difference between watching the game on YouTube and having sat in the stands when it happened. There's a huge difference And a lot of us are content to have a Christianity that is just, I read about it and I know about it in my head. You know what God says? He says, I want you to know about me by reading the word, and then I want you to have tangible tangible. experience that proves to you and reminds you and teaches you and drives home those things that you have read about in the Word And that's what trouble sometimes does. It allows us to understand by experience how God protects. I said this earlier in Sunday school, If I say a person is patient, it means absolutely nothing without a context to demonstrate that it is true. If I say that a person is strong, It doesn't mean anything unless I put weight in front of them and say, let's see what you can do. You know, the guy says, I used to do this, and I used to do this. You know, all right, well let's talk about it. Let's let's go in there and let's uh let's throw some Some discs on there and let's see what you can do. That's where we begin to see where strength lies. Oh, I'm a very patient person. Well let's let you work with somebody that might push your buttons a little bit and we'll find out if you're a patient person It's true. This is the way life works. And so God wants us to understand by experience. The last thing is this: it makes us want to tell people about how good and faithful he is. Verse 9: Oh, fear the Lord ye his saints. There is no want to them that fear him. David wasn't content to just sit there and think about this. It was like it was boiling inside of him. He says, I've got to tell somebody about this. I gotta tell somebody what God's done. I gotta tell them about how he's worked. I gotta tell them about how he's worked in my life. Which might be a little humiliating when I have to tell them about what I've done and where I've been, but what God has done. God presses our hearts internally in such a way. So you say, well, well, Joel, what's the takeaway from this? How do we take this and how do we apply it? How do we live in the light of it? I want to give you a couple of questions to ask yourself, and then a couple of simple resolutions in our closing. The first question is this. And I'm starting with an assumption. We value spiritual maturity, I hope. But are we willing to accept the process that is an essential component in shaping us into the image of Christ? You say, I I want to be I want to be filled with love. Anybody you get on your knees and you say, God, help me to be a more merciful person. Help me to be a stronger person. Help me to be a more loving person. Help me to be a more patient person. And he says, Do you know what it takes for that to happen? Because I can answer your prayer. You know, we say we want to be spiritually mature, but there's a process. Yeah, we long for an intimate communion with God. God created us with the capacity to know him and to enjoy him forever. That's what he wants us to do. We long for that kind of communion with him. But are we willing to accept the catalyst that ultimately presses our hearts into a deeper measure of communion with him? So sometimes it's the hard stuff that enables us to express, uh to understand God in a deeper way and to have a deeper level of communion. It's the truth. Truth. We say we want to see the unmistakable evidence of God at work in our lives. Most of people say, I can't see God with my eyes. I want to see his work in my life. life. I say, that's good. Well, have you considered the context that make God's unmistakable work clear? If we want it, we need to know there's a process, there's a context. We say we want to enjoy a robust fellowship with other Christians. But do we understand that the pieces that form the foundation of that kind of fellowship with other Christians is sometimes difficult? I'm asking you those questions, not so that you say, well, actually I don't want to become spiritual mature, and I'd rather just you know have a very nominal experience of Christianity. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's not where we should go. We should embrace the value of those things, but recognize what we are asking for. And so I challenge you this morning. Let's learn from the things that David wrote in Psalm 32. thirty four. And let's not miss the backdrop of what was going on. Let's respond to him, God, when we suffer the right way. So we'll be moved to greater measures of maturity and death. Let's stop and recount the innumerable ways that he has demonstrated his goodness to us. And let's do it now. Let's do it now. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we reflect on the truths before us, these are very heavy, weighty truths. I pray that we would not miss these things, but that they would be driven into our souls Help us to be a matured people. Help us to be a loving people. Help us to be a people that experience very sweet communion with you and with other Christians. And help us not to run from the process that is an inevitable part of bringing those wonderful pieces into our lives. Help us to trust you. Help us to rest in your wisdom and your goodness and the workings of your hands. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, our closing hymn this morning is actually in the blue books. So if you could, let's pull out our blue books, and we're going to sing 192, complete in thee. And I think it's important for us to remember when times are tough and days are dark, well, we're in Christ. And there's nothing that can remove us from the Father's hand, and nothing that can separate us from his love. There's no charge that can be brought against us. We belong to him. So let's sing this song as we reflect and stand together. 192 complete in vain. Completing me your work in the world. I won't all get one for me, and I am now in my Take it on my salvation, by Lord and God for me, and Lord I mean. Yeah. Glory wonderfully , and the light , the right for me. I know more being, you may let it lie , I will let it come, and make it all in God. Instruments here we go. Oh I go to the I mean , that I can I want to have all glory, and glory all my tools shall be. Hope that you can make it back tonight as we continue in our series through Old Testament passages. And Steve Megatrick. Do you mind coming and close us in prayer? Love to have you do that. So glad that you could join us with your family today. Uh be in the lobby so people could come by and greet you when we close. Right. Well we we thank you for the opportunity to uh be here today, Lord. We thank you for um your word. We thank you for the uh Um just the truth that is uh throughout in God, how we can take um examples of those who have gone before us, those who've known you, those who've uh trust in you, live for you, Lord, and and and learn from their experiences and to learn uh where where our strength lies, where our peace lies. Lord, where our hope lies is in you. And I ask that you would help us to go forth today and apply those truths to our lives, God, that we may know a greater, richer relationship with you through those experiences that we have. Lord, we thank you for this day, we ask your blessing upon us in Jesus pray. Amen.