Revelation chapter 13 and the passage that we're looking at is a bit of a heavier passage. But as we work through it, I think that there are some very encouraging truths that really flow out of this passage as time goes on. Tonight we're going to be looking at a very important person, a very influential person during the time of the tribulation. And this is a person that we call the Antichrist. And we're going to find a little bit about this person from the book of Revelation. We're going to look at the book of Daniel. We're also going to look at 2 Thessalonians. And we're going to see that the Bible has a lot to say about this individual. And you may ask the question, why do we study prophecy and why do we study these things? Obviously, as we were getting into our discussion with the book of Revelation, we saw that We believe that the church will not be a part of the tribulation. We're going to be raptured out before the tribulation comes. But the question is, why do we study these things? Well, I think one of the reasons that we study these things is because we understand that even though we may not be living through the tribulation, there are Christians that will. There are going to be many people who are going to be saved and baptized, and they're going to start following the Lord during that time period, and they're going to face intense persecution. I think one of the things that we also recognize is that the kinds of things that take place during the tribulation, and I don't mean those cataclysmic things that take place But a lot of the things that Christians will endure during the tribulation are things that Christians have endured throughout church history and will endure until the Lord Jesus Christ comes. And one of the things that we see is that this section of Scripture was written to seven specific churches that were being persecuted and that were facing tremendous opposition, and it was written actually to encourage them. It was written to help them to realize they can be faithful, they can endure, God can give them the strength that they need, and in the end, no matter what they go through, God is going to be victorious. And they're going to be able to be participants in his kingdom. And so this is one of the things that we're going to look at tonight. Though this individual, the Antichrist, will rise to power during the tribulation, and though he will he will create tremendous difficulty. for Christians, we see that ultimately God will triumph over this individual. God will establish his kingdom, and this person who has persecuted so many Christians We'll eventually see them enter the kingdom while he is banished. Revelation 13, verse 1 says this. And I stood upon the sand of the sea. And I saw a beast rise up out of the sea, having seven heads and seven horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his head the name of blasphemy. And the beast which I saw was like a leopard. His feet were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth was as the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave him power, and his seed in great authority. I saw one of his heads as if it were wounded to death, and his deadly wound was healed. And all the world wondered at the beast, and they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast And they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? Who is able to make war with him? There was given unto him a mouth speaking great things. And blasphemies, and power was given unto him to continue forty and two months. And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in the heaven. And it was given unto him to make war with the saints and overcome them. And power was given to him over all kindreds and tongues and nations. And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life, of the lamb slain from the foundation of the world. If any man have an ear Let him hear. The purpose of this section of Revelation is to describe the character of one of the most significant figures in the tribulation, the Antichrist. And as we read this passage of Scripture, I believe what God wants us to do is to be sobered by the intense struggles that Christians will face and to be purposed to humbly trust Him no matter our circumstances. And really this morning, as we looked at the message from 1 Peter chapter 2, the whole sense of that message was that there are times in life that we're going to pass through tremendous hardship and difficulty. And we really are powerless to remove ourselves from that situation. And we can fight God and we can fight the people around us in those circumstances. But we will not prevail out of that situation. And so in the midst of places like that, we have to learn To trust God, to humbly submit to his will, to learn to let him accomplish what he's going to accomplish in our lives, and to see what he does in the lives of the people around us. There are times that we have to do that, and that's exactly what the people who are going to face this individual have to do during the tribulation. God wants us to be sobered because the reality is there are people that can rise up to power even today that are just like this man We have no idea when the Lord Jesus will return. He could return tonight. He could return next week. He could tarry for a thousand years. We do not know the day or the hour that he'll come. Now, we want him to come soon. We hope that he comes soon. But the reality is there may be times that we go through before his return that are very intense. One of the things that really stands out to me when I talk about when I look at a passage like this, when I think about this person, the Antichrist, is that the world stage has to be set for such an individual to rise to power. In other words, this person, all those pieces that are there, they're in place when he comes to power. In other words, they could be in place right now, for all we know. If the Lord Jesus Christ comes today And he snatches the church to be with him. The reality is that the table is set and everything is ready for a man like this to step into power. And so we don't know the day or the hour. So my question to you this evening is: how can we be sobered and how can we humbly trust God like the text wants us to? Well, I want to begin by giving you a little bit of a review in this section because it's been a while since we've been in Revelation. This is one of those uh those those topics that it seems like we kind of got off track a little bit, all right? Sometimes people get off track in messages, sometimes they get off track in series. So we're kind of coming back into Revelation. And I want to remind you about the flow of the book just a little bit tonight. In chapters 6 through 19, we have the details of this time period that is referred to as Daniel's 70th week. And so if we go to Daniel 7, 8, 9, we're going to see that there's a lot of talk about Daniel's 70th week. Well, the 70th week is this time period that we call the tribulation. We understand it to be a period of seven years. And during those seven years, the first half of the tribulation is going to be a time where there's going to be turmoil, but it's relatively peaceful. And during that time period, a very powerful individual, the one we're talking about tonight. The Antichrist is going to establish peace and he's going to establish prosperity and people are going to believe that he's a good man. He's going to be very influential. But at the midpoint of the tribulation, he's going to reveal his true nature. In fact, the nation of Israel is going to embrace this individual. And as they embrace this individual, they're going to be shocked when he enters into their temple and he decimates the temple He's going to do something very similar to what happened during the intertestamental period when there was a Roman ruler who came in and he did a terrible thing. He was sacrificing pigs in the temple. They called it the abomination of desolation. An individual is going to rise up and do a thing like that, the Antichrist. And during that time period, the Jewish people are going to recognize This is not the Messiah. This is not a good man. This is not a good ruler. And they're going to really have to flee for their lives. And that is when many, many Jewish Christians We'll become Christians. People who did not embrace the Messiah are going to recognize that they've missed the Messiah, and they're going to go back and they're going to read the scriptures and they're going to recognize that Jesus Christ, the one who was crucified. And has risen, is in fact the Messiah. Chapters 6 to 19 deal with that. And really, this time period can be broken up into three different classifications of events. And these events fall in chronological succession in the book. The first classification is seven seals that are broken, and we find that in chapter 6. And basically what we see is this is a vision, so John is seeing a picture, and what he's seeing is symbolic. In other words, when he's seeing an individual who comes out with seven heads and all those kinds of things, you say, what's the point of that? Is that what somebody's going to look like? No. It's symbolic. It's meant to teach something about the nature of that person, the nature of their kingdom, the nature of their rule. And so those six seals or those seven seals are basically there's an individual, an angel, who says, who is worthy to open up this scroll, which was the title beast. to the nations and to the world. And there's nobody in heaven or on earth who can open those seals. And he begins to weep. John begins to weep. And one of the angels says, wait, there is someone. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. He has the right. Because he has died and has risen. He is the Son of God. He is the rightful ruler of all these things. He has the right to take up that scroll and to open it up and to take what is rightfully his. And so as each of those seals breaks one after another after another, we see a succession of events that take place that are judgments. Not judgments in the sense that God is actively judging the world, but that God is removing restraint during that time, and the judgment is he's allowing people to do what they're going to do. Seven seals. We then see in that seventh seal a second classification, and these are seven trumpet blasts, which will unfold in succession during that seventh seal when it's broken. That's chapters eight and nine. And then we come to a third classification, seven bowls or vials, is the word that's used, which follow the seventh seal, which is the seven trumpets, chapters 16 to 21. So as we're moving through the book, that's kind of the succession of events that we have. But then we come to chapter 7. We come to chapters 10 to 15, chapter 13 being in the middle of that. And then chapters 17 to 19, and what we see is that those chapters are basically going back to things that have been stated before and saying, here are some things that took place during that section. In other words Chapters ten to fifteen are really going back to that center point of the tribulation. And so that's what we're looking at tonight This individual is really the center of the tribulation, and he's really going to be known as an evil person during the midpoint of the tribulation. So let's move on to a second important set of details. We need to remember the dynamics that are taking place during the tribulation. What I mean is what is the time going to be like? You know, when we study history, we talk about what were the 50s like. What were the 60s like? What were the seventies like? What were the 80s like? Now we're getting into my time period, alright? What were the 80s like? I remember the 80s. I remember the nineties. Some of you remember the 40s and the 50s and the 60s, all right? But what we could say is what was that time period like? What was the mentality of people? What kind of things were going on in the in the nation? What kind of things were going on in the world? What were the dynamics during that time period? What are the dynamics that will take place during the tribulation? Here are some. One God is going to rescue the church from this time of intense persecution and unprecedented suffering. That is significant. Not just because the church will not go through this tribulation time period. But because the church's influence is gone. Can you imagine what the United States would be like if every Christian was gone in a moment? What do you think would go on in the Congress? What kind of laws would be passed? How much of the demise of our culture is held back by Christian influence? The fact that they're godly people that meet in churches and they actually work with other people. They're involved in the school and education system. Their kids are involved in different areas of life. How much of the the the The trends of culture are held back by Christian influence a lot more than you realize. A lot more than you realize. What would happen if every Christian in this country was gone? Well, what people really want to do, what Christians hold them back from doing, what a godly influence kind of limits that slope and that push and that press, it's going to unfold quickly. And so when the church is rescued, you can imagine how the world will rejoice at the lack of that hindrance around them, too. God's attention will be turned into three different directions. One is the restoration of the Jewish people to their covenant position. And one of the things that we talked about early in our Revelation study was we went back and we talked about the Abrahamic covenant and the Mosaic Covenant and the Davidic covenant, and we talked about the fact that God chose a group of people and he made promises to those people. And he said, I'm going to make you a great nation, and I'm going to bless all the nations of the world through you. He said that to Abraham. Yet for a period of several thousand years, The nation of Israel has not been the center of God's work in the world. It doesn't mean that God stopped loving the Jewish people. It doesn't mean that all those promises are null and void. It simply means that God's focus has been directed towards the Gentiles, the nations. But God is going to refocus that attention on the nation of Israel. The second aspect to this is that God is going to proclaim the gospel under the uttermost parts of the earth through the Jewish people. In other words, when he talks about the Jews being a light to lighten the Gentiles, the reality is that the nation of Israel will do that during the tribulation. But there are events that have to unfold for God to bring that group of people to that point. Third is this. God is going to execute justice. We could say he's going to vindicate his people. He's going to execute justice on those who've rejected the Messiah. To ultimately prepare the world to welcome the Messiah. And so when Jesus comes at his second coming and he establishes his rule, there's going to be an execution of justice. So that he can establish that rule. If you have one kingdom that is ruling and another is going to replace it, does it happen easily? It's taken by force. It's the way it's worked throughout all of human history. The reality is Jesus is going to establish his rule by executing justice. And so these are some of the dynamics that are at play during this tribulation time period. Now I want to move on to the actual details of this text because this is very important. We're going to talk about the Antichrist tonight. Who is this individual? What's he like? What's the nature of his rule? In Revelation 13, 1-2, this is what it says. And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and I saw a beast rise up out of the sea. having seven heads and seven horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his head the name of blasphemy. Now when the Bible describes this in a vision, we need to understand that each of those details is symbolic of something about the nature of the person that is going to rise to power. When it says he rose out of the sea. It's a ref it's uh generally speaking a reference to the Gentile nations. So this is an individual who's going to rise up out of those nations When it talks about him having seven heads and ten horns and ten crowns, he's talking about the nature of this individual's rule. In other words If you're living during the tribulation time period and you know who the Antichrist is, you would be able to recognize that his administration is set up exactly like it's saying in this text. When it talks about the fact that his head has a name of blasphemy, what you will see is that the nature of this man's way of handling situations, the way he distributes his power is he's a blasphemer. A blasphemer is somebody who's very good at really destroying other people with their words. Okay? I'm not gonna give you the examples of people who are good at that, but the reality is you've met people who are blasphemers, constantly cutting others down, destroying them. He's gonna be a person that has that kind of a quality. But it's not just that he's going to destroy those who rise up in opposition against him, who he thinks have the possibility to take his authority away, but his blasphemy is going to be ultimately against God's people. Those who are saved during that time period, those who represent God's rule, because he understands that the greatest hindrance to him having absolute domination is the Word of God. It's the presence of God's people. And he hates them, and he wants to destroy them. He then goes on and says this, and the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard. When his feet were with and his feet, and as his feet of a bear, and his mouth the mouth of a lion, and the dragon gave him his power and his seed and great authority. When it talks about the leopard and the bear and the lion, what's very interesting is he's referring back to the way that God described some Gentile powers during the time of Daniel. He's referring back to the way that the Babylonians operated during their power and preeminence. He's talking about the way that the Medo-Persians were able to exercise their power. And then the Greeks, and then ultimately Rome. And so basically what he's doing is he's referring back to these very powerful nation -national empires. And he's saying this person is very much like those former rulers You read the story of Alexander the Great. You read the story about how Rome dominated the Mediterranean world. You learn about how Babylon rose to power and how the Persians came in. And they basically emptied the river, diverted the river, and entered into the city and took Babylon. What an amazing series of stories. This guy is going to be just like those people. And that's what those references are all about. But the one who ultimately empowers this person is Satan himself. When he refers to the dragon, we learned in other passages that that dragon is referring to Satan himself. And so this is a person who's going to be very much like some of the great, powerful rulers of the ancient world. Ruthless. Vicious. He'll do anything he can to take power and to keep power. He will remove any opposition to his rule. He's going to move swiftly. He's going to have power and force. And this man is going to be empowered by Satan. I want you to realize that the Bible talks about this person in a lot of other places. And so I'd like to take you to a couple of those places tonight so you can see this. Go with me to Daniel chapter 7. Now I'm going to admit to you, if I was to get into all the details of Daniel chapter 7, we'd be here for weeks and months, okay? So this is very much in the realm of survey. But in Daniel chapter 7, God reveals to Daniel during the reign of Belshazzar, this is the end of the Babylonian rule. The Babylonians are about to get conquered by the Persians. And then ultimately the Persians will be conquered by the Greeks. And then the Greeks will be conquered by the Romans. God is revealing to Daniel, a man who was strategically placed. There in Babylon. He reveals to him the nature of the rise and fall of human empires. And the fact that it's still God's control. God still is ruling over all things, and he's going to explain that in this series of visions. But the first thing we're going to see is that Daniel records a prediction of the flow of four major world empires. Daniel chapter 7, verses 1 to 9. I'm not going to read the whole section, but I'm going to read the beginning of it. He says, In the first year of Belshazzar, king of Babylon, Daniel had a dream and a vision of his head upon his bed. Then he wrote the dream and told the sum of the matters. Let me just summarize to you what he saw. He saw basically God revealing to him that there are three powers that are going to follow the Babylonian rule. He basically describes them. He doesn't name them. But as we look back at history, we can very easily identify those three powers that followed Babylon: the Medo-Persians, the Greeks, and the Romans. You know, it's very interesting. People who study the Bible and they go back to the section of Daniel, one of the things that they will do is they marvel at the fact that this section in Daniel was written with such an incredible description of what actually took place. when these empires one by one rose to power and fell. And rose to power and fell and rose to power and fell. And one of the things that they'll say is, well this wasn't prophecy. This is written after the fact. But it's not true. It was recorded well before these events. It was a prophecy of what would take place. We see in verses 17 to 27 that despite their power and brute force, God's people, not these powerful empires, will take part in what they all wanted. A mighty universal kingdom. What did Babylon want to do? What did Nebuchadnezzar want to do? He wanted to rule the worlds. What did uh Alexander the Great want to do? He wanted to rule the worlds. In fact, when he was in his thirties he cried because he said, I don't know where anywhere to go now. Everything that I wanted I have. Well, what he wanted was total domination of the world. The Roman Empire stretched all the way into Asia, all the way down into Africa, and all the way up even into the British Isle. The Roman Empire dominated an incredible period of human history, an incredible area of control. Imagine all those different cultures, all those different languages dominated by Rome. But in spite of all of their brute force and power, they're gone. They're gone. Yes, the peoples that made up these empires, they still exist today. They're still creating some problems in the world. The Persians, we have heard a lot in the news about Iran, and we probably will tomorrow too. The fact is that they're not an empire anymore. The Babylonians. That's Iraq. The Greeks. You ever heard about Greek power? Even the Roman Empire. But the reality is all of these empires are reminders that people lust for power. But it says in verse 17, these great beasts representing these groups, these empires. Which are four, or four kings, which shall arise out of the earth. But the saints of the Most High shall take the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever. Don't miss that. He said, these are ruthless empires. These are powerful nations, powerful people groups. They're going to cause tremendous difficulty for people. But they will not enter the kingdom. The ones whom they've oppressed, the saints of the Most High, will take the kingdom and possess it forever. In verses 23 to 27, it says that In the days leading up to the establishment of Christ's kingdom, the fourth kingdom, Rome, will be revived and an individual with tremendous power will rise up to establish that empire again as a world dominating force. And in verses 23 to 27, it basically talks about this individual, the Antichrist. Let me read to you what it says. Thus he said, the fourth beast shall be the fourth kingdom upon earth. which shall be diverse from all kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, and shall tread it down and break it in pieces. And the ten horns out of this kingdom are ten kings that shall arise. And another shall arise after them. This is the individual we're talking about. It says, And that individual will subdue the three kings, and he shall speak great words against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints of the Most High. Verse 27 it says, And the kingdom and dominion and the greatness of the kingdom under whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints, of the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. And all dominion shall serve and obey him. The reality is that even though this person will rise to power, He will not be the ultimate ruler of all. In verses 24 to 27, we see in Daniel chapter 8 that there's a summary of the way that God will work through the Jewish people. It's going to bring redemption through the Messiah and ultimately establish his eternal kingdom. And here's what it says. Don't miss these details. These are wonderful details. He says, seventy weeks are determined upon thy people, nation of Israel, upon thy holy city, that's Jerusalem, to finish the transgression. He's talking about redemption through the Lord Jesus Christ, to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring an everlasting righteousness, to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the Most High. Now there's a lot being stated there, but basically it's saying this. God has determined 70 weeks, 70 periods of time, And ultimately, in those seventy periods of time, he's going to bring redemption to his people. The sins of mankind are going to be placed on Christ. We can be saved because of his work. God is going to fulfill every promise, every prophecy that he has made to his people. He's going to seal up the vision. And he's going to anoint the most holy. And he's going to establish an everlasting righteousness. In other words, all these things are connected to the 70th week. And so then he kind of unfolds what exactly is going to take place. In verses 25 to 27, I'm not going to read the whole section, but I'm going to focus in on the details referring to this individual, the Antichrist. It says, the people of the prince that shall come to destroy the city and the sanctuary, he will confirm the covenant with many for one week. In the midst of the weak he will cause the sacrifice and the ablation to cease. For the overspreading of the abomination he shall make it desolate. That statement is a reference to what we will read about tonight in Revelation 13. It is the prediction of what this man, the Antichrist, is going to do. He's going to create havoc in Jerusalem after having established some kind of a peaceful agreement with the Jewish people. There are other passages that warn us of this person. In 1 John 2, verses 15 to 18, John says this: It's the last time, and as you've heard, Antichrist shall come. You're referring to this person. And even now there are many Antichrists, individuals that are like this person, whereby we know it's the last time. Paul refers to this person as well in 2 Thessalonians 2. This is what he says. We beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus, by our gathering together unto Him, that ye not be soon shaken in mind or be troubled. Let no man deceive you by any means For that day shall come, except there come a falling away first. And the man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition. Who is that? It's the Antichrist. He says, who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God. Go back to the Daniel passage, and you will see that that's exactly what this individual does. We'll go back to Revelation 13 in just a moment and we'll see. That's exactly what this individual does. He that is worshipped, so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. Remember ye not that when I was yet with you, I told you of these things. He goes later on, he says, Then shall the wicked be revealed Whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan, with all power, signs, and lying wonders. You'll see if you go to Daniel and you go back to Revelation, this is the individual we're talking about. It says later on in the passage that God will send strong delusions. That they should believe a lie, and that they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in righteousness. Now there are people that come to this passage and they fear that if you've heard the gospel before the rapture And you didn't embrace it after the rapture, you can't. That's not what it's saying, okay? The Bible doesn't teach that. Is it possible? I don't know. But you cannot say the Bible teaches that. What it is saying is basically this. During this time period, there are going to be people who so blindly follow this individual that they will not embrace the gospel for anything. They're going to take his mark. And God is going to allow them to embrace a lie. He's going to send it this way as a judgment to them for their rejection of the Messiah. But in 2 Thessalonians, clearly Paul is referring to this person. So let's look at the details quickly in Revelation 13 and then ask the question: how is this applicable to us? The first thing I want to mention is the origin of this person. It says that he saw the beast rise out of the sea. That means this person comes from the nations. You and I can't predict who this person is. We really can't. He might be living today. In fact, if Christ comes tonight, he is living today. Okay? Not only is he living today, he probably has authority today, okay? He might be having authority in this nation for all we know, or in a nation that we're in league with. But the reality is if if Christ comes tonight, the Antichrist is alive, the Antichrist is in a position to rise to power. You ever think about Now I'm not saying he is. I'm saying if Christ comes tonight, he's alive though. And this person is ready to step into that role. Two, think about the makeup of this man's administration. Verse 1 says that he has seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns. If you want to put it in kind of simple terms, we could say that if you could look at a flow chart of this man's authority, that's what it is right there. In other words, he's the head of these individuals. There are going to be ten people that are under him. If you want to say they're provinces, maybe they're going to be nations. We have no idea. But the reality is that this person is going to have those individuals Who are under his control. And when he rises to power, if you were reading the Bible, you could see who that person is, even before he reveals himself, simply by the makeup of his administration. We then see the nature of Israel. Verse 1, upon his head, the name of blasphemy. You know, the word that we use to describe Satan, that word Satan , the idea is that he is one who is constantly accusing He's an accuser of the brethren. This is the person who's going to use his words to destroy people. He's going to malign them. He's going to speak evilly of them. The truth is that people who are Christians living there during that time period, this person I would be quite confident will very publicly and very viciously and very consistently emphasize how evil Christians are and how they need to be destroyed. You know, go back to Nazi Germany and Adolf Hitler. How did Hitler handle the Jewish people? That's the way that this individual will handle Christians. He will demonize Christians. And people will absolutely follow what he wants to accomplish When it comes to the destruction of God's people, those who are saved during this time period. Look at the characteristics of his leadership style, verse 2. The beast which I saw was like a leopard. He's quick. His feet were like a bear. He's powerful. His mouth is like the mouth of a lion. He's ferocious. This is a person who you don't want to mess with, who is very powerful, very aggressive. And he's willing to take power at any cost. We see verse 2, the source of his power, the dragon gave him his power and his seat and great authority. The truth is that Satan is often behind the rise and fall of individuals who come to power. This individual is going to be empowered by Satan. Verse 3, we're going to see the decisive moment that he secures his ultimate appeal. It says in verse 3, he says, I saw one of his heads as if it were wounded to death. And his deadly wound was healed and all the world wondered after the beast. Now, I I know if you've watched the Left Behinds you know, read the Left Behind series or watched the movies. I remember watching those, they were very popular when I was, I don't know, probably a teenager. I forget. I know a lot of non s uh unsafe people who read the Left Behind Search and they love those books. And one of the things that happens is that the individual is the Antichrist in the book. He appears to die and then he comes back. The reality is we don't know what's going to happen, but what we do know is this. Something will happen to this individual that will be known throughout the entire world. And obviously the technology is here. Doesn't matter where you are in the world, you'll be able to see what's going on. And we could turn on the news anywhere, right? People will know that this man has had something terrible happen to him. And it appears, as you read the text, that it has something to do with his military power. Perhaps he's killed in battle, or it appears that he's been killed in battle. And he miraculously or mysteriously comes back, and people are in awe and they say, nobody can kill this man. Nobody can conquer this man. This person is somebody that will never be conquered. He is the ultimate ruler. That's how people will believe. And the truth is that When you have that kind of an appeal, what's going to happen? This is what's going to be that decisive moment when he secures his appeal. All the world will wonder after the beast. Because of his miraculous recovery, the result is that it says they will worship the dragon which gave power unto the beast. The dragon which gave power unto the beast, they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? Who is able to make war with him? Do you understand what's going to take place during that time period? How long is this individual going to be able to do what he's going to do? Well, it tells us in verse 5. There was given unto him a mouth to speak great things and blasphemies, and power was given unto him to continue 42 months. Now you do the math. That's three and a half years. In other words, when this person rises to power and he demonstrates that he is a nasty ruler. He's going to have three and a half years to unlease his fury on Christians, to dominate the world. He's going to have three and a half years to do that. And that's why we believe that this event takes place in the mid part of the tribulation, because that second half of the tribulation is going to be a time where this individual unleashes his furious wrath. Who does he hate the most? It tells us in verse 6. He opened his mouth and there was blasphemy against God. To blaspheme his name and his tabernacle and them that dwell in earth or in heaven. It was given unto him to make war with the saints and to overcome them And power was given him over all kindreds and tongues and nations. What's the extent of this appeal? Verse 8: all that dwell on the earth shall worship him whose name was not written in the book of life of the lamb slain from the foundation of the world. I want to ask you a question. Do you ever feel isolated? You know, where you work or maybe in your community and you say that I don't know any other Christians. I'm the only one. I feel so isolated. I feel so alone During this time period, people will be alone. People will be isolated. The reality is, if you're not a Christian, everybody is going to love this person They're going to follow him. They're going to worship him. He's going to have an unbelievable grip on the minds of people. The truth is, when you look at Rome and you look at Greece, and you look at Babylon and you look at Persia, when you look at some of the most powerful and most ruthless dictators in human history. None of them on the level of this individual. And you ask the question, how in the world can you practically apply a section like this? And I'm going to try to do that. Let me give you a couple of thoughts. First is this: human history is a long story of evil men trampling others for power. Yet Falling short of their intended end. Don't miss that. You name every dictator that's ever lived, that we know their name and we know their stories, and we read about them in history. Guess what? They're dead. Now we got our dictators today, but you know what? It's gonna be a day. The most ruthless of all. And the reality is all these individuals who lust for power and are willing to do anything to get it, there's going to be a day when they meet their Maker. They are not able to do what they want to do. Two, God's people, though often abused throughout human history, have been preserved by God and will ultimately participate in the kingdom so coveted by men throughout human history. This morning I'm reading in the Sermon on the Mount, and it says, the meek shall inherit the earth. What an amazing statement. The meek shall inherit the earth. That's not the way the world thinks, is it? You want to control the world? It's brute force. You gotta fight your way to the top. You gotta destroy all those that that hinder your ability to rise. Yet God doesn't teach us that He says, Trust me. Walk with me. Walk in meekness. As the Antichrist unleashes his fury on the nations of those who've embraced the gospel. And those people are going through tremendous turmoil. They will enter an eternal kingdom and he will not. And that's something to consider. Three, God's people receive this kingdom and enjoy the benefits of this kingdom entirely by the work of God and his power. 4. God's people must firmly be firmly committed to faithfully serving Christ no matter the cost, and should be humbled at the ultimate destination they will enjoy. You know, we talked about when we were going through the spiritual armor, we talked about the helmet of salvation. And one of the things that we did is we said, there's going to be a day When we are going to stand in God's presence, we're going to enter his kingdom. We will enjoy eternity with God forever. And in the midst of the battle, we forget it. We have to put on that armor. We have to put on that peace and remind ourselves that there's a day that we will be saved. I mean, we have been saved. Our sins are forgiven. We're being saved in the sense that we're growing into Christ's likeness. But we're not glorified yet. It's going to happen. And the fact is, when we go through the most difficult of circumstances, Christians who have gone through intense persecution, they look and they say, There's going to be a day I'm entering that kingdom, and that sustains and strengthens me. And lastly, this. God's people who are enjoying peace today, and that's us. We live in one of the most I know that there are troubling times that we live in. I'm not trying to diminish that at all. But we still live in one of the most peaceful times in human history. We absolutely do. Think about World War II. How many small towns in the United States Lost dozens upon dozens of their young people. How many? And you go back a hundred years before World War II, and what do you have? No, go back twenty years before World War II. You have World War I. It happened again. And you go a hundred years before that, and what do you have? You have the Civil War, where brothers are fighting one another. The fact is, we can look at American history and we can see that our country, a peaceful country, has gone through tremendous turmoils. We live in one of the most peaceful times ever. We can assemble and worship together without fear that the government is going to come and shut down our ministry right now. And we should remember that the peace we enjoy is not the peace others enjoy. Let's not be complacent. Let's consider the burdens of others. There are people today facing intense persecution. We need to pray for them. We need to remember there are other Christians who face tremendous turmoil, and we have no guarantee that we will continue to enjoy the peace that we do today. Not a prediction, certainly not a hope, not a prophecy, but it's true. May God help us not to be complacent. May God help us to be burdened for others. May God help us to realize that no matter what we face, we can be consistent and faithful. May God help us to do that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, we're reminded of this individual's incredible power, his fury. How he will dominate the nations, and how he will persecute the church, your people, during that tribulation. And Father, I pray that you'd help us to be reminded that no matter the onslaught we may face, we can be faithful. We can be diligent, we can persevere. You give us what we need. Even Christians who will face this terrible oppressor will one day triumph by entering into your kingdom Help us to be a faithful people. Father, we pray for Christians all over the world today who do not have the privilege of enjoying the peace and prosperity that we do. Father, there are Christians who suffer today, who are persecuted today, who are in constant fear of government intervention and oppression Father, I pray that you would sustain those congregations, sustain those leaders as they face the terrible difficulties of living under persecution. Help them to be strong. Help them to be faithful. Protect them. I pray that you would eventually bring peace and prosperity to those places. So that the gospel can go forward with tremendous boldness and people can openly proclaim the truth. Pray that you protect your people around the world today. Father, help us to be sobered and help us to be strengthened. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.