Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we are in Luke 9. So if you have your Bible, let's turn there and I'll begin in verse number 10. Here's what it says And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all they had done. And he took them and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethseida. And the people, when they knew it, followed him, and he received them and spake unto them of the kingdom of God and healed them that had need of healing. And when the day began to wear away, Then came the twelve and said unto him, Send the multitudes away that they may go into the towns and country round about and lodge and get vitrils, for we are here in a desert place. And he said unto them, Give ye them to eat They said, We have no more than five loaves and two fishes, except we go and buy meat for all this people. For they were about five thousand men And he said unto the disciples, make them sit down by fifties in a company. And they did so, and made them all sit down. Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes And looking up to heaven he blessed them and broke it and gave thanks to gave to the disciples and sat before the multitudes. And they did eat, and were all filled. And there was taken up of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets. Now if you can remember, yesterday and the day before we were talking about how this passage of Scripture Reveals the nature of Christ. It tells us about his person. And we talked about his authority. We talked about his compassion, how he was willing to receive the multitudes, even though Uh he would have obviously been wearied, the disciples were wearied. Well what I'd like us to focus on this morning is the extravagance of the nature of Christ's miracle. What Jesus did was not just going to satisfy the people, but it was going to be well beyond what they actually needed. And so we find this in verse 17. Notice what it says. They did eat, and were all filled, and there was taken up of fragments that remained twelve baskets. Now, when we think about this miracle, what it shows us is not just Christ's person and his power and his mission. But it shows us the extravagance of Christ's power and how he demonstrates it in the way that he's treating these people. In fact, there are lots of scriptures that talk about the extravagance of God's grace, how God's grace is lavish, and I'd like us to just take a few minutes this morning to reflect on that concept as we've been thinking about this feeding of the five thousand. And by the way, not just five thousand, but it's five thousand men plus women and children, who we don't know how many were there. So the first passage I want to mention to you is Isaiah 55. Here's what it says in verse 1. Ho every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters. He that hath no money, come, buy, eat, yea, come by wine and milk without money and without price. Wherefore do you spend money on that which is not bread, and your labor on that which satisfieth not? Now in Isaiah 55, God is speaking to the nation of Israel, and he basically says this Come to me and find an abundance of grace. You can come to me and find nourishment for your soul, refreshment for your soul. satisfaction and by the way you do not have the money to buy such things but you can come and you can receive it of me freely. Notice that statement he says, without money and without price. God is going to give them something that they do not pay for. They did not purchase. That's not to say that it's not with expense, but the expense is not to the people. He's saying that you need to come to me and get those things that you need. And then he asks the question, he says, why Do you go and spend your money on that which is not bread and labor for that which does not satisfy? And he says, why in the world would any person who has the opportunity to come to God And get everything that he needs, ultimately, satisfaction and nourishment of soul and refreshment in him. Why would you go and pay for something that is not going to satisfy you and is not going to nourish your soul when something is available freely to you. That's what he's saying. Well, what is the point? Well the point is that God is an extravagant God. His grace is rich and it is free and it is full. And we should embrace it. Psalm 68, verse 19, another passage that comes to mind. It says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our salvation. He's emphasizing that every single day God provides for what we need, but he doesn't just stop there He goes beyond that. He daily loads us with benefits. He gives us far more even than we need in the moment. That is the way that God provides. Or Psalm sixteen eleven, another one that I I love this passage, he says, Thou wilt show me the path of life, in thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand our pleasures forevermore. Those two statements, in your presence is fullness of joy, and there are pleasures forevermore. What do they emphasize to us? Well, they emphasize the fullness of joy found in Christ and the fullness of everlasting pleasure that is found in him. Again, the extravagance of our Savior. And then a third passage that I are actually the fourth passage I'd like to draw your attention to is James chapter 1. In verse 5 it says this. Let him ask of God, which gives to all men liberally, and that word liberally has the idea of lavishly And he abradeth not. It has the idea of he doesn't scorn us, he doesn't belittle us, he doesn't mock us, and we come to him and say, I have a deficiency, I have a need, I lack wisdom, I need you. God doesn't look at us with scorn and say, why are you coming to me? He's not like that. No, he lavishly pours out what we need. He says, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. So when you and I enjoy good things in this world, things that are truly for our good, you know where they come from? Well, they come from God. And they come from God's abundance of grace. You and I this morning are sitting in a position that is entirely of the grace of God. And that blessings that we enjoy within that position are all a result of the lavish display of the grace of God. I love Ephesians chapter 1. where he talks about our eternal inheritance and he uses terminology that is lavish and that is rich and that is so intense when we think about how good God is. That's our God. I don't know how you're feeling this morning. I don't know what kinds of challenges you may be encountering, but the fact is that that daily supply of grace is there if we will come to it. And not just a minimalist supply of grace, it is a lavish, abundant supply of grace. I hope that this morning you will go to the source that is free of charge. God does not charge you. He gives it to you on the basis of Christ paying the price for you. You say, well, well Joel, what what can we take away from this? Let me give you a couple of thoughts that I jotted down as I was thinking about this. The first is this. This was no minimalist miracle. This is a lavish display of Christ's power and his kindness and his goodness. It was lavish and the people were full. They had more than they could eat. And so in the middle of a very intense hot day, long day, where people are gathered together in the wilderness, they had so much food That they were full and there was extra. And then we need to stop and think about this in light of what it shows us about how God deals with us too. The fact is that God has been very kind to us. He's given us many, many things that we take for granted on a regular basis. So let me encourage you this morning. Let's take time. to consider what God has given us, what we have in Him. Not just the material things, our daily supply of physical needs. But think about the rich spiritual blessings we enjoy in Christ. And then let me encourage you, let's express the gratitude that should be in our hearts when we reflect on those things. I hope that you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing tomorrow we will be continuing in this passage of scripture. Bye now