Father, we're so grateful to you for the privilege it is to be in your house, to have had a day where we can join together as brothers and sisters in Christ. and worship you as one body. I pray, Lord, we would uh continue to do so with uh united body in mind as we lift up your name in praise for the season where we remember what it was that you did by coming Coming down and dying for us for our sins. Praise you in Christ's name. Amen. All right, let's get started with some singing. Please stand and open your hymn books to hymn number two hundred and nineteen. Silent Night, please stand as we sing all four verses Silent Night Sigh that night, all the nights All is calm, all is right, round birds, and mother answer Only have a sort of center and mark. Sleep and ever sleep peace. Sleep and have and leave. Silent night holy night She both quite fight, glory strain from heaven upon Hadly horsey hallelujah. Christ the Savior is for Christ the Savior is for silent nights, holy nights Son of God loves pure lights rage and feams from thy holy face With but all the redeeming grace. Jesus Lord I bought Save us Lord at thy brand night Holy nights, wonder story Where the angels matter sing alleluia to our king Christ the Savior is for Christ our Savior is for Please be seated as we turn over to hymn 216. 216, Away in a Manger. We'll sing all three verses. Away in our manger, no cripple The let all Jesus way down his sleep The stars and the bright sky work down where he lay, the told Jesus Hopefully on the hand, my castle along with But with Jesus, no crying I love the Vortes of As they by my cradle to the morning is mine Me name Lord Jesus, I ask me just a way. And over to hymn number 223. Thou did sleep thy tongue. 223, we'll sing all four verses. Oh nice the I really need On the locker room, do you want a colour for me? But with hard means more and the ground may for Jesus coming with my glory, by thy voice for me holding and broken from the world. Great thing this evening. No Was a bread blessing time to us , but only free. And I tell you how to be a possible glory. I remember you. All right, student number one in the right book. One ninety in the red deck. There is a video. There is a bid man, Siva, Rajavu. Oh my God, thank you, Mordham, for giving God. And two twenty eight red book. Could you repeat that please? Two twenty-eight. What child is this? Two twenty-eight in the red book. Let's stand between the first and the last. What shall it make surprise on the I spati Hash bring them on a baby. Bring them in small number from us and case him, but be a salvation brings my loving heart. Jesus Christ by being started and angels needs. Great singing, please be seated. Uh, All right, well let's turn our Bibles to the book of Luke. And it's not going to be well it is chapter two, actually. I was thinking But Luke chapter 2. And probably you could recite it if you've watched enough. Charlie Brown at Christmas time. We 're reading that familiar passage of the shepherds and the angels. And the theme that we're we're looking at tonight is a theme that, again, I've I mentioned earlier about God's providence in um research. And this uh this theme has been a tremendous comfort to me this weekend. And I hope that it will be an encouragement and a comfort to you as well. So I'm gonna to try and pull up my notes here. It would be a lot easier if I actually printed these things out. And not try to be all techy. Let's begin by reading in verse eight And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not. For behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior. Which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. You shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there is with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. I would stop there and note that common phrase, one that we hear very frequently around this time of year, and that's that phrase, peace , goodwill toward men. And when it comes to this matter of peace and Christ's coming, I wonder if we've stopped to really think about what is the peace that Christ came to bring ring. If you ask the person on the street, you'll probably get a lot of different answers if they even entertain the the question. And I'm sure that there are many in this room you you probably would hit the the nail on the head right away. But for now, we're going to be looking at this question. What peace did Christ come? And we're going to be looking at many different passages tonight because these are probably passages that some would point to and say, this is exactly what Jesus came to bring when he was on earth. The first passage that I would point your attention to is in John 14. So turn in your Bibles to John 14, and it's Possible. If you're going to go around and ask someone what peace did Christ come to bring, they might say, well, obviously Christ came to give us peace in difficult times. And they could find some evidence for that in John 14, starting in verse 25. Of course, this is in the middle, if not the climax, of the Uproom discourse for Christ is speaking to his disciples the night before his crucifixion. And he provides these words of comfort to them. John 14, 25. These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you, but the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things. And bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away and come again unto you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father, for my Father is greater than I. And I have told you before it come to pass, when it is come to pass, you might believe So Jesus is very plainly saying to them, I will die. But be comforted, because I will provide you. peace and a peace that is completely unlike what the world gives. Christ comforted his disciples in this passage. And it's really an intimate moment that we have here recorded in Scripture. He spoke to them to assure them that what was going to happen in the coming days was a part of God's plan for the Messiah. And he even tells them that they would be a major part. Of the formation of the church after he would ascend. Now, I'd imagine for the disciples who likely didn't really get what was going on. Um they were probably hearing this and maybe feeling a little intimidated. And as intimidating as this might have been for these disciples who Again, we're just completely unaware of what was happening. Jesus comforted them with those words. Peace. I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. It was a tremendous comfort to know that Christ would send to them this The third person of the Godhead to comfort them in this major transition period of God's program here on earth This is a peace that is given in difficult times. It's a peace very much like the peace that we find Paul giving exhortation toward in Philippians 4. Turn there with me, please. Philippians four You didn't know you were going to come to church and do sword drills. Philippians four verse four. Familiar passage again. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Finally, Martha, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just. Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Those things which you have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do. And the God of peace shall be with you. The Philippians, though they're very much encouraged in this letter from Paul, not a very common thing if you read many of Paul's letters. And by doing that, God's peace would be with them and would protect, would guard their hearts Now, this is the same word for peace used both in Luke 2 that we originally read and in John 14. Very common word. But the usage in John and Philippians carries a new nuance that is different than the one that we find in Luke It is a peace that really is comforting in the times, in times of difficulty. And we as God's people may receive that peace. We're in Christ. Yet it is this peace, yet is this that peace that Christ was born to bring us Was this Christ's purpose for coming to earth to provide us this kind of peace? While he does certainly provide us this peace, I would say it's not what he ultimately came on earth. To bring us. So then we could say, is it peace in troubling times? I would say, no, that's not what Christ was born to give. The second response you might find by asking folks is: Well, Christ came to provide peace for mankind, peace for the world, in a very geopolitical kind of mindset. And for that, they might they might think a lot like the early Jews of Christ's time, which Christ directly addressed, by the way, in Luke 12. Turn there. And for me, this is a very, very intriguing passage. Kind of get a sense of Jesus trying to really hammer home to these Israelites that he had not come to establish an earthly kingdom in that first coming. Because really the first coming wasn't there to unite Israel and create this massive superpower. Really, the first coming divided. Luke twelve, looking at verse 13 to start out with. Said unto him, Master, speak to my brother that he divide the inheritance with me. I like Jesus' response. He said, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you? And he provides a parable, followed by yet another parable. But let's jump down to verse 49. Where he really hammers home this truth: that he had not come to provide peace on earth. He says, I have come to send fire on the earth. There we go, that sums it up pretty nicely. And what will I if it be already kindled? But I have a baptism to be baptized with. And how am I straightened till it be accomplished? Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth, I tell you, nay, but rather division. From for from henceforth shall there shall be five and one house divided, three against two and two against three The father shall be divided against son, and the son against the father, the mother against daughter, the daughter against the mother, the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and the daughter Her law against her mother-in-law Find it ironic he never mentions son and mother-in-law. Kind of interesting that is that left out there. But the point being What Christ came to accomplish would ultimately divide people. And we see that in history, don't we? We see that in scripture. We see a people Speaking mainly of the Jews who were extremely divided over this person, Jesus Christ. So much so that Even households would be split, and those who would come to trust Christ would be ostracized, would be declared dead by their own family members. And you know what? That would even continue on into the Gentile world in the centuries to come. And even in parts of the world today, we see that very same thing. So when the Jews thought that the coming of the Messiah would bring unity and peace to earth, the reality was Christ and his coming brought the opposite. But what do we do with passages like Isaiah 11? Turn there with me. Because it's likely that the Jews had passages like Isaiah 11 in their heads when they heard that the Messiah had come. Isaiah eleven, verses one through nine. Says, And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, and the spirit of wisdom and understanding. The spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord. This is very clearly a messianic passage. Verse 3: And shall make him Shall and shall make him of quick understanding in the fear of the Lord, and he shall not judge after the sight of his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing of his ears. But with righteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity for the meek of the earth. And he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked. And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reins. So remember last week we actually Uh we didn't do this. When I when I preached last week's message in a different context, I looked at Revelation where Christ in his coming. Came with a sword and eliminated the unbelievers from the face of the earth to establish his thousand-year kingdom. And this is what that kingdom will be like. Verse 6: The wolf shall also dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid. And the calf and the young lion and the fatling together, and the little child shall lead them. And the cow and the bear shall feed, their young ones shall lie down together. And the lion shall eat straw like the ox, and the the sucking child shall la play on the hole of the asp of the uh the the the the viper, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice's den. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea. It is the second coming. The one that the Jews so often conflated with that first coming. That would bring peace in a political and a worldly sense to what we as human beings destroyed by our sin. So when Luke 2 mentions peace on earth, how can it not be what is stated in Isaiah 11? Obviously the the angels declare on earth peace, right? But we already saw from Luke 12 that Jesus didn't come to bring that kind of peace that we read about in Isaiah 11. eleven. So while we can one day look forward to that peace on earth in an earthly sense. There's a different kind of peace that Christ was born to give us. You probably already realized it. But let's look again at Luke 2 before jumping to our last passage for the evening. And I want you to notice something that's Interesting part of our discussion tonight. If I can remember the order of the Gospels. Luke two Look again here at verse ten. The angel said unto them Those shepherds. Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. Now this is what the good news was. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And then what follows, of course, is the angels gather around declaring honor of peace, goodwill toward men. Now, when we look at the world around us, you know, you turn on the news, you listen to the politicians, you listen to the United Nations, you hear all these people talking about we need to find peace on on earth. We need to find peace between our nations. You know, I I actually haven't heard too much about finding peace between Russia and Ukraine, but I'm sure there are those who would desire that because peace is sought for in a plethora of avenues all over the world by all people. All people desire peace. But what they fail to realize is that before you can have peace on earth, there has to be a savior. And that is why Christ came. He came to be a savior. Did you notice that the good news that the angel provided in verse 10 and 11? Was not that there would be peace, but that a savior was born. And it is through that savior that peace and goodwill would come. And that, of course, is taught through us taught to us in passages like Romans 5. And we'll conclude our time together in the word there in Romans 5. One that we looked at recently with Brother Willie in Sunday school and we talked about it in our military Bible study. One of my favorite passages in Scripture where we see that the Savior offers us peace with God as our Savior. Verse 1 of Romans 5, therefore being justified by faith, by being made righteous before God through faith in Jesus Christ. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand and rejoice. in hope and of of in hope of the glory of God. And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also, knowing that tribulation is a work of patience. And patience experience and experience hope. And hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet pervent for perventure for a good man some would even dare to die. But God Commendeth his love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath. Through him. For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And not only so But we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. By being justified in Christ before the Father, we are no longer an absolute or Rebellion in a complete hopeless war against God. Mankind has, of course, always been actively in rebellion against his Creator. Paul makes this point throughout the rest of or the throughout the preceding chapters of Romans leading up to chapter 5. But as Paul demonstrates through this chapter, it was through the Death of God the Son, that there would be peace between God and man You know, in speaking with our military uh folks in our military Bible study, I shared with them this passage. And we got to talking about it. And one of the things that we discussed was how in the military we have a better sense of the cost of war. Than I think is commonly assessed. That being, we have seen some things that would help us to realize that war is not, it's not cheap. And why do we go to war? Well, sometimes it's it's for selfish reasons. But when we do go to war, there's always a desire to come to a peaceful end. Now, sometimes that peaceful end is to the benefit of the one who initiated the war. But mankind in his warfare against God tries to determine peace on its own terms. And all through the ages, mankind has flung itself in warfare against God, death after death After death in a meaningless, hopeless effort. But to bring the war to a peaceful end God laid down his own life. And that is the peace Christ came to bring. So this Christmas time as we consider on earth peace, goodwill toward men. Let's understand what God wants us to understand. Christ was born to bring peace. Between rebellious, sinful mankind and a holy, loving God Father, we come before you, humbled by this truth, that you died for us to reconcile us. Yourself. And if we be in Christ through faith, we can have that peace. I pray that for those listening, whether here or through the live stream, I hope that that peace is a present reality. For them, that they would recognize it and see it and find comfort in it. And if they don't have that peace, if they're trying to find peace through any other avenue, Or if they see peace as any other thing, they would come to realize what is truly peace is what you died to bring us. We praise you for this truth in Christ's name. Amen. Peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. That really is uh the theme of our day today. So uh I hope that uh the truths that we've heard in the morning morning and the evening will really resonate in our hearts throughout the week. We have a business meeting tonight, so we're going to have a closing hymn. And then we're going to take a short break so that we can get ourselves ready for that. If you have not received financials, please make sure that you get those. I'm going to have John Lynn be the one who's distributing those. And I think that there are probably still some in that back desk there from this morning. But let's go ahead and uh closing hand. I don't know who had the word service up here. It's what? 156. 156. Let's all turn there, please. 156. We'll stand together and we'll sing How Can It Be? Verses 1, 2, and 3. How can it be? Oh Savior has my right people by my beautiful time. And yet you make thy my daughter give me. I love an egg eat, that is not a little like me , all my As an as a cross I come eager, and is a war and be the precious evil. To the world thy suffering was for me if I know I can Belly they farm Let's sing in Al Cappella on the last. How can it be? How can it be for great grace? So and free from my blessing as so for in my head From sin and came to rescue me, oh divine, how can I be Thy God should love us all like me. That's a really good song to close out our day today. Let's bow in prayer, and then we'll be dismissed for a short break. Father, we thank you for the focus of our day today. And our remembrance that Christmas is about the wrath of God and his justice against our sin being satisfied through the sufferings and the death of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. It was about Christ going to the cross so that peace with God could be established. I pray that you'd help us to uh to glory in that, to go out this evening with our feet shod, with the preparation of the gospel of peace, that the stability that we enjoy as we move about our week Would be rooted in the fact that there's no more condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, that there truly is peace between us and you, and it's because of the work of Christ. I pray that you bless our meeting that we'll have in a few minutes to follow. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.