Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you're having a wonderful day. Hope that you're enjoying this study and that you're still staying warm. Looking at the extended forecast, things are going to warm up a little bit. Uh but really looking forward to the winter season and I love snow and I hope that we get some good snow this year. So I'll for for all of you that don't like snow I'm sorry. Uh but anyway, I'm looking forward to uh continuing our series this morning and we are in Luke chapter 11. We've been reading verses 14 to 23 and rather than reading the entire section this morning for sake of time what I want to do As I want to focus in on verses 21 and 22 because that will kind of be our focus, and uh then we will expand it a little bit with some passages that will give us better insight into what Jesus is talking about here. Luke chapter 11, verse 21 says this. When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace. But when a stronger than he shall come upon him and overcome him, he taketh from him all his armor wherein he trusted, and divideth his spoils. He that is not with me is against me. He that gathereth not with me scattereth. Now at the heart of this parable that Jesus is giving, is a context where there's a conversation between Christ and the religious leaders. And the religious leaders had clearly taken aside And the side that they had taken as they're observing what Christ is doing is against Christ decisively. And so when he gives this illustration, He talks about two strong men, and then he talks about what the one strong man does to the other strong man. And so the first strong man is really a reference to Satan. This is a strong man who has exerted his influence. The reason that Jesus talks about this strongman, Satan, is because the people that are observing this miracle have seen a man who was unable to speak. And he was unable to speak because he had been controlled by demonic activity. And when Christ comes into the scene, he demonstrates his authority, his power over the kingdom of darkness. And he frees this man from this demonic oppression. And now the man can speak, and the people have seen a marvelous work. And so not only does he talk about the strong man, Satan, but he talks about a second strong man. And the strong man is much stronger than the first strong man. Now the first strong man is demonstrating his strength with evil intent. He's taking a man who should have had the ability to speak. And he removes that ability. He exercises his authority and his power in an evil way. The second strong man is far stronger, but the way that he demonstrates his authority is in a good way. What he does is he conquers the first strong man, and when he conquers the first strongman, he does it to release this person who has been oppressed by this first strong man, he releases him so that he is free. And so Jesus basically says, I have the authority and the power and the might to release and free those who are oppressed by the kingdom of darkness. And that is how I demonstrate my superiority to the first strong man. But then he goes beyond this a little bit further. Not just that he disarmed or not just that he demonstrates his power over the first strongman. But he's going to crush this first strong man and he's going to fully conquer him. And the way that he puts it is that when he overcomes the first strong man, he's going to remove that infrastructure that gave him security. And he's going to divide the spoils of this triumph with those who are with him. And so what Christ is literally saying is not only am I going to defeat Satan. But I'm going to disarm him. And I'm going to take the spoils of victory, and I'm going to distribute them to my people. Now, when Jesus is talking about this, he's alluding to the ultimate triumph over Satan in the cross. And this is a fascinating thing. Satan demonstrated his power by influencing people to ultimately lead Christ to his death on the cross. And Christ demonstrates his authority and power by his willingness to allow Satan to do this and to die and to ultimately triumph over sin and Satan and death by his resurrection. What a fascinating thing. Christ demonstrated his power through his weakness, through his willingness to go to the cross and to die. But there's more in play than just he is going to demonstrate his power by the resurrection. He's demonstrating his power by disarming Satan and ultimately crushing him and triumphing over him and distributing, we could say, the spoils of victory with his children. Now there's no passage that I can think of that maybe more thoroughly explains these concepts than what we read about in Colossians and then in the parallel passage in Ephesians. And so I want to draw your attention to that this morning because I think it will give us something tremendously encouraging to consider. The first passage is Colossians 1, 16-18. And in these verses, Christ's sovereignty, his right to rule and his power are being presented and they're being, we could say, revealed and they're they're they're they're being commended to us. He says it this way, by him, that is Christ, were all things created in heaven and earth. There is nothing in the world that was not created ultimately by God himself. And the second person of the Godhead, the Lord Jesus Christ, was clearly, actively, personally involved in the creation. He says whether they are things that are visible, the things that we can see, or invisible, the things that we can't see. Now, when he talks about the invisible, he's referring to the spiritual realm. He's referring to angels. He's referring to angels who have remained faithful and those who have fallen from their uh their early estate, those who have rebelled and rejected God's authority, we could say the kingdom of darkness, led by Satan himself. So he says even those aspects of God's creation, those persons in God's creation, they were made by him. Satan is a creature. Demons are creatures. Angels are creatures, just like you and I are creatures. And then he goes on to say this, whether they are thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. That means that Satan's existence is not just a result of God's creative act, but he exists for God's ultimate glory. So God allowed Satan, God created Satan actively, he allowed Satan to rebel against him and to lead an a massive insurrection against him, but he did it to ultimately bring glory to himself. That's what the text says. is saying. And then he goes on to say this. He is before all things, by him all things consist, they are upheld, they are managed, he is actively involved in his creation. He is the head of the body, the church, that in all things he might have the preeminence. So that's the first piece. Paul is, we could say, setting the stage for what he's going to say later on in chapter 1, and then into chapter 2. The second thing I want to draw your attention to is that Christ redeems fallen humanity. to the Father through the cross. And Paul states it this way in verse 20. He made peace through the blood of his cross. Now the question is, peace between who? Well, peace between God, who is holy and righteous and just, and man who is unrighteous and fallen. There is enmity between God and man. And Jesus, through the cross, through his sacrifice, established a basis for peace to be between God and man. And that peace is initiated by God to man. It says it was by him to reconcile all things to himself by him. Great statement. It says, and you who sometimes were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled. in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight. So you can see he's establishing a case. Everything belongs to God There are aspects of his creation that have rebelled against him. And God has taken upon himself to establish a basis through the work of Christ that fallen humanity can be reconciled to him. But it wasn't just that the cross provided a basis for reconciliation to God, but the cross did something else. The cross also established a basis for God's triumph over Satan and over evil, and a basis for God to give tremendous gifts. and an eternal inheritance to those whom he has redeemed. And so the cross not only removed the enmity between God and man, but it also openly demonstrated God's victory over Satan and the realm of darkness. And so in chapter 2, verse 13, he says, you being dead in your sins in the past, hath he quickened together with him by the resurrection, we are made alive having forgiven all your trespasses, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. And having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it. Now what is Paul saying? Paul is saying the exact same thing that Christ said in Luke chapter 11, verses 21 and 22. And he's borrowing from an illustration that they would have understood very well. When the Romans went to war, they not only conquered people, but they made a show of them when they conquered them. They established uh a triumphal entry into the cities that that they possessed. And when they did that, they would lead the captives who had been conquered, and they would take all of their wealth and all of their strength, and they would take these things, and they would basically display them for the people to see, and then those who had contributed in the victory, and those who are the beneficiaries of the victory, those people would receive the spoils of victory. And so what Christ is saying in Luke chapter 11 and what Paul is saying in Colossians chapter 1 and 2 is that that is what Christ did on the cross. At the lowest point of his incarnation, when he is being nailed to the cross and he's shedding his blood and he's bearing the wrath of God's justice against our sin. At that moment of tremendous weakness, he was demonstrating his greatest strength because he was establishing a basis to triumph over Satan. And he was establishing a basis for us to be reconciled to him. And establishing a basis for the gifts of our eternal inheritance to be distributed to us forever. And the fact is, when we look at the cross, what we're seeing is God's triumph over sin, death, and hell. And God's grace that gives us forgiveness and a righteous standing in his presence. So as you think about these scriptures this morning, I hope that you will glory in them. I hope that you will be grateful for them. And I hope that you will live as one who is a triumphant one, a victor, one who is going to one day experience the full benefits. of this eternal inheritance that has been established through the cross of Christ. I hope that you have a wonderful rest of your day. Lord willing tomorrow we will have some final thoughts about this section by now.