Good morning. Welcome back to another Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we have been working our way through Psalm 34. So if you have your Bible, let's turn again. uh to that text and I hope that you have been encouraged as we've been working our way through this. There's a challenging side to it, but there's also an encouraging side to this. And so my prayer is that as we reflect on these things and not just hear them, but think about them throughout the day, that the Lord will take this and apply it in a very practical way. with the various challenges that we're dealing with. Psalm 34, verse number one, and I'll remind you again that this was written when David changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away and he departed. Here's what it says I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear thereof and be glad. O magnify the Lord with me. Let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears. They looked upon him and were enlightened, and their faces were not ashamed This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him, and he delivereth them. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. O fear the Lord, ye his saints. There is no want to them that fear him. The part that we're going to look at this morning is verses 4 to 9, and it is the largest chunk of the psalm that we have looked at thus far. And what we're going to see as we read these verses is that God takes hardship and he allows it to take place so that ultimately his purpose is to give us a deeper sense of his goodness. Now, when I make a statement like that, you might sit down and go, well, how in the world does God allowing hardship help me to know that he's good? And we have to start with this very basic understanding that living in a fallen world is trouble, and it's actually the goodness of God that limits the extent of the trouble that takes those difficulties that he chooses to allow and he uses those things to accomplish good. And so it's not as if God's looking at us and he's like, well, you live in a perfect world, and I've just decided I'm going to make your life miserable today so that I can demonstrate that I'm good. That's not what we're talking about. Instead, it's the exact opposite We're living in a fallen world. God is constantly working in our life for good, but sometimes part of the good that he's working is he says, I'm going to permit something that at the front side may not seem to be very good, but ultimately in the end you will see that I use it to accomplish good. This reminds me of Romans chapter 8, verse 28. It says We know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. our light affliction worketh for us a far more and exceeding eternal weight of glory. And so these are scriptures that remind us that when God permits challenge and difficulty He doesn't do it without a good motive and the active work in our lives to actually accomplish the good that's there. So what I'd like to do is rather than read verses 4 through 9, I'd like to just work my way through it so that we can see some of the things that this psalm is highlighting about the way that God takes hardships and he uses them to accomplish good in our lives. And it may be that as we reflect on our own circumstances, we'll recognize, you know what? I've experienced that too. I've seen that in the lives of other people. What David is saying, in fact, I have experienced this firsthand. I have tasted personally and I have seen personally that indeed The Lord is good. So let's work our way through this. First of all, we see that God uses difficulty and hardship to drive us to himself. You know, how many people, when times are good, neglect the church? They neglect their time of prayer, and they neglect the Word of God. The reason is that many times what we are seeing when life is good and things are simple is that we we don't think we need God. Now we wouldn't tell people we don't think we need God. But in our experience, that is the way we live. Think about what it says in Ecclesiastes. It says, Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth, before the evil day comes, and you say, I have no pleasure in that The idea is that we have to choose when things are going well to turn to the Lord, even though we may not be naturally inclined to think that we need that. And obviously we do. And so we see in verse number four he says, I sought the Lord. The question is, why did David seek the Lord? Well, it's because David felt that he was in a place of great desperation. And we know the nature of that desperation because we know the historical context behind Psalm 34. But when David went through those hardships, rather than trying to take matters into his own hands, When he finally steps back and he realized I'm in trouble and there's nobody that can defend me and there's nobody that can preserve me and there's no one that can ultimately rescue me from this but God himself. He cries out to God and he says, God, have mercy on me. God deliver me. God protects me. That's the way that David responded. And it reminds me of what it says in Psalm 119, verse 67 and 71. He says, before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now, based on the fact that he's been afflicted, I have kept thy word. In other words, God used affliction to drive a person back to himself. Where in verse 71 he says, it is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn from thy statutes. So it was affliction that God used to drive his servant to keep the word. It was affliction that God used. to turn this person back to himself. And so David is expressing that in the Psalm. And that is the experience of the majority of us as we go through our Christian lives. A second area that I want to highlight is found in verse number four. We see that hardships teach us how to work, how prayer works when we pray. And so there are a couple of things that David expresses about this issue of prayer. He says, I turned to the Lord of my affliction. And then he says in verse 4, he says, and he heard me And delivered me from all my fears. They looked unto him and were lightened, and their faces were not ashamed Now, David is going to express later in the psalm that God is going to literally intervene and he's going to deliver him from trouble. But before God delivers him from trouble, he emphasizes the fact that the first action God takes toward him is not to remove the trouble, but it's to strengthen him in the midst of the trouble. is to come alongside of him and uplift him and strengthen him and deliver him from his fears and to lighten his eyes This is the way God works. When a person is in desperation before he delivers them, he strengthens them in the midst of that. And we have no idea How long God may choose to allow us to continue in the position of being strengthened rather than being delivered. But this is part of the way that God works. And whenever we pray for a person who is in affliction or hardship, I think one of the things that we should pray first of all is, God, strengthen my brother Strengthen my sister. Help them to endure. Give them the grace and the strength to be able to endure through such hardships. And deliver them according to your perfect timing. In other words, I'm not just focusing on the deliverance, but the strengthening hand before the deliverance. And David expresses that. Secondly, he talks about how God literally moves in circumstances for his good to deliver him. In verse 6, he says that this man cried and the Lord heard and he saved him out of all his troubles. Now this is taking it a step further. Not just that God is strengthening his servant, but he is delivering his servant from hardship. And then the third thing that he mentions that I think is quite fascinating is he mentions that struggles and challenges remind us that God is constantly protecting us even when we cannot see it. In verse 7 he says, that the angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. Now, I don't know if you've ever experienced this when you're going through a challenge of hardship. But there's really two ways that you can respond to this. One way you can do it is, God, why in the world are you allowing this to happen to me right now? And that is probably the most likely way we tend to respond. But there's another way we could look at this. We could go, God, why have you kept me from this so many times? One of the things that happens when we experience hardship is that we recognize how vulnerable we are in life You know, we've been going through life and we've experienced so much ease and so much um so much we've escaped so many challenges. And then when we face those challenges, we start realizing, you know, this could happen to me at any time. This could happen to anybody at any time. And we begin to recognize, well, there's a reason that it hasn't happened to me over and over and over again. The reason is that God in his grace and his mercy and his kindness has protected me from those things. And that is what David is expressing. He's saying when I experienced hardship and I got on my knees and I prayed, you strengthened me, you you delivered me, and you reminded me that you know what? I've protected you from this many, many times. It's just now I've chosen to allow you to experience what is an inevitability in a fallen world. That's what David is saying And so we see that sense of how God teaches us in this way. And then we also see this in verse number eight. It gives us an experiential sense of understanding that God is good. He says, O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. I think of what he writes in Psalm 143. He says, Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning. In thee do I trust. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk. I lift up my soul unto thee. Deliver me from mine enemies. I flee unto thee to hide thee. David wanted to have not just a head knowledge of God, but he wanted to have an experiential understanding of the goodness of God. I use this illustration. We still have a child in our house who is in that that toddler stage. Well, he's actually probably beyond the toddler stage. But he he's very mobile. And my son, Owen, is not someone who just likes to observe, but he's someone who wants to get hands-on involved So, you know, some kids will sit out there in the yard and they'll look at the flowers. My son's not like that. He's the one who's going to go up there and he's going to grab the flowers and he's going to smell them. And he may even try to eat them. And we have to pull them out of his hand and say, don't do that It's amazing how anything that's laying on the floor could potentially be something that my son's going to taste. And you say, well, why is he going to do that? Why does he put things in his mouth? The reason that a small child has to smell everything and has to grab everything and has to taste everything is because that little child wants to experience life. He wants to know what's in front of him. He doesn't want to just sit back and watch it. He wants to get his hands involved. And the fact is that God wants our knowledge of him not to be just I had knowledge. I read the Bible and I know all this information about God and I know all these facts about God. Oh, I know that he's good because the Bible says it. I know that he's strong because the Bible says it. I know that he's wise because the Bible says it I do know those things because the Bible says that. But he wants me to know it beyond just what the Bible is saying. He wants me to know by experience that indeed what the Scripture says is true. And it is not the experience that makes it true, but it's the experience that drives the truth home in a way that is very personal and very practical. And so what David is saying is, I know by experience, I have tasted, and I have seen that indeed God is good. It's because of what I've experienced in life. And the last thing I'm going to mention here is that these hardships and these challenges, they make us want to bear witness that God indeed is good and faithful. On Sunday nights, we give opportunity for our church members to share testimonies. A lot of these testimonies are given in the context of some kind of test challenge or difficulty. And so when I have experienced God's hand of preserving, God's hand of healing, God's hand of deliverance, God's hand of strength. When I've experienced personally the goodness and the wisdom of God, I want to tell people about it. That is the most natural thing that the Christian could want to do. And so in verse 9 he says, Oh, fear the Lord, ye his saints. There is no want to them that fear him. David is saying, I've experienced this and I want you to know about it. I want you to know about the God that I serve. And the God that we serve, I want you to know him the way that I know him. That's what David is saying. Reminds me of Psalm 48 , just a fascinating Psalm. I look forward Down the road, well, we're still about a year away almost from this, but preaching through Psalm chapter or Psalm 48. But this is what it says. It says, walk about Zion and go around about her. Tell the towers, or if mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her places, that ye may tell it to the generation following. This God is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even unto death. And in Psalm 41, the psalmist is basically saying, we have heard with our ears that God is a God of deliverance And we have lived through a trial of our faith, and we have seen on the other side that indeed God is a God of deliverance, and we are standing in the midst of the proof of that. So when we think about Psalm 34, I hope that one of the things that we will take away from it is that God wants to use the hardships of life to give us an experiential knowledge of Him. He wants us to taste and to see that he's good. Let me ask you this question. Do you know God in that kind of a way? Are you allowing the challenges of life to teach you in an experiential way that God is good, that He's wise, that He's in control, that He hears and answers prayer. May God help us to have a rich Christian experience. as we study the word and then we see the evidence of that laid out in our practical daily lives. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing tomorrow we will close out our series with some final thoughts. Bye now