Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word morning reflection for this week. And we have been in Luke chapter 9, and we've been working our way through verses 46 through 56. And today what I'd like to do is I'd kind of like to leave us with some final thoughts of application. And so if you've been joining us this week, we've been talking about a a period in the life of the disciples where there's this tremendous contrast. between the Lord Jesus Christ's power and authority and his perspective and the disciples' limitations and their weaknesses and their shortcomings. And as we've been examining this concept this week, what we have ultimately seen is that the fact that Christ builds his church is more than anything a miracle. It is God's grace, it is God's power, it is God's love, it is Christ's authority. All of that is a part of how the church is built and preserved and sustained from one generation to the next generation. And so I'd like to read that passage one more time, and then I'd like us to dig into some final thought applications. Here's what it says, Luke chapter 9, verse 46. Then there arose a reasoning among them, which of them should be the greatest. And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart, took a child and set him by him. And said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me. Whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me. For he that is least among you all, the same shall be great. And John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us. Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not, for he that is not against us is for us. And it came to pass when the time was come that he should be received up, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. and sent messengers before his face, and they went, and entered into a village of the Samaritans, to make ready for him. And they did not receive him, because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem And when his disciples, James and John, saw this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, even as Elias did. And he turned and rebuked them and said, Ye know not what manner of spirit you are of, for the Son of Man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And they went into another village Now, as we've been working our way through the passage, probably one of the biggest focuses that we had was on the life of Peter And we look at how Peter's life was one full of high points and low points, one where he starts out as a man who says, Depart from me. I'm a sinful man, I'm unworthy of your presence. to you're the Christ, the Son of God, I'm willing for you, to I'm going back to fishing. This is the life of Peter We see that Jesus is consistent even when Peter is not. And we are comforted by those things because in the same way that he was consistent with Peter, he's consistent with us, even in the midst of our limitations. So here's what I'd like to do. Let's look at some simple final thought applications. First of all, I'd like to address those who may be in a position that is a little bit complacent. Now when I say that, nobody wants to say, well, I'm a complacent person. But the fact is that you can read this passage of scripture and think about the things that we've talked about this week. And you could walk away saying, well, you know what, maybe it really doesn't matter when I sin. Maybe it really doesn't matter if uh I have these weaknesses. I don't really work on these areas. And you know, ultimately God's going to build his church and there's nothing that I can do that's going to It's gonna mess that up and so I'm just gonna keep moving forward and whatever happens, happens. I'm not worried about it. Well, that is not the way that we should respond to a passage like this. The warning to those who are complacent is that none of us have arrived And we are in no way entitled to the opportunities that God has allowed us at this moment. God isn't forced to use you in the capacity that you're in or to use me in the capacity that I'm in. He could very easily replace us. He has every right to do that. And so we need to recognize that sin matters. Sin is serious. Sin is destructive. We should never excuse or tolerate our sin. The second thing I'd like to mention is a word of encouragement to those who maybe feel broken and discouraged On the other side of this discussion, you might go, you know, I'm not complacent about my sin. I feel absolutely overwhelmed by it. And I feel as if I've been crushed by the weight of my sin. I feel the weight of my limitations. And I ask the question, could God ever use someone like me? It is very possible. that you could be feeling exactly that way this morning. And so my encouragement to you is this: God is not done with you. He's not done working in you and growing you into Christ's likeness. He's not done working through you. Now I can't predict the level of opportunity that you're given or the specific capacity that he has given you to minister, but every single one of us is in a position that God is working in us and can work through us. And so I remind you that God gives grace to those who humble themselves. He lifts up the downcast He strengthens those who are weak and feeble. And in Proverbs 24, 16 it says that a just man falleth seven times. But he gets back up. And he gets back up by the enabling hand of God Himself. The third group that I'd like to mention. is those whose confidence has perhaps been shaken a bit by circumstance. If your confidence has been shaken I want to remind you that whatever you are facing, wherever you find yourself, God has not abandoned you God is with you. God loves you. God is working in you. God can take any series of circumstances and he can use those things ultimately to accomplish good in your life. He can use those circumstances ultimately to use you to accomplish good in the lives of others And God is going to give us the wisdom and the grace and the strength to navigate whatever situation we may encounter. He's going to give us the grace that we need to sustain us in the midst of whatever we may find ourselves in. And so I'm reminded of what it says in 1 Corinthians 10. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful. He will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able. But he will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it I remind you again that our high priest can be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. He was tempted. in all points like we are, yet without sin. So let's come boldly to the throne of grace and find mercy and grace to help in time of need. And so to the complacent, there is an encouragement. To the broken and discouraged, there is an encouragement. To those who are shaken in confidence, there is an encouragement. But that's not where I want to end. The most encouraging thing I can say to you is this. We need to praise God and God alone. Don't put people on pedestals. Don't prop them up and put your confidence in men. Put your confidence in the unchanging God who builds his church according to his wisdom and power and by his grace. And so I remind you what it says in Romans chapter 11, verse 33. Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. Who hath known the mind of the Lord? Who hath been his counselor? Who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again? For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. I want to remind you that more than anything else, this text of Scripture says all the praise should go to God. I hope you have a blessed weekend. It's been a delight to work through this text with you. And if this has encouraged you, please share that. Maybe share it with somebody. who can be challenged and encouraged by it as well. And I look forward to, Lord willing, seeing many of you this this Sunday. Have a blessed day. Bye now.