Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are continuing in 1 John chapter 4. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. And let's turn together to 1 John 4. We're in verses 7 through 12 today. 1 John 4, 7-12. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. And this was manifest to the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him. Here in his love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Now this passage is very important uh for us to think about this morning because really it is very, very carefully connected to the section that we were looking at yesterday and the day before. I want to remind you that we've been talking about the fact that the world and God's kingdom are in an opposition to one another. We get caught in the middle of that conflict. And because we're caught in the middle of that conflict, we face tremendous opposition potentially from the world. And so he's been talking about how we can be encouraged when we're going through difficult times. Well, this is actually part of that discussion. So let me give you a simple summary statement and then we'll dig into a couple of important truths and we'll actually deal with this passage tomorrow as well The first thing I want to say is that the main point of the passage was to remind us that when the church is facing pressure, there is a place that we need to go for encouragement and strength. And the place that we need to go is the local church. God created the local church as a place where we would be encouraged and strengthened. and where we would be able to face the oppositions and the difficulties of living in a fallen world. But this passage is going to emphasize not only that God created the church for us to find strength and stability in. But God wants the church to be a healthy church so that it's positioned to actually do that. Not every local church is going to function in a healthy way, and if it's not functioning in a healthy way then the church is not going to provide that strength and help that it's supposed to be. So what John's going to do is he's going to talk about the importance of a healthy church community, a place where God's love is being revealed through the acts and service of people within the congregation toward one another. So let's talk a little bit about the importance of having a healthy, loving local church community. The first truth we're going to see this morning is that God wants his people to grow in a loving community. Notice what he says in verse 7. He says, beloved, let us love one another. Now when we talk about a quality like love, in fact, when we talk about how you can tell if a person's a Christian, Jesus says, you will know that a person is a disciple of Christ by his love one for another. You know what's really interesting about a quality like love? You cannot know that a person loves other people unless you see them actually interact with other people. In other words, love is a quality that cannot be demonstrated in isolation. Love is a quality that can only be demonstrated in community. And so if this is the pinnacle of how a person can see with their eyes if a person is a genuine disciple and follower of Christ. Then what that tells us is that if a person isolates themselves from the local church, then it will be very difficult for us to be able to actually see this quality in action. God did not design for people to live in isolation. God designed for people to be in community. In fact, we even see this when God created man. When God created man, he created him alone. And at the end of that day, it says, it's not good for man to be alone. I will make him a helpmeet for him. In other words, even when God created man, he wanted to make the point that people are not supposed to live in isolation. And then when God creates the family, what does he do? Ultimately, he creates The church. And in the church, we have families and individuals who come together as one body. And what do we do? We love one another, we are strengthened, we grow together. God wants people to grow in community, not in isolation. And so when we look at this statement, let's remember, first of all, that it's a command. When he says, let us love one another, he means God expects you to interact with people and to love them in your interactions. And then he gives us the reason why. The reason why we need to do that is connected to what's been going on before. The reason is that we as God's people are going to face opposition. Everything that he talked about in the verses before are emphasizing the fact that the world hates the gospel, the world hates Christian values, the world hates Christ and if you've trusted in Christ, if he's your Lord, if you are connected to him, then the world who hates him is ultimately going to have animosity to you. And that's going to be difficult to face. So what does God do? He creates the church, so we have a place that in the midst of opposition, we find strength and we find community and we find encouragement. In fact, there are a lot of passages in the New Testament that talk about the importance of the local church functioning in a healthy manner. Think about Romans chapter 12. In Romans chapter 12 he says, we being many are one body in Christ. We are members one of another. God has given us gifts that are differing according to the grace that is given to us. God created the body with many members with differing gifts. so that we can be mutually we can be mutually encouraged. We can be mutually edified. And he talks about the kinds of things that we're supposed to do. He says we're to love without dissimulation. In other words, we're not supposed to show favoritism or discrimination between individuals in the church, but we're supposed to love one another without partiality. We're to hate what's evil. We're to cleave to what is good. We're to be kindly affectioned to one another. In other words, when you walk into the local church and you see the interaction that people have with one another, You should see that there's a warmth, there is an affection, there is this bond between people. It's the kind of thing you'd expect to see in a healthy family. He talks about the fact that we're supposed to be laboring and fervent in our business. We're supposed to be rejoicing in the midst of tribulation and patience. We're supposed to be taking care of the needs of other people in the congregation who are going through difficulty. We're supposed to be hospitable. These are the kinds of things that God expects to see in the local church. In Galatians 6, he talks about bearing each other's burdens and fulfilling the law of God. The idea is that we're supposed to carry the burdens of other people to help lift that load with them so that they can bear under that load. And so God created the church so that we could be united in community and we could grow together, we could strengthen one another, we could encourage one another, we could look out for one another. God wants us to support and encourage one another in the local church. In other words, let me put it this way. God never intended for any Christian to grow in isolation. He wants us to grow in community. You might say, well, I'm a single person. You know, I'm someone who my spouse has passed away. I'm divorced. I'm all alone. I don't have a family connection. All my family is uh they're unbelievers. Or I'm not divorced or I'm not uh a a widow or a widower. I don't live in isolation, but I feel like I live in isolation because I'm the only Christian in my family. Well the reality is God wants you to be a part of the church because in the church you're going to have that community that you so much need God 's people need one another. I need my church family. My church family needs me. God gave me different gifts from other people in the church. so that they could draw from God's work through me. And God gave them different gifts so that I could draw from God's work through them. You will not grow. You will not face the oppositions of life as God intended you to do it if you neglect the local church. There will always be a limit to how much a person can grow when they are casually associated with the local church. You know, I always encourage our our church family, when the church doors are open, be there. Why do I encourage people to do that? Because that's a vital opportunity for you to grow. That's a vital opportunity for the bonds between you and other Christians to become stronger. That is a vital opportunity for you to draw strength and encouragement. It's a vital opportunity for you to serve other people. It's not just that there's a duty to be joined together with other Christians But it's something that we need. It's something that's extremely important. And I want you to realize that it's important for us to be together. That mutual encouragement is something that we so desperately need. I also want to say this. There's a second truth that's here. That second truth is that our capacity to love other people is ultimately rooted in our position in Christ. The world around us does not love because it does not have the capacity to love In fact, when we talk about definitions of love and we look at how the world views love versus how the Bible presents love, we will see that the qualities have overlapping But they're not exactly the same. The world understands that love has an affectionate side to it. The world understands that love makes people feel good The world understands that love doesn't do evil things to other people, but one of the differences between how the world tends to view love and how Christians in the Bible view love Is that love is ultimately about self-sacrifice for the good of others. In other words, love isn't about how you make me feel Love isn't about what you do for me. Love is about me showing my rights are laid to the side for your own benefit and good. And the reality is that when both parties in relationship are laying aside their own rights for the good of others, do you know what happens? There are strong, powerful bonds created between those individuals. There is tremendous good that is accomplished in that kind of a situation. And so really our capacity to love in the biblical sense is not something that comes from our own nature, but it's something that comes from the new nature. It's something that comes from the presence and the work. of the Holy Spirit. And notice how he puts it in verse 7. He says, love is of God. That means the source of biblical love is God. He said, everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God, for God is love. Christian love is not a natural quality in people. In fact, in 1 Corinthians 13, the most Uh well-known passage on Christian love or charity. It says that it suffers long and it's kind. It does not envy, it does not lift itself up, it does not puff itself up, it does not behave itself unseemingly, doesn't seek its own, it's not easily provoked, it doesn't think evil, it rejoices in the truth. It bears all things, it hopes all things, it endures all things. We talk about Christian love doing those things. We recognize those are not natural qualities. Those are qualities that come from God's work in the hearts of people who've been redeemed. And so we need to recognize that what makes a body healthy What makes the church body function as it's supposed to is a quality that comes from God that's a supernatural quality. It is the most powerful reminder of the power of the gospel, Christian love. And love finds its source in God. And love finds its source not just in God, but in the new birth and the work of the Holy Spirit as we grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. You know, it's interesting. One of the reasons that in the local church we have so much emphasis on preaching and teaching is because it's preaching and teaching that helps us to know God. And the more we know God, and the more we're compelled to respond to Him in a worshipful, humble, and appropriate response. The more that we know God, the more we're positioned to actually show his love. In other words, we come become channels. So when we talk about the passage in front of us, what we're reminded of is the fact that in the midst of a very broken, harsh, challenging world, God's people need the church. But not just the church in a general sense. They need the church to be a loving, healthy, growing community. And so I really want to encourage you this morning as we think about 1 John chapter 4. I want to ask the question, first of all, what part do you play in contributing to the health of the local church that God has put you in? Are you a member who brings love and self-sacrifice and service and vibrancy into your local church? Are you even connected to the local church? Is that connection a close bond or is it something that is extremely casual? In other words, are you there every time it's open? Are you fellowshipping with God's people? Are you serving with God's people? Are you connected in the local church? Or would you say, you know, I think it's important, but I'm there about every other every third, fourth week, something like that. The fact is that you need the local church. The local church needs you. You need to be contributing to the health and the vibrancy of the local church. And the reality is that if you do that, then you will be in a position to help other people, and you yourself will also be encouraged and helped as well. Tomorrow I want to continue in this passage. This is a really rich passage. There is a lot of very important interaction that we have in this passage, a lot of important doctrine, a lot of important practical truths. And so I want us to talk about those a little bit more tomorrow. But I hope this is a challenge to you. The local church is important. Your role in the church is important. Your connection to the church is important. God wants you to grow in Christian community. If this has been a blessing to you, I hope that you'll share that. I hope that you'll leave a word of encouragement. Perhaps share it on your Facebook page so that others can be blessed by it. And let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study this very simple yet important passage. Help us to value the connections we're supposed to have in the local church. Help us to be healthy contributors to a vibrant community where people can grow in love and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, we will see you tomorrow for the second part of our discussion in 1 John chapter 4. Have a great day. Bye now.