Good evening. Like to welcome you to our midweek service. Bible study prayer time. Hope you're having a good week And uh maybe you're a little tired. I stayed up with my kids till 2 in the morning. And uh see homeschooling kids, yeah. But seemed like uh I could tell where the tree was leaning and uh just wanted to wait till it fell before I went to bed, you know what I mean? So Anyway, uh so when they called Pennsylvania, I uh I said, all right, it's a done deal in my head So going to bed. And uh so if I'm tired, it's my own fault. All right, let's go ahead and bow for a word of prayer, and then we will uh sing a song and then dig into the word of God together tonight. Lord, we're so very grateful for how patient and kind you are with us. And I thank you for your good hand of providence in our lives. We thank you that this election season has been so divisive. We have been able to get through that, and I pray that you'd help our nation to turn to you during this time. I pray that Christians uh would be very focused on being faithful Christians and that we would uh be engaged in the process around us. But help us realize that this is ultimately a battle for hearts, and the word of God and the gospel is what changes people. And so I pray that you would help us as your people to be faithful, and I pray that tonight as we dig into a passage of scripture that is so very appropriate for the time we're dealing with that the things that are shared tonight from your word would be very impactful in our lives. Bless our time together of prayer. May we be very encouraged as we lift up these requests to you and as we see you at work in these situations. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, 243 when I survey the wondrous cross. We'll sing the first and the last verses. When I survey the wonder. Cross on which the prince of war redirect my riches gain Ah, I count God content Great singing, and thank you for playing for us. Okay, well, if you have a copy of God's word, I'd like to ask you to turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, and uh the topic we're going to address is the tragedy of political infighting in the church. And uh I almost uh titled It The Danger the Tragedy of Politics in the Church. But I thought that may be slightly confusing considering the week that we're in. But actually when I was digging into this passage of scripture, I said, you know what? And God's wisdom, this is what he wanted us to hear tonight. And I think that what we will look at is going to be very, very practical and helpful for us. And especially as we think about all the stuff that's gone on in our country over the last year. I don't know. It's been a while now. Anybody exhausted? Like you just glad to be done with this? I I think. Yeah, right. Just very exhausting process. And we as Christians, we we need to be engaged, we need to be knowledgeable, but we need to make sure that we don't become like the world around us. And that's really what this text is going to be all about, making sure that we think biblically about how we relate to other people. 1 Corinthians 1, verse 10 says the following. Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. That ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you, but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you. Now This I say that every one of you saith, I am of Paul, and I am of Apollos, and I am of Cephas, and I am of Christ Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Were ye baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptize none of you but Christmas and Gaius. lest any should say that I had baptized in mine own name. I baptized also the household of Stephanus. Besides, I know not whether I baptized any other. For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. Now, this is the fascinating passage of Scripture. Because Paul is hammering in on an issue that he was very concerned about in the church of Corinth. And that issue is the issue of divisiveness. in the church. And we could use the word factions where people kind of divided themselves up into little groups. Another word sometimes that people might use is the word clicks. Where people kind of get into this little group where they're centered on a personality or some kind of common interest, and that begins to be the thing that dominates that group of people. And then there's another group of people that dominates that group. And pretty soon people's identity isn't in Christ in their thinking as much as it is in the little group that they have found to be their common interest group. There's a tremendous danger of that in the church, and Paul is going to address it because it was creating deep divides. that were very hurtful and were really compromising the testimony of the church because it said we do not prioritize what we say we believe. That's ultimately what was going on here. So let me give you, first of all, a summary statement for the text that's in front of us, and then we're going to jump into this in a couple of parts. So, the summary statement, Paul was overwhelmingly burdened that the church would reject political infighting and humbly embrace biblical priorities. Now in order to kind of appreciate that little statement, we've got to go back just a little bit to the very first lesson that we had from the book of 1 Corinthians. And we actually weren't in 1 Corinthians, we were actually in Acts Because we're looking at the birth of the Church of Corinth, and we talked a little bit about the dynamics, the culture of the city that the church was planted in. We know that Corinth was a cosmopolitan city. And this city had an obnoxious political system. So if you were a little bit frustrated with what has gone on in our own context, you've got to remember this is not a new problem to humanity. This is a a human problem that goes back from generation to generation to generation. In fact, there were two historians I read that made some fascinating statements about the political system there in Corinth. This is what one historian wrote. The city's culture fits the model of a highly egocentric, individualistic, and competitive society. Dominated by the big man who imposes himself as a leader and who derives prestige and power from the size of his following What an amazing statement. I didn't write that. Somebody wrote that about Corinth 2,000 years ago. Another historian said the following. And egocentric, any sense of relationship or mutual obligation rests purely on a fiscal basis where there is no interchange of goods or services. There is only suspicion hostility and the risk of warfare. Now, if you if you think about the way that Paul related to the church at Corinth, There's a really interesting passage we're going to deal with. It's going to be a long time from now, but one of the things that Paul is going to argue to the church is he says, as an apostle who teaches you the word of God, preaches the word of God, I have the right to expect you to make sure that my physical needs are met because you have benefited spiritually by my labor. Okay? And he goes back to the Old Testament principle of saying that if you have an animal like an ox, If it's treading the grain, then it should be allowed to eat the grain because it should benefit from the work that it's doing. Let the animal survive. And so he takes that little principle and he says, as a minister of the gospel, you should take care of me. But then this is really interesting. He says, however, though that is true, I didn't take one coin from this church. I refused to let you support me. I worked with my own hands. And you go, wait a minute. Paul, why are you doing that? You just told them that they need to take care of you, and now you're making the point that you refuse to let them do it. Are you not teaching them to be disobedient? And he said, no. The reason is because he knew the mentality of the people. Because in their minds they thought if we give you something, you owe us something. Does that sound familiar? Like why do you think that people give to political parties? I'm not talking about people like you and me, okay? Like I mean like you know I gave fifty bucks or twenty bucks or like it didn't do a whole lot, all right? It made a couple of cards for somebody. No, I'm talking about somebody who's given massive amounts of money. Why do they do that? Because if they have contributed to the movement They have the opportunity to get some help back. It's an incentivized structure. You say, well, we're we're Americans, we're beyond that. Yeah, right. You know that's not true because we're living through it right now, right? So the whole idea is that people are thinking, who's going to win? Who can I influence? How can I get benefit? And so in people's minds, it's not about, I want to be a blessing to you, no strings attached. I appreciate that you want to be a blessing to me. We're just going to be brothers and sisters who relate to one another in a godly manner. That's not the way the Corinthian church was thinking. And so Paul said, no. I'm not going to let you take care of me materially and then come to me and say, you can't say that because you know what? We're supporting you. He said, I'm not going to allow that to happen. So this kind of goes back to giving us an appreciation for the mentality of the people at Corinth. This has a lot to do with why the problem he's addressing is going on in the church. Since we've lived through a highly contentious political season, we have a good appreciation, or maybe we could say a full appreciation for what these historians are saying in Corinth. Paul warned the church, do not follow the world's example. And the reason that Paul is teaching this is because This is consistent with the teaching of Christ. Let me give you two examples. Interesting passages. I could have gone to a lot more examples than this, but I want to hit two. The first one is Mark chapter 10. Verse 33. And here's the example of Jesus. He's going up to Jerusalem with his disciples. And the question is, why is he going there? He's going to die. He's going to be crucified so that they can be forgiven and cleansed and reconciled to God. And here's what the text says. Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man shall be delivered unto the chief priests and the scribes. And they shall condemn him to death, and deliver him to the Gentiles, and they shall mock him and scourge him and spit on him and kill him, and the third day he shall rise again. Now, you would think that the disciples would go, that's terrible, Jesus. Can you explain to us why you need to do that? That is not what they did. And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, come unto him, saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we desire. Like, what are you talking about? Could you say like they're kind of missing the point of what's about to happen? Whenever you whatever we ask you, will you promise you'll do it? Like you're just like, oh my But you know, sometimes this kind of mentality gets into our heads too a little bit, does it not? And then they go on, they say this. They said unto him, Grant unto us that we might sit, one on thy right hand, the other on thy left hand, in thy glory. And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and John. So they're like, what's your guy's problem? We're supposed to be on the right hand and the left, not you. It's not like they're looking at them going, you guys are so carnal, you guys are so worldly. Why don't you think more like a disciple of Jesus? They're like, why do you get that and not me? Not very good, is it? So then Jesus says this. Jesus called unto him and saith unto them, You know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them. And their great ones exercise authority upon them, but so shall it not be among you. Whosoever will be great among you shall be your minister. Whosoever of you will be the chiefest shall be servant of all. The Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. You want to talk about like just leveling that mindset? Jesus takes it and just crushes it. And then we have a second example. This is, they're literally celebrating the Passover. And Jesus says, one of you is going to betray me tonight. And he says, one of you who takes this bread with us is going to betray me. And Jesus is explaining that he is the Passover lamb. This is the New Testament in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it to remember me. And this is what happens after those statements. And there was also strife among them, and which of them should be accounted the greatest. Wow. He said unto them, the kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. You shall not be so. He that is greatest among you, let him be the younger. He that is chief as he that doth serve. Same thing Now, the fact that Jesus has to say this to these people would give us an indication that maybe sometimes he would have to say it to us too. And the fact is that there are many, many times that we as Christians, whether we realize this or not We begin to develop a mentality that is no different than lost people all around us. We can point the finger and say, look at your values, look at your values, look at your values. But the bottom line is We have their values when we think like this. So let's dig into the text Part number one, a disheartening update. Verse number 11, he says this. It hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe. That there are contentions among you. Now, to kind of give you a little bit of perspective about this, Paul is obviously getting some word about people he loves a lot. I mean if we want to take it back a little bit, do you think about on Sunday nights where we get up and we have missions moments and we get these missions letters And obviously when we sit in that office and we pull out the missions letters and and and Braxton goes through it or I'm going through that, um we we want to be positive and encouraging as much as possible. And the people that write these letters, they want to be cur encouraging as much as possible. And so we tend to really like focus on the positive things. Why? Because we want you to be encouraged in the ministry. Well, when we hear these missions uh reports, and there are things that God's doing. Somebody gets saved, there are people that are growing in discipleship, they just had a baptism. They've had new people join the church. They went through this struggle season, but God is blessing. When we hear those things, what does it do? It lifts us up and encourages us a lot. And especially if you have personally visited those missionaries, you have spent time one-on-one with them Or you, I mean for me, when I think about the church in Ghana and and and you know the labors that that we had as a family And I hear somebody give a report, I mean, it really affects me. Why? Because I know those people. I love those people. I remember when they got saved. I remember when they got baptized. I remember doing discipleship with many of these people. So when I hear their name, it's not just a name. I have experience with these individuals. Which has the potential to bring a lot of joy or grief. Can go either way. And so it could bring a great burden. Hearing of the discouraging report of Christians drifting away from what they've been taught. Failing to work in the path that's laid before them, that can really be heavy. That was Paul. Paul was not encouraged by what he heard. He was deeply grieved by what he heard. I mean we can think of this principle even with parents. I was uh teaching this to my kids not long ago, Proverbs chapter 10, 1, my son. Make it a glad father. A foolish son is the heaviness of his mother. And you know, just talk to the children and say, listen guys, we're raising you, we're teaching you, we're trying to be faithful in front of you. And one day you're going to be an adult and you're going to be on your own. And we're not going to say, you can't do this, you can't do this, you have to do this, you have to do this, because you're going to be on your own and the decisions that you make are gonna be your decisions, but we're gonna be Glad to see those decisions, or we're going to be agrieved by those decisions? Wisdom or foolishness? And so here's this church. The problem wasn't Paul. He was a faithful minister. They had opportunity. They weren't doing with it what they should have. So let's dig into the problem a little. In verse 12 he says, every one of you saith, I'm of Paul, I'm of Apollos, I'm of Cephas, I'm of Christ. Their problem was an identity issue, not their actual identity, but what they perceived to be their identity, what was most important to them What really moved their affections, what made them angry, what brought them a sense of satisfaction, what motivated them, what they were trying to maneuver to get. Or to be seen as. It was all about a misplaced identity. Rather than finding their greatest sense of delight in their position in Christ, they were caught up with worldly concerns. There was a worldly values problem. So the truth is when you talk about Paul and you talk about Apollos and you talk about Peter, those are three different individuals who were wired differently Okay? So when we think about Peter, we don't think of an orator, we think of a bull in a china shop. So if you're the kind of guy that likes somebody who's aggressive and bombastic and forceful and just speaks off the top of their head, you like Peter. Alright? Some people you like that. Some people that bothers you. But that's Peter. And if you like a guy that's Mr. Logic. Maybe not like maybe not somebody who's like entertaining to listen to, but he's very logical, he's very methodical, very lawyerly in the way he approaches it. You like Paul. I mean Paul did put a guy to sleep and he died in the service. But he was there all night, right? And you read the book of Romans and you go Paul is Mr. Logic. You know, here's argument number one. Here's argument number two. Here's objection number one. Here's objection number two. Argument number three. And he just moves his way through the passage of scripture. So if that's how your mind works, you like Paul And Apollos, he was an orator. If you like somebody that means they can speak, and everybody's just like, whoa, that guy's amazing. He's your guy. And if you're a spiritually minded person, you realize you're a disciple of Jesus. How's that? Were they wrong? No, they were right. What is the point? The point is the person that they resonated with the best was the one that they wanted to be identified with. And I hate to say this, but if you're a person where people are drawn to you, that can get to your head. You know, if somebody's very persuasive, they can get to a point where they kind of like having people follow their viewpoint. They kind of like having people hang on every word or like listen to all those objections and those arguments. And they can really get into that. So that's very appealing to a Peter. That's very appeal appealing to an Apollos or a Paul So the problem is not always just on one side. It can actually end up on both sides. Ministers can cater to crowds because they're trying to draw an audience. It's the problem on both sides What's at the heart of that? Worldly values. The ministry isn't about us. It's not about who we're identified with as a human. It's about our Savior Jesus Christ. And so a correct view of our identity is that we recognize Jesus is everything. And all those little categories and those little boxes that we put ourselves in sometimes of our own volition. And sometimes the world puts us in because they want to put us in that little box. A little identity group, guess what? That stuff's irrelevant. Our culture, our ethnic background, how much money we make. Our associations, our friend groups, parts of the country we're from, all those things. Those are irrelevant when it comes to this issue of how we should relate to one another as Christians. For instance, in Galatians 3, he says this. Ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. Period. There it is. You're Christians. You're in Christ. That's what really matters. He says, as many of you as have been baptized into Christ, placed into the body of Christ, have put on Christ, where there is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither bond nor free. There is neither male nor female. You are all one in Christ Jesus. And if ye be Christ, then you are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. Now, if somebody who lived in Corinth or lives in the region of Galatia became a Christian and they went to their master and said, I'm now a Christian, so there's neither There's neither bond or free. I'm gone. He'd say, whatever. You can't do that. There are laws. Your position hasn't changed. Here's what it's talking about. In the church, you had people from all different walks of life. You had people who were free citizens of the Roman Empire, and you have people that were in bondage in households. And when somebody got up and preached the word, he didn't want to say, Oh, here's where the rich people in the church sit, and here's where the poor people in the church sit. And here's where the Jewish people in the church sit, and here's where the Gentile people in the church sit, and here's where the Roman citizens sit, and here's where the non-Roman citizens sit. He says irrelevant Do not accept such a mentality. Your identity is Christ and Christ alone Colossians 3, put on the new man which is renewed in the knowledge after the image of him that created him. There is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision, uncircumcision, barbarian, Synthian, bond, or free. Christ is all in all. Same concept. Same concept. But here's what I want you to notice. The application of it is the next thing he says. Put on therefore. As the Elect of God, holy and beloved, put on bows of mercy. Kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving one another. His application is because you're all equally in Christ Then you need to relate to one another as brothers and sisters in Christ. Humility, not divisive, well, we're of this group, so we don't have to deal with you. No, no, no. Patience. Mercy. Forbearance. Forgiving. You know what the gospel does? It changes people in a way nothing else can. One of the things that really grieves me about our American culture right now is how divisive it is, because it's all about I'm in this identity group here. And I'm in this identity group here, and I'm in this identity group here. And people take great pride in their group. You know what that does? It divides a country. Like that's that's very destructive to a country. It's very destructive to a community. And guess what? It's destructive the churches too. Highly destructive. The fact is, there's nowhere in the Bible that talks about American citizenship and how all that works out. That is a human situation. We have laws that aren't ordained by God. They're created by man so that people function in an orderly way in society. But when we talk about the ordering of the church, that that is clear-cut from the scriptures. And so the idea is that we need to emphasize things correctly. Our identity is about Jesus and being in him, forgiven, cleansed, declared righteous. That's what matters. Part number two. A corrective measure. How does Paul go about trying to correct the issue with the church? In verse 10 he says, I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. That ye all speak the same thing, that there be no divisions among you, and that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. Now, that statement has quite a few pieces to it that I think are noteworthy. He very carefully frames the issue. For instance, he says, I beseech you. And I would encourage you, when you see that statement in your Bible, I beseech you. The vast majority of cases, I'm not going to say every case because I haven't gone and looked at every case, but generally speaking, when you see that phrase, I beseech you. That word that is used there is the exact same word that is used to describe the Holy Spirit being our paraclete. Okay? He is the one who comes alongside of us. And he strengthens us, he uplifts us, he encourages us, he motivates us, he reminds us who we are in Christ, he reminds us what we have in Christ. And he presses us forward. He is the motivator, the encourager, the comforter. That's the word. So he says, I beseech you. Don't think in terms that Paul's like, I rebuke you. No, I come alongside of you and I lift you up and I encourage you. It's not a condescension. It's coming alongside and encouraging. He wants to come alongside them and strengthen their resolve to do what is right. The second thing is he calls them brethren. Why does that matter? Well, he's reminding them that they're a part of the family. You know, sometimes Christians can get really nasty with each other and sometimes you just want to step back and go, Do you not realize that's your brother in Christ? Do you not realize that's your sister in Christ? Do you not realize you're supposed to have this bond in Christ together? Like, why do you think like the world around you? You have no business thinking like that, no business acting like that And so he reminds them they're brethren. Third thing is he says it's by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. He reminds them that this instruction comes with the authority of Christ. He, not Paul, is the one who's ultimately saying this to the church. He's saying, Jesus, your Lord, your master, your savior, he tells you to do this. And then he states it both negatively and positively. He says, speak the same thing, that there be no divisions among you. In other words, find common ground so that the stuff that's separating you stops. That's the negative. Stop being divisive. That's what he's saying. Well, there are a lot of people that would say, okay, I won't be contentious with other people. I just won't deal with them. I'll just be on my own. Have you ever heard that before? Oh yeah. They're toxic. I can't deal with them. I won't be divisive. I just won't deal with them. I can't tell you how many times I've heard that kind of a thing. This is not just a negative thing. Stop being divisive. There's a second piece. It's positive. Be perfectly joined together in the same mind and the same judgment. Be unified by a common set of priorities. It's not good enough to say I'm not fighting with other Christians. It's not good enough to say I'm not a jerk to you. I don't deal with you because we can't get along, so I'll just choose not to be mean to you. I'm going to be neutral. Not good enough. He says, be perfectly joined together in the same mind and the same judgment. Sounds a lot like Philippians chapter 2. Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. We could go to a lot of other texts in the New Testament, we'd find the same thing. So what is Paul saying? He's saying to correct this issue, stop being divisive. Come together with a common set of priorities, which are all rooted in the gospel of Jesus Christ. What should be most important to us is it being right. Or proving their wrong, it's being united in what is true and right and most important. So that's how he frames the issue. Secondly, his wise approach to addressing the issue. And there's tremendous wisdom in how Paul addresses this. He begins with asking questions. Now, I know that there are two ways to ask questions. Actually, there's more than two ways to ask questions, but there's a way where we can ask questions like we're a lawyer. And we are asking questions to belittle a person so that we back them into the corner and with every single answer they get a little smaller and a little bit more back into the corner and eventually we're like, gotcha. That's not the idea. You are asking questions so that people will engage with this and they will come to right conclusions themselves. So when a person asks a question, it's not about backing you into a corner. It's about helping you to think about reality correctly. So he asks the question, is Christ divided? I mean, does he have like two kinds of churches, four kinds of churches, ten kinds of churches? The answer is no, there's one Jesus and there's one body of Christ. So he asks the question because he wants them to think in terms of there is one body of Christ You're a part of it. They're a part of it. Quit thinking like there's a whole bunch of them. Second question, was Paul crucified for you? Am I your Savior? Was Peter your Savior? Was Apollos your Savior? Is Christianity about them? Or is it about somebody else? I mean it's a pretty great question, is it not? Why do we so idolize people? There's a difference between giving proper respect to a person and idolizing them. Okay? Idolizing means I look at them in a way that is it's it's it's just it's not proportionate to reality at all Honor means I recognize this is a flawed individual, but because of the position that God has given them, the responsibilities He's given them, the duties that He's given them, I treat them with respect. Those two things are totally different. And so Paul's saying, you don't worship the men that brought you the word. You worship the Jesus they gave to you through the word. You are saved by Christ. Third question. Were you baptized into the name of Paul? He's saying, is your identity in Paul? Is your identity in Peter? Is your identity in Apollos? The answer is no. Our foremost identity has to be in Christ. It's like a person who , and when I use this illustration, I want you to think that it's always done the wrong way But a lot of times when people think of their church, they think in terms of, oh, that's Pastor So-and-so 's church. Have you ever heard that kind of kind of kind of terminology? Oh, that's Brother So-and-so's church. That is not Pastor So-and-so 's church. That's Jesus' church, and they're one of the people serving in that church. Okay? They might be the one who teaches the word the most in that church. They may be the one who is in the pastoral role, but it's not their church. It's Christ's church. We've got to be so very cautious about how we think of that. And I'm not suggesting if you ever use that terminology that you're, you know, suggesting and believing that that church belongs to a man. I'm not saying that. But sometimes people do actually have that mentality. Second thing he does is he reminds them of their history together. Verses 14 through 16 he says, I thank God I baptize none of you. I thought pastor is fun to see people get baptized. It's kind of interesting. It tells you something about priority with Paul. His priority was preach the gospel, preach the gospel, preach the gospel. People are going to get baptized, but his primary, he was an evangelist. That's what he was. He wasn't a pastor. He did the work of a pastor for a time, but he was not a pastor. He was an evangelist. He was a missionary. We use that term, but he was an evangelist. He says, I thank God I baptized none of you but Christus and Gaius, lest any should say that I had baptized in my own name. I baptized also the household of Stephanus. Besides, I know not whether I baptized any other. Now, there's a couple of things that I think are very noteworthy here. Paul was careful not to promote himself. He didn't care about people following him. He was careful not to encourage a patronizing mindset. Oh, if I give you this, you give me that. Paul says, I'm not doing that. I don't play those games. I'm here for one purpose. I'm here to tell you how to get saved. I'm here to point you to Jesus. I'm not here to create followers to myself. A third thing I think is very interesting is he didn't even keep detailed records of his successes. Some churches, man, they they go crazy on this. You know how many people got saved this year? And they got like a list of all these people who you will never ever see walk into that church again. They never got baptized, or they got baptized, but you never see them again. If you have 500 people get saved in your church and your church has 80 people, something ain't right. Okay? I'm just gonna say that. But but what is this telling you about Paul's mentality? He didn't keep track of that stuff. He didn't keep track of it for himself. He didn't keep track of it for them. He didn't keep track of it for other people. He was like, hey brother, let me tell you about all the people that got saved at our church at Corinth church plant. Let me tell you about all those baptisms. I'm not saying that we shouldn't be excited about people getting saved, folks But how much do we get a sense of pride out of that? That's the problem. Not that we're excited about God working, it's that we're excited about propping up our egos. Those things are very different. And so he reminds them of his history. Thirdly, he reminded them of his duty. Verse 17. Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with the wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. He's saying, Listen, your salvation is rooted in the person of Christ. It was accomplished through something he did for you, not I did for you. Human wisdom did not create this plan. Human wisdom did not argue you into the faith. I'm a messenger. You know, sometimes we get in our minds that that a person's soul hangs in the balances of our perfect illustration. If I can just present this in the right way, I'm going to convince someone to be a Christian. That's just not true. You can give someone the truth in the clearest way possible. You can give them incredible, incredible illustrations of the message, and they look at you with a stone face and say, I don't even care. And then you know what's really funny? That same person may randomly like pick up a track ten years later on a park bench and read it and go, I needed this. Isn't that crazy to think about? Like we may give them this incredible explanation. We may give them a kind of rough one. I mean the facts are there, but we're all over the place And then God uses it. You see, God's ways defy our ways. Now I'm not suggesting we should be sloppy at all I'm not suggesting we should be haphazard at all. I am suggesting that when we give the message, we do not take too much thought in the part we play in making that take place. We are messengers. We are instruments. We are tools. And God may bring that conversation to someone's mind a long time. There are people attending our church right now. That when I asked them, how did you find out about our church? This one individually said, um, I heard about it about 25 years ago. I'm like really? Yeah, twenty-five years ago I was like so when did you come for the first visit? He's like well I drove by a couple times and then one day I drove in the parking lot and then I left because I'm like I don't know I'm not ready for this and then one day I decided to come I'm like, really? Yeah, really. Like what got that you know, what what what piqued your curiosity? What made you think about it? And oh well it just this happened and then I started thinking about it. You're like, somebody invited you to this church 25 years ago. I mean like the people that were here 25 years ago, like a lot of them are dead, a lot of them don't live here anymore. Most of the people here don't know even one person from that time period. Yet God brought that individual in these doors A couple decades later. That's the way God works. And so the point is this. Paul is saying, I just give the message and I let God do the work. Human wisdom didn't create this plan. Human wisdom didn't argue into the faith. So do not treat me like I'm your hero. Christian ministry is all about the gospel, not the skills or personalities of the instruments God uses to work through. And that should that really is going to help us not become disillusioned because the truth is people will let us down. And you go, that guy, that person led me to Christ, and the way they handled that situation was so sloppy and so frustrating and so bad. And you go, God reached you through them. Despite them. And he does it with us too. So the last thing I want to ask is, well, how do you apply what we've talked about tonight? Paul was overwhelmingly burdened that the church would reject political inciting and humbly emblace embrace embrace biblical priority. So I want to give you a couple thoughts here at the end. First of all, I want to I want to Clarify something that may pop into our heads. And I think this is actually a tough question. What about labels? I mean, we are Anchor Baptist Church. Okay. Baptist Church, I mean, like is this chur is this passage telling us we shouldn't do something like that Many, many years, for many, many years, churches that were very staunch in their doctrinal views would be called fundamental Baptist churches. Some people use the term evangelical. Should we not do that? I mean, it's a fair question, is it not? Well, first of all, we have to understand that a term could be good or bad based on how people understand it. So a term like evangelical as you use that term, I mean uh some people that's a great term and some people that's a horrific term because it's too weak It's too strong. It's too political. But really the term evangelical basically means you believe that people need to be born again. I mean if a church preaches the gospel you could say it's evangelical. It's more more than that, hopefully, okay. But it's just a term that describes the nature of the church, their belief that people need to get saved and they need to give the gospel The word fundamentalist, it's a term that's not used very commonly anymore because we think of Islamic terrorism. When we hear the word fundamentalist or we think of like Westboro Baptist crazies, all right. So that term uh today is uh maybe a little bit problematic, to be very honest, because culturally it's not understood the way that it was, say, eighty years ago. But really the term meant that a person believed the basic, they had basic convictions regarding the core doctrines of the Christian faith. I believe that the Bible is actually the real Word of God. Okay? I believe that Jesus actually was born of a virgin. That is a real miraculous thing. And we talk about what we would call the fundamental doctrines of the faith. Or we use a term like Baptists. It tells you some basic convictions about some basic things like the Scripture is the final authority. It's not just Baptists who believe that. There's Presbyterians who believe that. There's uh Community churches that believe that. There's Baptist churches that don't believe that, to be very honest. But when people use the term historically Baptist, think they think of the scripture as the final authority. The church is a self-governing body with congregational church poly. That means they actually do business meetings. Not just the elders make decisions and then the church lives with it. But that the leadership has meetings with the congregation and they actually make decisions as a body. That every believer has equal access to God through Christ, not through a human mediator. In other words, I am not your priest, nor is your husband your priest, or your father your priest. Your priest is Jesus. You go to the Father through the Son. And so we call it the individual priest of the believer. Every believer has equal access to God through Christ. There are two offices, pastors and deacons. Liberty of conscience. That means we recognize there are some things that we have to put in the realm of conscience and we have to be deferential about these things. The church is made up of only believers who have followed the Lord and believers' baptism. The church practices two ordinances, the Lord's table and believers' baptism or immersion. Now, the reason that those things are helpful is that when a person is looking for a church, the question is, well, what are the beliefs of the church? So using a term like Baptist could be very helpful because they say, I believe Baptist doctrine. If I was sitting in a Presbyterian church and I realized that Well, they actually baptize babies and they don't do it uh they they they don't baptize by immersion. That's that's gonna really be a problem for me because I don't believe that that's biblical. So a term like Presbyterian versus Baptist is going to be very helpful. Or if a church realizes that these people actually do take the fundamental doctrines of the faith seriously, that is very helpful. But how you use that term could be good or bad. How you associate that term could be good or bad. So there's a need for follow-up questions like, why do you use these labels? Is it because we need agreement on issues of church administration so that we have liberty, that we work together in unison? Is it that we need to have agreement on doctrinal areas? If that's the reason, that's good. Is it because we need to be honest about how we approach areas of faith and practice? That's a good thing. But what's the attitude? We should not allow our positions to become the source of pride or comfort. There are a lot of people that use the term Baptist, not because they want people to understand what their doctrinal beliefs are, it's because it's really a sense of pride. I'm a Baptist. Okay. Does that make you a Christian? Are people that are not Baptist Christians, possibly? If that's why you use the term, well, then you actually are violating the principle of the text in front of us. If your identity is in something other than Jesus, that's a problem. And so a lot of it comes down to why? Why do we use the term? Why do we see it's necessary? What is the attitude that we hold as we use the term? There is an appropriate and right way to use some of these terms, and there's a clearly wrong way. You could have two people sitting in the same building using the same terms for totally different reasons. And you can't even make a judgment about which one's using it right or wrong just by watching them do it. Because you can't get down into the heart. So we need to be very careful about this issue. Let me give you what I think are the most direct applications. First of all, division is a symptom of a deeper heart problem. The problem isn't the division as much as it's what causes the division. Now, what the division does is very destructive, don't get me wrong. But when you see a divisive spirit You need to ask what is under the surface. What does the proverb say? It is by pride that contention comes. So why are people contentious? Because of pride? It's a manifestation of a set of values that drive how we relate to other people. So we need thoroughly biblical priorities. We need the gospel to be the center of our focus. We need a love for God, not comfort or status to be our highest motivation. We need to think and act as if Christ alone is our true identity. And so that's my encouragement to you tonight, especially as we think about what we've lived through as in our in our country over just this exhausting political season. I hope that more than anything else your identity is a Christian. And that when people interact with you , They can tell by your character and thinking that you're a Christian more than who you voted for, who you love, who you hate in the political world, that what they know most about you Is that Jesus is the rock that you stand on and your life is rooted in him and your character is conformed to him. Him. May God help us to be a people who are properly prioritizing how we look at this issue. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for the word. I pray that you would take the truths of Scripture and impress them on our hearts. Help us to grow into Christ's likeness. Help us to be faithful believers who love you more than anything else in the world and that are living for you because you are changing us and shaping us into your image. Image. We ask it in Christ's name Amen