I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh if you joined us this past Sunday, uh we dealt with uh the passage that we commonly call the triumphal entry into Jerusalem, uh Palm Sunday And so that's what the focus of our studies will be this week, and I'm looking forward to these studies. And so if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. Let's turn together to John chapter 12. And we're going to look at several verses in verses one through nineteen. And then we're going to look at the momentum that was building that really sets the stage for us to appreciate what's going on on Palm Sunday. So John chapter 12, verse number one says the following. Then Jesus, six days before Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. Then they made him a supper, and Martha served, and Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him Then if you skip down to verse number 12 it says, And on the next day much people were come to the feast when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. They took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh to Israel, the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat upon it as it was written, Fear not, daughters of Zion, behold thy king cometh sitting on an ass 's colt These things understood not as disciples at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they these things that were written of him And then what they had these things had done unto him. The people therefore that was with him, when he called Lazarus out of the grave and raised him from the dead, bear record. For this cause the people also met him, that they heard that he had done this miracle. The Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Perceive ye how they prevail Now, in order for us to appreciate what's going on in these verses, I think we need to talk about the momentum of these events. And so as we work our way through this passage, I'm going to talk about some of the key details that that are building. I don't know Uh if you're a sports fan, I I'm a sports fan, my kids are sports fans, and uh we love football, love wrestling, uh love these kinds of sports. And in those kinds of sports, a lot of times there are momentum swings that take place in a game. Well There is a momentum swing, if you want to put it that way, that's going on, and the disciples can feel it, and they're anticipating that something really big is going to happen. And in fact, they're right, something really big was about to happen, but it wasn't what they were anticipating And so let's kind of work our way through some of these details. First of all, I want you to notice the events that would have built these expectations. First of all, This is the the Passover season. And so this is the opening to the Jewish calendar. In fact, in verse 1 it says at six days before the Passover that they came to Bethany. And so Jesus is going with his disciples. They're going to celebrate the Passover in Jerusalem. And it's the beginning of the Jewish year. It's a commemoration. of the triumph where God delivers his people out of slavery in Egypt. And you could almost just anticipate how the disciples were feeling at this time. They've seen all these miracles. We're talking about what some of the miracles were that had just taken place. In their minds, they're saying this is the prime moment, this is the time that Jesus should announce himself to be the King of the Jews. Take over the Roman rule, just throw at the Romans and establish his kingdom like the prophets have foretold. That's the mindset of these people. The second event that's taken place that's very significant, and we see this in verse number one, is that it says that they came to the place where Lazarus, which was dead , had been raised from the dead. And so Lazarus has has died. He's laid in the tomb for several days. Jesus comes, he raises him back from the dead. to life and people are talking about this all over the place. So we just had this resurrection of Lazarus. It's the Passover season and There is this intense building of opposition against Jesus, and even those who are opposed to him, his adversaries, realize that the momentum was swinging against them and people were turning to Jesus and droves. And so it says it in verse 10, it says the chief priests consulted together How they might put Lazarus also to death because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus. So you have the Passover. You have Jesus raising Lazarus to dead uh from the dead to life. You have the religious leaders who are antagonists to Christ. They're they're basically plotting how they can get rid of Lazarus because Lazarus is this bearing testimony to the power and the authority of Christ, and people are turning to Christ because of the testimony of Lazarus coming back to life. But there's even more momentum building because in verse number 12 it tells us that this massive crowd comes to the entrance to the city as Jesus is coming in with his disciples and they began to cry out something that we will address in just a minute. Here's what it says in verse twelve. On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees, went forth to meet him What they're basically saying is we want you to rescue us. And I I think it's hard for us to appreciate how many people were packed into Jerusalem during this festive season. And so I tried to do a little bit of research and I want to give you kind of an appreciation for it by saying this. The sheer volume of people that flock to Jerusalem was stunning for the ancient world. If you're to compare the size of of Rome, which was the capital of the entire empire, the most powerful and most significant season in the ancient world at that time, that the population of Rome during normal seasons was Not a whole lot bigger than that of Jerusalem. Jerusalem's uh population was around 600,000 or so people, which by modern standards Isn't a whole lot of people. But we also have to recognize that the size of Jerusalem wasn't very large. The square mileage or the square footage If you were to take the the the mall area, the national mall in DC, and you were to you were to take that entire area, that's about the size of Jerusalem at that time. It's it's comparable. It's not exact, but it's pretty close. And so you have 600,000 people not living in high-rises, but living in small dwellings within the city, a large chunk of the city. is the Temple Mount region where people flock for worship and all those kinds of things. And so you have a lot of densely populated area right there. But then during the Passover season, you had a volume of people that would come into the city. In fact, by uh if you read a lot of the historians of that time, they would estimate that that group of 600,000 people would swell to close to three million people. And so we're talking about five times the population of what the city would normally have. So Think about three million people packed into an area like the the mall area, the National Mall in DC, and that is what we're talking about in Jerusalem during the Passover. By comparison, out of all the presidential inaugurations that we've had, the largest was estimated around 1. 8 million people. So we're talking about just a little bit shy of double the number of people that went to the largest presidential inauguration in U. S. history. What does that tell you? When it says that the people flocked to see Jesus and they're crying Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. That was a really passionate, that was an emotional That was an exhilarating moment. And you've got to imagine that as the disciples are witnessing this and their minds are saying, Passover. Lazarus raised to life, that the religious leaders are in opposition against Christ. He's coming in, these crowds are just pressing on him. We're about to witness the most significant event in the life and ministry of Christ. And you would be right if you were one of the disciples. But it wasn't what they were thinking And then we conclude with what they actually said. If we go to the 118th Psalm, what we'll see is that they were quoting directly from that, and they say, Hosanna. Blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And that's a messianic psalm. It's one where people are crying out, save us. But what's amazing about Psalm 118 is that clearly he references the sacrifice of the Messiah in order to save his people. And so the Jewish people that are crying out, Hosanna, don't realize That they are about to fulfill prophecy. Jesus is about to do exactly what Psalm 118 said, and he was going to do it so that they could be saved, but they wouldn't understand it. You might say, well, Joel, that's a lot to process, but what what do we take away from it? Well, here's some things that I I jotted down as I was thinking about this The first is sometimes we get caught up emotionally in the moment and we stop looking at things objectively. While the disciples and while the people in Jerusalem were feeling the emotional rush and the passion of that moment, they were not looking at the prophecies of the Old Testament with clarity and consistency. They understood that Jesus is the Messiah. They were correct about that. But they didn't understand what he must do in order to bring in that kingdom that they so much longed for. Sometimes in the emotional moments of our Christian experience We find ourselves in a similar place. We stop looking at the scriptures objectively and we start getting moved either too negative or too positive because our emotions are driving us rather than the the authoritative scripture that we have the opportunity to read. The second thing that I'll mention is that it has the possibility of going both positive or negative We can get caught up in the moment either way where things can be going in a great direction and all of a sudden we stop thinking and start stop understanding that this is still a falling world. We're still going to experience frustrations And all of a sudden we don't look at the scriptures objectively. On the other side, we can allow the negative moments and the way that things are moving in a very difficult direction to cloud our judgment and cause us to be extremely discouraged. Those are two things that I want to mention as well. Third thing, God is always working to accomplish his good purposes in our lives. Now, these events were a part of God's plan And there is movement toward the culmination of all these prophecies. The problem is that the people don't understand the order of those events, the nature of those events. They understand a piece of it, but not the entirety of it. And it's them having to live through those events that's going to give them an appreciation for what actually has taken place and why it was necessary. Fourthly Sometimes we misunderstand what God's doing, which leads us to the final thought I want to say, and that is, even though that was the case for the disciples, and sometimes that's the case for us, it does not thwart what God is ultimately doing. We need to recognize that even when we get confused and when sometimes we're disillusioned or sometimes uh we're in this emotional high which is really not sustainable and consistent with the reality of this life. There are times that God just continues his work, even though our perspective is very, very flawed. And that's really what we're going to see this week as we dig into this passage of scripture The disciples got caught up in the moment. The crowds got caught up in the moment. But by the end of it all, what did God do? He accomplished his plan. And then they were able to look back with clear eyes and they were able to appreciate what was actually going on. I'm really looking forward to this study that we're going to do this week. I hope it will be an encouragement to you. I hope that the service on Sunday was a great blessing. A lot of wonderful hymns that week. We have in that that service and so many different uh scriptures that point us to the glories of God's kingdom. And so I hope that Sunday was a tremendous blessing for you. Looking forward to the rest of our week, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our study. Bye now