Well good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a great week. And uh this is the midpoint Wednesday morning. And so if you have a Bible, I want to ask you to take it. Let's turn together as we continue looking at the parable of the Good Samaritan. And this morning you might say, well, well, Joel, it seems like we haven't gotten to the parable yet. We're just dealing with uh the the questions that this man asks , the questions that Jesus asked, and you say what why can't we just get into the content of the parable? And I I will say that it's important for us to not miss the dialogue back and forth because the dialogue back and forth is an important part of helping us understand why Jesus gave the parable that he did. And and it's not just the details of the parable that are important, it's the backstory that's also very important. And whenever we are studying scripture, um part of understanding context is doing what we're doing this week as we dig into the passage. So again, let's turn in our Bibles to Luke chapter 10. We're looking at verses 25 through 37. But this morning I won't read the entire section. I'll just read a portion of it that is pertinent to our discussion today. Here's what it says. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And he said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? He answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God. with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself He said unto him, Thou hast answered right, this do, and thou shalt live. And he will being willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbor? Now we're going to focus in on the the discussion between Jesus and this man. Yesterday we talked a little bit about the motivation and the problem. that this man had. But now I'd like to kind of look at the solution side. How does Jesus speak to him so that he can be helped out of this condition that he's in, a condition of spiritual blindness? Where He does not see himself properly, his attitude towards God is wrong, and he's trying to justify his sin. How does Jesus begin to address the problem? Well, there are two questions that Jesus asks, and the questions are very closely related, but there is a difference in the two questions. The first question that Jesus asked deals with the issue of content. In verse 26, he says, What is written in the law? That word what is extremely important because it's dealing with context. And what Jesus is showing is that the answer to the question is not just what's your philosophy versus what's my philosophy, or what does your teach church, your religious group teach versus what is my religious group? group teach. Jesus is taking the the question and the answer to the question to this issue of authority and the authority is what do the scriptures say about this issue And not only does he ask the question, what do the scriptures say, asking if the man understands the content where the authority lies, but he asks the second question. And the second question deals with implication. He says, how readest thou? Another way to put that is, I know what it says, and you know what it says But how are you reading what it says? How are you applying what it says? How are you responding to what it says? What are the implications to what it says? There's a difference between understanding what it says and how you understand what it says. It's like the difference between knowing what is true and then actually acting on what is true. Knowing the facts and living in the light of the facts are two entirely different things. And so his application to this man is very direct. Jesus says in verse 28, Thou hast answered rightly. What you're saying is true. But then here is where the key begins to lie. He says, do this and thou shalt live. Now, when Jesus says that, is Jesus basically telling us that the way you go to heaven is by keeping the commandments? Well the answer to that question is no, he's not saying that. You say, well, he just said that you need to go do those things and you will live. And if if it was possible to obey the law, and if this man had entirely obeyed the law, then a person could have eternal life on the basis of their righteousness. But we are not righteous people. In other words, a person who is righteous is going to obey the law in all points. That's what Jesus did. And so Jesus was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. And so because he is righteous, he kept the law perfectly. But there is no such thing as a righteous person outside of Christ. And so Paul concludes on this issue. He says, We conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. We conclude that by the deeds of the law no flesh shall be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. The reason that Paul says those things is because there's no such thing as a righteous person outside of Christ. And so when Jesus makes the statement to the man, he's making the statement to the man so that the man will think about the fact that he has a problem. He does not keep the law. And so the way that this man should have responded was, Jesus, I have a problem. I don't keep the law. I don't love my neighbor as I love myself. I violated on so many points. And then Jesus would have said, exactly right. So, what is your hope? And he would say, I don't have any. And Jesus would say, I've come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundant. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. He that believeth on me is not condemned. Okay? He would have said things like that. But the man wasn't in that position. He wasn't in the position to say, I'm supposed to keep the law. I haven't kept the law. What am I supposed to do? Instead, the man said this. Well, who's my neighbor? I I think about that question and what it tells me is that this man did not yet have the ability to objectively look at the truth and then make the application Now it's easy for us to look at this man and be critical and say, I can't believe he can't do this. But we have to recognize that every single one of us was like that at one time too. Now, if you are saved, you're not like that anymore. And the reason is because you can't be saved apart from understanding that a person is guilty, condemned, hopeless, helpless. seeing our righteousness as filthy rags, and then we see the work of Christ and we trust in it. So if you're saved, you're not thinking like this anymore, but you once did. There may be people this morning that are listening to this series and we've come to this little piece and you go, well, I thought exactly like this man thinks. I thought that the way you go to heaven is through keeping the law. And so I gotta try harder, I gotta do more. The man needed to ask a different question. Instead of saying, who's my neighbor? to justify himself, he should have said, God be merciful to me a sinner. What can I do? Where can I find help? Where can I be saved? That's what he needed to do. It's like the man who went into the temple. And the one man stands up and he says, God, I thank you. I'm not like other men are. And then this other man says, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. This is the crossroads that this man is at. And what I'm thankful is that Christ didn't leave him here. Because tomorrow we're going to get into the actual content of the parable. And when we get into the actual content of the parable, I believe that you will see that what Jesus is doing is actually graciously showing this man what kind of a man he is. And showing this man what kind of a man he needs to be, so that he will ask the question, how do I become the man God wants me to be? What is the process? And he would say, well, it begins with faith alone in the Messiah. Well, I don't know about you, but that gives me something to think about today. Hope that you have a blessed rest of your Wednesday morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again on Thursday as we dig into the contents of this parable. Have a blessed day. Bye now.