And we're looking forward to a great week of Vacation Bible School. Please keep us in prayer. And at the end of our service, uh, I want us to spend a little bit of time together praying that the Lord really works. in our church and through our church and our vacation Bible school. Let's bow for a word of prayer and we'll start our service together. Father, thank you so much for this church, and I thank you for the many labors that have gone into preparation for vacation Bible school. And the teen rally. Thank you for all those who have been invited. Hundreds and hundreds of flyers have been distributed. Invitations have been given over the last several weeks. And I pray that you will take all of these invitations and you will use them to bring the children here that you would like to be here. And I pray that every time the gospel is given, it would be given with great clarity. I pray that we would have wisdom as we handle each situation. Pray for safety, a great time of fellowship, and thank you for all those who have given their time to be involved in this wonderful program. Pray for your blessing on our service this evening, and we ask that you'll speak to our hearts and bless our fellowship together, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right, let's get started with some singing. We'll open our hymn books to hymn number. Let's get on the right day here. 555. 555 face to face. Sing all four verses. Please stand, please stand Face to face with Christ might save your Face to face, what will it be? When with rapture I behold him, Jesus Christ died for me. I shall see embark. Oh, with family now I sing Welling will be sweet. But the month the day is farming when it's morish around this thing. Baby baby shaped for me on the sorry sky Face within all response, I shall see men. One, three choice, big and memory. Well about ice cream. When the broken labor and the Please be seated as we turn over to him 56 In the suite, by and by. We'll sing all three verses. From the double choice of turn out of the turn in my ear. Therefore , I'm a fair And my pain we can feel you the pawn upon the way. To make her We shall be on the law and the We shall free on that birthday console on the body of all And nothing Not the Bon or no things I And the three by someone by I love why you boy but we shall make a stop And five sixty eight until then Again, we'll sing all three verses. My heart can be when I thought I was making if God makes no This where we walk with all the spoil and swaddle May take it all our remote. And by the way , I've done it really if that 's me for the sun. But I tell that my I'm telling that I've driven on I 'm going to back my work. Not so my name, God was me all nothing of her Well them I mean more The bottom for one and big other home We don't move that when we bring us down But I till that Starbucks will go with me I know that when someone I'll tell you , my blessing I feel about there. Great to me. Okay, well on Sunday nights we'd like to take a little bit of time to give you opportunities to share testimonies of how the Lord has been working maailma huomani maailmaamaan niin huomalla huomataan Imma minnhom huma jim Ma mamma mini ma nim Il est For away the noise that's stripe upon my earth is for me. And I know that it 's a way. Don't we run things up and thank you on me? I'm with a lot of love underneath the problem. All right, two thirteen and the red book It is July, so I'll allow it. The angel that says was his love and wash up and kill the way. And elsewhere , my keeping that safe, on a call where deep No one, no one knows, for empathini. One seventy five in the blue book. More love to thee. Volo te vi , jotain te vi. More love to be more love to be All right and 380 in the red book. Faithful menu. I am looking to Jesus giving all in the race, pressing up what to cannot only fries. Faithful men are my witness who have struggled and died and they They watch on the grass and end up cross. They fall down before us. They for man who fight up and watch your fall. Alright, number seven in the blue book. Blessed be the name. Oh pray to him above and matter pray. Broken as well and the body that he might man with him Lacer vida , la semana, la semana, la serpida , né? Alright, we can take a couple more. That's Janelle. Twenty-six in the red book. Ian, there we go. I was I completely blanked on your entire family's name. 391. All right. And Grant, what's he got for us? Which one? 105 and the blue. 105 and the blue book. And then Mrs. Lee, you'll get the last one. One twenty in the red book. All right, twenty six in the red book. Praise to the Lord the Almighty Praise to the Lord, the Almighty, the King of Creation. Oh, my God , praise it for me is thy mouth and submission. Oh les meilleurs, la seul ne pleure contre toi-même Join me in Bravo three ninety-one in the red book. I am resolved. I am resolved no longer to linger , charm by the world's being life. That are higher, playing patternabla , the cabal would highlight I will make that to my sister where to me. All right, one hundred five in the blue book. For me to live is Christ In life white my home I'll pull me sad to live as twice to diet game I speak in. Magnify his name for me to live as price, for me to live as price, pursuing him. Alright, let's stand once more. We'll do one twenty in the red book. God makes no mistakes. Let's think both verses. My life I give to you all. Use may I pray May I glorify your precious name in all I do and think Let me trust you in the valley dark, as well as in the light , the wing you will with me, with me, your will with life I know God makes no mistakes, He leaves in every path I take along the way that's leading me to home. My heart would break, that the purpose, that every change he makes, that others would see my life and love that God Makes no mistake and went on there and bab I see his their face May I then be counted faithful as a runner in the trace, now entrusting in the Savior to show me the way And it's righteousness As I seek to please them day by day I know God makes no mistakes in these and everything Along the way that's leading me to home Though at times my heart must break There's a purpose and every change he makes that of Look once in my life and no fat God makes no mistakes. Great singing, please be seated. Why don't we get it? Deuteronomy thirty three tonight In spite of the title, I do intend it this to be an encouraging message. We spent the last several months looking at the life of Moses. Tonight we are looking at the end of Moses ' life. And we find that recorded for us here in Deuteronomy chapters 33 and 34. We'll find here the final blessing of Moses upon the nation of Israel. Israel before he ascended Mount Nebo and the Lord took him home. We've learned a lot from studying Moses ' life over the course of Of the last several months. We've seen where Moses fits into the story of God's redemption of mankind. But tonight, as we look at these last two chapters recording the life of Moses, we're going to find that God wants us to not only learn from his life. But also from the death of Moses. And for us to do that tonight, I'd like for us to consider three important lessons that we We can learn from reading these two chapters, along with some other passages, that have some immediate and very eternal Now tonight I'm going to be reading a big chunk of scripture. I know we're tired. Those of us who Been around all day, bear with me. But I'd like for us to read Deuteronomy 33. We'll start by reading the first 25 verses. And what we're going to find here is Moses' blessing and also prophesying concerning Israel. But in this blessing and in this prophecy, we'll find that he reveals in very deep understanding that he and the nation of Israel are a part of something much grander than what What even they realized. And in reading Deuteronomy 33, we're going to see that first lesson we should consider by learning how God relates to us Through prophecy. I'm going to be using blessing and prophecy interchangeably just to kind of streamline things. They are two different things, but for the sake of message And I'd like for us to use them a bit more interchangeably. So let's begin by reading Deuteronomy 33. We'll see how Moses blesses Israel. And this is the blessing wherewith Moses, the man of God, blessed the children of Israel before his death. And he said, The Lord came from Sinai and rose up from Seir unto them. He shined forth upon Mount Peran, and he came with ten thousand of his saints. From his right hand went a fiery law for them Yea, he loved the people. All his saints are in thy hand, and they sat down at thy feet. Every one shall receive of thy words Moses commanded us a law, even the inheritance of the congregation of Jacob. And he was the king in Jeshran. When the heads of the people and the tribes of Israel were gathered together. Let Reuben live and not die, and let not his men be few. And this is the blessing of Judah. And he said, Hear, Lord, the voice of Judah, and bring him unto his people. Let his hands be sufficient for him, and be thou in help to him from his enemies. And of Levi he said, Let thy Thuim and thy Urim be with thy holy one, whom thou didst prove at Masa, and with whom thou didst strive at the waters of Meribah. Who said unto his father and to his mother, I have not seen him. Neither did he acknowledge his brethren, nor knew his own children, for they have observed thy word and kept thy covenant. They shall teach Jacob thy judgments, and Israel thy law. They shall put incense before thee and whole burnt sacrifice upon thy altar. Bless Lord his substance and accept the work of his hands. Smite through the loins of them that rise against him, and of them that hate him, that they rise not again. And of Benjamin he said, The beloved of the Lord shall dwell in safety by him, and the Lord shall cover him all the day long, and he shall dwell between his shoulders. And of Joseph he said, Blessed be of the Lord be his land, for the precious things of heaven, for the dew, and for the deep that touches beneath And for the precious fruits brought forth by the sun, and for the precious things put forth by the moon, and for the cheap things of the ancient mountains, and for the precious things of the lasting hills, and for the precious things of the earth and fullness thereof And for the good will of him that dwelt in the bush, let the blessing come upon the head of Joseph, and upon the top of the head of him that was separated from his brethren His glory is like the firstling of his bullock. His horns are like the horns of a unicorns. With them he shall push the people together to the ends of the earth, and they are ten thousands of Ephraim, and there are thousands of Manasseh. And of Zebulun he said, Rejoice, Zebulun, in thy going out, and Issachar in thy tents. They shall call the people unto the mountain. There they shall offer sacrifices of righteousness. For they shall suck of the abundance of the seas and of treasures hid in the sand. And of Gad he said, Blessed be he that enlargeth Gad. He dwelleth as a lion, and teareth the arm with the crown of the head. And he provided the first part for himself, because there in the portion of the lawgiver was he And he came with the heads of the people. He executed the justice of the Lord and his judgments with Israel. And if Dan he said, Dan is the lion's wealth, he shall leap from Bashan. And if Natali, he said, O Neftali, satisfied with favor, and full with the blessing of the Lord, possess thou the west and the south. And of Asher he said, Let Asher be blessed with children. Let him be acceptable to his brethren. Let him dip his foot in oil. Thy shoes shall be iron and brass, and as thy days, so shall thy strength be That is the blessing of Moses upon the nation of Israel. And did you notice Moses really is dealing with Israel Within their own context. I say that because here we find him before he goes up to the summit of Mount Nebo, providing the final words that have been providentially preserved for us. And really, they reveal a great deal of very broad but prophetic information regarding these twelve tribes. And for sake of time, I can't delve into them. But having read it, it'd be good for us to kind of compare it to the blessingslash prophecy. That we find in Genesis 49. I'll just read a few verses from there where we find Jacob speaking to his sons near his deathbed. Notice it, see if you can notice some differences. In Genesis 49, he says, Gather yourselves together and hear, ye sons of Jacob, and hearken unto Israel your father. Reuben, thou art thy first my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my strength. The excellency of dignity and the excellency of power. Sounds good so far, right? Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel. Because thou wentest up to thy father's bed, thou hast defiled it, that he went up to my couch. Not great so far. Simeon and Levi are thy brethren. Instruments of cruelty are in their habitations. O my soul, come not thou into their secret, unto their assembly, mine honor. Be not thou united, for in their anger they slew a man. And in their self will they dig down a wall. Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce, and their wrath, for it was cruel. I will divide them in Jacob, I will scatter them in Israel. How much of a blessing there? Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise. Thy hand shall be in the neck of thine enemies, thy father's children shall bow down before thee. Judah is a lion's whoop from the prey pray, my son, thou art gone up. He stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion, who shall rouse him up? The scepter shall not depart from Judah. We know who that's talking about, right Messiah coming from Judah. Now both of these blessings, if you will, have prophetic a prophetic nature to them. But hopefully you caught some very stark differences immediately just from comparing the two. We see of course the order of the suns are kind of in a different order, but that's of significant note which we can't get into. To right now. Some of the sons weren't even blessed. Jacob had some very dark things to say about some of his sons and their descendants. And some of Jacob's prophecies were much more pointed, whereas Moses's were much broader. Now, why am I going through all of this and explaining all this? Well. For one, it really implies the historical reality of the sayings that we are looking at tonight. It's clear that Jacob said what he said, and Moses said what he said. Why is that important? Well, had they just been made up by men, you'd probably find a lot of similarities. They probably would have been written around the same time. If Moses had just made them up, you'd probably find even more similarities because of the singular authorship. What we find here is God's preserved, accurate, and trustworthy word. He spoke through these men and communicated through these men prophecies. That were fitting to their times. There's no denying the prophetic nature of either of these recordings, whether it be Jacob or Moses. So, why are these prophecies so different? I believe it's because God is dealing with his people according to where they fit into his grand story of redemption. Or you could say that he is dealing with them according to their context. Now this is an important truth. Keep it in mind here as we finish out Deuteronomy 33, because not only does Moses bless Israel according to their context. But we find that he's blessing them on the basis of God's character. Verse 26 in Deuteronomy 33: there is none like unto the God of Jeshua, and that's a very poetic name for Israel. None like unto the God of Jeshran, who rideth upon the heaven in thy help and his and his excellency on the sky The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms, and he shall thrust out the enemy from before thee, and shall say, Destroy them. Israel then shall dwell in safety alone. The mountain of Jacob shall be upon the land a land of corn and wine, also his heavens. shall drop down dew. Happy art thou, O Israel, who is like unto thee, O people, save by the Lord, the shield of thy help, and who is the sword of thy excellency? And thine enemies shall be found liars unto thee, and thou shalt tread upon their high places. Before Moses concludes his blessing, on Israel. He breaks into this deck doxology where he praises God for his characteristics. In verse 27 we see him describing God's eternality, how God is a refuge. He is strong. He is mighty He is the captain of his armies. In verse 28, we see that he is the supplier of safety. He is a supplier of sustenance. Verse 29, we see God is the provider of happiness, of blessing. He is the Savior. He is the defender of his people. He is the defender of truth. He alone is the Almighty. Clearly, Moses understood a fundamental truth about the purpose of prophecy. That is, prophecy and scripture primarily, not exclusively, but primarily exists to inform us about the character of God. You cannot separate prophecy from what it reveals about God. Or else it really serves no purpose. And I say this cautiously, but to go studying prophecy without trying to study the character of God is it's empty. It's useless. Prophecy must primarily be used to understand the nature and the character of God before we use it to inform us ourselves about future Even fulfilled events. And I have two items of application here. The first showing why I would be so forceful about saying this. Well, consider the practical implication of how we understand the purpose of prophecy. You're sitting watching the news and you're looking at what's going on in the world. Well, how many times has it crossed your mind? What's going on here? Is this the end times? Is this a sign of the end? Well, that's fine of you to think that, but why not go a step further? Say, God, what does this reveal of What does this reveal about your character? Why would you allow something like this to happen? Not with the mind of a skeptic, not with the mind of a cynic, but with a mind and a heart that is aiming toward not just filling the head with prophetic knowledge, but filling the heart with the knowledge of God. As we study prophecy, and we as we come to understand the purpose of prophecy When we especially read of it fulfilled in scripture, it should well up inside of us, same words that Moses articulates right here. There is none like the God of Joshua. The eternal God is my refuge. There's another application here that I want to draw out. I noted here that God is dealing with both Moses and Israel according to their context in relation to the story of redemption. I say that because we don't know where we are in the story of redemption. Did you know you were a part of it? Moses and Israel were a part of it over three thousand years ago. They didn't know how far away the Messiah was. They didn't know how long it would be before the Redeemer would come. And we don't know how long it is until the Redeemer comes again. But the fact is, we know what we know concerning prophecy because God Is dealing with us according to our context. We know that Moses knew some of the details. He talks about the prophet that will rise up from the midst of Israel. We know from Hebrews that he counted the things of Egypt to be nothing in comparison to the hope and the blessings of God. He knew something, but did you know the details of what we understand on this side of the cross? Absolutely not. God revealed to Moses exactly what he He needed to know in his day. He dealt differently with Moses as he has with us. And God will continue to deal differently. With people at various points in the overarching story of human redemption. But one thing is constant: God's character. God 's nature. So when we use prophecy and study prophecy We don't just start studying prophecy for prophecy's sake. It's like trotting a path in the dark and getting lost in the woods. But when we come to use prophecy to understand God, it illuminates for us a world of understanding where we begin to see God's providence, his wisdom, his care, his justice, his patience, his righteousness. All of these and more. Only then will we truly appreciate our place in the story of redemption. Because it's not about us, it's about how God is working in the midst of time to bring it to its glorifying. End where he destroys sin and redeems mankind through Jesus Christ. So we must learn how God deals with us or relates to us Through prophecy. Deuteronomy 34 now. We find a second lesson. Or we must learn the potential influence of our earthly Lives. And Moses went up from the plains of Moab unto the mountain of Nebo, to the top of Piscah that is over against Jericho, and the Lord showed him all the land of Gilead unto Dan, and all of Napali and the land of Ephraim and Manasseh and all the land of Judah unto the utmost sea, in the south, and the plain of the valley of Jericho, and the city of the palm trees unto Zoar. And the Lord said unto him This is the land which I swore unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, saying, I will give it unto thy seed. I have caused thee to see it with thine eyes, but thou shalt not go over thither. So Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the Lord. And he buried him in the valley of the in the land of Moab over against Beth Peor, but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day. And Moses was 120 years old when he died. His eye was not dim. Nor is natural force abated. And when we read about Moses ' death here in those first seven verses, two things stand out. We see Moses was permitted to look out on the promised land from the summit of Mount Nebo, but he was not allowed in. By the way, the picture that you see there is Mount Nebo. Where Moses was able to stand and look. And only 50 kilometers away was the Mount of Olives. He was able to see all that from there. But he was not allowed to lead Israel in. Moses died at 120 years old. But he probably could have gone on living. It says his natural force was not abated. He was not diminished physically. It seems that God brought Moses as far as he would allow him to go and took him home through death. Neither through taking him up without death, like he did with Enoch, or through some flaming chariot like Elijah. So the question is, why would God have Moses die rather than taking up the founder of the nation of Israel in a way like Enoch or not Elijah? Well, we know from Numbers 27 that Moses died because he rebelled by striking the rock at Meribah. And so it's worthwhile here to note that this was not Moses ' only major failure. In fact, his life was full of them. He murdered an Egyptian He tried to talk God out of having him lead Israel. He responded poorly to the idolaters at Mount Sinai. And those were just the ones he recorded. He led the people of Israel for forty years, apart from the eighty years before that. No doubt. Moses had a life that was full of failures. But he also had major success in life. We even see that here back in Deuteronomy 34. And then children of Israel in verse 8 wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days. So the days of weeping and mourning for Moses were ended. And Joshua, the son of Nun, was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands upon him, and the children of Israel hearkened unto him, and did as the Lord commanded Moses. And there arose not a prophet since in Israel, like unto Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face. In all the signs and wonders which the Lord sent him to do in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh and to all his servants and to all his land, and all the mighty hand and all and all in all that mighty hand, and in all that great terror which Moses showeth in the sight of all Israel. Listed for us here is the fact that Moses has some very unique successes in life. He gained the affection of Israel, not just in that generation, but in the generations to come. We see that in verse 8. Verse ten we see that he knew God face to face through his obedience to lead Israel as its foremost Old Testament prophet He performed signs and wonders as God allowed in Egypt, as we read in verse 11. In verse 12, we see he confirmed his calling as God's prophet in the sight of Israel. But there's one success that I think is arguably his greatest, apart from being the one whom God used to give us these first five books of the Old Testament. And that is the successful discipleship of Joshua. We read about this briefly in verse nine, but in Numbers twenty-seven we see the Lord said unto Moses, Take ye Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the spirit And lay thine hand upon him, and set him before Eliezer the priest, and before all the congregation, and give him charge in their sight. Thou shalt put some of thine honor upon him. And all the congregation of the children of Israel may be obedient. We know that Joshua went on to lead these children of Israel into the promised land. And what this did was allow Moses ' ministry to extend beyond himself into another life and into the lives of subsequent generations. Joshua led the conquest generation into Canaan, and he established The children of Israel in the land. And because of Joshua's e-leadership, Israel could live in a land from which the Savior of the world would be born. But Joshua wasn't a born leader. He had been discipled by Moses ever since the Exodus began. We read about it all the way back in Exodus 17. In the battle against Amalek. All of this could be observed to point to one thing: Moses and his failures and his successes. Just a man. He lived a life that was filled with sin and failure, but he also lived a life of success. Why? Because he lived in faithful obedience to God. Not perfectly. But that greatness can only result from having been obedient to God, God's call to be such. But among the final things that God commanded Moses to do, the one that had the greatest influence on generations that come, apart from the Old Testament books, was the passing on the mantle of leadership from himself to generations Joshua. Friends, that is how discipleship and how mentorship is supposed to go. It's getting the next person to step into your place, to do what God wants them to do, however he wants them to do it. That's why in the New Testament we're told repeatedly For the older, the elders to teach the youngers. We're told, even just in Titus two one, that the old elder men are to teach the young men to be sober minded, showing a pattern of good works, how the incorrupt doctrine, gravity, sincerity. That the aging women are to teach the younger women to be holy, teachers of good things, sober and loving toward their husbands and children, discreet, chaste, managers of their household, submissive to their husbands. And that's just innate verses, but it is a theme that is found throughout the scriptures. Read about Elijah and Elisha, read about Solomon and his sons. Read about J Jesus and his disciples, Paul and Timothy, Martius and Mark. All of these serve as examples of discipleship, and they reveal to us a simple truth about our lives. You can have all the success in the world, even in a spiritual sense, but it will have no influence if you haven't raised up someone to take your place. Especially for our parents. As you're raising up your children, you're not just taking care of a tiny human. You're raising someone or someone 's to take your place, to go on and continue the work of the kingdom of God, to multiply your service for God. Through the lives of others in this and in coming generations. So you don't have to be a leader like Moses to have that sort of influence in a person's life. You just have to be faithful in obedience to God in the midst of your family, your church, your community, your workplace, and so on. We need to have a godly influence on other people's lives. And finally, the last lesson I'd point out, for sake of time, I'll not have us turn to these passages. But we must learn of God's personal care for the individual. Moses' death at Mount Nebo was hardly the end of his story. Just noting that Moses ' name appears exactly 200 times, apart from the 648 times found in the first five books in the Bible. For reference, Jesus and David are mentioned 1281 and 971 times. respectively throughout the Bible, and Paul is mentioned 228 times, just the New Testament What we find as far as Moses in these other passages, particularly in Jude, we see God preserves Moses ' body from misuse. It says in Jude 9, yet Michael the archangel, when contending with the devil, he disputed about the body of Moses. Durst not bring against him a railia accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee. I can't deal with that text tonight, but it's worth noting that God included it in his preserved word. And one thing that we should note from that is the fact that God wasn't done with Moses as soon as Moses died. Even his body was preserved. Why? In order to keep Israel. From falling into the temptation to worship him. Of course, that would have been a blasphemy against God, but for Moses, that would have been a shame. Yet God in his care and foreknowledge ensured that Moses ' body would not be abused in such a manner, even though his soul was no longer a part of it. And that's the part I would like to consider in closing here from Luke 9, where we see that God not only preserved Moses ' body. But he preserved Moses ' soul through salvation. We heard about this on a recent Sunday In Luke 9, 28 says, and it came to pass about eight days after these sayings, Jesus took Peter and John and James and went up into the mountain to pray And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistening, and behold, there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias, who appeared in glory and spake of his deceased, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. As I said, much has been said about this passage recently, but as it relates to our look at the death of Moses, we should note this profound truth: Moses was still alive. He was able to speak with Christ in the promised land. And while it wasn't clear from the text what exactly was going on physically with their bodies, we do see that they were glorified. And they were preserved. Which is interesting because Elijah had not died, but Moses did. And I submit to you that what was preserved was the very soul of Moses. And while the body is a precious gift from God, marred by sin, it will one day die. And the soul, the immaterial part of man. It is also a gift from God and it has been marred by sin, but through the regeneration and spiritual rebirth that comes through faith in the finished work of Christ. We are unshackled from the inevitable eternal death of the soul to eternal preservation of the soul through the power of God. Paul articulates this beautifully in 2 Corinthians 5 where he says, For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this we groan earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven. If so be, that being clothed we shall not be found naked, for we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened, not for that which that we would be enclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life. Now he that hath wrought for us the selfsame thing as God who also hath given unto us the uriness of the Spirit. Therefore we are always confident, knowing that, whilst we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord, for we walk by faith, not by sight. We are confident, I say, and willing rather. to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. How can we have confidence that our souls Will be preserved. How can we long for that day in which our mortal bodies are cast aside for the glory and the presence of God? It is through the death and burial and resurrection of Christ alone. And though Moses did not know all that was to unfold concerning the Messiah, he understood this: there would be a redeemer. And we know that it is Jesus Christ, God's own Son. It is through him and with him that we will live eternally, just as Moses did beyond his physical death. And we can say with Paul, death is swallowed up in victory. Death, where is thy sting? Grave, where is thy victory? The sing of death is sin. And the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God. Which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. No doubt. By seeing how Moses is preserved beyond his death, We see God's loving, eternal care for the individual. He cares about you. He wants to preserve your soul. And these are just three of the lessons that we can learn of the life and death of Moses. Moses, just in these few passages. And I would submit not just from Moses only, but from every saint that stands with Christ at this very moment for all of eternity. Let's be encouraged tonight, knowing that in life and death, we can relate to God within our own context We can sense his providential care and his love for the individual. And we can allow our lives to be used of Him to influence lives far beyond us for His glory. Praise the Lord. Father, I thank you so much for the life of Moses, the testimony of your servant. Lord, we spent quite some time looking at his life. I pray that in those And that time that we've spent with him and studying him and now looking at his death, we would not so much reflect upon the man, but upon you whom he served. And I pray that those lessons that we have looked at, not just tonight, all of them would work in us to make us more like your Son Jesus Christ. In whose name we pray. Amen. I knew that we were going to be dealing with the death of Moses, so all of these songs have been focused in on our future glory. Face to face and the sweet by-and-by until then. So we're going to close our service tonight singing hymn 571 when we all get to heaven. Let's stand together, please. And let's sing all four verses of when we all get to heaven. Sing the one verse. The love of Jesus sing his mercy and his grace in the mansions bright and blessed, he'll prepare for us a place. When we all get to heaven, what a day of rejoicing that will be When we are speech will sing and shout the victory. While we walk the pilgrim pathway, how to spread the sky But when traveling days are over, not a shadow, not a sight When we all get to heaven, what they are rejoicing that will be When we all see Jesus, we'll say and shall victory Let us then be true and faithful, trusting, serving everything. Just one for himself, him and glory, till the toys of light remain When we all get to heaven, for the day of rejoicing that will be when we all see Jesus And shout the victory on the last, on virtue the prize he for us, and his beauty will be hold Till the pearly gates fell up, and we shall tread the streets of gold When we all get together, what a day of rejoicing that will be When we all see Jesus will sing and count the victory. We got that, I mean we got two songs that the kids love to good. I'd like to ask if uh Brother Braxton, if you could come and close us in prayer. I want to ask you to specifically uh lift up both the teen rally, which is in the morning from 10 to the twelve and our V V S uh which will be in the evening from six fifteen to eight forty five. And um I don't know uh if if you guys uh have time if you're not gonna be working I know we're not having our normal midweek service, but maybe pass through and uh just stick your head in and kind of see what's going on on we'll have the the gospel lessons going on in this room and uh be in prayer pray that the Lord will really work in the hearts of these kids Uh we have I think about 75 kids that are signed up right now, uh which is pretty good. And uh so pray that those kids will all come and that they'll bring friends as the week gets going. And uh I think we got like 40-something people helping out? 49 workers. That's really something. We got a lot of folks that are involved in lots of different areas. Pray that the Lord will give us the energy that we need, that it'll be a great time of fellowship, that the Lord just give us wisdom as we work with the kids, especially those who are counseling. kids the first two nights uh we won't give a standard invitation because we really want to let the gospel get presented clearly obviously if a kid has questions we'll deal with them But Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, we're going to be giving gospel invitations. And so please be in prayer for those young people. Brother Braxton, please close some prayer, please. Let's pray. Dear Father, I'd think today, thank you for the work that was done in the fellowship hall and just preparing everything for VBS. Um, Father, I uh many hands make light work and I just pray though that as much as we put the work into this and the decorating that um it'll be that much more evident that we care for these children and that you especially care for them. them. I pray though that the gospel will go forth, these stud that these young people will learn the gospel, know the gospel, know what it means, and accept you as Savior. It'll be in a time for encouragement for those that are believers. uh that they'll be able to strengthen their faith. The same goes for the teen rally as uh mostly our teens, but many from the the with the numbers that are coming from the community as well, that they'll have an opportunity to hear the gospel for the first time. or to hear for the final time that may point them back toward you, that they will then grow and become uh fruitful believers. I just praise the leave here. There will be lights in our community. Praise your holy name. Amen.