Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we're in Luke 7 again. And uh this week we're actually going to do this as our last video. um on Luke chapter seven and then tomorrow morning, Lord willing, I'm going to take the evening service, the passage that we looked at, and uh spend a little bit of time thinking about that passage. And that's the Passover passage. So this will be our last recording on Luke 7, 36 to 43. But I think that today's is really going to be uh helpful and very very encouraging. So Luke chapter 7 and we're starting in verse 36. Let's read it together and then we're going to focus our attention on verses 47 to 50. Here's what it says. One of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. He went into the Pharisee's house and sat down to meet, and behold, a woman in the city which was a sinner. When she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment, and stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with her tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with ointment Now when the Pharisee, which had bidden him, saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is, that toucheth him, for she is a sinner. Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee, said, Master Sayon, there was a certain creditor which had two debtors, the one owed five hundred pence, the other fifty. When they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore which of them will love him most. Simon answered, and said, I suppose that he whom he forgave the most. He said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged Now, this passage gives us a lot of important details about how our perspective needs to be shaped in a very healthy way. And if it's going to be a healthy perspective, it's got to be connected back to the gospel. So I'll remind you, the first thing we talked about was having a biblical view of sin. And then we move from that to looking at the fact that our perspective has to be rooted in what is true. Not in how we feel, not in how we compare ourselves to other people, but what's actually true according to Scripture. Uh yesterday we we can kind of continued in that vein and we emphasized the fact that a healthy perspective isn't just about how we're thinking about something. But that thinking that has to be correct and built on the truth has to be rooted, uh has to not it has to actually affect how we not just think, but But but what's going on inside of our heart. And so Jesus directed the attention of that conversation not just to how Simon was thinking. but also what Simon loved and what this woman loved and the the contrast between those two things. Well I'd like us to kind of close out our time on this section looking at how The Lord was able to take this woman who was very broken and very beaten down in life. She was a sinful person, and her life was miserable because of her sin, and how he was able to give her hope. and the potential to go from being broken to actually flourishing. And that's what God wants. He wants us to be a people, have a healthy perspective, and where we can move from being broken and and misery and in sin and enslaved to our sin. And he wants us to be a people who are flourishing. So notice what he says in verses 47 to 50, because this is really the heart of the entire passage. And this is what's really, really encouraging. It says, Wherefore I say unto thee, her sins which are many are forgiven. For she loved much, but to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little. He said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven. And they that sat at meat began to say within themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also? He saith unto the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee, go in peace Now for us to appreciate what Jesus is saying, I want to start with a very simple principle that we've kind of already talked about when we dealt with the issue of having a biblical view of sin. But I think it's really pertinent to us understanding what Jesus is saying here. And that is the destructive nature of sin. In our first session, we talked about the fact that sin is always going to destroy. It's always going to undermine what is good. Sin always destroys what is good. I'm going to give you two passages that illustrate this. point. First Thessalonians chapter 4 verse 3 says the following. It says every one of you should know how to possess his vessel and that's talking about a person's body. They should know how to possess their vessel. In sanctification and in honor. God created you not just an immaterial person, but he also created you an immaterial person with a body. The whole person. God wants you to use your body for good and noble and righteous purposes that are consistent with God's design. And so he says every single person needs to learn how to control their body. And they need to do it in a way that is sanctified, set apart into God. And that is honorable. It's consistent with the good purpose that God designed for it. Then he goes on to say this In contrast, not in the lusts of concupiscence, which is an old English term that probably nobody understands what it means when they read it, but it is the idea of an unrestrained sexual passion. He's saying you need to use your body for good and holy and noble purposes as opposed to unrestrained sexual passions. We aren't animals, folks. We are created in the image of God. We can actually obey him and we can honor him and we can actually make personal decisions that are for our good and the good of other people. And so he says, don't live like an animal. That's basically what he's saying. Don't just follow your passions. He says that no man go on to Defraud his brother in any matter. Now that's a very fascinating word. The word defraud means that you're taking something So when a person is dominated by their passions, specifically in this context, their sexual passions, they're dishonoring their own body. And they're defrauding, they're taking something from a person that does not belong to them. In other words, sexual sin is against the image of God in me and against the image of God in the person that I'm sitting with and or against. Sin destroys what is good. What God says is glorious and what God says has a good purpose is now being undermined by our sinful behavior. Another example, 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 19, it says, He that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. The word fornication is a very broad term. It talks about any kind of sexual sin. The scripture It's very, very clear that God created male and female and he appointed marriage, he ordained it between one man, one woman for life, and so that sexual union is supposed to take place in that context alone. So Any kind of deviation from God's plan, it's not just sin, but it's destructive sin against a person's body and the body of the person that you're sinning with and or against. And so the point is that sin is destructive. And so this woman was a person who was, frankly, living a life of misery because of the destructive nature of her sinful life. Now, let's remember something. When God uh forgives this woman and gives her a really a totally new outlook on life, One of the reasons this woman is so is so excited and so thankful and so humbled and also so grieved by the insult that she's seen being given to Christ It's because she recognizes that her dignity has been affirmed by Christ. Her dignity was being destroyed and undermined by sin, her sin. Either sin against others, with others, or against her, and her dignity is being reaffirmed. That's very, very important. Sin destroys all that's good. The second thing I want to mention is this God's grace gives us beyond, farther than what was actually lost. It's not just that this woman is now going to have A life that is being restored to the purpose that God had, but she's going to understand the death of the sin the incredibleness of God's grace and forgiveness, and she's going to experience new life on the other side of that. In other words, she's now going to appreciate the contrast between light and darkness. Not just she understands the goodness of the light. But she understands it magnified beside the depth of the darkness. God's grace gives us way more than what we lost. And that's one of the things that makes His grace so absolutely beautiful. So I'd like us to kind of continue on that point and notice the way that Jesus speaks to her. There are three things that he says. The first thing that he says is in verse 46, he says Her sins are many. The second thing that he says, her sins are forgiven. The third thing that he says is, she loved Much. There's actually a fourth thing, but we're gonna hold off on that because it's very important and I really want to emphasize it on the end. But but notice those three statements. Her sins are many You might say, well hold on, she's forgiven. So if she's forgiven, then then her sins are gone and you don't have to worry about them. Well well technically she's no longer held accountable for her sin. They're not being counted against her. She's forgiven in the courtroom of God. But that doesn't make her sins like not mean anything. The fact is that anyone that this woman has sinned with or against or who is privy to her sin, they still remember those things. And so they may personally see the weight of her sin. And so what is Jesus saying? He's saying just because a person's forgiven doesn't diminish their sin. But then he takes another truth and he sets it right beside that. He says, but her sins are forgiven. That is a really important point for us to recognize. Not just that they're going to be forgiven or that they used to be forgiven, they are forgiven. And so this really brings up a very fascinating thing to consider. When a person has sinned, someone can come and accuse them. And that accusation actually has merit because of what's actually taken place. But when that accusation is hurled There's an advocate who stands beside the one who has sinned and says, It is true that person has sinned. It is true your accusation is valid. But it can't stick. And the reason that it can't stick is because it's paid in full. That's really what's going on in these verses. As we see our sins being put before us, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous He's the propitiation for our sins. And so it reminds me of what it says in 1 John chapter 1. It says if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. What is the basis for that forgiveness and that cleansing that was taken care of at the cross? It's the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, which cleanseth us from every single sin. And so we see the contrast of her sin that is very serious and the forgiveness that removes the debt that she owes to God. And that's the beauty of this passage. That's what the gospel does. The gospel deals with our sin. It's not like God just says, I just decide I'm not going to look at it. He says, I've dealt with it because I poured out my just wrath against your sin on Christ. He has paid it in full. That really is at the heart of the gospel. And so that moves us to the third thing that Jesus says. And that is, he says, she loved much. The reason that this woman loved Christ is because she understood the contrast between light and darkness. She appreciated what she had because of what she once was and where she once was and what once stood against her. She experiences the incredible goodness of God and she is so very very grateful for it and so we see the contrast and you know what forgiveness does forgiveness causes us to love That's really what it says. By the way, the scripture says a lot about this. 1 John 4 7-12. He says, Love is of God. He is the source. Everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. The capacity to actually love begins with new life in Christ and understanding the gospel. And so A person doesn't even have the capacity to love in the biblical sense unless they've actually been born again and they understand the nature and the heart of the gospel. He says That God sent his only begotten son into the world that we might live through him. Here in his love, not that he we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, amazing statement, and his love is perfected in us That means that the love of God is something that we grow in. It's something that we mature in. This is something that we go from one degree to the other to another degree as we go through the Christian experience. As God brings us through this process of sanctification, we grow in this thing called love. The last thing I want to emphasize here, and this is it's the best of all of them, not that the other things should in any way be diminished, and that is that the gospel gives new life, a new life of freedom in Christ. The last thing that Jesus says to her is he says, go in peace. That means she can actually live this life the way that he intended her to live it. He has freed her from the bondage and the yoke of sin and its oppression and its destruction on her life. And he says, You can now walk in newness of life. I think about when we when we do a baptism. When we do a baptism, we'll we'll say buried in the likeness of his death and raised to walk in newness of life and and it's pictured there in the baptism itself. And so what is being expressed is the fact that when a person becomes a new creature in Christ, all things pass away and all things become new. And now they can walk the way that God wants them to walk. Remember what it says in Romans chapter five? It says, Being justified freely by his grace, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We have access by faith into this grace, and we withstand and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. In Romans 6 it says, we were the servants, were the slaves of sin. But now in Christ being made free from sin, we've become the servants of God. You have your fruit unto holiness and the end everlasting life He says, you used to walk according to the course of this world, and now as a forgiven saint, declared righteous in Christ. You can walk in newness of life. You have a new mess, so you have a new purpose. And that really is at the heart of this entire passage You might say, well, Pastor, what do I have to take away from this? Let me leave you with a couple of thoughts that I hope will be an encouragement to you from this this entire passage and the series of lessons that we've had in it. The first is this. We have to be willing to honestly face sin and all of its ugliness. If you want to appreciate the glory of God's grace, you have to experience the sin. the sting of sin. You have to understand how miserable it is, how offensive it is, how dark it is, how destructive it is. Because as you understand sin for what it actually is, it allows you to experience the weight. of Christ's sacrifice and the fullness of his grace. Very, very important. Second thing. We can't afford to downplay our sin, but on the other side, we shouldn't raise it to this level where It's unforgivable. We cannot experience God's forgiveness and his grace and walk inness of life. This is an imbalance that Frankly, Satan would love to have you either diminish your sin and say it's not a big deal, or go to the other side and say, Oh, it's such a huge deal, God could never forgive it. Remember on the very first day what we talked about, there is one sin that excludes someone from the kingdom of God. You know what it is? It's the sin of unbelief. It's a rejection of the gospel. There's only one sin that it takes to condemn a person. That's all it takes. And so we we shouldn't diminish our sin and its significance, nor should we get to the point where we see it as something that's insurmountable. Third thing I'll mention. Is that God wants more than just our heads and our hands. He wants our hearts. And if He's going to have our hearts, then we have to have our thinking firmly rooted in the gospel. That means that we have to continually ponder the implications. of the truths of the gospel and what it says about what we needed because of our sin and what God's done for us through the redemptive work of Christ. We've got to continually ponder these things because it is through the meditation it's through meditating on the scriptures that God will begin to work in our hearts and our our affection for him can be stirred up and be what it ought to be. And lastly I'll mention is this. We need to embrace the freedom and the richness of the life that's available to us in Christ. There are far too many Christians that though they are forgiven and though they are cleansed and though they're going to be with God for all of eternity, they live a very defeated Christian experience. They do not enjoy the riches of his grace that are fully available to them. You know, there are some people they have happy, rich, vibrant marriages, and there are other people they have Disastrous marriages, disappointing marriages, frustrating marriages. And the fact is the problem is not the union. The problem is not What God has ordained, the problem is decisions we make within the union that He's given us. The problem is that some Christians Do not seize what is available to them. They don't pick up those means that are available to them. They don't focus on the truth. And because of that, they live a Christian experience that is not as full as what it could be and what God intends it to be. That will in no way keep them out of the kingdom of God. That doesn't mean that they aren't going to enjoy the riches of God's grace for all of eternity, but what it does mean is that they are limiting the fullness and the richness of the experience they have today. My prayer is that as we think about these truths, we will get back to the gospel because that is what ultimately gives us the ability to have a healthy perspective, no matter what you've done and where you've been in life. God wants to forgive, cleanse, restore, and give you a rich Christian experience. Not just now, but forever. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing. Tomorrow we're going to look at a couple of thoughts on the Passover, and then I hope you have a great weekend. Have a blessed day. Bye now.