Welcome you back tonight. Hope that you had a good afternoon and uh looking forward to a great service. Let's bow together for prayer and then we'll do some singing and then uh some testimony. So let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so thankful for this day that you've given us. Thank you for the blessings we've enjoyed this morning. Thank you for the truths from Scripture that we were able to reflect on, that the Holy Spirit is working in our hearts about. Thank you for the baptism this morning. What a wonderful testimony to your grace and your mercy and your love. Father, I pray that this evening as we sing praise to you, our hearts would really think about the wonderful truths we express in song. That it wouldn't just be going through the motions, but that our hearts would be fully engaged. And then I pray that during the preaching of your word that the scriptures would be laid open, the Holy Spirit would take these truths and impress them on our hearts as we have opportunity to share testimonies. I pray that the things that are shared would encourage your people. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good evening, everyone. Let's take our hymnals. Or get ready to look at the screen behind me, and we're going to turn to page 343 for those with a book. Please stand with me And we'll sing all three verses of Springs of Living Water. I thirst it in the barren land of sin. And shame and nothing satisfying there I found But there's a blessed cross of Christ. One day I came where springs of living water did above. The boy Three and the three of the water. If you look this flip a page to page three forty On their name in glory. Amen. All three verses. And then let 's see if we still have a book. Everything three learning does make it. There's three. Three fifth. And as we read it and say in the first, second, and fourth and first. I don't know, but that's the fixed. Four seventy Oh my goodness. Okay Can you just sing one of these verses? Okay. 478. It is well with my soul. Alright, turn back to page 269. And the red book is a blue book takes a half over two different pages. Ah smart. Page two hundred and sixty-nine, the guard. Right, we go. Okay , two minutes. Well Oh, we're a thousand Oh , I forgot the reason. Uh three fifty two is the three fifty two is a river book? Wait. In the wood. I think. Making sure I cross. Uh three. Um Maybe it's not gonna google. Worry too in the right one. Worry you. Okay. Yes. One hundred and fifty six and group. That probably three hundred and fifty two. Page three hundred and fifty-two. Look in there. Amen. Господи, я не знаю, я думаю, пожалуйста, я не могу. Now one hundred and forty six is a little bit Okay , we've got a hundred Do you have to believe that four hundred and eighty-two and redwood? Right, good. Four hundred and eighty-two and three. Oh, okay. Who has to listen? Okay, buddy. I wanna hear you over here Honestly, you know where it's home. Okay, very good. Okay. Last time before a message, nothing changed. Text in the red book. Oh , yeah. Are you all the verified and sending the animals? Let's stay on this one Well say the first one. Begin tonight. And it's just to take a glimpse at because we're actually going to be covering Exodus 12 through 14. But I wanted to note something in Exodus fifteen before we get into our main text tonight. In Exodus fifteen, in the first verse we read, Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the Lord. And a song that follows this for the majority of chapter 15 is a song that comes after Israel has made its way through the Red Sea. They have seen God's deliverance. They have seen God destroy their enemies. And all the while they have had their God with them. And the way that God was with them was very distinct, very unique to their context. Yet, as born-again believers, as those who are indwelt with the Holy Spirit of God, we experience the presence of God in our own unique, distinct way. And as we read about Christ's teachings on the Holy Spirit, we recognize that one of the primary reasons why we are given the Holy Spirit to be with us. is to be a comforter, someone who assures us of our station and our position in Christ. And that is an assuring reality. But what we're going to be looking at tonight in Exodus 12 through 14 is that that assurance of God's Presence isn't just a nice comforting thought. It is a reality that God in his might And in his preservation of his people, has a powerful personal presence in the life of his people Now we've seen in the ten plagues that we covered over the last few weeks that God is all powerful. And yet, while his power was demonstrated through his judgment against Egypt, it is further manifested in this preserving presence. That God has with his people as he takes them out of the land of Egypt, brings them to the edge of the Red Sea, and ultimately brings them through it. And this major part of Israel's history is a reminder to us that God wants us to rejoice in the assurance of his mighty, preserving presence in the life of the believer. Because for us to get to Exodus 15, we have to go through Exodus 12 through 14. And that's what we're going to be looking at tonight because in those chapters we're going to see three contexts in which God has made his mighty, preserving presence known to his people. Look over in Exodus twelve now. We'll just read a few verses there Looking at verse 1, says the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying, This month shall be unto you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you. Speak he unto the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb, according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for an house. And if the household be too little for the lamb, let him let him and his neighbor next unto his house take it according to the number of the souls, every man according to this eating shall make your count. for the lamb. Now we're going to read more of this chapter, but what you're going to see, especially throughout chapters 12 and into 13 , Is that this is really the beginnings of a major transition for the Hebrew people. They've been living in Egypt for over 400 years. They've been living in slavery for scores of years, for decades. And at this point now they have been so used to the culture and the the experience of being slaves in this foreign land That what they're about to enter into was a major, major transition. And the first context in which we see God displaying his mighty, preserving presence with his people Is in this time of transition. And that is a reminder to us as well Now Israel in the first twenty or so verses we see they're being introduced to this new calendar system. Now I don't mean to say that they didn't have their own calendar system or that the the calendar system That was being introduced to them was different or majorly different from what they had already been living with. But think about it. Now God was introducing to them festivals and observances. It was a change to their yearly routine. And really, it was a significant part of their history because now they were becoming distinct as a people in their culture. Now, maybe this is a foreign concept to us, but we don't really experience something on the level of being introduced a new calendar system. But for some of us we can think back to Y2K, right? Thinking about the chaos that ensued just from changing those four numbers from nineteen ninety-nine to two thousand. The uh I I was only what nine or ten years old at the time and I knew like this is wild. Can you imagine What kind of chaos was going on in the minds of, oh, we're we're having to do this Passover thing? Oh, you're wanting to do us to do this every year? Then he goes on and starts talking about you know the the the uh law of the firstborn. Then later we start seeing all these new laws being introduced and all these other remembrances and ordinances that they're being introduced to. And all of a sudden it becomes a reality to them that we're gonna have to live a different kind of life now. And that is a major, major transition. And while we may not experience something on the level of a new calendar system, we experience as changes to our routines on a fairly regular basis, do we not? I mean think about the the change to our lifestyle just by getting married and having children and watching those children grow up and leave the home. and moving from you know 30, 40 years of work into retirement, all of these lifestyle changes All of them carry with them a tremendous amount of transition, and it can be overwhelming. But God is able to preserve us during But while Israel was transitioning to a new calendar system at the same time They're having to relocate into an in an entirely different geographic context Verses 37 to 42. Let's read there quickly. It says, And the children of Israel journeyed from Ramsey And the mixed multitude went up also with them, and flocks and herds, even very much cattle, and they baked unleavened breads of the dough which they brought forth out of Egypt, for it was not leavened, because they were thrust out of Egypt and could not tarry, neither with had they prepared themselves any victu. Now the sojourning of the children of Israel who dwelt in Egypt was four hundred and thirty years. And it came to pass at the end of the four hundred and thirty years, even the selfsame day came to pass. And all the hosts of the Lord went out from the land of Egypt. And then it says, it is a night to be much observed unto the Lord, referring to the Passover. Now this was a significant momentous occasion. Now they're they're not only having to think through okay now now we're we're we're gonna have to be different as a as a people would have to do different things. But now we're gonna have to do these different things while we're moving into a whole different place. Now maybe they had heard stories growing up growing up of know the the patriarchs and them living in Canaan or maybe even heard some stories about Abraham and Ur. But neither of those places were Egypt Egypt. Egypt was their home. Egypt was where these people grew up. For many of them, the the the only life they knew Was being a slave in Egypt. And now they're being told, get out. Now, of course, God is leading them out. But you got these Egyptians in the back saying, Leave, go away from us. You destroyed our country. Get out. And they're being thrust out of the nation. That could be very challenging, can it not? I don't know if we For myself, I'm not one who uh is familiar with having lived in a place a long time and having to to relocate from that I'm very much a I've I've grown up moving around a lot. But I know for my wife growing up, she stayed in one place and then went to Florida to college and then married a guy who was gonna Move her around for every couple of years. It was completely foreign to her and her family. And it's a it's an adjustment. But you know what? God is With us in those times. Whether we're the ones who are leaving, or if we're moving to another side of town, or if our children are leaving and moving away. Those are all challenging times that God is with us. us in. But as I've alluded to up to this point, Israel wasn't just taking on a new calendar and relocating They're really transitioning into a formal belief system. You realize up to this point They didn't have scripture. They didn't have mo the law of Moses. They didn't know what God expected of them as a people. And now we're starting to see God introduce exactly what he wanted his people to do. In chapter thirteen, we're introduced to the law of the firstborn. It says, And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Sanctify me, Sanctify unto me all the firstborn. Whatsoever openeth the womb among the children of Israel, both of man and of beasts, it is mine. And it goes on to explain how they would have to uh in the month of Abid, they would have to bring sacrifice and and basically purchase or redeem the child. that they were now having, or the firstborn of whatever beast that they had. It was in essence saying, Lord, this is yours But you're having us steward it, this child, this animal, whatever it is. is a gift from you. It was a concept that I don't know that it was necessarily unique in the minds of the Hebrews, but now it was codified, it was solidified. This is what you're expecting. And then of course we go all throughout the rest of the Pentateuch, and they're introduced to over 600 more laws that they have to follow. And that's a difficult experience. Now, we're blessed as believers To have thousands of years of church history and the history of Israel, all of that to look back on and understand how we ought to live our lives in accordance with God. Word. We're in a very privileged position. But that doesn't mean we don't experience some radical changes in our thinking, especially with when it comes to This matter of biblical living, of a Christian life. And just as our conversion tends to create a radically different way of thinking in the mind of a person. There can be moments as we grow and as we mature in Christ that we begin to realize things about Scripture. We start realizing things about our God. And it radically shifts our thinking. And when our thinking is shifted and changed, it has a natural effect on how we conduct our lives. And that causes some times of transition. We're having to turn turn to transition from how we lived our life before we started thinking in a more biblical sense. To where we are now. And that can take some adjustment. But God is with us in those times. So just as Israel experienced the transitions that were life-altering, historical , you know, we all experience life-altering transitions. Yet just as God is with Israel, he's personally with every believer, guiding the believer through his word by the work of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. So God is able to preserve us during these times of transition. We ought to rejoice in that. We ought to be thankful for that. But that's not the only context in which God preserved us. Continuing in chapter thirteen, starting in verse seventeen. And it came to pass when Pharaoh had let the people go that God led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near. For God said, Lest peradventure the people repent when they see war and they return to Egypt. But God led the people about to the way of the wilderness of the Red Sea, and the children of Israel went up harnessed out of the land. And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for they for he had straightly sworn the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you. And ye shall carry up my bones away hence with you. And they took their journey from Sukkoth and encamped in Etham in the edge of the wilderness. Now I'm going to stop there And I'm going to point out some things just about what we just read. Because what we're seeing is kind of a mixture of God's perspective, Moses ' perspective. And the children of Israel's perspective. And what we tend to focus on is God's perspective and Moses ' perspective. But think about the average Hebrew just following along Got his his carriage on one side, his family on the other, and they're just walking along and they're noticing this isn't the normal way to Canaan. Wait, we're going toward the Red Sea? What are we supposed to do? We're supposed to swim across What do we do once we're past that? Isn't it just wilderness beyond it? This was a very confusing event. for the children of Israel. And you're going to see just how frustrated they will become later when things start heating up. But God is able to preserve us not only in times of transition. But also during times of confusion. And there's some things that we need to keep in mind of when we are in those seasons of confusion. That are assuring and encouraging with regard to God's presence with us. You see, God, as I mentioned, had a perspective which Israel did not have. And they were probably more familiar with the path that led north toward the Mediterranean Sea. And it's a Canaan. But the direction that they were going was further south. We're not sure if it was uh much further south, but it could potentially be as far south as, say, from New York City to here. A major directional shift. But God did it because He knew that if they went toward the Philistines, They would come into conflict in such a way that they would become discouraged and they would turn away and go back. Not that the Israelites ever thought about going back, right? But God knew this was in their hearts and knew what would push them over. So he had this perspective and directed them in such a way that although it was confusing, it was purposeful. Then we see God bringing them into this this essentially uh tight uh little valley right on the edge of the Red Sea. You have massive mountain on one side, massive mountain. Maybe it's a little two ten commandments in your mind. But essentially where they were, they weren't going to get anywhere very quickly. And as they come up onto the Red Sea and they are encamped there waiting to figure out what were they going to do next, they look up and they see Pharaoh 's arm. Look in chapter 14. Speak unto the children of Israel that they turn and encamp before Fiharia. Between Migdal and the sea, over against Balziphon, before it shall before it shall ye encamp by the sea. For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, they are entangled in the land, the wilderness hath shut them in And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, that he shall follow after them, and I will be honored upon Pharaoh and upon all his hosts, that the Egyptians may know that I am the Lord. And they did so. Now when did God give these instructions? Was before Pharaoh was breathing down the Israelites' necks? Yeah, it was. It was before they had even gone that direction. And Moses led Israel into that very tight space where once Pharaoh showed up, they thought, we're done. And we'll read here what their response is in a little bit. But as Moses knew, God had a different perspective than what these Israelites were. Going to have when Pharaoh actually showed up. God had an intent, a purpose of what he was going to do by leading them into really this situationally difficult spot. But while God had a perspective that Israel did not have, Israel had an assurance which Has never been experienced since. While Israel did not have the perspective that God had, they had a visible reminder of the powerful presence of God. Fire, till give them light, to go by day and night. He took not away the pillar of the cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night, from before the people. Now that's something we kind of can picture in our minds from from Sunday school flashcards and flannel graphs. And we we we We think, yeah, of course, they were led by fire, you know, led by cloud by day, fire by night. But imagine actually seeing something like that. You're this essentially ex -slave. You're just following a guy that told you you're getting out of Egypt. And all of a sudden, there is a pillar of cloud and fire that is leading you and with you wherever you go. I mean I I mean like sitting standing at the foot of the tallest skyscraper that you can think of, and that's literally cloud or fire That is remarkably visible, is it not? And it was there to remind Israel: God is with you in this time. And so Israel was able to have a source of assurance throughout this confusing Distressing time. But you know what? We have our own sense of assurance or source of assurance. We have the complete inspired Word of God. And we are privileged not only to know about this pillar of cloud and fire. But we're also able to look back and see all that God has done in the thousands of years since the Exodus. And of course, we understand there's far more that He's done that we don't have recorded for us in Scripture And all of that is a reminder to us that God is present. And even though we enter seasons of confusion. And even though we may not share God's perspective on things, we are assured that like God was with the children of Israel, He is with us as his people. And he will preserve us. He will care for us. God is able to preserve us in times of transition and confusion. But when things really hit the fan and things become extremely challenging, We cannot help but enter into seasons of fear, can we not? And so finally, we're going to see that the last context we see God preserving his people with his powerful presence is in this very time of fear that Israel was going to enter into. Look back at chapter 14. And verse 8. And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And he pursued after the children of Israel, and the children of Israel went out with an high hand. But the Egyptians pursued after them. All the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, and his horsemen and his army, and overtook them in camping by the sea beside Beharoth and Belzipoth. And when Pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and behold the Egyptians marched after them, and they were sore afraid. And the children of Israel cried out unto the Lord. And they said unto Moses, Because there were no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? Wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us to carry us forth out of Egypt Is not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone, that we may serve the Egyptians? For it had been better for us to serve the Egyptian than that we should die in the wilderness. Now the Israelites saw Pharaoh's army cut off their only escape route. And when they saw that these people were intent on wiping them out, they felt fear. I'm going to say it's perfectly normal to be afraid when someone that you're looking at is trying to kill you. But the Israelites, it says we're sore afraid. And their fear overcame their faith You know, fear is a it's it's a God-given response for your body to tell you that something is or someone can cause you harm. But Israel allowed that fear to subvert their faith. And essentially blaspheme against God by complaining to Moses the way they did. They were not of a mind to trust that God would deliver them out of the hand of Pharaoh, despite the fact that God had already shown them his power. I mean the God that had conducted the ten plates, who now was there with them in a pillar of cloud and fire. They didn't think he was going to do anything about this. No, they were sore afraid without reason. And as I mentioned previously, we have a far greater testimony to God's power than just the ten plagues of Egypt or the pillar of Cloud and fire, we have the preserved record of God's faithful preservation of his people. And not only that, we see that record leading to God's ultimate salvation of mankind. So while it's natural for us to feel and experience fear, God's word is a testimony to the fact that our fear should not Never subvert our faith in the God who will personally preserve his people. Because remember, we've already looked at Exodus fifteen. God already knew what the outcome was going to be. The Israelites had to trust him because he would preserve them. But Israel wasn't the only actor in this chapter. We see Moses in chapter 13 responding to the situation as well. And no doubt he had something He was feeling some sense of fear or anxiety in this scenario. But this is what he says. Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not. Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord, which he shall show you to this day. For the Egyptians whom ye have seen today, ye shall see them again no more forever The Lord shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace. Now, what we see Moses doing here is he's assuring the people that God was going to fight for them. And that word fight is a military term. He's thinking God will literally wipe out these Egyptians right here, right now. It's going to happen. So Moses was confident, but he was confident without really knowing exactly what God was going to do. And that's okay. Because his confidence wasn't in himself. Remember, this was the man who was fearful when God told him to go and lead his people out, to go and talk to Pharaoh. And now he knew that his confidence wasn't to rest in himself. It was to rest in the God who is present with him. I'd say this is a mark of Moses' maturing into this role that he's been called to. And so in fearful times, we like Moses may not have all the answers, may not have all the solutions, may not have all the perspective. But you know what? One truth that we can and must always fall back on is the truth that God is our confidence. Solomon puts it this way in Proverbs 3. He says, My son Let not them that is these commandments depart from thine eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion. So shall they be life unto thy soul and grace to thy neck. Then shalt thou walk in thy way safely, and thy foot shall Shall not stumble. When thou liest down thou shalt not be afraid, when thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet. Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked when it cometh. For the Lord shall be Thy confidence, and shall keep thy foot from being taken. Moses was confident in God. without even knowing the full picture. And then there is God Himself. And I'm just going to read the rest of this chapter because Because the way that God presents himself to Moses and then ultimately delivers Israel is is is is beautifully recorded in the rest of this chapter. And here we see God was present with a desired outcome. He knew exactly what he was going to do to process. Verse 15 And the Lord said unto Moses , Wherefore criest thou unto me? Speak unto the children of Israel that they go forward. But lift thou up thy rod and stretch out thine hand over the sea and divide it. And the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea. And I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, that they shall follow them, that I will, and I will get me Honor upon Pharaoh and upon all his hosts, upon his chariots and upon his horsemen. And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord. When I have gotten me honor upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots and upon his horsemen. And the angel of God which went before the camp of Israel removed and went behind them, and the pillar of cloud went from before their face and stood behind them And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel, and it was a cloud and darkness to them, but it gave light by night to thee, so that the one came not near the other all night. And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night. And made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided. And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground, and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand and on their left. And the Egyptians pursued and went in after them to the midst of the sea, even to all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen. And it came to pass that in the morning watch the Lord looked unto the hosts of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of cloud, and troubled the hosts of the Egyptians, and took off their chariot wheels, that they drave them heavily. So that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel, for the Lord fighteth for them against the Egyptians. And the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the sea. That the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen. And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned. To his strength when the morning appeared, and the Egyptians fled against it, and the Lord overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea. And the waters returned and covered the chariots and the horsemen and all the hosts of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them. There remained not so much as one of them. But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of the sea, and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand and on their left. Thus the Lord saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians. And Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon Upon the seashore, and Israel saw that great work which the Lord did upon the Egyptians, and the people feared the Lord and believed the Lord and his servant Moses. As they went through that sea all night long and came out on the other end and saw God wipe out Out their enemies. They saw the mighty, preserving presence of God With them. And just as God was with the children of Israel on that night, God is with his redeemed people. And every Season of life, knowing what is his desired outcome. He desires to preserve for himself a people for whom he died. And redeemed to himself. His reminder that, as Paul wrote in Romans 8, in all these things We are more than conquerors through him that loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come. Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Let's rejoice. In the assurance of God's mighty, preserving presence in the lives of believers. Father, we thank you for This incredible account. That not only signifies the start of the nation whom you would use to bring us our Messiah, but it is also A comforting and powerful reminder that you are with your people. And whether we're facing transitions, times of confusion, or even You are the powerful God who will preserve his people, and we as your people are privileged to be able to experience that. Father, may you be magnified tonight as our mighty presence God. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. But I want to share my favorite statement in all the Bible about that particular event. Psalm 7719. He says, Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known. Thou lettest thy hand like a flock by the hand of the Of Moses and Aaron. And that is a great statement about what God was doing. He was leading them, and he was protecting them, and he was demonstrating that he He cared for them, even when it didn't look that way before he stepped in and rescued them. So thank you for that great reminder of that. Let's go ahead and let's turn in our hymn books to our closing hymn. And the hymn is Great is Thy Faithfulness, 109. Let's turn there, please. We'll sing all three verses together. 109. Great is thy faithfulness. Let's stand together, please. Great is thy faithfulness, O God, my Father , then I came by The tenation to get started , so that 's all you are. I come here from the heavy man in the line , bring for you today, and I 'm not sure. Great song for us to close out with this evening. Uh Justin Betts, can you close us in prayer please? And uh We'll be praying for your wife as she gets close to delivery. And uh good to see each of you tonight. Don't forget, teens, that we have uh sing spiration, so uh meet in the back and uh Pastor Crystal give the directions as far as when they'll be back here at church. So Jessica. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. We thank you that you allowed us to come here together and hear your word. Uh, we thank you, Lord, that uh you always watch out for your people and that you're always um in control of all events, even when we don't think uh that things are gonna work out. We pray that you help us to keep that in mind as we go through our lives. We pray for safety for all of us this week, Lord. And uh for healing for everybody who's uh who's ill. And uh we pray that you'll bring us back here uh at the appointed time. In Jesus' name. Amen.