Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And uh we are now in week seven, hard to believe, and uh excited about the text that we will be looking at together this week. Um if you remember a couple of weeks ago We were in Luke chapter 7, we were looking at verses 36 uh down to verse 50, and then we paused for a week to look at Psalm 28 because uh in our church On the first Sunday of the month, we always stop and we reflect on a psalm. And so we're back in that same passage in Luke 7, and we're looking at really the second part of that study. A lot to unpackage um in this interaction between Christ and Simon and a woman who was uh grieved by what she witnessed at Simon's house. So So if you have your Bible, I want to ask you to take it, and let's turn together to verses 36, and we'll read through verse 43 and then talk about some very important foundational matters that will prepare us for the study this week. Luke 7, 36. And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee's house and sat down to meet. And behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisees' house, brought in an alabaster box of ointment, and stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with her tears. and wiped them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with wheatment. Now the Pharisee, which had bidden him saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she is a sinner. And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have some what to say unto thee. And he said, Master Sion, there was a certain creditor which had two debtors. The one owed five hundred pence, the other fifty And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave both of them. Tell me, therefore, which of them will love him most. Simon answering said, I suppose that he him he forgave the most He said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. Now, I want to remind you what we talked about not just on Sunday, but really several weeks ago. And so let me give you a summary statement. And then we want to deal with a theological concept that is foundational to the passage and the topic we're dealing with So, first of all, a summary statement. Luke 7 recounts an ordinary dinner invitation that illustrates how our relationship to the gospel fundamentally shapes how we relate to other people. God wants us to have lives that are built firmly on the gospel, rooted in the gospel. It is the foundation. for how we think, it's the foundation for how we live, it's the foundation for what we are becoming as people. And so this is the starting point. This is the foundation. And so we're going to focus on how the gospel this week shapes our perspective, how it helps our perspective to be healthy. And um we're we're particularly going to look at how this man, Simon, had an unhealthy perspective. We're really going to contrast that with the healthy perspective of this woman. who lived a life that was broken and miserable up to the time that she meets Christ. So in order for us to get into this topic and understand it well , I want to begin with a theological understanding that we need to have, and that is the issue of sin. I know that a lot of churches today don't like to talk about sin. In fact, our culture has come to the place where Uh we ignore it. We actually act as if uh sin doesn't exist. And this is one of the reasons we have so much really detrimental behavior going on in our society is because rather than people speaking honestly about human nature, um they're acting as if we're all just naturally good people and if you just give people what they want, they'll They'll thrive and they'll do real well. Well that's not true. The fact is, when you give in to people sinful passions, guess what? You you create a monster that uh cannot be stopped. And if a person's life isn't dominated by the gospel and by the Holy Spirit who is working in the heart of someone who is regenerated The fact is that person is going to uh live a life that is a slave to their own passions. And so we want to talk about a biblical view of sin this morning to help us uh think about this contrast of perspectives, one that is healthy and one that is not. So the modern view of sin is obviously uh a an unwillingness to look at human nature objectively. And Romans chapter one puts it this way. People hold The idea is that they press down, they suppress the truth in unrighteousness. People don't want to consider the implications of human nature. And that's what's going on in our society today. Inf fact what's amazing is that if you'd go back a hundred or a hundred and fifty years ago Some of the uh the post-Enlightenment thinkers, uh people who were by no means Christians, they were antagonistic to the Christian worldview. I'm talking about people like Sigmund Freud or Fromm, uh people that were in the psych psychology studies type type of fields. Even people like Immanuel Kant, these are These are secular people, not positive to Christianity at all. Even these people who rejected the Bible understood human nature and they wrote about it and they talked about it. Certainly the implications of how they dealt with that wasn't right, but they understood people are by nature broken and they have problems. But that's not the way the modern world looks at this issue The modern world presents people as being morally good. In fact, if people even want to use the term morally good or bad, they want to look at people as being good. Well, the Bible has a completely different presentation of human nature, and that is that we are sinners. We are sinners by nature, and we are sinners by choice, and we demonstrate that that is at the root of our nature. That's sin nature by the way that we live our lives. And I want to start with this thought. All sin is serious sin, and not just sin that is visible. But the sin that is also under the surface. Not just the sin that's really destructive and everybody can see, well, you know, when a person commits adultery, it destroys a family, it destroys a wife, or it destroys a husband, it destroys uh in laws and parents and children. No, we're talking about the sin that causes that to come about. We're talking about what goes on in the heart. Yes, we know that murder is a terrible sin that ends a person's life and affects everybody whose life is touched by murder, but hatred that boils in the heart, that ultimately lies under the surface, that that can manifest itself in that kind of way. God says that murder and hatred are equivalent in his eyes, and adultery and lust are equivalent in his eyes. So all sin is s is serious. Not just the sin that we see, it's the sin that's in the heart. All sin is a rebellion against God as the Creator. All of the sin that we commit is a sin that goes against the good purpose that God has for our lives. Sin is always against God's nature, but it's not just against God's nature. Sin is ultimately undermining the well-being of God's creatures. And it tears at the dignity of people. You know, when I tell someone a lie, what am I doing? I'm undermining the dignity of that person and the obligation to uphold what is true and what is right. When I steal from somebody, what am I doing? I'm taking away from somebody something that they worked hard for, that that was uh properly owed to them because of their labors and their ingenuity and what they have created. And so when we talk about sin, it's not just a rebellion against God, it's also against his purposes, and it undermines his creatures. Even sin against ourselves is an undermining of our dignity as people. So sin is a very serious matter. And God talks a lot about it in His Word. Second thing I'm going to mention is this. It only takes one sin for someone to be excluded from God's eternal kingdom and for a person to be under God's just wrath. The Bible has a lot to say about this. In fact, in Romans 3 it says all have sinned. It doesn't say we are sinning, though that Clearly is the case. He's focusing focusing in on a particular sin. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. In Romans chapter 5 he explains exactly what that means. He says, by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, so man so death passed upon all men for that all have sinned. First Corinthians 15, 22, it says In Adam all die. It just takes one sin for a person to be excluded from the kingdom and to be under God's wrath, and that's the sin of Adam. And so we are born in the similitude or in the likeness of our forefather Adam. We have inherited by nature that sin nature that was first in our forefather Adam. And so our sin is really an expression of what's going on in our nature. It just takes one sin to exclude us from the kingdom. On the other side, there is only one sin that ultimately keeps us from the kingdom. It's not the sin of adultery, it's not the sin of murder, it's not the sin of anger, it's not the sin of pride, it's the sin of unbelief. In fact, in John 16, this is what Jesus says when he predicts that the Holy Spirit is going to come when he ascends back to the Father, it says when he, the Holy Spirit, comes, he's going to reprove the world of sin. That word reprove is the idea he's going to confront and he's going to convict. He's going to demonstrate That there is a sin that is separating people from God. Well, then he says, of sin, righteousness, and judgment, and then he defines what the sin is. He says, of sin, because they believe not on me. So when Christ focuses in on what keeps people out of God's kingdom, he doesn't focus on the things that we tend to think of as the most terrible and egregious sins in the world. He focuses on the one that that really is the linchpin. It's the one that is the key to heaven and hell. It's are you going to embrace the gospel and place your faith in Christ, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved, or are you going to reject him in unbelief? And so this is a very important concept for us to contemplate as we think about what we're going to talk about this week. The next thing I want to mention is this. We have to make sure that we do not judge sin by a human standard. It is very common in our art in our heart to look at our sin and say, you know what Yes, I've done this, or yes, I thought this, or yes, I do this, but I'm not doing it to the extent that my neighbor is. I haven't gone to that level. And so we kind of compare ourselves to other people. But that's not the way that we need to look at this issue of sin. We need to compare ourselves to the holy righteous standard of God's perfection. When the scripture uses the word sin, the word sin literally means to miss the mark. And it's to miss the mark of God's righteous standard of perfection. In Romans chapter 2 it says that we are inexcusable. He says, those who judge another are condemned as well. He says, Thou therefore that judges doest the same things. Thinkest thou this that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? In Romans chapter 2 he says, you know, when a person lies to you, that makes you upset And so when they lie to you, you feel like you have been wronged. He says, if you know that someone has wronged you and you lie, and then you're dishonest yourself, how can you think that God should excuse your your dishonesty? But judge their dishonesty or when a person is proud and you can see it and you say, Oh, that's so repulsive that a person would be so arrogant and so condescending and then We could do the same thing ourselves and go, well, God should judge them, but not me. He says, no, no, no, no, no. He says, that's not how it works. We don't compare ourselves to other people. We compare ourselves to God, His standard of righteousness. And so the idea that Paul is communicating in Romans chapter 2 Is that on the final day of judgment, there will be no excuse that is acceptable before God. Well, you know, the reason that I uh that I did those things is because of my environment. It's my dad's fault. My dad wasn't a good dad or you know, I grew up in a tough place or uh I I had I had all these challenges that were working. He's gonna say no no no no no You have a conscience. You know what's right and wrong. Why? Because when people wrong you, you know it's wrong and it bothers you. But then you've excused your own sin against other people. You're inexcusable. There are no excuses that we can make on the final day. We'll have no ability to downplay our guilt. It's going to be us and God. And on the final analysis, if we've rejected the gospel and we're outside of Christ and his redemptive work, the fact is very simple. We will face God's wrath forever. And so when we talk about this passage, which is, by the way, it's a beautiful passage that demonstrates how the gospel shapes a healthy perspective, we have to begin with this understanding of sin. How we view sin is critically important to a a healthy perspective because if we don't see sin properly we won't be able to deal with it properly as well. So the question I want to close with is, well how how do we you know practically apply this introductory thought? Well, it ultimately comes down to how we view sin. Do we have a shallow view of sin where we can easily excuse it and act as if it's not a big deal and we compare ourselves to other people and we kind of downplay our sinners say, you know, I haven't gotten caught, so that means I haven't hurt anybody. And so if I haven't gotten caught and I haven't hurt anybody, it's really not a big deal. That's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that it's in the heart where those terrible behaviors come, but the sin in the heart, in the eyes of God, is just as much sin as the expression of it openly. Secondly, do we have the opposite effect where we have a view of sin that's insurmountable? You know, you could have a person who is overwhelmed by guilt. And they feel the weight of their sin, and they say, God could never accept me. And that is partially true. He can never accept you, save the grace of God and the work of Christ. You see, our sin is surmountable. Why? Because of Christ's work. Because Christ went to the cross. All of our sin was laid upon him. the the the worst and the most offensive sins that we can imagine. They were placed on Christ. Christ bore the full wrath of the Father against our sin. And so we can we can diminish our sin with a shallow view Or we could we could believe that our sin is insurmountable and we don't recognize the power and the depth and the riches of God's grace. And the fact that God can save Anyone, anyone will who will turn to him in childlike faith and trust in what Christ has done for them, they'll be saved from their sins. The sin that condemns a person is the sin of unbelief. It's the rejection of the gospel The third practical implication is that we need to be careful that we don't categorize our sin in an unbiblical manner It's easy for us to say these are the big sins and these are the small sins. And we we we elevate unnecessarily the big sins as being insurmountable. God can never save someone who's who's who's fallen prey to these issues or who's enslaved to these things or who's practicing these things. And then we look at another person and say, well, you know, these are not the end of the world. God doesn't make these categories. God says sin is sin. It's an offense. It separates me from you, but the gospel is available. We need to be careful about not characterizing sin in an unbiblical way. And the last thing I'm going to mention is this. We need to ask the Lord to help us to see sin for what it actually is from his perspective. So that it sobers us and it humbles us and it ultimately points us to the beauty of the gospel. And the power of Christ's redemptive work. That's where I wanted to start this week as we look at Luke chapter 7. If we don't have a biblical view of sin Then everything else isn't going to make sense. If we do have a biblical view of sin, we will walk away with this beautiful picture of what the gospel does in transforming a person, not just giving them forgiveness and eternal life. but giving them a transformed life that can actually look at look at life from the perspective of a healthy, vibrant God-centered worldview. I hope that that's been an encouragement to you this morning. If it has, please do share that and uh pass it along so that others can be encouraged by it as well. Have a blessed day and uh Lord willing, tomorrow we will continue in this series. Bye now