To Anchor Baptist Church this morning. And uh really looking forward to our day. It's been a very busy weekend, and uh I'll have a little bit more to say about that after Pastor Chris gives the announcements. But If you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you. I hope that you were able to receive a welcome packet, and inside that welcome packet, uh there is a connection card And that connection card is a way for us to reach out to you. And if you would prefer email, make sure that you take a note of that. Or if you would prefer a phone call, let us know. And if you fill that card out, we will be reaching out to you. So please take a moment to fill that out if you'd like to get more information about the church. you'd like to uh make that connection. Uh Pastor Chris has some announcements and then uh I'll get our service started. All right, good morning. I hope you had a chance to grab a bulletin. And um I'm just gonna cover what's going on this week because we got a lot going on just this week. So starting off, we got our VDS Workers meeting right after the morning service. It'll be over here on the piano side. So if you're involved with VBS or want to be involved with VBS, make your way there after the morning service. And then tonight we have our Finger Food Fellowship after the evening service. So please feel free to bring food for that. And Then we have the Baltimore Rescue Mission on Tuesday at 6. 30. Please let us know if you uh plan on coming. Just shoot us a text or an email, and that way we know if we need to bring a certain num amount of vans. We'll be going at 6 30 doing the ladies side, doing the service there, and then we'll have the men do the men's side. Following that we get back probably close to nine o'clock. Then we have our senior luncheon on Thursday at 12 p. m. And seniors I'm looking forward to to seeing you all there. And uh well really I'm just there for the food, but um Just kidding. I'm I'm just kidding But um yeah, we're gonna have a good time of fellowship and looking forward to uh the seniors there. Uh and then we have our College of Current Bible study this Friday as well, 7 p. m. here at the church. uh rather than at pastor's house so that's a change um from what you're probably used to so we're here at the church for the college of career and then next Sunday is Father's Day um so please Uh hope to see you fathers all out here and uh looking forward to a great great service. Pastor Yesterday was a very special event for Pastor Chris, and yesterday was a commissioning service for him. He is now a commissioned naval officer. And just to explain to you that it wasn't technically a service, but it was a commissioning event. And some of you may not know this, most of you probably do, but Pastor Chris has been accepted into the chaplain corps, and he'll be going to ODS at the end of August. And so he will be with us throughout the summer. And then Um he'll be going to ODS, which is basically their their class to become an official chaplain. And then after the class is done, he'll be receiving orders to wherever uh Uncle Sam sends him. Um but we will be having a special service uh before he and Paige go um because as uh as a church where he has served and where he has been able to um to grow and be prepared for that. We want to send them away. And it's very similar to the way that we send out missionaries. Now typically when we send out a missionary, we are financially supporting them. And um so we have a relationship with them not just as we get their prayer letters, but we also um financially support them. With Pastor Chris, obviously we won't be financially supporting him. he's gonna be um a a chaplain. But we will receive updates from them when they're in the area, they'll they'll come through and um really look forward to that. So if you missed that service yesterday, um it really was it was a great event. And um he was able to give remarks and uh really gave the gospel to all of those who were here. And um just very thankful that we've been able to be a part of it. So I wanted to mention that. Also, tonight is a special night because uh we have the lenders with us today, Josh and Becky. And uh Josh is um going to be interviewing, I say going to be, we've had a a an interview already. But tonight we will get to hear Josh preach and also give an opportunity for our church members to ask him questions. uh because we're looking at uh potentially bringing him on. Staff and so I'm very excited about that. So spend some time getting to know them if you don't. If you do know them, which many of you do, I hope you'll uh take the time to get reacquainted with their family. They actually have four kids. The two oldest daughters are working at a camp this summer, so they're not with them today. But I'm looking forward to getting to hear him preach tonight. The passage of scripture we'll open our service with is Isaiah 53. So if you have your Bible, I want to ask you to turn there And we're going to read the first six verses. Isaiah 53, verses 1 through 6. Here's what the scriptures say. Who hath believed our report? To whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness When we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, spent in of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes, We are heals. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. The thing that really stands out to me about those verses are the words we and us. He's saying we're the ones who rejected him And he bore our sins. And so this morning I'm looking forward to us looking at the significance of this passage and how it connects to Luke chapter 9. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to richly bless this service. Father in heaven, we're so grateful for your word. And as we open up the Bible this morning, I pray that you would take the word and you would impress it upon our hearts. in a very rich manner. I pray that the Word of God would penetrate our hearts where we need to be convicted, that you would open our understanding in that conviction. Would be very, very present in our hearts and where we need to be comforted and encouraged. I pray that the Holy Spirit will take the Word of God and He would comfort us and encourage us and uplift us. Father, I pray that if there's anyone in our midst that does not understand the redemptive work of Christ and its significance, that Jesus died for their sins and rose from the dead. And that through faith alone and his sacrifice they can be redeemed from their sins and be declared your children forever. I pray that this morning the truths that are laid before us would be a tool through which you open their understanding to see the weight of their sin, the redemptive work of Christ, and the simplicity of grace alone, faith alone, and Christ alone I pray for your richest blessing on this service and this day, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Thanks so much for joining us here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number 243, 243. When I survey the wondrous cross, we will sing all four verses of Hem 243. Great singing as we turn over to hymn number two hundred and fifty-one. Near the cross. 251. Again, we'll sing all four verses of Jesus Keep Me Near the Cross. Right , near the We limited with the law. But if we go with the remaining color , you can have a Right to be young, maybe come up to Right on the re singing. Please be seated as we turn over to him three hundred and fifty-five. 355 Jesus paid it all. We'll sing all four verses I don't really My. Todo bueno, nada más y yo le dejaba rey, la madre, pero el rey se cree, no creo que la mamá , el rey se llama. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, you have to either. Our scripture readings will be found in the gospel of Luke chapter nine. Luke chapter nine verses twenty-three through twenty-seven. Luke chapter nine verses twenty-three to twenty-seven The scriptures say, and he said to them all, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it. But whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. But what is a man advantaged if he gain the whole world and lose himself or be cast away For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of Man be ashamed when he shall come in his own glory. And in his fathers, and of the holy angels. But I tell you of a truth, there be some standing here which shall not taste of death till they see the kingdom of God. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Man, thank you, Deanna. We're going to continue our singing this morning with hymn number three hundred ninety-one. I am resolved. Hymn number three hundred ninety-one. We'll sing all four verses. I am not going to be a good one. Great singing, please stand with me once. More for our final song before the sermon. We'll be singing out of the blue book. Number 105 for Me to Live is Christ. We'll be singing all four verses, and we'll have the instruments drop out. on the last verse. Let's sing out for me to live is Christ. In life that thou not necessarily game He came to earth and served and born to bear the front that saves us for Christ the make my own. Que her For me to live in price to my Lord the path is all to pray. And I say go to love is victory or not, to love his mighty power to set for me to let For me to live in life , pursuing them my highest life, for me to live. So joy in Christ and never cease and run to him He brings true peace, concerning health, and every safe, and all be strengthened by his rest For me to live its cross, for me to live his cross Pursuing him my highest price for me to live this Christ. Amen. Please be silent. Don't you just love hearing the a cappella? Sounded beautiful. Our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back for their class. Parents, please take them there. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn with me to Luke chapter 9. Luke chapter 9, we're working our way verse by verse through the book of Luke. Don't worry, we will finish in the next five years, I believe. Then we'll go to the book of Acts. No. I really want to get into the book of Romans, and I'm really looking forward to study that we will do there when we conclude the book of Luke, but we have some some time to go there. Also I want to put in a plug for our Wednesday night. We are going to be working our way through the Sermon on the Mount And we did an introduction this week. And I know that that's a pretty complicated passage of scripture, especially when you come to some of the interpretive details. I hope that you'll join us for that. If you're not able to be physically here, I know a lot of folks during the day on Wednesdays, it's hard for you to get back from work, but I hope you maybe join us on the live stream. And the things that we're going to deal with in the Sermon on the Mount, they're really at the heart level. They're foundational matters. And so I think that they'll be very, very practical for us. Luke chapter 9, and let's begin in verse 20. It says, and he said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answering said, the Christ of God. He straightly charged them and commanded them to tell no man that thing. Saying, the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day. And he said unto them, all, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me For whosoever will save his life shall lose it. But whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. For what is a man advantage if he gained the whole world, and lose himself, or be cast away? For whosoever shall be ashamed of me, and of my words Of him shall the Son of Man be ashamed when he shall come in his own glory, and in his father's, and of the holy angels. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to help us to understand What Jesus is saying and how it appropriately applies to us this morning. Father, as we open up this text of Scripture, I recognize the tremendous weight the interpretive challenges. And in fact, how this teaching would prick our hearts this morning. Father, help us to recognize that when a person places their faith in Christ, old things pass away and all things become new And our identity is lost in whatever it was in this world. And it is found exclusively in Christ. When people think of us, they don't think of the man or the woman that we once were, but they think of who we are in Christ. And that association with Christ and that identity in Him is something that, while it brings great joy and immeasurable delight , can bring tremendous hardship Pain and suffering. And I pray that as your people this morning, we would understand the cost of our identity with Christ. That we would consider the weight of Christ's cross and what it accomplished for us, what it teaches us of his holiness and his righteousness and his love for humanity. and what it also teaches us of the world's hatred for the authority of Christ. May you speak to our hearts this morning in Christ's name Amen. The text before us is a powerful text. It's a text that when we read it, we do not want to think about the implications of what is here. Or we rush very quickly to implications without understanding what Jesus is actually saying. Bound up in this passage is a very weighty warning that goes to all of those who have understood who Jesus is. They've come face to the face with the face to face with the reality of their sinfulness, their need for a savior. They've trusted Christ, and now they are publicly identified with the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus is warning those who follow him that there is a cost, a personal cost, that may very well come in connection to your identification with this person, the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, when we look at this passage, what we see is that it teaches us that following Christ comes with an inherent personal cost. And what God wants us to be as His people this morning is a people who wholeheartedly embrace the distinctiveness of our new identity in Christ, even if and when it will cost us Dearly. That really is the sense of the passage in front of us. If you're a Christian, you are not the same person that you were the moment that you understood your sinfulness the weight of Christ's sacrifice, Christ's identity as God and flesh, his death, his burial, his resurrection, his righteousness that must be imputed to us, when you placed your faith in Christ, you became a new creature. And I want us to explore the significance of what naturally would flow from such a unique identity. First of all, I want to begin an introduction talking about the nature of this passage. This passage is not an evangelistic appeal. Now, when Jesus stated this to his disciples, he's stating this to people who have been willing to leave family and they've been willing to leave jobs and they've been willing to follow him for a reason. The reason that they have been willing to follow him is because they believe that Jesus is the Christ. And when we talk about them believing that he is the Christ, within that statement, Jesus is the Christ, Is all of this Old Testament prophecy that tells us Jesus' identity, Jesus' mission, the way he's going to accomplish our redemption, all of those pieces Are packaged within that statement, you are the Christ of God. And notice what it says in verses 20 and 22, when Jesus speaks to the disciples, he says, Whom say ye that I am? Well Peter, of course he's always the first to answer it appears, says, Well, you are the Christ of God. And then Jesus goes, corrects. Now let me give you a little more information about this Christ of God. The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected of the elders and the chief priests and scribes and be slain and be raised the third day What Jesus is basically saying is, you know who I am, and you know that you need me, but I want you to understand That there is something that I must do, not something that I want to do or something that I might need to do, it's something I must do. This was the very purpose for which I was sent into the world. To die on the cross. It's a wanting to prepare them to think properly about the cost of being identified with Christ. These disciples were following Jesus. And what they may not have understood at the time was that there was going to be a point where all of those prophecies were going to come to their ultimate culmination. And people were going to be saying, crucified Jesus, and then they were going to say, hey, do you know this person? Are you one of his disciples? Have you been following him? And all of a sudden, those disciples are going to be met with a decision. Do I want to admit I'm with him, or do I want to kind of just let the dust settle? I think it's very significant that Peter is the one who speaks up. I'm going to come back to this later in the message. But it was ultimately to prepare them For what lies before them. Identifying with Christ comes with a cost. And so he says, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself. And take up his cross and follow me. He's warning them about the inherent implications of being a Christian. There are no exceptions. We see the words if any. Being identified with Christ and following him distinguishes you from the world around us. He says later, whoever will save his life will lose it. That's the way that the world lives. They live for money and they live for pleasure and they live for power. They're doing everything they can to accumulate wealth and accumulate a name and accumulate power on this side of eternity and they give no thought to their soul. And he says, but you're different. You lose your life for my sake. That's what he's saying. The Christian's life is a life of daily self-denial. Think about that. Denying of self How many of us have a difficult time even within our own personal relationships in our home, amongst our siblings? with our spouse, all these different scenarios. We have a difficult time laying aside our rights and our demands to just get along with people on the most basic levels. It's true, isn't it? I mean if you're a parent, you're doing these things all the time. Okay. This week we had to have a Powell meeting, one of the days and just sit down and talk to the kids about Some of their behavior, some of their conversations. And a lot of it was centered into this issue of self-centeredness. Hey, that's in all of us. And so when Jesus talks about self-denial, he's not saying, oh, you don't need to take the biggest piece of food that's on the table or You get to decide where we're going, or one of the things that we often squabble about, he's saying you're willing to actually lay your own life down if that's what it costs to be identified with Christ. Following Christ comes with personal cost. Before we apply this text of Scripture, we need to think carefully not just about what Jesus is saying. But why? Because I think the why is what enables us to know how to apply what Jesus is saying. And so let's begin by first of all considering the cross of Jesus Christ. You know, when we talk about the cross in our culture, we tend to think of the cross as something that is maybe on a picture in our in our house, we have a Bible verse next to the cross. Or maybe someone wears a a a necklace and there's a cross on it or uh some piece of jewelry, but when the ancient world thought of the cross, they did not think of some beautiful piece of gold jewelry They thought about wood that people were nailed to and that they died in the most horrific And painful and humiliating weight known to man at the time. You say, what in the world does the cross reveal to us? Well, it ref reveals a lot to us about God's holiness. and his love for humanity. And in order for us to understand this concept of the holiness of God and his love for humanity, there's a word that many of us are aware of, but maybe you're not, and that's the word propitiation. The word propitiation has the idea of this: God 's just wrath against our sin is a fearsome wrath that must be satisfied. The simplest way to put it is in Romans chapter 6, it says, the wages of sin is what? It's death. Curses everyone who hangs on a tree. You say, did Jesus have to go to the cross, or is that just the way that it panned out in history? And the answer is Jesus had to go to the cross The cross in order to purchase our redemption. In Ephesians, or excuse me, in Isaiah 53, listen carefully to what it says. We've already read through some of these verses, but I want you to notice what it says that really falls into this teaching on propitiation. It says this It pleased the Lord to bruise him. Verse number 10. When thou shalt see his soul in offering for sin, he shall see his seed, prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Now If you do not understand that verse, you do not understand the gospel. We see words like pleased, offering for sin. pleasure, travail of his soul, satisfied, bearing their iniquities. And what these verses are talking about is the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ went to the cross and offered himself as a substitute in our place. His soul was literally an offering for sin. God 's wrath against our sin was satisfied in the death of Christ. And that's what it tells us. In other words, when you see the fearsomeness of God the cross, you ought to recognize that the God who made the world is a holy, righteous God who can't just forget about sin and ignore sin. He must deal with sin. But on the other side, we don't just see the fearsome wrath of God against sin, but we see the incredible love of God for people who are rebellions in rebellion against him. In other words, it is the love of God that motivated him to send his son to purchase our redemption. In Romans 3. 24 it says, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. That word freely is huge. It means you and I don't pay anything for our salvation. We don't merit it, we don't earn it, we don't build up righteous credentials. We don't say, I followed the law in all these ways, and because I did this, you owe me something, God. That's not the way salvation works. It is free through redemption. And you say, but hold on, redemption is the payment of a price. And you're right, yeah, that's true. But who paid the price? He did. Christ paid the price, and he offers to us a free gift that we do nothing for. We do not earn it, we do not merit it. It is purely of the grace of God alone. And then we see this statement: God sent him forth to be a propitiation through faith in his presence. Do you not see the connection between the Isaiah fifty three and the Romans three twenty five statement? For the remission of sins, that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. When God saves a sinner, he declares a sinner not guilty, and he's not unjust in the way he does it. And you say, I don't get it. Well, it's because Christ died in our place. It's because he declares us righteous on the basis of the imputed righteousness of Christ. He doesn't call me righteous because I am. He calls me righteous because I'm in him. There's a huge difference between those two things. He doesn't forgive me because I paid for the price of my sin. He forgives me because Jesus has purchased my forgiveness through his own death on the cross And so in 1 John 2 it says, if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus the righteous. He is our prop the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. Do you see the connection between all these verses or 1 John 4, 9? In this was manifested the love of God toward us. Because God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Here in his love, not that we love God, but he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. You say, Well, Pastor, why do you take the time to mention all that? I take the time to mention that to help you to recognize something. This verse in Luke chapter 9 is not saying you earn salvation because you're willing to die for Christ. Or you earn salvation because you're willing to deny yourself and pick up a cross and follow him. You are saved by grace and grace alone. But what we're going to see in these verses is something that helps us to understand what is undergirding this principle and why the world hates Jesus and hates those who are identified with him. Because that's really at the heart of the text in front of us. Second thing I'll mention is this: the cross reveals the world's hatred for God. You say the world doesn't hate God, it just doesn't know him. Just doesn't know him as he is. Well, when the world comes to know God as he is, they don't like him very much. It's the truth. The fact is, anytime that I'm confronted with a God who made me Who demands my absolute allegiance that I am created for his glory and not my own glory Who is holy and righteous and just. And all the things that I love to do, he says, those are wrong because they're not conform to my purposes. And when he says the way of salvation is not through something we give to him, but it's through what he did for us, lots and lots of people go, I don't want salvation that way. I don't want you to tell me I can't live my life that way. I don't want you to tell me that that's not morally pure and right and holy. The world doesn't like that. I mean just look at our culture today and ask yourself a question. Do you think that the world loves God? No. The world rages and arrogance against God. against God. Psalm two one, why do the heathen rage? And the people imagine a vain thing The kings of the earth set themselves against the Lord and against his anointed. The psalmist says: this is the way the world sees God. In fact, when we see what takes place in the life of Jesus, they didn't just want to simply debate Jesus and debunk him and say, hey, Jesus is discredited, so don't listen to him. I mean, certainly they engaged in dialogue and they engaged in ways of trying to trap him and they did try to discredit him. But that wasn't the end game, folks. They didn't just want to silence Jesus It was more than debate and discredit. It was more than silence. They didn't want to just kill Jesus. They didn't want to just throw him off a cliff and not have to deal with him. They wanted him to die in the most vicious and dehumanizing way possible. They hated him and they wanted to dehumanize him and they wanted people to say, You want to have nothing to do with this man, the Lord Jesus Christ. They hated him with intense passion because of who he was. Because of what he taught and how his presence personally threatened their position. One of the reasons the world hates Jesus is because they love sin. And they love power and they love money and they love doing what they want to do. And the fact is, if it's not for the grace of God humbling us through the preaching of the gospel. We stay like that. Could be that even in this room this morning someone is in that position. I don't know. I have no idea. But God loves you even though that's how you view him. When we were at enmity with God, he loved us. That's what's so amazing about God 's love for people. And the cross accomplished our redemption. 1 Peter 1. You were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation. Received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. As of a lamb without blemish and without spot, Romans eight. If God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, delivered him up for us all, how shall he not also with him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay any charge against God's elect? It is God that justifieth? Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who maketh intercession for us. That statement advocates intercession is basically the Bible's way of saying this. When you sin against the holy, righteous God, and your conscience condemns you, Jesus says, I've taken that on myself. That's what he says. Or when Satan hurls at you this accusation and says, look what you did and look what you thought and look how you responded, and he throws this in your face and you go, It's true. Jesus says, I've paid for this. That's what he's saying. When you get on your knees because you feel the guilt and the weight of your sin, and it's as you pray, it's like God isn't hearing you and He's not listening to you, and you feel this way. God reminds you that the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanseth us from all sin. The cross matters, folks. You have no gospel, you have no Christianity without the cross. Because what the cross accomplished Is your only hope. Second truth I want you to notice is that we have to consider our identification with Christ. Now, this is where the text begins to make a little more sense. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 17, it says, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. When a person comes face to face with their sinfulness and their unrighteousness and their spiritual bankruptcy and how they have absolutely nothing they can give to God that he goes, okay, my wrath is is satisfied. I accept you. I forgive you. I declare you righteous because you're a really good guy. The Bible says none of those things can do anything to give us a standing with God. We come to understand this, and we turn to him like a child, and we trust in what he did for us. And what happens at the moment of conversion? The word is regeneration. Spiritually dead, it's now spiritually alive. Who we are as a person when we are converted fundamentally changes on every single level. If you've not experienced the new birth, you're not a new creature. If you're trying to live the Christian life and the power of your flesh, you will fail and fail miserably I don't say that to be demeaning in any way. I say it to be honest and transparent. Because it may be that you say, I struggle in living the Christian life. And I ask you the question: Do you understand what it means to be a Christian so that you have the power to live the Christian life? 2 Corinthians, 1 Corinthians 6, verse 9, listen to what it says. Do you not know? The unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates, nor abusers of themselves with mankind Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit kingdom of God. God. That's not Pastor Joel's opinion. That's God's word. Okay? No matter what progressive Christianity may say about these things, it's not true. It's a lie. The next statement is so significant. He says, and such were some of you. I mean, could you imagine if you were living in Corinth and you're a part of the church and we have a letter from the Apostle Paul And he gets to the portion that we're reading here this morning, and he says, the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. Fornicators, idolaters, adulterers, effeminate abusers of themselves of mankind. He goes to the list, and all these people are just going, What do I do? I have lived all of those things. And then he says, Such were some of you. Not our were. You know what that tells me? It is not possible for your identity to be rooted in any of these matters, and Jesus can't be. It's impossible. Possible. When you become a Christian, you are not united with Christ, and your former identity is lost and it's bound up in Him. And He says, you are washed You are sanctified and you are justified. He literally cleanses you. The person you were is not who you are. And he sets you apart to himself. He declares you a saint. You are holy in the eyes of God. And you are justified. You are declared righteous in the name of Jesus by the Spirit of our God. Now listen. If you had lived in such sin, and everything you knew was identified in those things And you have become a Christian, and your life has been separated from these things, and your identity is now rooted in Christ. What do people think about you who had once been your dearest of friends? Does your life not convict them? Does your life not enrage them? Your life actually might be something God used to draw them. But there's really one of two options. Either one is compelled by the beauty of the gospel. They desire to be washed and cleansed and forgiven and to be found in Him righteous, or They love their sin, and they love their pride, and they love the debauchery, and they rage at him. Ephesians 2, 1. You hath he quickened who were dead and trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of the This world. You were by nature the children of wrath. But God Who's rich in mercy. For his great love when he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you're saved Do you know why Jesus in Luke chapter 9 says, if you're going to come after me, you've got to deny yourself, and you've got to take up your cross and you've got to follow me? It's because when a person comes face to face with the gospel and their identity changes, the people around them don't understand it. They don't appreciate it. They don't love it. Now God may use it to draw many of those whom you were very close to at one time to Himself as time goes on. But the initial response could be one of absolute anger and resentment and betrayal. Folks, as Christians, there are limits that we have on our responses because the Spirit of God convicts us. And he humbles us. But the world doesn't have such restraint. It doesn't. And so we become new creatures With a new nature that shapes our affections, it shapes our responses, it shapes our disposition, it shapes our values, it shapes our character, it shapes our worldview, and our former identity is entirely lost. And it is now bound up in him alone. Ask this question: What is the natural implication of such a reality? Well, the world doesn't love the Christian. That's what it is. And so truth number three, we need to consider the necessary implication of following Christ. The world hates Christ. I'm not saying that it used to hate Christ. I'm saying it hates Christ actively. Romans 8, 7, it says, the carnal mind is enmity against God. Another word we could use is at war. Okay. It is not subject to the law of God. Another way we could say that is it is in rebellion. Neither indeed can be. Another word we could use is enslaved. The world hates what God says. It is in rebellion against God's authority, and it's enslaved to its own passions. And the Christian is liberated from such slavery. That doesn't mean Christians stop sinning and we become like sinlessly perfect or anything. Like that. But what it does mean is that when we sin, it affects us differently than it did before we were saved. And so this passage of scripture is central to why Jesus said what he did. It's central to much of Christ's teaching. Matthew 5, 10. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness. Sake. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely. For my name's sake, rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. So they persecuted the prophets which were before you. You're the salt of the earth. John 15, 18, if the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. I have not ch I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. The servant is not greater than its Lord. If they persecuted me, they will persecute you. First John three eleven. Don't be as Cain, who was of that wicked one and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him, because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates Now listen, this is a struggle that goes all the way back to the very first family It goes all the way back to Cain and Abel. The simple reality is that Cain believed that the Messiah's coming. What he understood of that, I can't tell you. But he offered sacrifice to To God with an understanding that I need a savior. And Cain comes to God and says, I'm gonna come be how I want to. I'm gonna do it my way. You've got to do it my way because I'm in charge. And when God accepts Abel because of Abel's faith, Cain says, I'm not happy about that. Cain says, time will tell. We'll take care of this problem. And what do we have? The first murder. Let's not forget they crucified the Lord of glory. And so Jesus says in Matthew 5, ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. Now, so many times when we read that verse, I, maybe, maybe you all are greater Bible expositors than I have been over the years, but in my mind it's always been Don't hide your lights. And it does say that. But notice the way he puts it. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. So, if you're a Christian, even if you try to hide it, people still know it's true. It's pretty it's pretty amazing. The world will not be satisfied with you kind of capitulating to what they want you to do. They won't do that. The the end game is complete destruction. They don't want to just you know get you to be slightly allegiant to them and you can kind of have God and you can kind of have our way and find some middle ground. That's not the way the world operates We cannot hide our true identity in Christ. Why? Because the Christian is fundamentally different than the world around them Our thinking is fundamentally different. Our values are fundamentally different. Our disposition is fundamentally different. Our allegiance is fundamentally different. And that's why when we read church history, what do we read? We read the stories of the church's struggle and the persecution of the several Thanks. I tell you, I am so thankful that we have lived in a land of great peace and a land of liberty. I am so thankful for that. But I will tell you, there is change in the air in this nation. There's great change. And those who would love to crush Christianity with the same hatred that people from past generations have had towards Christianity, it's alive in our culture. It's alive all around the world. Now I have good news, no matter what the world does, truth prevails. The gospel triumphs. God preserves his church. But the fact is, we have no guarantee that in our lifetimes we will not face some of the very things that other generations have faced. I pray that we don't. I pray that we use the liberties that we have wisely. We have no guarantee to them. And so I asked this question. Knowing all that we have looked at this morning, which is quite heavy, what are the implications of this? How are we supposed to apply this? Let me give you a few simple thoughts that I think are at the root of this whole matter. First, being a Christian is something that fundamentally shapes us in a way that cannot be concealed. If you are a Christian, you are different than the world around you. Now, I didn't say that you need to purposely try to be weird and obnoxious and Then no no no. What I'm saying is if you believe that Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and the life, and that no one comes to the Father except through him And you believe that Jesus really died on the cross for your sins, and he rose the third day and triumphed over death, you actually believe that. The world doesn't believe that. If you really believe that the Bible is the Word of God, and that is pure and it is perfect, and it is our sole authority for faith and practice, you're completely different than the world around you. Because those beliefs dictate how you live. They dictate what you laugh about. They dictate what you cry about. They dictate where you hang out and the things that you're not comfortable with. They dictate every area of life. They dictate the fact that you're here today instead of cutting your grass. I mean, that's the honest truth. As a Christian, you say I want to be with God's people. Being a Christian makes you fundamentally different than the world around you, and you can't hide that. Nor should we try to. Two, we will face pressure in the world that tempts us to try to conceal our identity and the distinctiveness of that identity. I know for a fact that within our own congregation, there are people, because of the nature of your work and the people that you work with, you have been put in places that make you very uncomfortable. I know that for a fact. Hate to say it, but it'll probably get worse. And in those moments where you get pressure And you know that as a Christian, I should not affirm this, I should not be involved in this, I have to step back from this. You know you're going to face pressure. And you're tempted to capitulate. Let me tell you, you capitulate, it won't end there. Let the world around you prove that to you. Let social media prove that to you. It's true True. The world will not stop with thanks for your token. They won't do it. Three, the temptation to hide that distinction is ultimately rooted and I I know this is going to sound harsh, but it's true. It's straight from the text. Self -centered desire to advance our own interests. And the comforts at the comfort of expen uh at the expense of our Savior's glory. Notice the word ashamed. When we are tempted to compromise, we have to recognize that it is our allegiance to self That ultimately causes us to be ashamed of the one who died for us, and the one who rose from the dead, and the one who is going to be the final judge on the final day, and the one who we will spend all of eternity with. We have to recognize that in fact it is ashamed because of self-centered desire. And I'm not saying this with any kind of harshness towards you Because the fact is that as a pastor, those pressures come. Somebody working in the government, those pressures come. Someone working in the school system, those pressures come. Just raising your family according to conscience, those pressures come. So many ways this comes. Certainly people that are in positions of authority and influence. You are pressured. And we are tempted to compromise because for a moment, in the comfort of that moment, we fail to think we'll stand before Jesus. That's really what's going on. Now right now you might be saying, Well, Pastor, I feel really miserable. I feel very conflicted. I I feel I've probably Capitulated on some level in some situation. What do I do? I have good news for you There's a man that was mentioned in this text who did a lot worse. His name was Peter When Jesus says, Who do men say that I am? They give all these answers and he says, Who do you say that I am? Peter didn't wait for his brother to answer. He says, You're the Christ. Very good, Peter. Very good. And I'm going to go to the cross. And I'm going to be beaten and despised and reviled. I'm going to die and I'm going to rise from the dead. By the way, they picked up this conversation another time. And Jesus tells Peter, You will deny me. And Peter says, I will die for you. Jesus says, No, you won't. You'll you'll deny me. Peter's like, whatever. That is what he did In fact, one of the most amazing texts in all of Scripture is is the account where Jesus is there before all these mock trials and somebody says, Hey, weren't you one of his disciples? Aren't you a Galilean? I don't I don't I don't know. I don't know him. You talk like them. He cursed. I don't know this man. Peter didn't just like step back and say, Um, I'll I'll answer you tomorrow. He said, I don't know him. That was active. It wasn't passive, it was active. And it says when the cock crowed, Jesus caught his eye. Imagine that being the last moment between you and your Savior before he goes to the cross. That was Peter. And then after the after the the resurrection of Christ, you know what Peter does? He goes to his brothers. They were all fishermen. He says, hey, let's go back to fishing. At the end of John, we see the record of this. And they go back to fishing, and they're casting their nets all night, and they didn't catch anything. And as they're coming into shore, they see some little guy over there on the shore. Hey, did you catch anything? Like, oh no, we didn't catch anything. Hey, come come in and eat with me. And one of them says He says, hey, try again. Cast your mountain the other side. Whatever. Let's do it. And they did. And the net was full of fish. In fact, it was so many fish that they thought the boats were going to sink. And all of a sudden they said, That's Jesus. How'd they know that? Well, the exact same miracle was performed on the day Jesus said, Come and follow me, and I'll make you fishers of men. Do you know that? So they come in, they sit down, they're eating, and Jesus looks over at Peter and says, Hey, I have a question for you. Do you love me more than you love these? Yeah, I do. And feed my sheep. Wow. That means a lot. Hey Peter, do you love me more than you love these? I do. Be my sheep. Hey Peter, do you love me more than you love these? I do. You know, feed my sheep. You know what Jesus did? He confirmed he knew what Peter did. He extended him grasp. Amazing. That's our Savior. He's so good. That's what's behind this text. Jesus says, follow me and know the cost, and here's a man that did it and he failed, and Jesus says, I'm not done with it. you. Maybe, maybe you needed to hear that. So how do we apply the text? Well the first question I ask is are you truly Christian? There's absolutely no way that you could apply such a text if you're not a Christian. And the way that you can know if you're a Christian is have you understood the gospel? Do you understand who Jesus is? Do you understand Do you understand what he did for you? Do you understand why it matters? Have you personally trusted alone in the finished work of Christ? Second question. Have you considered the real life implications of identity with Christ. Real life means that there's a natural consequence, folks. You know, if you're playing baseball with your brother and you throw a ball and it hits a window. The window breaks. Unless you're not quite to that level yet. It's just naturally what happened. You follow Christ. That's when naturally will suffer some level because of your identity with Christ. Have we been tempted to compromise in any way to conceal who we are in him? Have we seen how inconsistent that is? Are we willing to get back up if we've stumbled? That's really where we start. Ask ourselves these questions. And then my challenge or my encouragement is this: let's consider the implications of what Christ has done for us. Let's consider the implications of the cross. Let's be principled and strong Christians. Let's not shrink back in shame. Let's get back up when we stumble. Let's not get over the tremendous Significance of his sacrifice. We are the church of God. Don't deserve to be all of his grace. Let's live consistent with who we are in Christ. Spouth for prayer. Before we pray, I ask this question: Is there anybody here that say, Pastor, I I heard this message, and I I really am not certain if I'm a Christian? I'm not certain if I've ever understood the gospel and placed my faith in Christ. And I I really need to talk to somebody today about that. If I were to die today I don't know for certain I'd go to heaven. Is there anybody that would just quietly nobody's looking but me, just quietly raise up your hand so that I can see that because I really would like to be able to talk to you about this issue. If you're a lady, I'll have my wife talk to you. If you're man, I'll sit down and talk with you. We could set up a time throughout the week to talk to you. Is there anybody that would say that's to me, Pastor, I don't know for certain that I'm saved. Very good. Is there anybody that would say, Pastor, I know I'm saved, but man, I really need to hear that that today. Very convicting. And I needed that encouragement. Anybody like that? Oh yeah. See several hands. A lot. I'll raise my hand. We need that encouragement. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father in heaven, thank you for your word. I admit it's a tough text. So practical, especially in the day in which we live and the changes we're experiencing in our own society. I pray that you would help us as the Church of God to live consistently Consistent with our position. Help us to thrive as your people, no matter what goes on around us. Help us to love you. Help us to treasure your redemptive work on our behalf To this finished work of Christ. As we sing this final hymn, I pray that we would sing it with clarity of mind and fullness of joy. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Our closing hymn, hymn 371. It's a passion for thee. I'd like us to sing the first with the piano and the second. I'd like us to sing at a cappella. And I want to encourage you, true worship and song starts with The word. It starts with the word. Let's stand and let's sing. Three hundred and seventy-one, a passion for thee. Said my heart, O dear Father, unhee, and he told me. We wonder if I look at the evil And then for my bears my grandma No, it's a good one. Father fiddleway, I swear , I guess he was her best Let love for Christ and preach to all his love and son. No, I can 't use her. I do not be worth my good song. I'd like to ask Josh, Linda, if you can close us in prayer. I hope you'll be able to come back tonight. Uh Josh will be preaching and then we're gonna have a question and answer time with him. And uh if you guys can stand in the back too after so people can come by and greet you, I'd like you to do that as well. So close us in prayer, please. Father, we come before you thanking you so much for gathering together as believers. To meditate and to think upon the truth of our identity in you and what you did on the cross for us. In fact, you have told us to remember what you did You have done as you shed your blood , gave of yourself for us, and we can be eternally grateful for that. Now would you help us to live out who we say we are and what you have done for us our identities in Christ, and as Christ-like ones, we would live for you unashamed. Yet when we fall, when we make mistakes Father, would we rise up again as a just man falls seven times and rises up again? Father, sometimes we just need your grace and your forgiveness. As Peter met your eyes, and yet Christ lovingly forgave him, because you desire for him as well as for us to serve you with all of our heart, our mind, and our strength. Would you be with us and bring us back safely this evening to exalt, to lift up, and to glory and honor to your Son in our Savior's name of Jesus Christ. We pray. Amen. Hope you come back this evening.