Good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And this is day four. We've been working through a lot of material. We've covered a lot of ground this week. And I would like us to kind of zero in now on the unique blessedness of God's people. And if you remember that the topic we're studying this week is how we are a uniquely blessed people. Well this morning what we're going to do is we're going to look at that a little bit deeper. And so I hope that it'll be an help to you I'm going to read the text again, Luke chapter 10, 21 to 24, and then we're going to focus our attention in on verses 23 and 24. Here's what it says. In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and the prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight. All things are delivered to me of my Father. No man knoweth who the Son is but the Father, and who the Father is but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal him And he turned to his discipl and he turned unto his disciples and said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that you see. For I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them, and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them. Now, the passage we're looking at and how we're zeroing in on verses 23 to 24, there are a couple of details that I want to draw your attention to that I think sometimes as we read the text, it's easy for us to miss these little details And so I want you to notice the uniqueness of the way he refers to the blessedness of these people. Let me read it again, and I want to draw your attention to what he could have said, but didn't. And then what he actually said and why there's a difference and why that actually matters. Here's what he says. He turned unto his disciples, said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye have seen. I tell you, many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye have seen and have not seen them, and to hear those things which ye hear and have not heard them. Now, I I tried to emphasize this so we would kind of have our attention drawn to what he said Jesus could have said, blessed are your eyes, for you have seen. But that's not what he said. He said, blessed are the eyes which see the things that you see. There's a difference between The eyes and your eyes. Okay? And here's the difference. The first statement would have been exclusively focused on the privilege that the disciples experienced. Now Jesus is emphasizing the uniqueness of the blessings that they're enjoying, but what he actually said goes further than just focusing in on the blessedness of what they have seen. He is including not just the disciples, but anyone who looks at the experience of the disciples and is able to understand those. In other words, the statement is including not just the disciples, it's also including people like you and people like me. Jesus made a very similar statement in John chapter 17 when it comes to how he talks about the blessedness of not just the disciples but also those who learned and who see and come to faith through their through their ministry. And so in John chapter 7, verse 20, in Jesus' high priestly prayer, he says the following He says, Neither pray I for these alone, but for them which also shall believe on me through their word. He's talking about the fact that there's a people that are going to read what they've written, they're going to hear what they've said, they're going to listen to their preaching, they're going to listen to the preaching of the things that they wrote. And those people are going to believe on the gospel, and they're going to believe on Christ. And he says, I'm praying for them. That is the sense of what Jesus was saying here. He's not just focusing in on the unique blessedness of the disciples, he's also focusing in on the unique blessedness of those who will look at their ministry and will come to faith through their ministry. And I want to remind you that there was a very incomplete and a it was is it was it was adequate, but not fully adequate, okay? There's an incomplete aspect to the understanding of those who came before these events were were were were understood. So for instance, was Moses a believer? The answer is yes. Well what was he a believer in? Well the coming Messiah Was David a believer? The answer is yes. He was a believer. Was Abraham a believer? The answer is of course yes. But did those Old Testament saints understand fully what the disciples understood? The answer is of course not. Did they understand fully what you and I understand? The answer is of course not. Okay? And he says that in the text. He says, I tell you, many prophets and kings desired to see those things which you have seen, and to hear those things which you have heard. He's saying that there were people in the past who they were justified by faith alone. But they did not understand to the same extent that you understand. But he's not just saying that these people were were were were were not to the same level as you, but he's saying there's people that are even belong beyond that. He's talking about you and me. We have the ability today to look back at a far fuller body of facts than the people of the Old Testament or even the disciples themselves. When we go to the Old Testament, we have the witness of the Old Testament. Now that's all that Old Testament saints had. And not even every single Old Testament saint had the full Old Testament. Okay? There were lots of scriptures that were written after Moses. There were lots of scriptures that were written after David. There were lots of scriptures that were written after Isaiah and Jer Higher And so even those Old Testament saints along the way did not have a full understanding of even the Old Testament. Yet we today can look back and we can examine the entire Old Testament. But we have even more information than that. We have the witness of the gospels. And what this does is this provides a verification. of God's faithfulness to his promises. And when we read those things, our faith can be strengthened and our confidence can be emboldened and our faith can rest more assuredly on these truths because we have this witness of the Old Testament. And the promises that were made hundreds and hundreds of years. I mean, Isaiah was written nearly 800 years before its fulfillment in Christ. And so we can look back at the promises, we can look at the fulfillments in the gospels, and then we even have the witness of the epistles. So even people living in the first century did not have the full New Testament. So they had the Old Testament, they had some of the New Testament, but some of them died before the entire Old Testament canon was completed. And so we have the witness of the epistles. We have the explanation of the theological significance of the things that we read about in the Old Testament, the things that we read about in the Gospels, and the things that we read about in other epistles. And so we have the witness of the epistles. We have the presence of the Holy Spirit, not just convicting us from outside but literally indwelling us from within. We have the presence and the ministry of the Holy Spirit. And we also have 2,000 years of church history to think about. So we have we have the examples of first century Christians. We have the examples of the martyrs in the second, third, and fourth centuries. We have we have the example of faithful Christians who lived during the time of the Reformation. We have the examples of people who lived through modern revivals. And we have the examples of the modern missionary movements. And we can read church history and we see 2,000 years of witness to people being faithful because their lives were built firmly on the Old and New Testament and the Gospels. And so the point that I'm trying to draw your attention to this morning is that we are a uniquely blessed people because we have more information than the Old Testament prophets had. The kings who lived during that time period. Even the apostles themselves, at the point when Jesus makes this statement, had less information than you and I have today. And so here's my question. How much do you read the information that's available to you? How much do you digest the scriptures? How much do you dig into the Word of God? How appreciative are you of the position that you have? May God help us to be a people who live with a passion for what He has given us and live with a gratitude of what we have, not just on the information side, but what we have. in that wonderful position that we have in Christ. I hope that that will leave you with some things to ponder throughout the rest of the day. Lord willing tomorrow, we're going to kind of summarize everything together. And just drive home some simple applications that I think flow naturally from this text. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow morning, Friday, to discuss some applications. Bye now.