Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that this week has been helpful to you as we've been looking at 1 Corinthians chapter 15. What we're going to do this morning is we're We're just going to kind of reflect on everything that we've talked about this week. And I'd like to get into some things that I think are very practical that I hope that as we walk away from this study we'll say, you know what? I'm glad that we've dug into this text, we've analyzed it very carefully. And we're going to actually practically live in the light of the truths that we read here. Before we do that, I'm going to read the text again just so that we can familiarize ourselves with it, and then we're going to talk about a couple of different thoughts that I think will be helpful. First Corinthians chapter fifteen, verse number one. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel, which I preached unto you, which also ye have received and wherein ye stand. by which also ye are saved if ye keep in memory what I have preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. Oh, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures, that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve, that he was seen of about five hundred brethren at once. of whom the greater part remain unto this present, and some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James and of all the apostles, and last of all he was seen of me also , as of one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, that am not made to be called an apostle because I persecuted the Church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am. This grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but I labored the more abundantly than ye all. Yet not I, but the grace of God which was within me. Wherefore, whether it were I or they, so we preach, and so ye believed. Now, as we've been walking our way through this passage, we have been looking at compelling reasons to believe in the resurrection of Christ. Which ultimately leads us to believe in the resurrection of the saints. And so what we've seen in these verses is first of all that that this gospel had radically changed. It had shaped these individuals at Corinth. That was the center of Paul's ministry. It was what had been the center, the foundation of the change that had taken place in these Corinthian believers. We also see the saw the connection between the Old Testament and the New Testament, how all of these things were prophesied in the Old Testament, the Scriptures. They were fulfilled in the life and ministry of Christ. And then ultimately the apostles bear witness to those things, and they tell us about the theological implications of those things. And then lastly, yesterday we talked about the fact that this is an historically attested fact. And I think that's very important. But what I'd like us to do is kind of take all these things together. And I'd like us to just reflect on our current evangelical situation, the culture of Christianity that we have within our own society today. And by the way, this is by no means the culture of every church in America, and it's certainly not necessarily the culture of the church as a whole around the world. But there's something that we're we're having to deal with, we're having to grapple with right now in our culture, and that is a lot of talk about something called deconstruction. In fact We have authors that I remember when I was in college or when I was in seminary that we read a lot of their books. I say a lot of the books. We came in contact with some of their books. Some of them were popular evangelical writers There are musicians that wrote uh some some very well-known, popular, contemporary Christian type music. And these people, and I'm not saying all of them, but there are several, very prominent individuals that today would not call themselves Christian. They would say, I do not believe in the Christian faith. I do not live according to Christian principles. I am not a Christian. And what we would say is that these are people who have deconstructed And and one of the questions that we should ask is, well, why is that? Why do we see people that wrote books, wrote music, maybe were even propped up in certain church contexts? who today say, I'm not a Christian, I don't even believe in these things anymore. By the way, this issue of apostasy is something that the Bible talks about. And so we know that there are some people that profess faith in Christ and for a period of time they live as if they are Christians and then down the road they reject what is there. And and and the truth is every single situation is going to be slightly different. I there are different factors that come into that. But there's something that I have observed that I think is is a big time factor into why We are seeing a lot of this going on today. And the reason that I that I believe that a lot of this is going on is because we do not preach the gospel today the way that the apostles preach the gospel. We tend to look at Christianity as a very mystical faith. I have my faith This is my faith system. We tend to talk in those kinds of terms. I had this experience, and we had a very emotional experience. And so We really could boil down Christianity into an emotionally charged experience which could be valid and genuine or it could be something that was completely worked up. It could actually be either we have manipulated ourselves because we wanted something, or we may have actually been manipulated because of a crowd or because of a pastor, evangelist, or missionaries. Now their approach, the way that they appealed on issues of faith, when the Bible talks about faith and the preaching of the gospel, the Apostle Paul did not handle things that way. The apostle Paul didn't play a bunch of music and say, come forward and let's pray and ask the Lord uh you know to save us. That's not the way that that's not the way that Peter preached. That's not the way that Paul preached. Um it wasn't really an emotional appeal. The way that they appealed was that this is a real event that took place in history. And here are all these promises and prophecies from the Old Testament that predicted it. And what God said he was going to do is what God did. And so there's an authority, there is an appeal to history. There's an appeal to eyewitness accounts, there is a reasoning from the scriptures, there's a laying out of arguments. In fact, what you could say is the evangelism of Paul and the Evangelism of Peter and the Evangelism of the Apostles was not a a quick Romans road where we we we appeal to someone's emotions and we just quickly run through these things, but it was a reasoned argument It was laying out facts. It was taking time so that people understood I am a sinner and I have zero hope of salvation in myself. And they're laying it out from lots and lots of different texts and appealing to conscience and asking questions. In other words, they're going after the mind and they're appealing with facts as opposed to just appealing to the emotions. Just getting someone to make a quick profession of faith. When it came to who Jesus was, there was a lot of labor to lay out. This is the person of Christ. Not just, oh, there was this guy named Jesus, and you need to love Jesus because Jesus loves you, but this is God in flesh. This is the Messiah. This is the fulfillment of all these Old Testament prophecies. This is a perfect man who was tempted in all points like as we are, yet without sin. That's the way that they appealed to him. They appealed to him by talking about to evangelism. They appealed by talking about the cross. And and they didn't diminish the the grotesque nature of the cross. His blood was shed on the cross. And and if we were to pause and we were to think about that, that That's a sobering reality. The fact is that God's wrath against our sin was laid on Christ, and Christ bore the full wrath of God's justice against our sin on the cross. And then Jesus literally physically died. And he was literally laid in a grave. And he rose triumphant over death. He conquered death and he He he was raised with a real glorified body. So he wasn't just some spirit floating around, but he really has a physical body that He received that when he resurrected from the dead, and he still continues to be having this glorified body, and he will forever, okay? Well w the reason I bring this up is that there is a reasoning, there is a turning back to the Old Testament context. There is an appeal to people to think. and to ask questions and to consider implications. What that tells you is that the evangelism of the o of of of the the um the apostles That kind of an evangelism was something that that that caused a person to be convinced that this in fact is true. Not just, oh, I feel that this is true. I'm convinced this is true. Rationally I'm convinced That this is true. That's the idea. And so the apostles emphasized theology, they emphasized doctrine, they emphasized reasons. This is not the kind of Christianity that we see commonly in our popular context today. We see very shallow, very emotional, very manipulative. Christianity. And by the way, I'm not saying that a person uh is unable to get saved in such a context. I'm not suggesting that at all And I'm not suggesting that a person has zero ability to grow in that context, but I will say this, their faith is weak, their faith is not It's going to have to be tested, okay? And when it gets tested, what's going to have to happen is they're going to be forced to dig into the Word of God when the context that they're in is not really building them in their faith. And so this is a really important concept for us to consider. The way that Paul reasons is he says, this is a historic event that you need to believe in. And then from that, he says, here are the implications. So my question to you that I want to pose is, well, how do we respond to these truths? How do we respond to all these different, not just the facts, but The approach that the Apostle Paul took, how do we respond to it? Let me give you some thoughts. First of all, we need to respond by believing It's possible there might be someone who is listening to this episode or who has listened to some of these episodes and and you and you say, you know, yeah, in my opinion Christianity is just uh it's a religion for people that don't think very much that just feel a lot and they need a crutch. And all of a sudden I recognize something. I have to come to terms with the fact that Jesus really existed. That he really died on the cross, and that there is a compelling reason to believe that he really literally rose from the dead. And there's a compelling reason to believe that everything that was said in the Old Testament, in fact, it came to fulfillment in Christ. And I have to face that reality. I need to believe in it. If you're not a Christian, you need to turn to Christ and place your faith in his finished work. The scriptures compel. The witness is overwhelmingly powerful. The second thing is If you are a Christian, which I believe would be the vast majority of people who hear these videos, is that your faith needs to be strengthened. When we get into a place where the emotions wane , And we start having the questions. We need to go back to the fact that this is an historically attested body of facts. that we rely on, we rest in. Sometimes it is helpful for a person when their faith is getting shaken for them to go back to the foundations. And when they go found go back to the foundations, they say, what is scripture? What does the Bible say about Jesus? And they start digging into the scriptures. And as they do, guess what happens? Their faith that has been shaken is strengthened and God wants to strengthen our faith so it becomes more matured it becomes more stabilized thirdly we need to rejoice in the reality because it is true Because we have trusted in it, there are certain implications that are very rich that are connected back to the gospel It gives us stability and strength. It gives us purpose. It gives us something to live for. It gives us a future with the Lord that we will enjoy forever. It gives us justice. All of these things are bound up. in the gospel message. And so we should have this robust rejoicing, this glorying in the work of Christ. Fourthly. We need to consider the importance of this historic reality. There are theological implications, many theological implications. In fact, the Apostle Paul will talk about many of those theological implications in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. But we could really argue that every command given to the New Testament Christian ultimately goes back to the gospel in some way. Whether it is the reason to do it or the enabling to do it, it all goes back to the gospel. And so the importance of this historic reality cannot be overstated at all. And then lastly, we need to actually live like it's true. I think about what it says in Romans chapter 6. Shall we continue in sin? That grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sins live any longer therein? He said that we have been buried with him and we have been raised to walk in newness of life. Those things are true. We need to live like they're true. We need to actually act out practically what we know to be true theologically That's my challenge to you this weekend. As we go into the weekend, I hope that you will uh maybe go back over these videos, remind yourself of them. They're they're very, very rich truths that we're talking about. I wish I could have presented them more clearly than I did, but God can use it. to really strengthen us in our faith. Hope you have a wonderful weekend. I'm so looking forward to Sunday as we continue digging into the Word of God. And uh Palm Sunday, looking forward to it. Have a great weekend and Lord willing we'll talk again soon. Bye now.