1 John chapter 2, and we are looking at verses 18 and 19 together. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading the passage. Little children, it is the last time, and as ye have heard, the Antichrist shall come, even now are there now many Antichrists, whereby we know that it is the last time. Time. They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us, but they went out that they might be made man manifest that they were not all of us. And we come to this passage. Here's a simple summary statement for verses 18 and 19. The passage helps us to understand the mentality that will dominate the final days before Christ's return. And it's also helping us to understand that this is already present in the world and it's affecting the church. So the whole passage is really emphasizing the fact that look you are living in the last days, and the reason that you can be confident and know that you're living in the last days is because the spirit that's dominating this time period is the same spirit that we're going to see when the Lord returns. And so when he talks about the last days, we need to understand what that is. We need to understand what he means by the spirit of Antichrist. And so let's dig into the contents here and see if we can understand this passage a little better. The first truth we're going to find in 1 John chapter 2 here is that we need to understand we're living in the last days. Notice how he puts it in verse 3. 18. Little children, it is the last time. And when he uses the word time, it's the idea of the last hour. So he's talking about a time period that's leading up to what we call the last days, a series, a season of time known as the Day of the Lord, when we're going to be talking about the tribulation time period, the second coming of Christ, and then ultimately Christ's millennial king. And so basically what he's saying is the time that you live in right now at this moment, these are the days that are setting all of those things in order that are going to take place. place during the tribulation. Now we don't know when Christ is going to come and rapture his church. It could be today, it could be tomorrow, it could be in the next Next week, month, year. We have no idea, but we do know this. When we read the book of Revelation and we look at what's going to take place in the tribulation, in order for those things to take place as they're going to take place There are certain things that have to be in place at the moment that Christ raptures his church and that period begins. In other words, the Antichrist is going to be alive during that time period leading up to the tribulation. He may even be in power. in some obscure or some very prominent role. We don't know. But he's going to be alive. He's going to be uh in a position of authority. And when we come into the tribulation, he's going to rise to power very, very quickly. And he's going to be able to establish a worldwide domination. And so what John is basically saying is this, look, right now, you're living in the last days. You're living in that time period leading up to the tribulation. And so we need to remember that if John would have said that then, most certainly any pastor who's standing in a pulpit today needs to realize we are living in the last days. The Lord Jesus Christ is coming soon and we need to be ready. In Revelation chapter 3 verse 11 he says says, Behold, I come quickly. Hold thou fast that no man take thy crown. In Revelation 22, twelve he says, I come quickly, my reward is with me to give every man according. to his work, so shall it be. First Thessalonians five talks about the day of the Lord, and he says, Of the times and the seasons you have no need that I write unto you, but you know perfectly that the day of the Lord will come as And he says, Do not sleep as others, but let us watch and be sober. The truth is we need to recognize that the days we are living through Are those days leading up to the return of Christ? A second truth that we see in this passage is that we need to understand that the spirit that will dominate that age is a spirit that dominates our age. And this is the spirit that's against Christ. Let me put it again. We need to understand that the spirit that dominates our age is against Christ. Christ. Now in the verses previous, he talked about worldliness, and he said, don't love the world or the things that are in the world. It talks about the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life. We talk about worldliness. We're talking about people who are consumed with materialism, people who are dominated by their fleshly passions. and people who are consumed with getting power and authority in this world. I want to ask you this question. As you read the newspaper, if you still read it newspaper as you scroll down through the news uh on Facebook on Twitter on whatever media you use when you read the news I ask the question Do you think that what you're hearing about is characteristic of people who are dominated by fleshly passions, people who are consumed with material possessions? And people who are basically trying to establish authority and power or maintain authority and power in this world? The answer is absolutely. Our society is full of chaos right now. It is full of contention because people on both sides of these issues, of all the various issues that are going on, are dominated by their flesh, living for material possession. And trying to establish and keep and assert power and authority. That's worldliness, folks. And the truth is that those qualities are the antithesis of Christ's likeness. They are antagonistic to Christ-likeness. And what we need to realize is that the spirit that we see in our communities today and in our nation and around the world. These are the kinds of things that are going to make what happens in the book of Revelation very easy to take place. There's a reason that Christians are going to be persecuted terribly during the tribulation. When people embrace the gospel, the world is going to rage at them. There's going to be an absolute insanity when it comes to how people view the church or those believers who are saved during that time period. And the truth is that the nations are going to rage against the gospel. And so those who come to faith in Christ are going to face terrible persecution. You need to realize that what we see in our society today is just showing you the tip of the iceberg of the kind of anger that will one day be against Christians. And I'm not saying that the anger right now is against Christians. Christians. The anger is against other things, but you need to recognize that that anger is rooted in society and it's going to be expressed toward God 's people. Those people who are saved during the tribulation are going to face terrible persecution. We should see how easy it will be for that to happen when we look at this. spirit of our age. And so John is basically saying, look, the spirit that dominates the age you live in, it's antagonistic to the gospel and it's antagonistic to Christ. And here's how he puts it in verse 18. eighteen. Ye have heard that Antichrist shall come. Even now there are many Antichrists, whereby ye know that it is the last time. Now he says Antichrist will come. He's talking about an individual who's going to rage against God's people. He's going to despise God's people. He is going to persecute God's people. And he says that individual is actually a person who is no different than what you see in the age today. It's just that he has the power and he has the ability to do what he wants to do. There are lots and lots of people who hate the gospel. They hate God's people. And the truth is if they were in power and they had absolute authority, they would abuse God's people. He says the Antichrist is gonna do that, but you need to realize That the spirit that drives this man to do what he does and his administration and all those who follow him, it's present in the world today. It's there. And we should be He says there are many, many Antichrists. 2 Timothy chapter 3 tells us that we should know that in the last days perilous times will come. Men will be lovers of their own self. They will be boasters. They'll be proud. They'll be arrogant. They'll be destructive. Folks, that is the spirit of the age that we live in. in he's describing the time that we live in and we need to be wary of the fact that not only is antichrist going to come but the spirit that drives him is present in the world world today. We see a third truth. We need to recognize that the spirit, that this spirit is constantly assaulting Christ Church. In verse 19 he says they went out from us, but they were not of us. Now when he says they went out from us, he's indicating that these are people who used to be a part of the church. Now when I say they used to be a part of the church, I'm not suggesting that they became believers, they got saved, they were regenerated, they were justified, God was sanctifying them, and all of a sudden they lost their salvation. That's not what he's indicating. These were professing Christians. These could have been people who grew up in the church. These are people who maybe professed faith in Christ, got baptized, and over a period of time what they really were eventually began to be expressed. exposed. But we need to recognize that this turmoil is not just outside the church. It can actually take place within the church as well. Well. And when John writes to this specific group of people, believers in Ephesus, he's saying that there are people that used to be in your midst. They were assembled with you, worshiping with you, and the truth is that they weren't actually. Genuine Christians. That's why they left. The fourth truth that we see is this: time will eventually separate those who know the Lord from those who know who don't. You know, when t when terrible times come, people go through persecution, people go through suffering and trials, basically this is what it does. It separates out those who are truly saved from those who are not. Those who are truly committed to Christ and those who are not. In other words, there are people that say this gospel is non-negotiable. I'm gonna hold fast to the truth, even if it costs me my life, even if it makes things uncomfortable. comfortable. I'm gonna stand on the side of truth. In other words, they will not waver. I don't mean that they're not gonna suffer and struggle and And be discouraged and frustrated. I'm not saying that they're gonna that they won't stumble. I'm not suggesting that. But what I am suggesting is that as they go through that, they will persevere Persevere, they will overcome, they will bear under the load. They're going to have high points and low points, but they won't leave the faith because they understand This is the truth. The example of this is the Apostle Peter. And it the Bible says that when Jesus was speaking one day, he gave a very hard saying, and it says, From that day many people departed, and he looked at his disciples and he said, Are you gonna go away too? And they said, How can we? You have the words of life. You are you are the Messiah. We cannot leave you. Even if it's gonna cost us, even if it makes us uncomfortable, we cannot walk away from this. Because we recognize this is the truth, but there are others who won't do that. In fact, they're a part of the church and they like the culture. of the church, and as long as they feel comfortable in the church, they'll continue. But when it begins to cost them something, all of a sudden they say, you know what? It's not really worth it to me. It's not worth it to me. And they walk away. Why do they walk away? How can they give up so easily on something that's so important and so precious? It's because they never truly embraced it. And you know what? Time and circumstance persecution and struggle, all of those things ultimately reveal where real where people really are. And so those who believe in the gospel are going to make tremendous sacrifices as they hold Hold fast to it. And those who don't believe in the gospel are going to walk away from it because they're not convinced of the realities of that message. Here's how he puts it in verse 19. They went out from us, but not of us. If they had been of us, they would have no doubt continued with us. But they went out that they might be manifested That they were not all of us. He's basically saying, look, because of what we're going through, The spirit of Antichrist is among us. In other words, the church is facing difficulty, persecution, pressure, struggle. And the reason is because the society around them, the world hates the gospel and hates what the church represents. He says there are people that left us. These circumstances have revealed the true nature of those individuals who've walked away from the Christian Christian uh from the church. And so the truth is that we need to recognize, if John would say it here, it's also true today. There are people growing up in church and you know they come the point when they say, I don't need the church. The church is non-essential. It doesn't matter. I don't need it. I can have my own faith outside of the church. church. Yet what does the scripture say? It says don't forsake the assembly. In other words, you value the local church when you're a genuine Christian. You recognize it's important. You're willing to identify with those group of people because you say these are my brothers and sisters in Christ. God commands me to be gathered together. I value this assembly. Others say I don't need it. I can do my own thing. I don't Need the church. I don't need the gospel. I don't need to be a disciple of Christ. And they walk away. It's true today as well. So here's the question: how do we take these truths and how do we practically apply them? them. Let me give you a couple of things that jotted down today. The first is this we need to live our lives with a sense of prudence and anticipation of the coming of Christ You know, it's very easy to be extremely discouraged and to become cynical when you see the things that are going on in our society today. The truth is America has generally been a pretty peaceful nation throughout most of your lives. Yes, we've gone through seasons of difficulty and turmoil, but the truth is we've we've been a pretty peaceful nation. We have experienced tremendous prosperity and ease. We need to recognize, not be lulled into complacency, to realize that that's not the way most Christians have experienced. Most Christians throughout church history have experienced some level of animosity from people within their society. And sometimes those people that they experience animosity from were actually their government officials. These are people who had power and the ability to make their lives miserable and difficult. The truth is we've experienced tremendous ease in our land and we need to wake up and recognize That the Lord Jesus Christ is coming and the days leading up to that time are going to be difficult for God's people. We need to be prudent. We need to be Be wise. A second thing we need to recognize is that we need to live with a wariness of this world system. God 's people need to be separated from this world system, not linked from this Linked in and joined with this world system. The truth is that the way that God's people approach the difficulties of life and the challenges that we face in society are very different than the way that the world You know when the Bible talks about not being unequally yoked with unbelievers, the context is really dealing with marriage. But one of the reasons is because two people who have different worldviews are going to have a disastrous marriage that they shouldn't do it. We can apply this principle into so many different areas. You know, we could look at something like a business partnership. If you have a totally different worldview than another person and you're trying to run a business together, guess what? You're gonna have constant conflict when it comes to how you want to approach business and how they do. When it comes to solving society's problems, we need to recognize as God's people that our worldview and the world's worldview is is completely different. And so we should be very cautious on how we go about trying to resolve the issue. We need to be wary of this world system, not loving this world system, not going after this world system. A third point. We need to purpose to maintain integrity as a church by preserving the distinctive elements that make this a biblically functioning local church. You know, when I think about what COVID-19 has done to the church, I actually think it's not been all bad. The truth is that we have been forced to recognize what the basics of worship are. The basics of worship are public prayer, reading the scriptures, and sitting under the ministry of the word. And as we pray, as we read the word, and as we have the word expounded to us, we want to worship God in song. And you know what we do? We sing praise to Him. That's very simple. Singing, praying, reading the scriptures, and hearing the word of God preached. You know, a lot of churches have become just production centers. There's an unbelievable infrastructure that has to be established so that people can worship and meet with God. It's no different than a concert setting. And the truth is we can't do it today. And you know what? Maybe we should have never done it that way. Maybe the church should have always been simple. Praying, preaching, singing praise to God, and then Praying as an assembly. We are a group of people that have been forced to ask what are the essentials of the local church? What are we supposed to do? Well, Lord's table, baptism. The ordinances and those other issues. The church is very simple. And so we as a church need to maintain that distinction. I was talking to a pastor friend the other day, and one of the the things that that he said that just really resonated with me as he said, the church is supposed to be light. The church is supposed to be salt. The church is not going to change society through some radical means. The society that's in chaos needs to look at the church and say, boy, I wish I had what those people had. I wish that I had the unity that they have. I wish that I had the peace that they have. I wish that there was a loving relationship with me and the people around me like there is in that church. That's what light is. That's what salt is. When people look at the church They should see a difference. So we need to maintain our distinctiveness as a church. And lastly, we need to be patient with people to see what is really in their heart. Yeah, one of the great weaknesses of our movement as independent Baptists has been that we have been so quick to validate the conversions of people. Somebody prays a prayer, somebody gets baptized, and we immediately are convinced that they're saved. Because they prayed that prayer. But the truth is that there are people that can sit in a church for years who have professed faith in Christ and have never genuinely embraced it and there will be a day when that becomes evident. We need to be a people who are just patient and we let what's really in people's hearts come out of I hope that these things will be a challenge to you today. I hope they'll be an encouragement. It's been a little negative, and I'm sorry about that, but that's the text in front of us. It's also been positive though. It's actually been something that really shapes our perspective It helps us to understand the nature of the difficulties we are facing today in our world. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. If this has been an encouragement to you or help, please share that. And I hope you have a great one. rest of your day. Father, help us this morning to really meditate on these things and hold fast to what is true. I pray that these things would strengthen and enable us today. And we ask that you bless each person that has been able to listen to this This message, this lesson, and we ask it in Christ's name, Amen. Well, we look forward to seeing you next time. Have a great rest of your morning. Bye now