Alright, we're going to continue our study tonight in 1 Kings. So if you can open your Bibles, we're going to look at the challenge at Mount Carmel in 1 Kings chapter 18, pretty much the second half or two-thirds of this chapter. But I'm going to try and narrow it down to two questions. But the challenge at Mount Carmel, 1 Kings 18, and I'll go ahead and begin reading in verse 17. And it came to pass, when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel? And he answered, I have not troubled Israel, but thou, and thy father's house. in that ye have forsaken the commandments of the Lord and has followed Balaam. Now therefore, send and gather to me all Israel unto Mount Carmel and the prophets of Baal four hundred and fifty, and the prophets of the groves four hundred, which eat at Jezebel's table. So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel, and gathered the the prophets together unto Mount Carmel. And Elijah came unto all the people and said , How long halt ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him. But if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered him not a word. Then said Elijah unto the people, Aye, even I only remain a prophet of the Lord, but Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men. Let them for let them therefore give us two bullocks, and let them choose one bullock for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on the wood, and put no fire under. And I will dress the other bullock, and lay it on the wood, and put no fire under. And call ye on the name of your gods, and I will call on the name of the Lord And the God that answereth by fire, let him be God. And all the people answered and said, It is well spoken. And Elijah said unto the prophets of Baal, Choose ye one bullock for yourselves and dress it first, for ye are many, and call on the name of your gods and put no fire under. And they took the bullock which is given unto them and dressed it and called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon, saying, O Baal, hear us, but there is no voice, nor any that answered. And they leapt on the altar which was made. And it came to pass at noon that Elijah mocked them and said, Cry aloud! For he is a god. Either he is talking, or he is pursuing, or he is in a journey, or preadventure he sleepeth, and must be awakened And they cried aloud and cut themselves and their manner with knives and latchets till the blood gushed upon them. And it came to pass when midday was past. That they prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that there was neither voice nor any answer, nor any that regarded And Elijah said unto all the people, Come near unto me. And all the people came near unto him and repaired the altar of the Lord that was broken down. And Elijah took twelve stones according to the number of tribes of the sons of Jacob, unto whom the word of the Lord came, saying, Israel shall be thy name. And with the stones he built the altar in the name of the Lord, and he made a trench about the altar, as great as would contain two measures of seed, and he put wood in order. And cut the bullock into pieces, and laid him on the wood, and said, Fill four barrels with water, and pour it on the burnt sacrifice, and on the wood. And he said, Do it a second time And they did it a second time. And he said, do it third time. And they did it the third time. And the water ran about the altar, and he filled the trench also with the water. And it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice that Elijah the prophet came near and said, Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that thou art God in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all these things at thy word. Hear me, O Lord. Hear me that this people may know that thou art the Lord God, and that thou hast turned their hearts back again. And the fire of the Lord fell and consumed the burnt sacrifice and the wood and the stones and the dust and licked up the water that was in the trench. And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces, and they said, The Lord He is God. The Lord. He is the God. Father, we are thankful for this text. And as we come before you, would we just not read about a common kid's story that we would teach in junior church or in Sunday school? But Lord, as we come to your word, can we see the challenges that were taking place and how you are pointing people to yourself as the only true God? And Father, you gave Elijah the boldness to take a stand. Would we think about these truths and do our best to apply them to our life? And that this would be done to bring honor and glory to you and to your son, Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen. So the challenge of Mark , we have a large text here, and I'm really going to break it down into two questions that are in the text. The first one, who has brought trouble to Israel? And then the second one, how long halt ye between two opinions? But the first one, who has brought trouble to Israel? And this is very classic. When I read this, it To my mind runs back to Genesis, but let's look at it again in verse 17. And it came to pass when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel? Now remember what happened just a chapter ago. We didn't know who Elijah was. He just walks onto the scene, goes to the king, and says, Oh, uh, there's not going to be rain in Israel until God tells me and tells you, and so you're going to kind of suffer through it until I tell you. Oh, that's nice. Okay, go your way. I mean, he didn't know who he was. He just steps onto the scene. Kind of crazy. Hadn't seen each other for a while. And when Ahab has Elisha come to him, he's probably a nobody. But Ahab is a very evil. King, far above those that were before him. And remember his father, Omri, was evil for all those before him. And so Ahab, one thing he was good at was following his father, but being more evil and wicked, and purposefully blatantly worshipping Baal more than any other king up to that point. He made the other kings look nice. He's blatantly going against God. This is who Ahab confronts. So when he goes to him here in chapter 18, Elijah goes to him and he says, wait a minute, you are the guy that troubled Israel, aren't you? And you can imagine Eliza be like, what? In his mind, he's thinking, how can you say that? God told me to give you this message, and who other than God can hold back all this rain for all this time? And you're blaming me? And this reminds me of Genesis, because some things just don't change. Adam and Eve, the first couple, what do they do? Adam. Hey, the woman that you gave me, it's her fault. Eve doesn't want to blame either. So who's she blame? That serpent! Everyone's blaming somebody else. And here it's the same thing. Some things never change. So here, Ahab is blaming Elijah. This is your fault. You did this. Then you know what happens in verse 18? No shock here. What happens? Elisha is like, whoa, wait, wait a minute. No way. You're blaming me? Look in verse 18. He says, he answers, I have not troubled Israel. I mean what do you expect him to say? Yeah, I did this. But he says, thou and thy father's house. Remember going back to Omri? He did this and you could have changed things. You saw what was happening under his reign and the chaos of that caused in the kingdom, and you stepped in and the only thing you did better was make it worse. And then you want to blame me? And sometimes, what this reminds me, not only do we have the blame game and finger pointing, and it's you, and it's you, and we can blame everyone for all of our problems. But sometimes we need to look at ourselves. This is particularly challenging when you have power or you have authority Like King Ahab. You don't really question a king too often. Your very life could be in his hands. If you make an upset, well, he'll just take your head from your body. You know, are you gonna challenge them that way? So here to remind us what's going on, they're blaming each other, and Ahab still does not see it. He's still blaming Elijah. And Elijah says, no, no, no. It's not me. It's you. And in fact, it's you and your father's house. You could have changed things and you didn't. But here's what I like that's interesting about this. So Ahab just points the finger and says, this is your fault, you did it. But when Elijah does it, he gives at least a little bit more. He gives a reason why. He gives a purpose for this. Look at verse the end of verse 18. He says, in that, so he's not just pointing the finger back, uh-uh, like little kids. No, you did it, no, you did it, no, you did it. And then mom and dad have to come in and play referee. But here what he's doing, he's giving, in that ye have forsaken the commandments of the Lord, and thou hast followed Balaam. You know you're doing wrong. You might not think it's wrong and you probably don't see it, but there's no excuse for that. You can't just claim, oh, I I want it this way and I'm not I'm with this. He wants to blame Elijah instead of taking responsibility of himself But when you have power, when you have authority, even if you're the dad in a home, sometimes you want to blame the wife, you want to blame the kids. In fact, you'll even blame the dog. Or the cat if you have one. Or is John Where's he where's where is John? Where's he hiding? Oh there he is, okay. Sorry, it's been a dog cat summer. We've had fun with our interns. Some of us I'll I'll end there. The point is we just want to make the blame and sometimes even as a dad in our own home we can feel like we're a king and we want to blame everyone else. Dad, you're responsible For leading your home. When things take place, you know, with your wife, with your children, stop. Don't be an Ahab. Just stop at least for a moment And think through. I think it was even pastored this morning. We need to stop and we need to think about what's taking place in our life. What is going on? Could I is is there a is there a possibility, even a slim one, that I might have contributed to this problem I mean, am I really a sinner that would do something like that? Do we have to think about those things? Sometimes we have to remind ourselves. So right up front here, we have this blame game going on, but he gives reason you are disobeying the Lord. And Elijah, throughout this passage, what we're going to see in this challenge of Mount Carmel, this is almost like a trial of the gods. of who is going to answer whom and who is the one true God or God's in this case. So we see the blame game going on. And we've learned about Omri in 1 Kings 16. We have the passage there, but we're going to skip over that at this time. So the challenge here is what ends up happening. In verse 19, the idea comes out, okay, let's have a challenge. We're going to settle this at Mount Carmel. And so that's what's happened. So let's just settle this once and for all. You get your prophets And I'll come and we'll have this challenge and we'll see which God answers. Now I will say at this point in time We'll get to it later. But I think God uh obviously gave this idea to Elijah and as we look at this because later when he prays, he's like, Okay God, I did everything. Now it's on you. Okay, please. Uh so when he does this His life is online. He is taking a very bold stand right here with this challenge. And we're going to see later that he very much feels like and he says that he is alone. So the first question that we're just looking at briefly is who brought trouble to Israel? Well, Ahab and his father, and we can broaden it, look at it today is any time we choose to disobey God. We are bringing trouble to ourself, to our family, to our church. Am I a part am I a part of the problem? And to think that you're never part of the problem? You better take a quick look in the mirror and don't forget what manner of man it was when you were looking in that mirror. So who brought this trouble to Israel? Those who disobey God. We can just make it general, and here specifically it is Ahab. Now let's look at our next question here in verse 20. So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel and gathered the prophets together into Mount Carmel. And Elijah came to all the people and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? How can you stand in the middle of these two different opposing forces? And he asks them this question. So how long halt ye between these two opinions? And then he follows up. If the Lord be God, follow him. But if failed, then follow him. And the people answered him not a word. They know he's exactly right. Isn't that frustrating when someone comes to you and they kind of put you in a situation and you're like, oh, he is so right. I do not want to admit that. Well, who wants to admit that we're wrong? Oh pick me, pick me, I like to be wrong. Okay. I don't think anyone likes that. If there is, maybe we can talk afterwards and I can be right and he can be wrong and we'll just go No, we won't do that. But here that is they know it's like they know that he's right. It's not just they're serving God, they're like they're adding God to the gods of Baal and they're somewhere in the middle and sometimes they want to follow Jehovah, but they really like the benefit of, well, I don't like being persecuted from Ahab and I don't like to run. And so, you know, maybe we'll just kind of be the monkey in the middle type of thing. They're stuck. They are in between two different things. And this has kind of been a very good question when Eliza asks, why are you stuck between the two? And I'm going to remind ourselves, as I was reminded, this is nothing new. What is very likely in many homes in this church is Joshua 24, 15. He says, Is the evil unto you to serve the Lord? Choose you this day who you will serve. Whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Going all the way back to Joshua Following Moses, we have a decision to make. Why halt ye between two gods? Why are you stuck in the middle? Are you going to serve both God and mammon? You can't do that. But sometimes because we live in the world, we get stuck following the God of materialism, selfishness, I love me, myself, and I. Trying to just make a better today so tomorrow will be easier, whatever, ambitions, and we get distracted. Sometimes we'd remind ourselves, who am I trying to serve? Myself? Am I trying to serve the Lord? But we mean to make a decision. We even see this decision going all the way back to Genesis. In chapter 12, now the Lord said to Abraham, Get thee out of thy country, from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land I will show thee, and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless Bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing, and I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curseth thee, and all the families of the earth be blessed. He had a decision to make. Abraham, I want you to Abraham, you can get out of this country. He had a choice to make. Did he have to do that? I mean God knew he would do that, but he had a choice to make. Am I going to serve this God? Or am I going to stay here at my father's house and serve the gods in this area? And I was reminded in the Freedom That Lasts, in the last couple weeks, really, most of life really comes down to two choices most of the time. We have two choices. Do I do what's right or do I do what's wrong? Sometimes we try and complicate it. I know sometimes there's in between, but most of the time we know what's right. We don't want to do it. And we get caught between two decisions. Do I serve God? Or all the other decisions kind of funnel down to me? Or do I serve myself Which decision are we going to make? Ruth had this same decision time with her mother-in-law In Ruth I, Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee, nor return from following after thee. For whether thou goest I will go, and for thou lodgest I will lodge Thy people shall be my people and thy God my God. She had a decision to make. Do I stay here and continue with my sister-in-law and go back to the gods and stay in this land? Or do I follow and go to this new people and to follow their God? It's a decision time. She was even told, stay, go back to your family. And Ruth couldn't do it. She had a decision to make right then and right there. Two decisions. Do I go? Do I stay? Abram, do I obey or do I go? Joshua, hey, you guys can choose. It's better to choose one or the other. Don't be stuck in the middle back and forth, because then you can choose everybody. We have choices to make. And this ties it in for us in James. In James 1. 8, it says a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. John was just preaching this. We get stuck in the middle. It's like you're double-minded. You're trying to think and you're trying to do both ways. It doesn't work. It will not work. And then we see later in Jesus, draw nigh unto God, he will draw nigh unto you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. For us to stay in this limbo between two different decisions, two opposing forces, God Alone or really ultimately myself and the gods of this world? Now that's making it really simple, but in every decision that we make, a lot of times it comes down to these two different choices So when we go back to 1 Kings, who will we follow? Who will we follow? Who are you following? Do we need to pause and ask ourselves and evaluate? Am I following God? Or am I being pulled away and drawn away and following other people and other philosophies? Then in verse 22, Elijah said unto the people, I, even I only remain the prophet of the Lord, but Baal's prophets are 450 men. Now, as we've looked at last week, he was not the only prophet. There were a hundred other prophets that have been hiding. The Obadiah had been feeding by fifties in caves and keeping them alive. It's possible Elijah didn't know about them at all. Maybe Obadiah told them, but either way, right here, what we do know is Elijah is saying to people, I am alone. And certainly right here at Mount Carmel, he was. So he wasn't all by himself as far as prophets are concerned in that area. But at this moment in this time, he feels very alone. And I believe one of the tricks that Satan will use to convince us to leave a godly direction is to isolate yourself. In your thinking or in your person. He wants to feel like you're all alone. That's why I think church is such a great thing. We're gathering together as a church body. We're not alone. You don't have to fight the fight by yourself. This is how Elijah felt. It's at least what he said. And how's this happen? We do know that it's challenging. We live in a world that is very challenging, and many people will not want to follow the Lord. In Second Kings 17, we'll cut we'll see later that they feared the Lord and served their own gods, after the manner of the nations whom they carried away from thence. In Jeremiah 2, hath a nation changed their gods? Which are net yet not gods, but my people have changed their glory from that which doth profit. Sometimes we will make our own gods to conform to what we want, so we can continue to live the lifestyle that we have. And there's so many other things that we could turn to and discuss with that about making our own gods and choosing that. To get us sometimes to feel alone, you can do this. You can't do it. On your own, you are isolated, and I think sometimes that Satan does. He wants you to feel that way. And when this happens, when you feel alone, And you feel like I'm the only one standing. I had some situations in my past where I had uh we had a little discussion with my family and I I felt very alone. A a lot of it was kind of my own fault. I came back from college and And I was talking to my family, and I forgot the Spirit of God had worked on me for an entire year, and I had more preaching in that year than I had my entire life up to that point. And I was not so tactful to tact. And the bridges were almost entirely burned down. But the point I did feel very alone. Okay. It happens. It happens. It took me a long time to recover and to rebuild those bridges. But when you feel very alone and you feel like you're by yourself, two passages, hopefully that can stick with us. And you feel alone and you feel like I'm by myself. Number one, I've got two passages, Proverbs 1 and Psalm 1 Proverbs 1 and Psalm 1, when you feel like you're the one by yourself taking a stand. Listen to these in Proverbs 1. My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Now listen what's going to happen. If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lay privately with the innocent without cause. Let us swallow them up alive as the grave and hole and those that go down into the pit We shall find all precious substance. We shall fill our houses with spoil. Cast thy lot among us, and let us have one purse. You could come along with us. You can do these things. We could do it together. It's like the little kids that get in trouble in little groups. It's so much more fun and exciting to get in trouble in groups. That's what they're doing. And then what's the next verse say? By verse 15 of Proverbs 1. My son, walk not thou in the way with them. Refrain thy foot from their path. So if sinners entice thee, consent thou not, and you do not go their way. So when you feel alone, there are times where you may feel like I have to just take a stand But if you're taking a stand on the truth of God's word, and if you're taking a stand with the Lord, you're really in the majority. Because God is true, he is right, and then sometimes if you have them to stand alone, look at Proverbs 1. If you're tempted to give in, and listen, sometimes we think peer pressure is just for teenagers. That's not true. That is not true. I know the teenagers might struggle with a little bit more. There's a little bit of insecurities, and there's a lot of changes taking place in a teenager and they're not as sure on some things. But sometimes We just grow up and we become bigger teenagers. And it could still be easy for any one of us to give into peer press. to give in to the ways of the world, to society, and the things that they push. And you can be enticed and you can be drawn in, because while we're all doing it, the whole bandwagon approach, oh we can all do it. The next one, so you have Proverbs 1, when you feel alone, to remind yourself of these things, and then Psalm 1, blessed is the man that walketh not in the counseling ungodly. Nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in a sea that is scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. You can be in the majority when you stand on the truth of God's word, even when you feel alone. I imagine this is how Elijah felt. He certainly said it. I am alone. We know he's not, but from his perspective, he is Out of those hundred prophets that we know about from the chapter for from earlier in this chapter, he doesn't know that they're there. Or if he does, they're certainly not helping him now. He certainly feels very alone. So Proverbs 1, Psalm 1, when you feel like you're all alone and you feel tempted to give in to the ways of the world and to the pressures that others may bring to you. Now we better look to this challenge. Any challenge or game, if you were on trial, you have to have rules. So in verses 23 through 25, we're going to look at the rules. Okay? Each side is gonna get a bullock, and they're gonna have you know the altar with wood, but no fire. No fire, that's the key. You're gonna have everything else You kind of feel like Abraham and Isaac here. Oh, you know, I I see the wood and I see the fire, but where's the sacrifice? But here it's okay. Um I see the sacrifice and I see the wood, but where's the fire? So it's kind of a similar idea. There's something missing here. So the rules are going to be the same for both sides. They each get a bullock, they get wood, but no fire. And then each of them are supposed to pray in verse 24. They're going to pray for fire so that the gods or the God, whichever is going to end up doing it, is going to bring the fire to consume the sacrifice. And then, just practically speaking, Elijah's like, but you know what? The coin toss is your favor. Uh you guys go first. There's more of you, okay? There's just more of you. It's going to take me longer. And they would okay, that makes sense. All right, there's one of him. We're going to get in each other's way doing this because there's like 450 of us. So sure. They probably didn't. That's not that big a deal. Sure. We'll go first. But I mean we know I mean we know in the bigger picture when you step back and look at you look at the big picture I mean we know the end of the story we already read through it but they need time to go through this process of recognizing You are living a false life with these gods. You made them up, and they're not really there. This is what was going to be proved. This is what we're going to see. So if you feel alone and you feel like this king is going to have my head And things are not going my way. Here, if you stand on the truth of the Word of God and you're trying to do things his way, you can find encouragement through his word. And then you recognize I need to stick with it and stay the course in God's word. So they go first, and they have to go through this process of recognizing what they're doing. It's wrong and it's false. Will they be willing to admit it? Sometimes we have to go through this challenging times to do this. So here's the challenge. There it comes forth. And so we look as the challenge begins in verses 26 through 29. We're going to pick up a little bit so we can make through the chapter, okay? A little bit more time in the beginning. But here in 26 and 27. Or 26 through 29, we're going to see that they go first. They take the bulk that was given to them. And from morning until noon, they're cutting themselves and they're crying out. And you can imagine 450 guys. This is getting intense. This is going on for hours. And we know they continue going on even to the evening sacrifice time. So there must have been, okay, you go first, you get this amount of time, and I'll come after that, probably about this time. So they're crying out, they're jumping all over things, and they're cutting themselves, they're going crazy. And here's what's interesting. This is something that I've noticed when people live in the world and they're living with worldly principles. What tends to happen is they tend to go against the God of creation who has designed them. And they will harm themselves. Whether it's excessive piercings or tattoos, cutting themselves, you're going against what God has done and then has given to you. It's interesting how that works. They think by harming themselves It's going to lure or convince a God to hear them more? And really , he's not answering. He's not calling. And Elijah eventually, around the noontime, he's mocking them, but he's just pointing out the truth. Wait a minute. Let's look at it. He said, what is your God doing? So in verse. 27, he said, for he is a God, obviously it's a lowercase g, but look what's interesting with this. What he says is basically going to humanize or realize the limitations to the gods that they're expecting to call down fire from heaven. He says, either he is talking. He's in a busy conversation right now. He must be extremely busy. He's talking to someone else. Or he's pursuing. He's off on some pursuit. You know, maybe he's a little bit further away at the moment. You know, he's trying to getch that, you know, that big buck he's chasing. He's in a journey, or preadventure he's sleeping, and he must be awakened. As I read through these things, I think about this, wait a minute. This God that you have is acting very human-like. He's talking or he's sleeping. Maybe you need to wake him up. He got tired. This is drawing a contrast to the God who does not sleep, that does not rest, that never has a busy signal. We know that God, the God of the Bible, is always there to hear and answer our prayers. Now, if we have sin in our life and other things, obviously we have to get that right. But it's not his fault. But we know that God is not too busy. We know he is not sleeping. He didn't rest on the seventh day because he was tired. He knew we would get tired. Okay? He's setting forth a pattern for us. But what they're doing is they're trying to mutilate themselves. to show their dedication to a God that's not there. And you stop and you pause and you think they are making themselves their own God. And because of my dedication, because I harm myself, you expect someone else to do something. They're trying to manipulate. They're trying to bribe. And sometimes we can do similar things. God, if I do this, and if I do this, and I read my Bible every day this week, and I pray really intense this week, morning and night, then God, you have to what, be manipulated? Does he have to answer you the way that you want when you want it? Who's going to be the God there? And we're going to see this because when Elijah prays, after he does everything, he's like, okay, Lord, now would be a great time, okay? Because if nothing happens here, there's still more than there's of me. So he does, he feels very alone. We've looked at the rules. The challenges begin. He begins mocking them, treats them like a man. And then I find this very interesting as we continue. Look at verse 30. So Elijah said unto all the people, Come near unto me. And all the people came near unto him and repaired the altar of the Lord that was broken down. So Elijah does something very different. He wants the people, I think his heart was, God, you need to show yourself real to these people. As we saw earlier, turn their heart back. They need to see you real so that they know these two decisions, these two gods. These two choices they have, show them that you are the correct, right one. I don't think Elijah here is going to say, God, I want them to know that I'm great and I can call down fire from heaven and that you will answer me and that I am some great mighty man of God. If that were the case, I don't think he would have called the people and say, I want you to hear this. I want you to listen to this. And as they come, come to him, and then he takes twelve stones representing the tribes of Israel. And they were doing this for thy name's sake. What he wants them to understand is you guys are living a false life. You're putting your trust in false gods. You're just trying to add God to one of these idols. And what he's trying to encourage them is kind of what Isaiah is going to encourage, where he says in Isaiah 1, wash you, make you clean. Put away evil of your doings from before my eyes. Cease to do evil. Learn to do well. Seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge your father, let us plead for the widow. Come now, let us reason together. Think about what you're doing. Put some thought into it, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarred, yet they will be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Cleanse yourself from these ways. Yes, you do wrong things, unless we will be tempted to pull away and drawn away. And sometimes the peer pressure of even being adults and those around you or those at work are trying to draw you away. You have to take the stand on the word of God and recognize I can't be led away like that. But sometimes we get stuck And we know, as we've already read earlier, that in James 4, if you draw nine to God, he will draw nine to you. And it says, cleanse your hands, ye sinners. And purify your hearts, he double-minded. God wants our hearts to be dedicated to Him. And sometimes we don't realize it's for our own good. It's for our own good. Because we get caught in the middle, we get divided, we become indecisive, we get double-minded, and we're trying to make everybody happy. And in doing so, you make nobody happy. So you might as well do your best to just serve the Lord and stand on his truth. So he calls them together. He wants them to know this. He wants them to know that he is God. And really, on a personal level, Elijah is probably saying, I want you to help me Believe with me. I mean, I have been fed by ravens. Yes, ravens. I have been sustained by a widow woman. With stuff that should have never happened. So God is growing him in his trust, and now he's going to take this stand. And sometimes I think in us We think, oh, I want to do great things for God. I don't want to call down fire from heaven. I don't want to show 450 people that I'm right and they're wrong. But we're not willing to be fed by the ravens. We're not willing to go to Zarephath and be supported by a widow. God may have great things for us, but we don't want to take the next small step that's right in front of us. We're not going to have our challenge at Mount Carmel because we won't even walk up the mountain. We can't even take a stand for God in the times that we should. We get our Peter moment. I will die for you. Oh, I don't know who that guy is. No, I don't know him. We have our Peter moments. Here, Elijah is probably, hey guys, listen. I'm telling you the truth. If God can sustain me through these crazy things, I know he can do this. And I want you to believe in God Himself. I want you to be encouraged. I want you to see who God is and that he is true and he is worth following. And it's for his name. To speed things up. In verses 32 through 35, I love this part too. So that he's building the altar. And he's getting it all in order and he's putting the wood on it. But here's what he did that's different, not only to call the people closer, but also something he did that's very unique compared to the prophets of Baal. is he gets four barrels of water to dump on the altar. Now if you want to burn something, adding water and to wood and then trying to burn the wood is usually not a good idea. Okay, I've tried to start little bonfires after a little sprinkle, after a little rain, or you know, the day before. It doesn't go well. I've burned a lot of paper. Oh kids, we can do this. Yeah, not with one match. We're getting the lighter, we're getting a blowtorch, we're getting a whole lot of paper. We've got to do something because this is still damp. Okay, and this is for a little fire. He takes four barrels, dumps it on it. Usually not a good idea. And then he does it a second time, and he does it a third time. And I want to take a timeout right here. He does 12 barrels of water. Not only is that not intelligent if we're trying to burn something, but remember when this is This is three and a half years without rain. And he's asking these people to bring twelve barrels of water to burn something with, and they are thinking, I I can imagine them thinking He wants water? What is this guy thinking? He wants more? What do you do with the first four? He's already dumped him. He wants the second four. That guy's really lost his mind. What is he thinking? Wasn't four enough? He wants four more? Is this the third time? How many barely I was gonna drink that? It's a little hot 12 barrels in a drought three and a half years. Water is scarce. This guy is crazy. I'm shocked if they did it. If they do it something. Where'd they get that from? We're gonna go burn stuff, so let's bring lots of water. Maybe they're thinking about fire safety. I don't know. But either way, so it doesn't make sense in all kinds of different ways. But see what that reminds us God is commanding Elijah to go out of his way to do the impossible. Only God can do this through one man with stuff that does not make sense. That's the God that we serve. That's the God that we're tempted to be drawn away from by the world. A God that can do amazing things. He can make wet things burn up. In the middle of a drought that's soaked, and Jesus one lonely prophet against so many. And God is saying, I'm going to show you I can do the impossible again. As if ten plagues weren't enough. And all the other miracles that Israel had seen up to this point. Yet he's going to do it again for them. We have a God that wants to show himself real to us, to you Will you believe in his word? Will you choose to follow him? Sometimes things don't seem to make sense. Sometimes we need to be bold enough to take a stand. Then look what happens in verse 38. Well, I want to back up. Verse 36 And it came to pass at the time of the offering, of the evening sacrifice, that Elijah the prophet came near and said, Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day That thou art the God in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all these things at thy word. Here's the verse I'm talking about. So he's done everything now at this point. If this doesn't work, they're probably still gonna kill him. We knew this guy was crazy. Now let's just get rid of him, Ahab. Good idea. So at this point he's done everything. But he's God. These people need to know that you're real. These people need to recognize that they have turned from you. And God, I am also your servant, by the way. Remember me? The servant, the ones that's been obeying you. And I've done all these things at thy word. I think that's hugely important. I don't think Elijah here is just running by the seat of his pants and trying to figure things out as he goes along here. I kind of think that God had took now we don't have it literally in scripture, but by guessing and reading and thinking through this, I think God gave him instruction and he's following what God had told him to do. You're not going to see God work if you're trying to do things your way. You need to serve God his way And now he's praying. And then he prays in verse 67, hear me, O Lord, hear me, that this people may know. This is tricky. Because sometimes we can be very tempted to say, God, because I am all alone. Because I am scared. I want my head on my body, okay? But Lord, I want these people to know. That you are God, and that thou hast turned their heart back again. You can take a hard heart and turn it to you and just serve you alone. God, this is gonna take your work. You know what? Sometimes it seems impossible. But with God, all things are possible. That a sinner like you and I, that are undeserving and do not deserve at any way eternal life But God offers it through the impossible, through a virgin birth, through the shed of fleshless blood through his Son, Jesus Christ, that can be our Redeemer that we've been singing about all day, and that can be our Savior. Will we trust Him? Will we believe in his word and point people to his name? Then look what happens. Verse 32. That the fire of the Lord fell and consumed the burnt sacrifice and the wood. I love this. So he comes down and it burnt the sacrifice and the wood and the stones and the dust. Just these things usually don't burn, okay? You do things in the stone. You usually have a fire put it's got dirt on the bottom surrounded by stones. Why? Because it does not burn God is driving a point home, making it more than obvious. He's burning it all. No questions left unanswered here. You're trying to halt between two opinions? God is going to make it obvious which the correct opinion is. So who are you going to choose to follow? It's going to be obvious. So he's burning the stones. He's burning the dust. And I like the picture of this in your mind. And licked up the water that was in the trench. You know all that water? You know what went? They put a trench around the altar. God knew what he was doing. And it's like the fire, I mean can you almost see it in your mind's eye the fire comes down and it's just like swooping around like a tongue around ice cream cone. Okay? You're just licking that thing all the way around. You know like a kid wants to do that and they got the ice cream running down the side of the cone, you're like, oh you missed the spot Okay, he's not missing a thing. It's licking up the whole thing. Okay, this is like the dog got a hold of it. Nothing's left behind. Okay. Another dog reference. Sorry, John. So he licks it up, no questions, this is the God that we have to serve. And look at the result. And when the all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and said, The Lord, he is the God. The God. The Lord, he is the God. When they see this, they see an impossible thing happen in front of their eyes. They just witness it themselves. Who would question that? Only someone like Ahab or Jezebel, where their authority and their power may be threatened, when it affects them, well, thou art the man. This is all your fault anyways. And their pride comes in. People can see the obvious and make a choice. But we can still make the choice of, I don't believe that. And we're going to see what happens after this. And to shorten up, they eventually get rain after this. I know we're running out of time. God answers the prayer They say that he is the Lord and end up the prophets of Baal end up dying while the people see this and thinking, why would we serve them? They're making their decision. And the prophets of Baal are then killed, and then God brings rain. And he even tells Ahab, you better start getting out of here because it's going to get wet. I think that's kind of grace there. But for us, who's bringing trouble to your house and to your life? And then a follow-up question: how long are you going to halt between these two opinions? How long is it going to take you to decide between do I serve God or do I serve self? He will go out of his way through the way of the cross. To show us how much he loves us and how much he cares for us. And yet sometimes we still choose our own way and our own self. That is the challenge at Mount Carmel What will we choose? Who are we going to follow? Father, we are so thankful for this text of Scripture. And it's amazing as we stop and pause and think through this chapter and how you used Elijah. He was bold to stand on your word, even though he felt very alone. And as we gather together, church, we are not alone. And we are standing on your word. And when we accomplish things, would it be done to point people To the truth of who you are. You are the one true God who's worth serving. But Father, because you love us so much, you allow us with your great love. to love you back as a choice. Who are we going to follow? And you have made your way more than obvious for all of us. as we stop and think about it. Help us with our struggles. Overcome the challenges, the temptations we might face from those around us. And help us to find Follow you. And would we do this to appoint people and to exalt you and your son Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.