Okay, good evening. Hope you all are doing well. And uh let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and uh then what we'll do is I'll kind of review through what has been a very long discussion and I'll pick up where we left off uh last week. Let's bow for prayer Father, we're so grateful that in the middle of the week we can come together and we can fellowship with believers like-minded, people who love you and desire to walk with you. And I pray that this would be an oasis, a place of sweet fellowship, that our communion with one another would be very Christ-centered and encouraging. And as we open up the Bible tonight, I pray that you'd help me to have a clear mind. And to be able to take these truths and just lay them out in a very simple way that the scriptures would speak for themselves. And I pray that you would help us to have a very firm conviction. About what the local church is supposed to be. And then I pray that even as we talk about some of the things that we try to do in our church, And some of the thinking behind those issues, I pray that you would use that to encourage us. And I pray that we would pray for one another, uplift one another as we come to prayer time. I pray that that time would be very encouraging as well and that we would see you at work in the lives of the people on this list. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, the text of scripture that we started out with is Hebrews chapter 10, and I'm going to read it. It says, let us hold fast. The profession of our faith without wavering. For he is faithful that promised, and let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as ye see the day approaching Now I know I've said this twice already, and I'm going to say it again because I think it's important for us to remember. The context of Hebrews chapter 10 is not uh somebody is skipping Sunday night service or they're skipping Sunday school or something like that. And by the way, I I believe every single one of our meetings is important and it serves a very distinct function. And I'm even going to talk about some of those things potentially tonight, depending on how quickly we move through the material. But that's really not what is the purpose of Hebrews chapter 10. Basically, what's going on is you have Hebrew Christians. who are facing a lot of pressure. That pressure is coming from family. It's coming from their work environments. There are varying levels of persecution. And it's discouraging these Hebrew believers. And what's happening is that some of them are finding it a lot easier to go back into Judaism. And to walk away from the church congregation, obviously there's diversity of Jews and Gentiles, a lot of challenges that go on within the church context because of that Jew-Gentile diversity, a lot of challenges because of the pressure they're feeling from within their community. And so they're walking away or they're drifting. And So what the writer of Hebrews does is he says, remember, it is important for you to consider one another. and to provoke not to anger or to frustration or to discouragement, but to love and to good works. And the way that you do that is by not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. And we're supposed to do this even more regularly, more consistently as we get closer and closer. So the emphasis of that passage is don't forsake, because this is the context Where we are exhorting one another and we are provoking one another to love and to good works. And so this whole discussion has been about the importance of the local church. We've talked about what a church is and what some of the key distinctions are, and I'm going to mention those again, bound by the gospel, assembled for a very definite purpose. We observe the ordinances. of the Lord's table and baptism within the church. We're committed to biblical authority and the way that you see that is really twofold through the teaching ministry of the church and then through the practice of the church. We could be teaching the Bible consistently and regularly, but if we're not living it out, we're not actually functioning according to the things that we're teaching, then we are really not living under biblical authority. We're not submitting to that biblical authority. And then guided by biblically qualified leadership, the scripture is very clear about the kinds of people that should be deacons, the kinds of people that should be pastors, and then we take seriously the command to provide biblical accountability. And so the gospel, the authority of the church, the culture of the church itself, and this issue of holiness are all very, very important. So last week what we did is we looked at three passages of scripture. that deal with what the church accomplishes. The first one was 2 Timothy 2, verses 24 to 26. I want to read it again because I think it's a very important text. Here's what it says. The servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach. That word 's very important. Patient in meekness instructing those who oppose themselves. So we see the word teach and we see the words instructing those who oppose themselves. And then he says, if God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. And so we see the connection between teaching The ability to do so, instructing people to oppose themselves, and then the end goal is repentance, a change of thinking that comes as a result of the preaching and teaching of the Word of God. So that shows you a lot of what's supposed to go on in the church context. The second passage is in Ephesians chapter 4. And he says that he gave apostles and a prophet and prophet. Prof aphits, prophets, and evangelists and pastors and teachers for the perfecting of the saints. for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Now that is the text that we're going to dig into with a little bit more detail tonight. And then of course the Hebrews 10 passage which we've already Read through. So what I want us to do is I want us to pick up where we left off last week. And that was looking at 2 Timothy chapter 2 and talking about the importance of teaching God's word The most important thing that we do in the church is the teaching of God's word. And the reason for that is because everything is supposed to be flowing out of that And everything is supposed to be built on top of that. So if we are supp if we do something in the church, we really should be saying, well, the reason we do that is because the scriptures teach that we're supposed to do such and such. Or even when we think about the issue of our worship, our singing. Our singing should be connected back to the preaching and the teaching. I don't know if you've noticed this or not, but when we go to the songs that we sing on Sunday morning. Those songs are always filtering back to the topic that we're dealing with in the text of scripture. And by the way, one of the things that that you learn when you're working through The songs that we're seeing on Sunday is that sometimes you realize, man, our hymn book doesn't have a lot of songs on this particular topic. And I'm like, wow, I wonder why, because that is such an important theological concept. So Maybe I need to go and see if there's some old hymns that are not published in our book, but then nobody would know them. But the idea is that we want the songs to connect back to it. And so some people think in terms of the music is supposed to kind of set the stage for the preaching, supposed to kind of, you know, get your heart in the right place. And I actually think that it's the opposite I think that the preaching and teaching is supposed to get our heart right to sing. It's actually the opposite. Not that the music doesn't have an effect on our spirit. But really the music is supposed to be flowing out of the instruction that we have. And we see that in Ephesians. He says that we're to speak to ourselves in psalms and hymns and in spiritual songs because the word of Christ is dwelling in us richly. So it's the scripture that drives the seeing of the word. But this issue of teaching is so very, very important. Now back to that 2 Timothy 2 passage. It says that we're supposed to gently teach and be patient as we do it. And we're to in meekness instruct those who oppose themselves. Notice those details. Confronting the thinking of people where their thinking is contrary to sound doctrine. And there's lots of reasons why our thinking can be contrary to sound doctrine. The first is that we do not naturally think biblically Nobody does. Okay? That's why we need somebody to preach the gospel to us because we don't view ourselves biblically. We don't view Christ biblically. We don't view the way of salvation biblically. We need that confrontation. That has to take place. Well, so naturally we do not think biblically. But there's another dynamic to this as well. There's all kinds of teaching out there that is shoddy , it's contrary to sound doctrine. Sometimes there are trends within churches during a period of church history that are very unhealthy. And so many, many people think, well, this is this is normal. This is biblical thinking. But if we could step back and listen to somebody that preached a hundred years ago, you know what we'd discover? They didn't believe that. They didn't teach that. That trend is something that began at a point in church history, and it's an unhealthy trend that really needs to be Reversed. And there's lots of examples that I could go long and long on if you wanted to have a discussion about it at another time. But the idea is that the scriptures confront Us when we don't think biblically. And so he says we need to be gentle unto all men, apt to teach patiently in meekness, instructing those who oppose themselves. There's another side to this as well. You see the idea of caring for the soul. If someone is in a pastoral kind of role, then they are a little bit like a doctor. Not a medical doctor who's caring for someone physically, but a doctor who is caring for someone's soul. And by the way, it's not just those who preach, And teach the word of God in the church who have a pastoral kind of role. You can have a pastoral kind of role and never be a pastor. You could be a father, and you're supposed to have a pastoral kind of role with your children. Or a mother is supposed to have a pastoral kind of role with her children. Or an older believer is supposed to have a pastoral kind of role with younger Christians. A caring for the soul. Someone who is coming alongside behind you and you're coming alongside of them and you're helping them grow and you're helping them mature and you're investing in them. You're doing discipleship with them I'm really excited about this because we have this discipleship booklet that we used when we were over in Ghana. And technically Micah's the one who wrote it, and he and I collaborated on some of those things. And I just finally decided, let's just print some of them and put them in the bookstore. Because I use these with people when we're doing baptism classes and things like that. And so they're going to be in there free of charge. We're not going to charge anything. Michelle put them together. And um and you could take one of those and take a younger Christian and just teach them. You could teach your own children these things. And there's lots, I think it's like maybe 13 to 15. Lessons that are on there, they're practical lessons, they talk about foundational issues, caring for the soul. Another aspect of this is the building of a worldview. Now I'm going to give you a little bit of a preview on what we're talking about in our Sunday morning message. So I've been thinking about Psalm 31. And we're actually going to look at it in two parts. So in the morning we're going to look at the entire psalm, and in the evening we have the Lord's table, and we're going to take that psalm and we're going to look at how the Lord Jesus Christ Who quoted from that psalm on the cross how that psalm applies in that particular context? So that's kind of my sermon preview, not a whole lot of explanation. But the idea of it is, is that that entire psalm talks about how to deal with the difficulty of when someone has betrayed you. When someone has treated you treacherously, I'm sure no one's ever experienced a betrayal or treachery. No, we we have And that passage of scripture is David processing treachery. And I'm going to talk to you about some examples in David's life of when he experienced that. But but the whole reason I bring this up is to say that when we open up the word of God and we preach it and we teach it appropriately, we are building a person's worldview. Everybody deals with suffering. Everybody deals with pain. Everybody deals with times where people are treacherous in their behavior toward them. Everybody deals with so many different issues. And when we come to those texts of scripture and we lay them out, what we're doing is we're shaping the thinking of Christians. So that when we come to those situations, we have a worldview that has been shaped by the Bible. And when we walk through those situations, we mature and we grow and we process these things. the way that we should rather than we get set back and we end up getting knocked down and we become disillusioned. Another aspect to this is that of continually stirring up the affections of an individual, the feeding of the soul. So these are the things that we see in 2 Timothy and in Ephesians chapter 4. The teaching of God's word transforms people. Now, this past Sunday I mentioned something about the gospel. And I mentioned it the week before as well. The gospel is the only thing that has the power to transform a person from within. So if we were to change all of the laws in America and we were to take the Old Testament system and just make that the law of the land, guess what? Well, for one, there'd be a revolution, okay. Especially when we talked about issues related to sexuality in the Mosaic Law, all right? And marriage and those kinds of things. But the bottom line is the law doesn't change hearts. The law just stops evil. The law holds people accountable. The law reveals what's in the heart of people, but it doesn't change what's in the heart of people. Only the gospel has the power to change people. Amazingly, even the founders of the United States, they said that our system of government will only work for a moral religious people. That's what they said. You know why that is? Because they understood that the responsibility of governance in the way that they had set it up was something that irresponsible people can't handle People that have no moral compass, they can't handle those things. And so nothing in the world transforms souls like scripture. Nothing. Psalm 1, 2 to 3. Listen to what it says. The blessed man's delight is in the law of the Lord. In his law he meditates day and night. and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in a season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper Now it's hard for us living in Maryland to appreciate the analogy that's here. But if you lived in Arizona, or you lived in New Mexico, or you lived in some very dry and desolate area, maybe parts of California, parts of Utah. If you're walking out in a desert area and you see that there's green, you know something is over there and it's called water. There there in fact if there is a stream running through the desert, you're gonna see this stream of green, but that green will just be right along the banks of that river. Why is that? Because life isn't sustained away from that water. Water. And that's the picture that the psalmist uses. He says, The blessed man, the one whose delight is in the law of the Lord, who meditates in it day and night, he is like a tree in the desert planted by water. And while everything is dead around him, he is thriving, he is prospering, he is fruitful, he is resilient. Why? Well, it's because his life is planted in Scripture. That's why. Because his delights in the law of the Lord. He meditates in it day and night. So the reason that he is like that, the source of that nourishment and that strength and the transformation, that is all rooted in Scripture. And that's why the preaching and teaching of Scripture is so important in the church context. So, if we go back to the Ephesians 4 passage, I want you to notice some of the ways that it transforms people. Hebrews 4 12, it says that this is for the perfecting of the saints. Now that word perfecting Doesn't mean that you all stop sinning and I stop sinning and all of a sudden we reach this plateau where everything is cool and good in life. The Bible doesn't teach that. On this side of our death and glory, okay, on this side we will never be sinlessly perfect. But that word perfecting has the idea of the completion and the maturing of an individual. Coming to full maturity. How does that happen? Scripture brings us to full maturity. Also in verse number 12, it says it's for the work of the ministry. It leads us to serving others. So sometimes we get in our minds, oh, this person's not serving. Let me give them something to do so they'll feel guilty and they'll start doing it. There's pastors that do that, okay? There's a tendency in people's minds to say, Oh, if you're not doing enough, I'm just gonna give you something to do, and you can get busy and you can get active. But that's not the way real healthy ministry takes place. Healthy ministry is my soul's in a good place and I want to serve. I see an option, an opportunity, I see a need, and I and I feel compelled. to step in and to meet that need and to take my energy and the skills that God's given me and to invest those resources. In other words, I feel moved to do that because of the work of Scripture. A healthy church is full of people with eyes that see needs, hearts that are willing, and hands that are strong in the work. And a church that is not healthy is a church where you got to beg and plead, hey, could you do this? We have this need. Oh, I don't know. This week I just don't feel like it. And this season of life is too much for me. And no no no no no. That's an indication that under the surface there needs to be some heart work. That's That's what it is. Hard work in the heart work. Verse 12. Continually stirring up the heart. It says it's for the edifying of the body of Christ. So uh uh we had our little camping trip and we were we were doing hot dogs and we we put out all those coals and it was uh they weren't getting hot fast enough. So I went and I got my gas blower out. Casey's laughing over here. I cranked up my gas blower and I just started not fanning those flames, blowing those flames. I'm telling you those things They really got going. They really, really got going. The idea is if they just sit there, eventually they just kind of they start cooling off. You need something to fan that flame. You need some air to move through there and stir them up. And there really is a sense in which when you and I come in contact with Scripture. When we listen to good, sound Bible preaching and teaching, when we gather together for the worship of the saints. We should have that sense. We should walk out of this place with a heart that's been stirred. Yes, convicted at times. But really, what we should be more than anything is compelled. We should be motivated. We should be thinking. Our affections should be engaged, edifying of the body of Christ. The stirring up of the saints. That's what happens. And by the way, if we neglect this context, that doesn't happen. Okay? And the more that we neglect it, the more that we need it and the less we want it. Another one, verse 13. At least a godly character. He says, till we come into the unity of the faith, of the knowledge. of the Son of God, unto the perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. He's talking about the character of the Christian. That our character is being conformed to the image of Christ. We are created in God's image. Part of The purpose we exist is to reflect God's goodness and his character and his greatness And so as we grow into Christ-likeness, we begin to reflect a little bit more clearly and a little bit more consistently the God that we are created in the image of. Verse 14, this is a great one. Discernment. That we henceforth need no more be children tossed to and fro, carried about with every wind of doctrine by the slight of men and the cunning craftiness. Whereby they lie in wait to deceive. So as I get into the Word of God, not only does it stir me up. Not only does it shape my worldview, not only does it press me to serve him and others, but it gives me discernment. It gives me the ability to recognize that's right, that's wrong. This is not correct doctrine, this is sound doctrine. That's an improper emphasis, that's a sound emphasis. A lot of Christians don't have the ability to do that. If they listen to a preacher, they just kind of accept what he says. They don't really process it. They don't really think it through. They don't analyze it. They're not critical in the sense that they ask, is this true? Is this consistent with the text of Scripture? They've not developed the skills to be able to discern wisely. In fact, in the book of Hebrews, he talks about maturity and he talks about the ability to rightly divide the word of truth and how we are exercising our senses to discern good and evil. That's what he's saying. So a major part of spiritual maturity is this issue of discernment. We can tell what is right and what is wrong. And then lastly, I'll mention this. It leads to unity in truth and a loving Christian ministry. He says, he says, may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ, for whom the whole body fitted together and compacted by that which every joint supplieth, according to the effectual working of the measure of every part, maketh increase of the body unto the edifying of itself and love. Whew, that was a mouthful. Let me explain what he's saying. The body, the church, is like your body. You have hands, you have feet. You have eyes, you have ears. Every single part of your body serves a function. Some don't serve the function as well as they used to, okay? Some we develop in those things. But the idea is if you were to do something as simple as pitch a baseball or hit a baseball or throw a football Or write a ripstick. Well, that's not simple. If you were to do those things, guess what? Lots and lots of parts of your body have to function together. You get that together. If your brain's telling your feet to do this, but your brain and your feet aren't working together, you're gonna fall down. Okay Every single part of your body has to work together. So it's not like, oh, the hands do their thing and everything else is just they're not doing their thing. The hands, the eyes, the feet, it's all working together. And that's what the church is supposed to be. It's supposed to be a body that works together. And some of us serve in all different capacities. We have different personalities, we have different spiritual gifts. We have different temperaments. We have different experience levels. And that's the way God wanted it. God didn't want us to all be clones of this one person. He wants us to have those uniquenesses. He wants us to work together. In fact, one of the powerful testimonies of the church is when all these people are so different, are able to work together and they love each other and they actually get along and Their shoulders are pressed to the work and they're doing it effectively. And somebody goes, wow, that that's a that's that's don't see that anywhere in society. How can they do that? It's the grace of God. So the dynamics of the local church are something that cannot be substituted. You do not find the means that God uses to bring those things about in just your own personal life. You don't. Someone say, well, you know, I don't need to be a part of the church to go to heaven. And technically that's true, okay? But if your attitude is I don't need the church to go to heaven, then I ask the question, do you understand Understand what the church is? Do you really have a genuine love for God and his people? Because one of the things he says, if you want to know if a person loves God, ask, do they love people? Not just people indiscriminately, but the people of God. That's an affection that God puts in their heart. If a person says, Well, I love God, but I don't love the church, well, that's an indication that there's a dissidence there. The scripture says they're incompatible. They cannot go together. And so these dynamics are not something that can be substituted. I'm reminded of what it says in James 1. Receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. Every time we gather together, we have biblical authority elevated. God's word calls us to submit to Him. We see a consistency in that, hopefully, because there is a regular instruction, a systematic approach. Verse by verse, chapter by chapter, thinking about different parts of the scripture and how they are pertinent to us in our needs. There's oversight. There's actually a structure of individuals who are looking over the spiritual development of individuals in the church. The fact is, I know the names of every person in this body. And I know Very, very well who's here and who isn't. Every single week. I go through a list of the people that regularly attend our church so I know who's here and who isn't. If someone hasn't been here for three or four weeks, I'm totally aware of that. Okay? I'm aware of a lot of what's going on in people's lives. Now, you say, well, why are you bringing that up? I'm bringing that up because I carry a burden in my heart. I carry a burden in my heart for the spiritual well-being of every person in this church. That's people who are doing great. That's people who are doing poorly. That's people who are struggling. That's people who are weary. People who are discouraged. People who are bitter. People are going through all different kinds of connections. people who are withdrawing and people who are drawing close. I feel the burden, the weight of that. And the fact is I'm not the only one who does that. Our deacons pray through uh our our church uh list as well. And by the way, it's not just members, it's people that are not members as well who regularly attend here. And so there's an oversight. If if there's an individual in the church who has a major spiritual issue and it's been brought to a head, I hate doing this, but I have to go and have a conversation with them. I really do. I have to sit down. Sometimes I have to bring another brother with me to have that conversation. There are very difficult situations, and God has designed that the church is a place where people who love the Lord and love you are looking out for your souls. Accountability. We actually take seriously maintaining a godly testimony. Interpersonal diversity. The differences in the church are a good thing. I'm glad when I look out on a Sunday morning and I see all these different faces from all these different backgrounds that God has brought to this place and we are united because of Christ. I love that. That just excites me. I love coming to church. You know, people say, oh, pastors, the only day that they work is on Sunday. I don't I almost don't feel like I work on Sunday. I absolutely love doing it. I absolutely love being here. I mean, I'm tired usually, all right, on Sunday night. I mean my day off on Monday, I like working the art all day. That's what I do. But but the bottom line is that that diversity is a really good thing. God uses it. And in the giving of self, the serving of others. People who do not think about others. They are hurting themselves so much. People who never give of themselves, they never serve others. Spiritually, they are falling apart inside and they may not even realize it. And so within this context, there's so many different needs that we become aware of and we get to invest in those things. So I want to kind of bring this to a kind of a an application side where I want to give you a little bit of insight into how I think about what we're trying to do in each of our gatherings, okay? Maybe this is something I've I've thought about where where do I give this information? I've thought about doing it like an app Podcast, I might do it in a podcast someday. I thought about just trying it in different contexts, but let me share with you a couple of thoughts of what in my mind we are trying to accomplish when we gather together. For for instance, Sunday morning worship. We come to Sunday morning worship. Obviously, there's like double the people here that there is on Sunday night and on Wednesday night and Sunday school. And so at this time I recognize there's definitely people in our midst who are not believers. Okay? Now, the purpose is not to preach an evangelistic message every single single Sunday. day. Some pastors think in that term, but the fact is this is not a revival meeting. This is not an evangelistic crusade. This is a church service. Okay, so we we are believers gathered together to worship, and more than any other service we have, there is focus There is focus on theology. There is focus on a doctrinal concept or doctrinal concepts. Each of the hymns, and I I know I don't do this effectively every single week. But every hymn is carefully thought out. Is that connected to the theme of worship? And there's even a progression in those those hymns. One of the things that I thought about doing is It's at b beginning of the service say, okay, here's what our theme of worship is. And I just talk through the songs that we're gonna sing. So you know what I'm thinking about. One of these days I'll do it. Maybe I'll do it this Sunday. I don't know. I've been like on the edge of doing that several weeks. But but the point I'm trying to make is this those songs. Are generally very doctrinally rich. Now, in our hymn book, I know it says hymns, but they're not all technically hymns. They're not all technically rich songs. They're not all necessarily classics. We sometimes we sing songs that are 500 years old. Isn't that kind of cool actually, you know? A song that was sung 500 years old. There's songs that were sung 800 years ago. We sing some songs that were written like five years ago. Okay? So the idea is that we talk about church history Every generation has had something to contribute, and some far better than others. But more than anything, I want us to walk away having this sense of the greatness of God. Preaching is like the heart of worship. Okay? You might say, well, well, preaching is just, it's like a lecture. If it's a lecture, I'm doing it wrong, okay? I'm doing it wrong. If you could read a sermon And hear a sermon and it has the same effect. That sermon stinks, okay? The delivery of the sermon was terrible. Because it is it is a part of the worship. There should be passion behind it. There should be energy. There should be conviction. And so all of these things are meant to drive home a main point. Even to the music that we do, I want our musicians to pick songs around the theme. There's a reason that we, I know we don't always do this, but that we put it on the screen. Because I really don't want you to focus on the voices of people or the beauty of an instrument. That's not why we do it. This is not a concert. Worship involves thinking about truth. And if I just hear a sweet sound, that's not thinking about truth. That's enjoying music for music's sake But when I think about the truth and the music is done well, then what it does is it it has this thing that puts it together for us and it drives it home. And so that really is the sense of what we're doing. Even to the fact that we have an instrumental special after the preaching or after the reading of the scripture, the idea is let's reflect on the scripture that's been that's been done. And so Sunday morning is a very focused time. I I pick songs that are a little bit deeper theologically. They're a little bit richer in their style. They are more majestic in that sense. And that is done on purpose. Then I think about our Sunday evening service. A totally different, a totally different thought process in my mind. We do not have a program for the kids, which some parents have not been very happy with me about over the years. And I understand that small children can be very difficult in an evening service. But it is so important for our kids to be connected to the worship. In fact, when we lived in Ghana, our kids never were separated out of the worship. Okay, part of it is because we didn't have anybody to teach the class. Okay? So it's a little bit of a pragmatic thing, I have to admit. But the fact is that they didn't know any different. They sat as still as they could. People were used to distractions and that culture. In our culture, you know, everybody it's gotta be as quiet as a library, alright? It's gotta be as quiet as a library. Don't get upset if somebody's baby's a little agitated please I don't do it just say praise God that that that mother's got her child and we try to encourage them give them opportunities to go to that room over there things like that we have a nursery available But the fact is, we want our families together. We want our families to be worshiping together. The whole reason that we do the pick your favorite songs thing. The holy reason the whole reason is because I want the kids to do it. I'm serious. I want the kids to do it. Because I know that kids get engaged in what's going on. When they get to raise their hand, they get picked up on. Not picked on, but somebody picks their hand and says, I'll take your favorite song. And you know what? Those kids are picking a song because they know the song. And when they know the song and you pick their song, they sing that song. And then mom and dad have to sing alongside of them. No, but you know what? Having our children in the worship on Sunday night And having them be involved in picking some of the songs. And my goal is that our Sunday night services are a little bit simpler when it comes to structure of sermon. And the songs that we sing are not as majestic as the Sunday morning songs are. The idea is I want the kids engaged. That's what I want. So please bring your kids Kids. Even if they're going to be a distraction. I don't care. I honestly it will not bother me at all. It really won't. It will bother you more than it will bother me. Now it might bother somebody else more than it bothers me and you, but It's not gonna bother me. It's not gonna throw me off. It's not. I've had cows walk through uh surfaces before and we were in Ghana. We we had a we had a A green mamba come out of a planter right behind me last when Cheryl Neese and I were over in Ghana. Crazy things can happen. Like a kid getting a little distraught. Who cares? It really doesn't. But the idea is that we want our kids engaged. We want them to know what's going on. We want them to see baptisms. We want them to see the Lord's table. We don't want them to partake of the Lord's table if they don't understand what's going on, if they're not trusted Christ, if they're not baptized, okay? We understand that they need to understand what's going on, but we want them to get exposed to that. And when a kid sees the Lord's table, they're gonna come home and say, hey mom and dad, why can't I have that? Oh, we're gonna have to talk about what that is. Hey, I want to get baptized. Well, do you understand what baptism is all about? You have an opportunity to talk to them. And if you're not comfortable having the conversation, you know, without some guidance, then you'll come and reach out to me. I'd be glad to have the conversation with you. But the idea is that the Sunday night service is about getting our families involved. And notice we are doing specials as families. Okay? And there's a reason for that. There's a reason for that. Not just because, oh, it's cute to see a kid up there. No, we want our kids to recognize this is their church. And as they come to age where they understand the gospel, they place their faith in Christ, they get baptized, they join the church. We want them to feel a connection to this place. They understand what's going on in this place. The focus of our midweek is to pray It's to focus on a different kind of teaching. So I come down here and uh it's a little, it's just a different style. It's a teaching uh format. Very, very similar to what we do in our Sunday school times. Men's and ladies meetings. Some some churches do not allow their boys to come to men's meetings because they're not boy. They're not men, they're boys. Well, we could have a discussion about when a boy becomes a man But the bottom line is, I want our boys to be with their dads. I really do. I want them to hear that teaching And by the way, I'm not going to get into something crazy with my seven-year-old sitting right over here, my ten-year-old sitting over here. But the fact is, I want them to be there. I want them to be interacting with the men in that context. I want the ladies to have their daughters there. I want that interaction to be going on. Because it's very, very healthy. It's very, very important. I love on Sunday nights in the summer where we play volleyball. Because you know what it does? It just encourages fellowship. Such an important and such a helpful part of these things. And so even when it comes down to the ordering of the worship service, how we look at issues of music, all those things, in my mind I go, are we elevating truth? Are we elevating scripture? Are we building on scripture? Are we pointing back to scripture? That's what the heart of this is supposed to be. And so I want to challenge you. Recognize that there's a reason behind the things that are done. There are a lot of things in my life that I don't really care too much about. I don't worry about them too much. They're not a big deal to me. They're just totally great to me. But when it comes to the ordering of the worship service, it ain't like that. It just is not like that. It's totally issue, totally different. When it comes to certain aspects of of of church, church we're like, I don't, I don't care what the plants look like. Like I really don't. I mean no offense. I mean I want the church to look nice, but it doesn't matter to me a whole lot. Okay? I I don't I don't care about lots and lots of different things. But I'll tell you the preaching of God's word, that better be on target. The music that we sing ought to be focused on truth. It ought to be consistent with rich doctrine. There are songs in that hymn book that I don't pick. Because there are problems theologically with some of those things. songs or there are certain songs that I'll sing three out of the hymns but not one of the stanzas because because of a because of an issue like that And so it's very important that we recognize that when it comes to this issue of teaching and preaching and the culture of the church, it really, really matters. Because that is the fountainhead of how we grow spiritually. It really is. Everything kind of flows out of that. If there's a deficiency here, it's going to have an impact in people's lives. It's going to hurt them. It's going to leave them deficient. We can hear the truth and kind of fumble it, okay? But the truth is if it's not being done well, And it's not being done right, it's going to have an impact on our lives. And so let's pray that God will help us to be a strong and vibrant church. The preaching and the teaching of God's word will be sound, and that we will have a healthy, vibrant grounded culture. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we thank you so much for your word and we pray that it would be central in everything that we do. Father, help us to be a people who are growing in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, developing discernment, having a passion for you and your glory. That we will see our young people growing and thriving and maturing, and that that will be the heart of everything. Father, I pray that as we have a time of of prayer here that our hearts would be knit together. It'd be very sweet fellowship. And be with those who cannot be with us tonight. I know that some are sick, some have traveled, all different kinds of of situations. I pray that you would uh strengthen and uphold them. And I pray that you would really bless as we seek to implement these things as soberly and carefully as possible. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.