Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to the book of First Corinthians, and we are working our way piece by piece through this. book and I know that the contents of the book of First Corinthians are sometimes a bit daunting, especially the section that we're getting into this evening. And I have a lot of material that we're going to talk about, so I don't think we're going to get through this in shorter than maybe three sessions. But I want us to really dig into the content here, and I want this to be an encouragement and a challenge to you. Tonight we're talking about the church, a unified body with diversity of gifts. And every person in this room, if you place your faith in Christ and you are a new creature in Christ, you have the Holy Spirit indwelling you, you have been gifted by God in unique ways. And we're not all gifted in the same way, and those gifts have been given to you for a very specific purpose. And God wants you to use those gifts for His honor and glory. And so this section of Scripture is going to be very, very helpful to us as we think about this. We're going to read a very lengthy portion. We're going to read verses four to verse 21. I know that's pretty long. And so what I'd like you to do actually is I'd like us to try to read it responsively. responsively. Okay? And that's something that we don't typically do, but because of the length of it, I'm going to read a verse and then we'll read the second verse together and then I'll read a verse and we'll read a second verse together. That way we're kind of all together. So 1 Corinthians chapter 12, and we pick up in verse number 4. Now, there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. And there are diversities of administrations, but the same Lord. And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal. For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom, to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit. To another, faith by the same Spirit. To another the gift of healing by the same Spirit. To another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another discerning of spirits, to another diverse kind of tongues. to another the interpretation of tongues. But all these worketh the one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will. For as the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of the one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink into one spirit. For the body is not one member, but many. If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I'm not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? And if the ear shall say, because I'm not of the eye, by the way, how does the ear say this? I'm just out of qu just a question there. I am not of the body. This kind of proves this point there. I am not of the body. Is it therefore not of the body? If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole body hearing, where the smelling. But now hath God set the members, every one of them, in the body, as it hath pleased him. And if they were all one member, where were the body? But now are they many members, yet but one body. We'll stop there. Alright? So I know there's a pretty long passage of scripture, and there's a lot of material for us to get into. So So many questions come up when we think about a passage of scripture like this. One would be, so I see a lot of gifts in there that I don't see operating in an independent Baptist church. And I know that there are some churches that claim that these gifts are actually uh in operation, but I have my questions. I'm a bit skeptical because what I'm seeing or what I'm hearing about does not appear to be the actual gift that's being talked about. And so sometimes we just kind of skip through a passage like this and we say, I don't understand what that's talking about or I don't want to get off on some tangent here, so I'm just going to kind of skip through this. I'm not going to worry about that. We don't want to do that. When we're dealing with the scriptures, we want to dig in and understand what's there. because all scripture is profitable. So let's go ahead and let's take apart this passage of scripture piece by piece. Trying to understand what is here and why it is here. So, first of all, the summary that I'll give you for this passage or this section that we're looking at. God designed the church to be a body. Where people grow in community as they display Christ's glory and they take the gospel to the world. So there's a couple of pieces to that that are very, very important. Number one We are a body. And that illustration is used in this passage of scripture. And it's not just confined to this passage of scripture. Scripture. Actually, we see this illustration in a lot of portions of Scripture where he talks about the church in that kind of a sense. The second thing that we see is that we are a community. And when we say community, the idea is that there is to be some level of interdependence one with the other. Now I know as Americans we like to be, you know, stand your ground, we're on our own, and um I I think that that being a resilient person is a really good thing. But the truth is that we do need each other. And it it it was God's design that He didn't give all of us all of the gifts. He gives this person over here, certain gifts, this person over here, and and we all have strengths, but we also have weaknesses, we have limitations. And so together we form this very strong unit if the church is actually functioning the way it's supposed to. So there's that community sense. The third part to this is the fact that we are to display the glory of God. Before we evangelize , We need to be a healthy church. In fact, healthy churches do evangelize. They're trying to reach people with the gospel. They're thinking outside of their walls, outside of their body. They're caring about individuals. But the idea is that as we are doing what we're supposed to be doing as individuals, and we're functioning the way that we're supposed to function as a body, we begin to display the greatness of Christ. And when somebody walks into a church and that church is actually functioning the way it's supposed to, and they can see how people interact with each other. Then there's something there that you don't see in society. You don't see it in other places because it's something that is a result of the Spirit of God working in the hearts of people. And then the last part, to take the gospel to the world. We are to be a lighthouse that proclaims the gospel to people. who are all around us who desperately need it. So that's where we're going. That's kind of a summary of this section. Let's begin, first of all, by looking at God's plan for the local church. A couple things to say here. First of all is this: God is working both in the church and through the church. If God's going to work through the church, he has to work in us. And this is something that I think that we really learned this when we start getting into, let's just take the example of being a parent, okay? Because that's something that A good number of folks here can appreciate, and um many of you that can't yet someday you will appreciate this uh very, very likely. So when we talk about being a parent, um Raising children is not for the faint of heart. It's not easy. There are great challenges. And one of the things that you learn as a parent is that what's going on inside of us really impacts how we relate to our kids. It's really true. What's going on inside of us really really impacts how we relate to our spouse. And so when we're having struggles, if I have a struggle with my wife or we're having struggle with our children, a lot of times we can look back and go, there's something going on in me that's kind of manifesting itself in the way that I'm relating to my children. to So what does God do? If He's going to work through us, He's got to work in us. And so the primary job of the pastor and those who are teaching the Word of God is to equip the saints so that they can do the work of the ministry, which means through the preaching of God's word, God works in us so he can work through us. Very, very important. Second thing I want to say here is this. There is a unified function in the church. And this issue of unity is mentioned quite a few times, but so is the issue Of there being a diversity within the church. And not diversity the way people talk about it in our culture, okay? But diversity of personalities, diversity of backgrounds, diversity of gifts. Diversities of ministry function. Those things are in the church. And so we have these three uniting functions of the church. The first is this: edifying the saints. Building us up from within. And that comes out several times in these verses. He gives gifts to edify the body. That's why God gives us those gifts. Not so that we sit on them, not so that we promote them, so that people can look at us. It's so that we serve, and as we serve, then people are edified. They're built up. The second is that we are to be saw in light. And this is the idea of displaying the glory of God. And then the third is the evangelism, the expanding of the gospel. So how does this plan look? Well, let's look down in our Bibles at several aspects of this plan. The first one is found in verses 4 through 6. Notice what it says. Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. There are diversities or differences of administrations, but the same Lord There are diversities of operations, but it is the same God who works all in all. Notice the word diversity, difference, diversity. Watch this point. There are some things about the church that God has made us all different and unique. And that's one of the things he's highlighting, the diversity of God's plan. The second is the word interdependence. And we look down in verse 7. The manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit with all. Everybody's been given a gift, and those gifts are supposed to work together. To benefit the body. Or look down in verse 11 and 12. All these work is that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he wills. As the body is one and has many members, and all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. And I like that little statement. He divides them according to his will. So God makes the decision. I don't make the decision You don't make the decision. We don't decide how we're going to be gifted. God is the one who gives that to us. And then verse 24, God has tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to that part which lacked. And there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care one for another. I think that the concept in all those three passages is that there's an interdependence. We're supposed to be a body who works together in unity. And then that third word, unity, verse 27. Ye are the body of Christ and members in particular. So God's plan is that we would all have differing gifts, that we would work together, and that purpose ultimately would be a united purpose. purpose. That's his plan for us. Second thing I want us to notice are the roles and the nature of the spiritual gifts that are talked about in these verses. And so if you look at verses 4 through 10, there are lots and lots of different gifts that are mentioned. And so we're going to go through them one at a time. We're going to talk about what each of those gifts are. And then what we're going to do eventually is we're going to put them into some categories based on the nature of those various gifts. But before we do that, I want us to focus in on Three words that give us an understanding of what that word gift is. The first one is found in verse number four. It says, there are diversities of gifts. And the word that is used there, the Hebrew, or the Greek, I mean not the Hebrew, the Greek term is charisma. Okay? So when you hear about someone being charismatic, they're borrowing from that word. Or if you say that a person has a lot of charisma, that means that they are gifted in communicating or uh they can get people's attention, that kind of a thing. That word charisma here has the idea of there's a gracious enabling from God to do something. That's what the idea is. So anytime God has given you a gift, it's his gracious enabling. You don't deserve it. You didn't earn it. You don't work for it. You don't plead with God for it. He gives it to you because he's a gracious God. Because he cares about the body. He wants you to play a part and what he's doing in the body. It's something he gives, and that's the idea of charisma. The second word is the word diaconia, and we hear our word deacon there. We know what a deacon is. A deacon is someone who serves the church. And in verse five, it says there are differences of administrations. So there are a couple of contexts where this word is used For instance, you think of the story where they first appointed deacons. There was a problem with the Grecian women. They were not being properly ministered to. These are widows. And part of that was actually a discriminatory thing. Because they were Hellenistic, they were being discriminated against in the church. And basically what the apostles said was, it's not good for us to leave the ministry of the teaching of God's Word and prayer and the things that we need to do as apostles to communicate the Word. to go and take care of all of these physical needs. These physical needs are something that need to be addressed, but someone needs to do it so they can shoulder this burden with us. And by the way, that's not the apostles being lazy. They weren't saying, this work is beneath us. We don't have time for it. That's not what's going on. The idea is that if if the church is going to function the way that it is, each person's got to play their role. And the apostles can't do everything. So they appoint these individuals to come and they are established as deacons. And what is their job? It's serving tables. That's the kind of work that they were doing. Or you know the story of Mary and Martha, and it says she was cumbered about with much serving, and it's the exact same term that's used here. So the idea is it's something that involves an opportunity of service. And so there's different kinds of gifts, there's different kinds of areas of service in the church. And then there's a third word. And this is the word energma. And uh you could you you know what ergonomics is, all right? Something like that. But that this word has the idea of laboring Work. Operation. Verse number six. There are diversities of operations. So the reason I bring all this up is to say this. In this passage of Scripture, he's not just talking about somebody who has a gift in the way that we think of, but it's gifts It's opportunities. It's work. Those are the things that are being talked about in these verses. And God is enabling and God is opening doors and God is saying there's a need. Someone needs to step into the this role and they need to meet this role. That's what's going on here. So let's go ahead and talk about the different gifts that are mentioned in this passage. In fact, we're going to look at several passages, not just this one. And in each of these, we're going to see different gifts that are mentioned. So look down in your Bible at verse number eight 1 Corinthians chapter 12 verse number 8. It says, for to one is given by the Spirit a word of wisdom. A word of wisdom. Second, to another, the word of knowledge by the same spirit. Now, I tried to sit down and I looked at some commentaries. I tried to think about what this is saying, and I asked the question, what's the difference between wisdom and knowledge? Well, knowledge is information Wisdom is the ability to take the information and to apply it. Does that make sense? So you don't have wisdom without knowledge, but just because you have knowledge doesn't mean you have wisdom. But the point is this, God has gifted these individuals, certain individuals with information And others with the ability to take that information and to process it, synthesize it, and then put into practice a wise plan of action as a result of that. You know what's really interesting to me about those two gifts? They go together. You need them both. You don't want to just be filled with knowledge and you don't and you don't have the wisdom without the knowledge. The two have to go together But it appears to me in this context that this is a divine, divinely given From God, wisdom and knowledge. In fact, it may very well, because of the time that it was written, we're talking about the apostolic era. We know that there were prophets and apostles. The word of God was not completely finished at this time. It's very likely That he's talking about something that is a bit of a prophetic type of interaction. Okay? Just like we have the gift of prophecy. When he talks about a word of wisdom, it seems like that would be in the same venue. Or a word of wisdom, or a word of knowledge, it would be in the same venue that God is giving these individuals wisdom and knowledge. directly and they are speaking in a prophetic sense. Now the question that should pop into our minds is is that in operation today? Table that question. We're going to come to it down the road. But those are the two gifts that are first mentioned. The second gift that's mentioned is the gift of faith. Now I think that this one is very, very, very we gotta be a little careful here on this one. Because when we talk about faith, it's not suggesting that in every single situation, faith is something that it's impossible for you to have it. God has to just zap it into you. I don't think that's what he's saying here. You know, for instance, when we talk about our salvation, how someone becomes a Christian, repentance and faith, we have to choose to respond to the gospel. Okay? It's not like God just zaps it into us. But what's also true is we see on the other side that God uses the law to bring us to repentance. He uses the gospel to bring us to faith through the preaching and the teaching of the Word of God. He causes us, he draws us, he opens our understanding to respond to it. But when we talk about faith here, I don't think he's talking about faith in the sense of how someone becomes a Christian. But rather a special measure of faith that some individuals in the church have that in fact is greater and unique. from other people. For instance, let's say that you have a really difficult situation and you have a bunch of people, they're all praying about it together, and uh and one person, their view is that God can do this. He's going to do it. They're convinced of it. And when they pray, you can see that they are confident. They know what the scripture says. They know the character of God. They know the testimonies of God. And there is tremendous confidence in this person. And another person they're praying there, and they are they're a little more of the doubting Thomas type. And they're thinking about all the different things that could go wrong and everything that's there. And as those two people are praying together, here's what's very interesting: the one who has strong faith. Builds up the one who's weak. You know what I mean? It's true. That's one of the things that's so wonderful about corporate when we come together as a body. And we're praying together. There's something that's it's very strengthening, very encouraging, I think especially for our teenagers, for them to pray with our adults. It's really, really good because you have you have you have men and women that are they've been believers a lot longer than these teenagers and when they pray and they're not they're not putting something on, they're not like You know, I'm gonna I'm gonna impress this teenager with my prayer life. We're not talking about that. I mean they're just genuinely talking to God, but but you can tell by the way that they're communicating, they believe this They believe God's going to work. They believe that God can work. They're pouring out their heart to the Lord. And you know what? That that that teenager or that young Christian or that Christian who's been a Christian a long time but is really struggling. They are lifted up. They are encouraged. They are strengthened. And that's one of the benefits of the body coming together. We could go into other categories. We could talk about corporate singing. I mean, sometimes we come to church, we don't feel like singing at all. And the people around us, they're singing praise to the Lord, and it's like, I guess I can do it this morning. I guess I could do this. And that corporate context, you know what it does? It it lifts us up. I hope that when we leave corporate worship, our hearts are lifted up and we're encouraged and we're strengthened. And so that gift of faith is that there are certain people in the church and God just He gives them a special measure of confidence in him. And he uses that to bless other people. Fourth one, the gift of healing And interestingly, we have the gift of healing, we have the gift of miracles laid side by side. And someone might say, well, doesn't that seem a little bit redundant because isn't healing a miracle? And the answer is, well, healing is a miracle, but not all miracles are healing. Does that make sense? Okay. I mean there are different kinds of miracles. And so what we can say is this the healing is a very particular, specific type of miracle. And then the second is something that's a little bit more general. But what's very important for us to recognize here, and I think this is a very consistent pattern that we see in the Bible. I'm not going to say that it's absolute in every single situation. What I'm about to say applies. But I would say the overwhelming majority of scenarios, this would be the case. When God performs a miracle, when God heals an individual, the foremost reason is not for you to go, wow, that's neat. Or man, my life is miserable, and now I've been healed and I don't have this problem anymore. Now, it's true that when God performs a miracle, we go, that's awesome. And it's true that when God heals a person who is sick, and unquestionably he did it, that gets our attention. But here's the point: the purpose of the miracle is to to be a sign to verify something, to draw our attention. In fact, you look at the Gospels and notice how many times Jesus performed miracles on the Sabbath day. Is it just because he was feeling warm and fuzzy on the Sabbath day? No. It's because he was being provocative. It's just the truth. He's sitting there in this synagogue and this person who is who is they are lame they come into the synagogue and someone is helping them and Jesus basically says Do you guys believe that I have the ability to tell a person your sins are forgiven? Nobody can do that but God All right. Well I'm going to tell them your sins are forgiven, and so that you know that I have the authority to do this, I'm going to tell them, get up, you're healed. Just like that, all right? And all of a sudden this person is healed, and there's all this discussion. Who is Jesus? What right does he have to say these things? What right does he have to do those things? And so what we will see is when we see miracles performed in the Bible, They are performed often, generally almost always, by either a prophet or an apostle. And almost almost every single situation, you're going to see that it is meant to verify or to validate an office or a word from God. Those are the kinds of things that we see. They are acts of mercy, there's no question. But they're meant to be signs to verify something that God is trying to communicate. By the way, this is very important because when we talk about who these miracles are performed by, that's going to kind of answer the question, is this something we should anticipate today in our, we could say, the time that we live in, where the apostles are no longer living? Next, we have the gift of prophecy. And we talk about prophecy. Prophecy falls into two categories. Think about the stories in the Old Testament that you read. Isaiah, Jeremiah. There were two things that these individuals did. One would be they proclaimed a word from God, and they would say something like this, thus says the Lord. All right? They would say this over and over and over again. And whatever followed that statement, thus says the Lord, you know, that's a word from God. This is called Foretelling. They are telling you something from God. It's gonna happen It's about to happen. It could be a long term thing, it could be a near term thing, but they are speaking directly from God, something that He has given them, and they are to communicate it. But that wasn't the only kind of ministry that these people People had. They also had a foretelling ministry. And what that was, is that was taking the word that God had already given and proclaiming it like preaching or teaching. And so when we talk about the gift of prophecy in my head, I tend to always think of the foretelling side, but the reality is that there is also a foretelling side to this as well. And so when we talk about the gift of prophecy in the New Testament era, when we have the apostles that are active, the scriptures have not been completed, you have people that were given direct revelation from God. Some were writing it down, some were communicating it, but it was the word of the Lord, just like what people in the Old Testament did. Now it's important to note something. That took place during the time of the apostles. And that took place before the scriptures were completed. And not tonight, but down the road, we'll get into some more specifics as to why I believe that has changed. But that gift of prophecy is very important. Communicating divine revelation. either in written or spoken form, or preaching and teaching, expounding what God has already given. I don't know what number this is, but we'll keep moving. The next one is the discerning of spirits. The discerning of spirits. You know the passage in 1 John where it talks about testing the spirit to see if this is of God? In fact, this is something that's going to come up later on in the book of 1 Corinthians, where Paul is going to say, I'm an apostle, and I speak for God, and there are signs of an apostle that validate my office. And he says, if you're a prophet, you know this is true, so verify it. It's a very interesting statement. Why does he do that? It's because God gifted certain individuals at this time who could verify that, yes, this is a word from God. Yes, this is a genuine apostle, this is a genuine prophet, and we are to hear those individuals. By the way, it was possible for them to also reject certain people who claim to be apostles or prophets. You say, how do you know that? Well, in the book of Revelation, chapter 2, when he talks to the church at Ephesus, he says, You have tried those who say they're apostles. And are not, and you found them to be liars. You say, well, how'd they do that? Well, there were certain things that they had to look at to validate the message. And so God gives a gift to people with the ability to distinguish between what is true and false in these kinds of scenarios. The last two that are mentioned here in this passage are the gift of tongues and the gift of interpretation. And by the way, these two things needed to go together as well. Very, very important. Now, when we talk about the gift of tongues, which is a big topic here in chapters 12, 13, and 14, we need to understand that this is a real language. This is something that's being spoken. If we go to the book of Acts, when they are preaching the word there in at Pentecost, it says that these people heard the word of God in their native language. And they said, how can this be? How is it that these people, they're just Galileans, how are they able to preach and teach in my language and I hear the word of God? There's only one explanation. It's that God performed a miracle. He gave them an ability that they did not naturally have. And you say, why did he give them that ability? Well, he gave them that ability because he was communicating prophetically through them. But there was also a sign that was accompanying this that was very significant. And we won't get into this tonight. We will get into this down the road. But in my view, the reason that tongues have ceased is because that sign Gift that was necessary at that time is no longer necessary. And I will get into that at another time. But then we have this last gift, and that is the gift of the interpretation of tongues. Tongues have no value to a person that doesn't understand what is being spoken. None. And so you know what Paul said? If there's no one to interpret, no one is to speak. No one has to speak. Why is that? Because it has no value to the church. So what God did is God not only gave people the ability to speak in tongues, because of the sign that came with it. And two, he gave people the ability to interpret the tongues so that people could actually benefit by it. And I would use the phrase or the word translate to kind of describe what we mean by interpreting tongues It's a language that's unknown to the speaker. It's also unknown in that congregation to the people that are there. It's unknown to the person. That's interpreting, except that God has given them the ability to interpret that, that in the language in the language of the people so that they can understand. And so one of the things that we see in these verses is that these gifts go together. You see that Kind of makes the point that Paul's been trying to make. That you can't have one without the other because the two need to go together, the three need to go together, the four need to go together. They all work as a part of God's plan. There are other passages as well, and for the sake of time, I'm not going to get into those. I'm going to table this tonight But we're going to go to verses 28 and following. We're also going to look at Romans chapter 12 and Ephesians chapter 4. And the reason that we're going to all these different passages is because they talk to us about spiritual gifts. But I want us to go back to the beginning and ask the question, why does all this matter? Why does it matter that Paul is talking to these people about spiritual gifts? It's because in Paul's desire as an apostle and as one who cared for the souls of the people, he was concerned that they were not practicing these gifts that God had given them the right way. He was concerned because he saw that some people were being exclusive in the church. These people have different gifts than I do. For instance, you have a person that is uh very black and white, and you have a person that's very merciful. Guess what? Those two people People need to work together. They do. But a lot of times they don't naturally do that. So they separate out. You have people that have gifts that in some ways they could clash if people are not walking in a spiritual spiritual way and they're walking in a fleshly way. And so he sees that that dividing up in the church and he says, that can't be. You need each other. Or he sees other people. They have some great gifts that, in fact, they're very visible and people can see it. And what they are beginning to do is they're beginning to become very proud. And even people within the congregation are starting to lift them up because they have these gifts that are they're very well known. People can see this. And you know what he's saying? Don't be proud. Be humble. That's not given to you so that you can lift yourself up. And then he sees other people in the church and the gifts that they have, they seem like very secondary, and they don't seem like a big deal and and they're not super visible and Those people, instead of them recognizing I have a part to play in this congregation, and God has something that He has fitted me with and He wants to me to be used by Him, they feel very marginalized and they say, I have no value to this church, and they just fall to the wayside. You know what Paul says? Don't do that. What's his desire? His desire is that people would take whatever God has given them. And with a pure heart before the Lord, they would serve the body faithfully so that the whole body is edified. And so I want to leave you with a simple question. That question is, how has God fitted you? It's not if, it's how. How has he fitted you? Because this congregation needs each of us to function in the role that he's given us. Something as simple as a snowstorm. You know, we had lots of opportunities for us to serve one another. We have a lot of seniors. And I don't know, was this a snowstorm? It was like concrete that fell out of the sky. It was like a pickaxe that we were using to uh break up people's driveways. Like I hope I hope I didn't break up their driveway when I broke up the concrete on top of their driveway. But you know, it's an opportunity to serve people. It's an opportunity to give your time, to give your energy, to give your back. Okay? But it's service. And the truth is that Some of the people, they're not even going to get out of their house for for a week. But to be able to look out and see their driveway is clear enough that if if something happened, they could get out to the road or they could get to their car. That's a really big deal to them. And so it's just a little simple thing. You don't you don't have to be a talented speaker, you don't have to have musical abilities, you don't you don't have to be administratively wired, you just have to have strong arms and a strong back and a willingness to do it. Service. It's ministry. Or there might have been somebody who was super discouraged this week and you had a conversation with them and you realized, I think I need to just listen. I need to be compassionate. I need to pray with them. I don't need to fix them. I just need to be a blessing to them. I need to encourage them. Or somebody comes to you with a very complicated situation. They go, I don't even know what to do here. But I need help. And God gives you just the right words to say to that person. These are the kind of things we're talking about. May God help us to step up when He gives us our Let's bow for prayer. Lord, I thank you for this text of Scripture and all these different gifts that are mentioned. And there are more that we will look at. Within this church, you have fitted each of us in a unique way. We're thankful for that. We're thankful for those differences because it's a part of your plan. I pray that you'd help us to have a deep love for one another. Help us to be willing to work together. Help us to lift up one another for edification. And we pray that you'll be glorified. We ask for Call this in Christ's name, Amen. God