And the rest of you I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn to first John chapter five. First John chapter five, and we're looking at verses sixteen to eighteen. First John chapter five, verses sixteen to eighteen. You know one of the things that is so wonderful about preaching through the Bible expositionally is that You cover everything that's there. One of the things that's so challenging about preaching through the Bible expositionally Is that you cover everything that's there? This is going to be one of those passages. This is a passage that I think when we're reading our Bibles, a lot of times We come to it, we go, I don't want to think too much about that, and we move on past it. And we do that because we don't understand the content of what's there. I think it's a very dangerous way for us to read our Bibles. The fact is that when we come to a passage and we don't understand what it's saying, rather than skipping past it, we need to dig into the text of Scripture to know what it's saying. Because what is there is true. The way you understand it might not be the way it was intended to be given, and it may not be correct. But it's there, it stands as truth. It's as if you're driving down the road and you're in a hurry to get somewhere, and you see that the speed limit went from 70 to 55, and you say I don't want to change my speed, so you just keep on driving, and guess what? One minute down the road Okay, you know what's going on. You're gonna see some lights, and those lights are not gonna be behind the guy that passed you. It's behind you because you passed the guy in the right-hand lane. You see, when we come to a passage of Scripture, it stands, it's true. Whether we understand it or not, it's true And therefore we need to dig into it, understand what's there. This is one of those kinds of passages. I'm going to read the text, and then we're going to dig into a very important passage for us to understand. 1 John chapter 5, verses 16 to 18. If any man see his brother sin, a sin which is not unto death He shall ask and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death. I do not say that he shall pray for it. All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not unto death. We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not. He that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not. Let's put our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to help us to understand the significance of this passage, that we will understand what it's saying, we will understand the implications. And that we'll live in the light of those things. Let's pray. Father, help me as I communicate the truths that we are unpackaging in this passage. Help me to do it accurately, consistent with exactly what the Holy Spirit intended for that original audience to understand about what John was saying. I pray that you'd help each person to take the warning, but also to consider how important it is that we don't abuse it and allow Satan to use a passage like this. To get a foothold in our hearts and cause us to tremble in fear. I pray that there'd be a tremendous balance within the way that this passage is looked out, where we look at all factors and understand it equally waited. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. What was the purpose of John writing these things to the church at the church at Ephesus? Well here's the purpose. He was writing the section to teach that Christians should live the Christian life prudently. Because the presumptuous attitude toward God can lead to irreversible discipline. This morning we're looking at the concept in Sunday school of decision making. One of the things that I said that's very, very important is that we should have both a conviction and we should be committed to this principle. If God says it's right, I will do it. If God says it's wrong, I won't do it. That has to be our conviction. And if we don't have that conviction, what we basically will do is when we get to a situation where God says, don't do this. We presume on God's character and say, I'm going to take my chances and I'm going to hope that God shows me mercy and God shows me grace. Even though I know this is wrong, I'm going to do it anyway. Folks, that's an incredibly dangerous way to live life. It's just like someone who picks up a gun and there are three bullets in the chamber And they say, I'm going to go ahead and put it here and I'm going to click it and I'm going to take my chances. They say, well, I'm going to remove two of those bullets and I'm going to leave one and I'm going to take my chances. Who in their right mind would do such a thing? The fact is nobody would. A person who's doing that is being presumptuous, is being foolish, and could very well pay the ultimate price for their folly The fact is when God says don't do something, he says it for a reason. He says it out of love. He says it because he understands how the world is supposed to function and operate because he made it and he sustains it. He doesn't want your life to have complications that were never a part of his desire. And so he says, don't or do, and we should follow that. John understands this, and so he's telling these Christians, you need to live prudently, not presumptuously. That's because God wants you to live the Christian life prudently. Well, how can you and I do that? Well, a passage like this is one of those passages that helps us to do that. And so what I want to do is I want to go through a series of topics or sections that deal with this particular passage because what we're going to first of all do is see what it's saying. What is the actual truth being communicated? Then, secondly, we want to kind of understand the context because those truths are set within a storyline, a situation From there, I kind of want to move into some examples. I won't spend very much time there, but I want us to understand how God deals with people when it comes to their sin. It's a very important topic for us to analyze, and then at the end I want us to be very practical about it. So that's where we're going with this passage. First of all, we want to look at the details. There are four facts that we can establish from this passage. I'll read those verses again, and then we'll establish those facts. First is this. If any man see his brother sin a sin, which is not unto death, he shall ask, being of God, and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death There is a sin unto death. I do not say that he should pray for it. The first fact is this. There's something called a sin unto death. Now this passage doesn't really elaborate on that. We have to look at other passages of Scripture. We have to think about the context and what was going on in the church at that time. And I'm going to do that. But we know full well if the passage says there's a sin unto death, there is such a thing. Second fact, not all sin is a sin unto death. In other words, there are times that we sin, sometimes in ignorance Sometimes presumptuously, sometimes for a season. And God doesn't say, okay, you did it, you crossed the line, I'm taking you out of this world. The fact is, God is very slow, he's very methodical, he's very patient with people. When this type of a thing happens, it doesn't happen just because God on a whim says, okay, I'm done with you. The fact is that God's very methodical, and that's something we need to understand as we think about this passage. Fact three There is no point , listen carefully, in praying for healing when a person has sinned, a sin unto death. Now you don't know when that's happened. And I would encourage you not to be quick to say, okay, you're sick, so that's why, you know, you sinned. That's why you got it. Folks, that's a very dangerous way to live your life. In fact, you're going to abuse a lot of people if you take that approach. You yourself, every time something bad happens to you, are going to be terrified that there's a judgment that God has put on you. Folks, there are a lot of times that we get sick, it's got nothing to do with sin in our life at all. It's got absolutely nothing to do with something that we did or we didn't do. The fact is we are fallen people living in a fallen world. Therefore we get sick. That's what happens, okay? However, there are times that God chooses to take someone prematurely. And we have to recognize that both of those facts are presented in the Bible, and we need to see how they set side by side in proportion to one another. Fact four, a person who's sick but has not committed a sin unto death can be healed if it's God's will, and we should ask him to heal. One of the things that I'll say is that when we come to our prayer time on Wednesday night and somebody raised their hand and says, hey, I have a friend who has such and such. I hope you never hear someone say, well, you know, the reason that they're sick is probably because of some sin that they committed. So we're not going to pray for that one today. Folks, that's, I hate to say it, but there are people that think that way sometimes. I think we should be very cautious to say, oh, I know that this is the purpose. The fact is that when people are sick, when people are weary, when people are discouraged, We need to pray for them. And most definitely, that is what John is thinking about in this passage. However, there's a very specific situation that he's addressing. And so that leads me to section number two. The word is context. What is going on in the immediate context that is causing John to write what he's writing? Well, let me walk through a couple of details. First of all, there are false teachers who are claiming to be Bible teachers. Now, this is the early church. I say the early church, it's the first century. And so John as an apostle is pastoring the church and pastored it for many years. He's no longer physically pastoring the church. He's not there anymore physically, but he's burdened for these people, he's concerned for those people, and so he's writing to those people. John knows that when he is no longer on the scene, there is a, we could say, a vacuum of instruction. And what happens when there's a vacuum of instruction? It gets filled by people who want to teach. Some of the people who were teaching at Ephesus were godly people That were teaching the same kind of doctrine and the same kinds of values and the same gospel as what had been communicated by John and the apostles and what we find in the Bible. But not all of them were. Some of them were teaching false doctrine. They were gathering a group of people together to themselves, and they were teaching things that were unbiblical. And the fallout of that teaching was that people's lives were being damaged spiritually by the instruction of those false teachers. These false teachers had incredibly damaged the church. There are people who doubted their salvation. There are people that thought that they could live a sinful life in a way that God could care less because I'm under grace, I can do anything I want. There were people that thought that they couldn't have fellowship with God. There were people that didn't think that the Bible was sufficient for their faith and practice, and they needed these teachers to be their prophets to communicate between them and God. These were dangerous times in the church. These false teachers had caused tremendous damage to the walk of individuals and to the church itself. And some of these people were now in a position where they had physical ailments. And those physical ailments were the direct cause of God saying, I'm going to take you out of the church because of the damage you're doing to it. That's what's going on in this situation. It's very similar to the kind of thing that happened when Ananias and Sapphira were there in the Church of Jerusalem in the very early stages. And so all these people, the people that had gotten saved, many of them were losing their jobs, they're facing persecution. It was a desperate time in the church. And so people in the church who had means, they had money, they had land, they had the ability to help others, they would come and they would sell portions of land. They would sell produce. They would give money to the church. Some people were giving everything they had to help those who were in need. It's a very interesting time. A very desperate time. And Antonis and Sapphira saw that was what was going on, and they saw how the church loved and applauded and respected and thanked those people who had given so sacrificially. And Ananias and Sapphira said, you know what? We want to get respect like they get respect. We've got land. Let's sell our land. Let's get the money together. Let's present it to the church. And people will say, hey, what a wonderful couple. What a blessing to our church. Thank you for sacrificing. And they said, you know what? We can't give it all though. We gotta live too. But they don't have to know that And so, desiring to get the accolades of people, they sold a portion of land, they took the money, they presented it to the church and said, we have sold everything we have. And we're giving it to the church. Okay, it's time to hear the applause, please. And you know what happened? They lied. What they did was serious. They had they didn't have to sell their land. They didn't have to sell all their land. They could have given all of it to the church. They could have given none of it to the church. There was no command saying you have to do it or you don't have to do it. What was important though was that when they did it, they were bringing tremendous problem into the church. Hypocrisy. Their heart wasn't right. What did God do? He took them. He took them. Somebody says, well that that's the early church. That didn't happen ten or fifteen or twenty years later. Actually it did at Corinth. In that church, and what's interesting is the church at Corinth wasn't probably bigger than our church right now. Okay? It was a group very similar to what's assembled here today And when they came together to do the Lord's table, there were people who were very popular and very prominent, and they had money. They were very involved in the politics of the city. And you know what they did? They had their little section over here and they had their little party. I say little party, it wasn't a little party, it was a big deal. Because in Corinth they knew how to party. Okay? They knew how to party in Corinth. And so they did their thing. They called it the Lord's table. And then when they were done and they were drunk and they're sitting there intoxicated and could care less about what's going on, oh it's your turn now guys. You do your thing There were divisions. The Lord's table was being mocked. And you know what happened? God saw what was going on, and it was so offensive to him that there were people in that church that were stricken with terrible ailments and they died. Now that didn't happen when Paul was or when Peter was preaching at Pentecost. It didn't happen in the first weeks of the church. That happened many, many decades after Pentecost. Folks, there is such a thing as a sin unto death. And the Bible is full of many, many examples. And that's what's going on in this place. And there were compassionate Christians who saw people who were sick and they knew they're going to die. Who said we need to pray for the healing of these people? When we go to James, it talks about praying for a person who is sick. It's an interesting passage. They wanted to take that passage and they wanted to put it to practice and they wanted to pray for these people. You know what John says There's no point. Those people's sickness is directly connected to the way that they have abused the Church of God. It's directly connected to the fact that they are undermining the gospel message. They're destroying the hearts of God's people through false teaching. There's no point in praying for those individuals. That is exactly what he's saying in this passage. In fact, in 1 John 2, 18 to 20, it kind of gives us An idea of the dynamics. It says, this little children, it's the last time. As you've heard that Antichrist shall come. Even now there are many Antichrists. Who's he talking about? He's talking about those individuals, the false teachers in the church. And we know that it's the last time. They went out from us, but they were not of us. He's talking about false teachers. And he goes on to say this. They would no doubt have continued with us, but they went out because it was made manifest that they were not all of us. They weren't truly saved, they weren't preaching the gospel. Their message was a very self-serving message. That's the situation. We move on to section three. I want us to talk about the character of God. It's important that you and I understand how God relates to sinners. Because it's how he relates to me and it's how he relates to you. It's how he relates to all of us. Every person in this room is a sinner. If God struck us all dead, the moment we sinned, we'd all be dead. We wouldn't be here, okay? The fact that we live to be 50, 60, 80, 90 years old, it's because God's grace and his mercy sustains us for all those years. And he doesn't do it because we're sinless, he does it because he's good. So how should we understand how God relates to sinners? Well, let me give you a couple of simple principles and truths. Number one, all people are sinners and therefore all of us deserve death. Ephesians 2, 3 says That we are by nature children of wrath. There's no exception to that. That's why we need salvation. That's why we need the gospel. That's why there's a cross. That's why there's an empty tomb. Because we're by nature children of wrath. By one man, Romans 5 says, Sin entered the world and death by sin, and death passed on all men for that all have sinned. All of us, me, you, every person in here, we deserve God's judgment and wrath because we are sinners. All of us are guilty because the wages of sin. It's death. Two, all people Will face death, and that day has been appointed by God. Hebrews 9:27 says, It is appointed unto man once to die, and after this to judgment. Because we're sinners, because we live in a fallen world, because we're under God's wrath, we deserve death And we're not going to escape it. It doesn't matter how old we live to be. Doesn't matter how strong we are physically. It doesn't mean matter how many times we've beat some kind of illness or some kind of sickness. It doesn't matter how well we eat. It doesn't matter how to well we take care of our bodies and try to insulate ourselves from problems. One day it's going to be our last day. It's going to happen. We can't escape it. God has appointed the day He knows your day. He knows my day. I don't know it. Three, God's grace preserves the lives of all people until their appointed time. It's not that God kills you when your time comes. It's that he lets you die when your time comes. In other words, it's God's grace that sustains your health. It's God's grace that gives you strength and vitality. That heals you when you're sick, that protects you from those that would harm you and situations. God's grace sustains and holds us together. Listen to what it says in Acts 17. God made the world and all things therein, seeing he is Lord of heaven and earth, and dwelleth not in temples made with hands. He hath made of one blood all nations of men who dwell on the face of the earth. And listen carefully. He hath determined the times and before appointed the bounds of their habitation. He has determined how long you live and where you live, how much time you have on this earth. He is the appointer, and then it says this, that they should seek the Lord if happily he might feel after him. And find him that though he be not far off, every one of us, in him we live and move and have our being. God sustains our life. When I wake up in the morning and I breathe that fresh air and I see the sun rise and I feel its warmth and I enjoy the blessings of the day, it's not because I deserve it, it's because God sustains me. In fact, that's a very important point for us to understand. Next, God can show mercy on someone by extending their days. Think of the story of Hezekiah and Isaiah 38. This is what the prophet says to Hezekiah. It says, In those days Hezekiah was sick unto death, and Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos, came unto him and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, set that house in order, thou shalt die and not live. He was sick unto death. In other words, God said, your time has come. He even sent him a prophet to tell him that. I guess it's good that God had done that to us, right? Oh, here comes the pastor. What's he got to say today? Oh. That's what that's what happened with this man. Hezekiah, Isaiah shows up. Oh, what do you have? Well, you're gonna die. Set your house in order. And you know what he does? He prays. He pleads. He says, God, please give me time. And you know what's amazing? God tells Isaiah to go back and he says to this, I've heard thy prayer, I've seen thy tears. Behold, I will add unto thee fifty years. Fifteen, not fifty. Whoa. Not fifty. Sorry guys. Didn't add fifty. Fifteen years. God removed that sus the fact is that God chose to extend his life. I'm not saying that God always does that, but we see that God can do that. And there are times that when we pray for a person who has a physical ailment that could very well take their life, that when we pray, God does like he did for Hezekiah, and he says, Okay, I'm going to extend your days. I'm going to do that. We also see that God can do the opposite. He can remove, and he did that with Saul. Not going to get into that passage because of time, but if you go to 1 Samuel 15 And 1 Samuel 28, you will see in those passages that because Saul crossed the line with God and he had persistently been rebellious against everything God was doing in his life. That God says, because you've done this thing, I'm going to cut you short. And that's exactly what happened. In other words, there was an appointed day for Saul, and God said, instead of moving it on, I'm going to bring it back. God can do that. Next, God's ways with sinful people demonstrate his patient character. Psalm 103, verse 8 tells us that the Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy. You know, it's really interesting. A verse like this is something that we cherish when we're the sinner that God's showing mercy to. And it's a verse that irritates us when the person who sinned against us is the one who God is being merciful and patient and slow to anger with. God, I like the mercy. I don't like you. Gave him the mercy or her the mercy. But the fact stands, God's patient with people. God gives us time. He pours his blessings on the just and on the unjust. There are people all throughout human history that poured libation to idols who they believed were giving them rain and they ate the produce from the rain that was producing it. And they thanked those idols and you know what God did? He allowed it to happen. You say, why in the world? If my kids don't show appreciation when I give them something, I don't do that again. Right, grandparents You didn't write me a thank you. So, instead of twenty-five dollars next year it's fifteen. And if it doesn't happen again, it's five. And if it happens again, I'll just say happy birthday. Here's your card. All right. God didn't do that. God doesn't do that with people. We call it common grace. He pours out his blessings. There are people who enjoy wonderful lives, who reject God. In fact, it blows our minds sometimes and we notice this, but he does do that. Next, God can take an unbeliever's life. He can take a believer's life. We have so many examples. Let me just run off a few, and I'm not going to look at those passages. But there are passages that we could dig into and see the example. Pharaoh. Remember the story of Herod, the man who they said, Oh, we've heard the words of a God. And he says, That's right. And then he was eaten with worms. And he died. Pharaoh's running into the Red Sea. He thinks he's going to take back the children of Israel. And those walls of water come crashing down, and he's done. We think of the Jews in the wilderness who refused to go into the promised land, and God says, as you walk in the wilderness for 40 years, every one of you will die. They crossed the line. I think of the nation of Israel as Jesus is standing before Pilate, and they say, Crucify him. His blood be on us, and it be on our children. And God said, okay. And a few years later, the nation of Israel saw terrible destruction of Jerusalem. Of the temple. Judaism was wiped out for all practical purposes at that point in its history. Folks, God can take the life of a person Prematurely, even a believer. I don't know about Ananias and Sapphira. It's possible they were Christians, we don't know. Think about the people at Corinth who were mocking the Lord's table. It's very possible many of them were actually legitimate believers. Think about Moses, Arian, and Miriam. They were not able to enter the promised land. And why was that? Was it because they got too old and they died? It's because God told them he was not going to allow them to go into the promised land. Because of their action at some time on the way to the promised land. When Moses struck the rock in rebellion against God, God said, You will not enter the promised land Did Moses cease to be a Christian? No. Did Moses drop dead at that moment? No. Could Moses reverse what God had said? No. We think about the Jews in the wilderness. Do you think every single Jewish man and woman that died in the wilderness on those forty years of wandering was an unbeliever? I don't I don't think they were. know. Many of those people were truly saved individuals. They were looking at the Passover lamb, yet because of their disobedience, they did not enter into the promised land. Folks, the fact is this God's ways with people is something that we need to understand. We shouldn't presume against God God 's action cannot be thwarted when he chooses to take an action. Section 4, we need to look at observation. I want to mention this quickly. Some observations from the passage. These were people in a position of prominence. They were publicly undermining the credibility of the gospel. They were attacking the contents of the gospel. They weren't ignorant people. They were aware of what they were doing. They'd been warned. Folks, that's what's going on here I moved to section 5, cautions. Four cautions I want to give you so that you don't misunderstand the intent of this passage. I think these are important cautions, and I hope you'll write them down or at least take note of them. Because when you come to a passage like this, some people bury their heads in the sand and they ignore it. Some people take it up and use it to abuse people who disagree with them. And some people tremble in fear that they just might commit a sin that God takes them on when they're a very tender-hearted Christian. So let me play out a few cautions. First of all, a caution to those who have a tendency to abuse their authority. This could be a pastor. This could be a dad. This could be a mom. This could be a boss. This could be a person who has a tendency to abuse the authority that God's given them. Authority is not a bad thing, folks. The fact that a man's supposed to lead his house is not a bad thing. It's the way God ordered the home. The fact that a church needs pastoral authority, the fact that you need somebody to be the boss at the job, that's not sinful, that's not wrong, that's good. However, because we're sinners, we have a tendency, an inclination to abuse the authority that God has rightly given us. And there are people that take a passage like this one and they use it to abuse and to manipulate people. I think about when I was over in Ghana. I can't tell you how many times I would hear a pastor who was a false teacher, okay, not preaching the gospel at all. And somebody would come to him and say, I don't think the way that you interpreted that passage is correct. It's not biblical. And that person was right. And they would say, God strike you. Don't touch the Lord's anointed. What? Yeah, that's not an unusual thing at all. The fact is, there are times that people in authority will abuse their authority and use passages like this as leverage to manipulate people. I want to encourage you, don't ever do that. Be warned. Be cautious. We must be humble. Don't use this doctrine to intimidate people Who want to hold you accountable, to manipulate people, to accomplish an agenda, to intimidate those who disagree with you on matters of soul liberty. Two, don't rush to judgment if you're inclined to do that. Just because somebody's sick does not mean they've sinned to sin and death. Okay? Don't be rushing to judgment when you hear a story like that. Don't assume that every ultimate tragedy or premature death is the result of a sin unto death. The truth is, folks, there's a lot that you and I can never speak dogmatically about. We don't have all the facts. We don't know all the details. We don't always understand all the different factors that God has determined when He takes an action or when He removes that restraint. When He doesn't heal. When someone stumbles. Three, to those who have an inclination to being introspective, If you have a delicate conscience and are conscientiously trying to follow the Lord, please don't live under the cloud of impending doom. There are a lot of Christians who are introspective. What I mean by that is they think internally a lot about what they do, why they did it, why they didn't. Did I go far enough? Was my motive pure? Did I do this because this person would see me? And really the truth is this, sometimes When we have a delicate conscience, when we are very careful to do what is right, when we want to do things well, we can fall into this tendency to come to the place where we never measure up to what we think God wants us to do. us to do. And I think sometimes if we're not careful when we're teaching our kids, when working with those who are hurting, we can actually cultivate that particular inclination in people. I want to encourage you to be cautious. Never tell someone to violate their conscience at the same time when someone's conscience is not biblically grounded. Help them to understand what the scriptures are truly teaching about that matter. Be gentle with people. Be patient with people. Make sure that we have biblical truths properly proportioned, that we see both the grace and the justice of God. And we see those two things side by side. So when we look at God and we look at his ways, we understand his ways as he intended them to be understood. And lastly, to the rebellious Christian, you're playing with fire. Don't presume against the long-suffering character of God. We can get ourselves into a place where we harden ourselves against God. It doesn't matter who comes to you and what they say, you won't hear it. It doesn't matter what's preached. You won't think about it. You can't be crossed. You can't be challenged. You've insulated yourself. Folks, if you get into a place like that, you're playing with fire. I'm not here to predict the day you cross the line. But I can say this: it can happen if you're not careful. Those four cautions I believe we should keep in our minds as we approach a passage like this one I want to conclude with these final challenges. Folks, do right. Listen to God's chastening hand in your life. Walk circumspectly Cultivate a healthy heart. Care about brothers and sisters in Christ who are being presumptuous. Pray that God will restore those who need healing. For those who have fallen and those who come to repentance. Realize that there are lines that, when crossed, there is no remedy. So be careful how you walk. God wants you to live the Christian life prudently. And so I want to encourage you, heed his warning. I don't preach this passage because I enjoy it. I don't preach this passage because I know something about somebody. I preach the passage because it's the next text. And it's an important text. But I really think it's important that when we come to a passage like this We understand it as it was intended. That we heed the warnings on every side and we take action to live in the light of those things. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father in heaven, as we think about this text before us, I pray that you'd help us to think about it correctly. Father, if someone is in rebellion against you, I pray that a text like this would cause them to tremble, to harden uh to soften their heart, to draw them to repentance. That there would be a humble, Christ-centered thinking change. There would be a turning to you. There would be a softening of the will that you would preserve them from further spiraling down a road that they are traveling. I pray that this message would be a warning to save a soul from death and a multitude of sins. And for those who are so prone to introspection, I pray that this passage would not be a weight to their hearts When that causes them tremendous grief and paralysis, but that they would understand this is a warning to those who are walking in militant rebellion Who've been warned repeatedly, who have resisted, and who are doing tremendous damage to the cause of Christ. I pray for each one of us who has a position of authority that we not take a passage like this and abuse it and use it to accomplish agendas that are clearly and contrary to your purpose. Father, I pray that we would think clearly and biblically about the passage before us. I pray you bless the rest of our day, bless our fellowship we'll have this afternoon. May it be very enjoyable and Christ-centered. May it be an encouragement to your people. And I pray that you be with those who are away. Please give them safety as they travel back in the coming days. Give them a wonderful time together. With family and friends, and may you be the center of it all. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen