Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh we're back in Luke chapter eight this morning. Um also wanted to mention that this is the last of the sessions that we will do this week uh dealing with the Luke 8 passage. Tomorrow we're going to, Lord willing, have a bonus episode, and I'm very excited about recording that one tomorrow. But If you have your Bible, let's turn together to Luke chapter 8, and we'll look at verses 1 through 4 together and then dig into the last part of this study. It says, And it came to pass afterward that he went throughout every city and village. preaching and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God, and the twelve were with him. And certain women which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, Out of whom went seven devils, and Johanna, the wife of Chazah Steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto him of their substance When much people were gathered together and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable. Now I love this last little portion of this passage because what it does is it mentions several different names. And I think sometimes when we read names in the Bible, uh it's easy for us to just kind of pass over those names and not consider the fact that each one of those people was a very unique person who had unique circumstances that were going on in their lives before they came to understand the gospel and who the Lord Jesus Christ was. And what's great about this passage is it gives us just a little bit of information About several of these people, I'd like to take a few minutes to notice how the gospel really demonstrates its power in the lives of these individuals who were mentioned. The first Eita I'd like us to notice is how it elevated women. It says there were certain women, and all the people that are mentioned in these verses, of course, except the disciples. are ladies. You might say, well why does that matter? Well it's amazing as we read through the gospels how many times uh the Lord Jesus Christ uh shows the tremendous dignity, his respect for women. We think about the gospel accounts of the resurrection, and it it actually wasn't the disciples who were the first ones to testify to the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ was risen It was actually some of these ladies. And that's very significant because in the time in which Christ was on the earth, and during the time of the apostles, Women were not treated with the same respect and dignity and rights that men were. And it shows you how the Lord Jesus Christ elevated these ladies. But then we go beyond just the fact that he shows his tremendous value for these ladies and he talks The first thing I'll mention is that it rescued and transformed women whose lives were broken. It says that he healed the that these were women who were healed of evil spirits and infirmities. So these were people that had experienced what it was like to not just be affected by the forces of darkness, but literally they had been bound and they had been dominated by Satan and the demonic realm. These were people whose lives had been that had been deeply oppressed by evil, and they had been transformed and they had been recogn they had been rescued from those terrible things. He mentions this specifically lady um named Mary called Magdalene, out of whom had seven devils lifted from her. And so this is a person who was redeemed from uh being enslaved to evil. And so We see the power of the gospel demonstrated. Another individual who's mentioned is a woman named Johanna, the wife of Chuza, and that just gives this little statement that says who was Herod's steward. Now we know a lot about Herod. Herod was a very evil person. Um he was known for his immorality. In fact John the Baptist denounced Herod and called him out And because of that, John the Baptist was beheaded. And so we know that Herod was not a nice person. And here's a woman whose husband was the steward to Herod. And sh in her life is affected by the gospel. And so the gospel can reach into places that you'd think, no, there's no way the gospel could ever reach into that particular place. But here's an example of it Just think for a minute about some of the people that were a part of the the twelve disciples, people that you would never think that the Lord Jesus Christ would have ever called or who would have been effective ministers to proclaim the gospel. Think of someone like Thomas. He was known for his pessimism. He was a doubter. After the resurrection, Thomas said, Unless I can put my hands in those prints in the Lord Jesus' hands, and I can put my hand into his side. I'm not going to believe that he's risen from the dead. And what do we see by the end of the story? Jesus is standing before him and he says, Do you believe now? Go ahead, touch my hands and put your hand on my side. And what does Thomas do? He falls on his face before Jesus and he says, My Lord and my God This is one of the people that Jesus chose to follow him and proclaim as an apostle the message of the gospel. Another person like Peter. Peter was an impulsive man. He was a fisherman. His livelihood was out on the Sea of Galilee. And we think about how the this man, Peter, denied the Lord Jesus. And after he denied him, he wept bitterly, and he was a broken man, and he went back to fish. And what does Jesus do? He reestablishes the fact that he wants to work through Peter. And by the end of Peter's life, he is a he's a b not just a beloved apostle, but He is a pastor, he's an elder who has a tremendous heart for shepherding the people of God. Or think about another person like Nathaniel. Who when his brother comes to him and says, We found the Messiah, he says, Well, where is he from? He says, Oh, he's from Nazareth. And he says, Oh, what good thing can come from Nazareth? Obviously Nathaniel looked down on the people of Nazareth. Yet Jesus calls him to follow him. Or think about Levi. This one really uh gets my attention. Levi was uh someone who was known to be a traitor to the Jewish people. He's working for the Romans, he's collecting taxes, and Jesus calls Levi to follow him. Or then think about Simon the Zealot. On the other side of the spectrum, you have you have Levi who's working for the Roman government. He is abusing his own people. He's stealing from them and he's becoming prosperous on the backs of his own people. Then you have Simon who wants to overthrow the Romans and he's willing to be uh to be able to do it by force. And so Christ calls Simon a zealot, and he calls Levi, uh, to to work together to be witnesses to the resurrection But then the greatest example of all in that list is Saul of Tarsus, the Apostle Paul. Here's a man who was a part of the Sanhedrin. He confited under the death of the first reported martyr, Stephen. And Saul hated the church and he is going to Damascus with letters, with the authority of the Sanhedrin to drag Christians back into Jerusalem and to hold them accountable for abandoning Judaism and embracing this false religion from his standpoint. And what does Christ do? He confronts him on the road to Damascus. And he says, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me And basically Saul is is gloriously converted. And then I think about Ananias, who who Saul goes to uh to after he is blinded, and this is the man who's going to disciple him. Simon are uh uh when Saul goes to Ananias' house, Ananias would have been terrified to have to deal with Saul. Or think about when he came to the church church at Jerusalem and they were like, We can't accept Paul. This guy is a persecutor of the church and Barnabas intercedes on him. His behalf. What do we see in this story? What we see is that God chooses to work through the lives of people that you never believe would be effective ministers of the gospel. All this is a demonstration of the power of the gospel. So whether it's a Mary Magdalene or whether it's someone who was once dominated by by Satan or whether it's a person like Johanna whose husband works as a steward for Herod. or a Thomas or a Peter or a Nathaniel or a Levi or the Apostle Paul, all of these people's lives bear witness to the power of the gospel. As you're sitting here this morning, I want to remind you of something. Your life bears witness to the power of the gospel. If you're sitting here today as someone who understands That you're a sinner who is now saved by grace, you've been redeemed by the precious blood of Christ, and his death and resurrection stand to save you from your sins, and his righteousness is what gives you a right standing before God. If you understand that message, there is a story of how the Lord brought you to understand that and how he humbled your heart, how he placed your faith in Christ. There's a story about what you were before your conversion. There's a story of what you would have been had it not been for conversion. And the reality is that every single one of us who has placed our faith And the finished work of Christ are lives bear it witness to the power of the gospel. You might be sitting here this morning and maybe you've come in contact with this video through a friend, or you just happen to find it on Facebook or YouTube And you say, I'm not a Christian. I don't understand this message. Let me tell you that the same gospel that transformed the Apostle Paul, the same gospel that transformed Peter and Thomas. And Levi and Simon and Nathanael is the same gospel that can trans transform your life. You may say, well, well, Joe, what? What can I take away from this lesson today, this final episode for the week on Luke chapter 8? What can I take away from it? Well, let me give you a couple things to consider here. The first is a question. Have you personally experienced the transforming power of the gospel? If you've not placed your faith in Christ Become a new creature in Christ through the precious work of Christ. I want to challenge you. You need to sit down and open up a Bible and see what it says about salvation. I'll give you one simple verse, Ephesians 2. 8. It is, For by grace are ye saved through faith, not of yourselves. It is the gift of the of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Grace means that God has provided everything for you to be saved. He paid for it in full. Grace means that it's not something that you earn. It is a gift. It is entirely of God's goodness. And that grace was uh was poured out toward us through the finished work of Christ, his death and resurrection. It's by grace through faith. The way that a person is connected to the benefits of the gospel that are purchased for them through the death of Christ is by trusting, depending alone on the work of Christ. And then it says it's a it's a gift. It is not of works, lest anyone should boast. We do not stand before God as righteous and forgiven because we've earned it or because we deserve it or because of something we've done for God. It is entirely connected back to what he did. for us. And so I asked you this morning, have you personally trusted in the French work of Christ? The second question I'm going to ask is for the believer Have you gotten over the glory and the power of the gospel? We should Ask the Lord every single day to help us to appreciate the weight and the magnitude of His grace just a little bit more than we did yesterday. That's what this is all about. It's reminding ourselves again, freshly, that the gospel has the power to save anybody. God loves demonstrating his power and the conversion of the most backward and the most broken and the most miserable and the most defeated persons. God can save anybody. And this passage of Scripture gives us a convincing argument and demonstration of that very fact. I hope that this passage has been a challenge to you this morning, and I hope that as we've looked at Luke chapter 8, verses 1 through 4, that that's an encouragement as well. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to uh do a bonus episode, and I'm not going to tell you what it's about, but I'm really excited about it. Hope that you have a great rest of your day and Lord willing we will see it tomorrow by now