Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. And uh excited to start a new study this week. And uh if you're with us this past Sunday We were in Luke chapter 9, so I'd like to encourage you to take your Bibles. Let's turn there together, and we're going to look at verses 10 down to verse 22. We're not going to read the entire section, uh, but I want to give you a good sense of it, and so we'll start in verse number 10. Here's what it says And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that he had done. And he took them and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsaeda. And the people, when they knew it, followed him, and he received them and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that needed to be healed. And when the day began to wear away, they came then came the twelve, and they said unto him, Send the multitudes away, that they may go into the towns and the country round about, and lodge and get vitals. And he went, and for we are here in a desert place. He said unto them, Give ye them to eat They said, We have no more than five loaves and two fishes, except we should go and buy meat for all this people. For they were about five thousand men. He said to the disciples, Make them sit down by fifties in a company. And they said so, and they did so, and made them all sit down. And he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven he blessed them. And breaking gave the disciples, and set before the multitude. And they did eat, and were all filled, and there was taken up of fragments that remain of them, twelve baskets Now this passage of Scripture tells us a lot about Christ, and we're going to get into some very important details this week. Um on Sunday, you you know what those things already are. But what I'd like to focus on this morning is I'd like us to focus on two pieces that I think when we put them side by side, they are so significant. And so what we're going to do is we're going to look at the authority of Christ that is demonstrated, his person and his identity as God in flesh is going to be revealed in these verses. And then I want you to see that right beside his kindness and his humility and the selflessness of the way that he dealt with those people. And so what I'd like to do first is look at the authoritative side of Christ. In verses 14 through 17, this is what it says. He said to his disciples, Make them sit down by fifties. And they did so, and he made them all sit down, and he took five loaves and two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and he broke and gave to the disciples. and set them before the multitudes, and they did eat, and they were filled. You say, well, what is this telling us about Christ? What it's telling us about Christ is that He has the power to be able to create out of something. And when we ask the question, how does he have such power, the answer is he has it because it is inherent. It is his authority and his power. by his nature. In other words, it's revealing that he is the creator. And if you go to John chapter 1, this is what it says. It says that all things were made by him. And without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men And the light shined in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. Or when we go to the book of Colossians, it says He is before all things, and by Him all consists. All things were made by Him, without Him was not anything made that was made and we see a very similar statement. What we're seeing is that Jesus is able to take something, bread and fish. And he's able to multiply. He's able to create more bread and more fish out of that small lunch that was provided by a young boy. You say, well, do we see examples of this in the Bible? The answer is of course. Read Genesis 1 and Genesis 2. We see that some of the things that God did was he spoke the worlds into existence. He says, let there be light, but there are other examples where he takes something that he has already created and he uses it to create something else. The most significant of this is when he created man. It says that the Lord God took man from the dust of the ground and he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. Man became a living soul. So what he did is he takes the dirt that he's already created, and from the dirt he forms a man, he breathes into him. the breath of life, he creates man in his own image. Or then we see the creation of woman. It says that he took Adam's rib, and from the w rib he formed the woman. And so there are other examples of this. Some of the things that he created, he created out of nothing, and some of the things he created out of what he had already formed. What we see in these verses is a demonstration of Christ's ability to create out of what is there. In other words, he is the creator. It talks of his authority, his inherent nature. Not a delegated authority, it is an inherent nature an inherent authority. And then we see on the other side the selflessness of Christ. And we see that in the verses before that, in verses 11 and 12. Notice what it says. It says, when they knew it, they followed him, and he received them and spake unto them of the kingdom of God. And he healed them. that had need of healing, and when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve and said unto him, Send the multitudes away. Now what we see in these verses in verse eleven is that Christ received these people. Now, if you remember even in the verses before in verse number 10, he has sent out out the apostles, they've gone out, they've preached the gospel of the kingdom, they have the ability to heal the sick, to cast out demons, and now they've come back, and what does Christ do? He retreats away with his disciples to a secluded location, ultimately so that they can rest, they can refresh They can talk about the blessings they've experienced. He can encourage them with the discouragements they've experienced. It's a thing that they needed. They needed that disconnect from the work that they were doing. And we all need those things. But what happens? In this time when they're trying to step away from the rigors of ministry and they're trying to get recharged physically and mentally and emotionally and spiritually. These people come. And Jesus doesn't send them away and say, hey, we're resting right now. We don't have time to deal with you. That's not what he does It says that he receives them. And then we see that he doesn't just receive them and works for them for a couple hours and says, okay, go ahead, way. It says that as the day began to wear away, Jesus literally spent the entire day ministering to these people, healing the sick, preaching the gospel of the kingdom. Well what does this tell us? Well this tells us that Jesus condescends to these people. I don't mean he's condescending, but what I mean is that he comes and he meets them where they are. And by the way, the people that came to Jesus The vast majority of them did not understand who he was. Their reasons for being there to see him were not necessarily the purest of motives And Jesus didn't divide them up and say, Well, you're the ones that are here genuinely, I'll spend time with you. You're the ones that are here for for for wrong mixed motives. I'm going to reject you. He doesn't do that. He deals with them indiscriminately. We can even see that the disciples are exhausted and they're wearied, and they say, send the multitudes away You say, well, Joel, what's the point? Well here's the point. The same person, the Lord Jesus Christ, God in flesh who spoke the worlds into existence, as the scripture says, all things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. The same one who upholds the the world by the word of his power by him all things consist this same person the lord jesus christ allows people to step into his realm And and he allows them to come and he has the absolute right to say go away and he doesn't do that He is a savior with the absolute right and authority and power over everybody's lives, yet at the same time, he is meek. He is gentle. He ministers to the lowliest. He is kind. He comes down to the level of those who frankly were very uh very self-centered, some were very um immature in their their reasoning, some of them were coming with mixed motives. He he did not discriminate in that situation. He meets them where they are. He ministers to them. And that's a powerful thing for us to consider. That is the example that is set before us. And ultimately, what does the scripture say? We are to reflect the character of our Savior. We're supposed to be like Christ. Philippians chapter 2. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. In the same way that Christ humbled himself, met people where they are. And he was kind to them and merciful to them, and he is willing to lay aside his rights for their own good. God calls us to respond to others. in such a way. We were created in the image of God. We are to reflect the character and the goodness of our Savior as His people. And so that's my challenge to you this morning. Let's be a people who understand our Savior, who rejoice in our Savior, and we reflect his good character as he is working in us to will and to do of his good pleasure. Hope that you have a wonderful, wonderful start to your week, a wonderful Monday morning. Have a blessed day and God willing, tomorrow we'll meet again. Find out