Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you've been joining us this week, we're on Luke chapter 10. And so I want to invite you to take your Bibles and let's turn there together again. And we've been looking at the nature of Christian ministry. And yesterday and the day before we dealt with different aspects of this thing called Christian ministry. And as we've been analyzing Jesus calling these 70 men and sending them out two by two to proclaim the gospel of the kingdom, to prepare the way for him to come. We've been able to pick out some very simple little details from our our our examination of this part of Jesus' ministry. And the first thing that we looked at on day one is the fact that God is always at work in the world and the the hands that he uses are the hands of the people that are living at that time, the the mouthpiece that he uses. are the people that are living during that time. Jesus was going to work through human instruments, and God has always done this in human history. And then the second thing we talked about is the fact that God gave very clear instructions about how they were supposed to do that work. Well what I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to examine God's prerogative on the nature of the work itself. He is the one who determines the kind of ministry that you and I are going to participate in at this moment in history. And so I'm going to read the passage again, Luke chapter 10, verses 1 to 9, and then we'll keep working through the passage. Here's what it says. After these things the Lord appointed other seventy also, and sent them two by two before his face and every city and place, wherewith he himself would come. Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. Go your ways. Behold, I send ye forth as lambs among wolves. Carry neither purse nor script nor shoes, and salute no man by the way. Into whatsoever house ye enter first, say, Peace be unto this house. And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it. If not, it shall turn to you again. In the same house remain eating and drinking such things as ye are given. for the labor is worthy of his hire. Go not from house to house, and into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you, eat such things as are set before you, and heal the sick that are therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you But into whatsoever city ye enter, they receive you not, go your way out into the s into the streets of the same and say, Even the very dust of your city which cleaveth on us we do wipe off against you Now this passage of Scripture is dealing with a very particular moment in history, and I've tried to make uh I try to be careful that we don't take this moment and try to force our own situation into it. But we simply examine the way that God works at different times. Well, what we're going to see this morning is the nature of the work, and we see it expressed in verse 1 and then in verse 3. He says, after these things the Lord appointed seventy others. Seventy others in addition to who? Well, the original twelve, the disciples, whom he called apostles, who were ultimately going to spread the gospel. throughout the nations in the first century as eyewitnesses to the ministry of Christ. But then in verse 3 he talks about the nature of the work, not just They're going to proclaim the gospel in preparation for Christ, but he talks about the fact that he says, I send you forth as lambs among wolves. What he's saying is that you're going to be going to a group of people who are going to be antagonistic to you on some level. They're going to be in uh there's going to be an opposition to the message. And I want you to notice the unique aspects of the nature of the work that Jesus appointed these men to. They were all men. They were objectively called by Christ. He limited it to 70 in total. They were preachers. They were empowered with sign gifts. Their ministry was short and it was focused and it was dangerous. They were living through the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies. They were looking forward to the cross, whereas we ourselves are looking back at the cross. They're anticipating the coming of the kingdom, and we look back at what Jesus accomplished so that the kingdom could come. They were empowered for a moment that was unique to that moment. And you and I cannot claim all of the details that these people claimed. Well, this is a unique moment in history, like many other unique moments in history. And I've talked about some of the different people that God has used. For instance Many of the people that we read about in Scripture were objectively called by God. Like the disciples, Jesus literally sees them by the Sea of Galilee. He walks up to them and he says, Come and follow me, and I'll make you fishers of men. That is a very objective call. Or he calls these seventy people and he says, I'm going to send you out as sheep among wolves. A very objective call. Or he goes to Noah and he says, Noah Build a boat. And build that boat. It's going to take you 120 years here the dimensions of it. A very objective call. We see the same thing with Moses and the same thing with Joshua. But then there are other people that did not receive objective calls. Yet there was no question that God called them and appointed them to a very particular moment in history. An example of that would be someone like Nehemiah. We never have the Lord coming to Nehemiah and saying, I've appointed you to be a cupbearer for the king. Yet that's exactly what God was doing. Whereas Nehemiah is working as the cupbearer, that God calls him and he says, I've appointed you to go back to the land of Israel to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. Well, that's not what God did. In fact, what we see is God's very ordinary means of working in the world, where Nehemiah is appointed to be a cupbearer through very ordinary means. He's working in the palace. He hears stories about what's going on there in Jerusalem, how the walls have been broken down, all of the gates have been burned with fire. The people are living in a very dangerous and a very vulnerable position And Nehemiah's burden in his heart, and God works through circumstances to move him into the position where he's ultimately going to be a part of a very clearly God-appointed job, a very clearly God-appointed opportunity. And God works through all kinds of different means too. Enable him and empower him and to protect him and ultimately to accomplish the work. We see something very similar with Esther So we we see uh King Ahajawaris, he has a bad temper, he gets angry at Vashti, he banishes her from being his wife, and then later on he regrets it, and his advisors say, You can't just bring her back, and so we have to determine who's going to be the next queen. And they have this contest. And the the truth is if we examine the situation, there are lots of different things that in the moment are very sinful. are very challenging or very complicated. Esther ends up getting that role and it's not something that God said verbally, I'm appointing you to be the next queen. No, the fact is that through ordinary circumstances, people making decisions God is allowing this situation to unfold, yet he is clearly involved in ultimately bringing this woman to a point where she is going to be a critical component in God preserving his people from being annihilated there in Shushan the palace. What is the point? The point is very simple. God determines the nature of the kind of work that people do. And God is that determines the nature of the kind of work that you are doing as a housewife, as a homeschool mom. As a father who goes to work and comes home and cares for your family and takes your children and your wife to church, as someone who's just an ordinary person living in the 21st century Maybe nothing uh extravagant about the nature that you're doing. Some people may even say, where is the spiritual dimension to this? And the fact is by by being a faithful husband and father, faithful mother and wife, raising your ch children well, being faithful in the ministry of the local church. Just living faithfully in the sphere of influence that God has placed you in. That is God's appointed ministry for you here today. And so we see that God has always worked in such ways. The nature of the work has been different at different times. But the fact that it is God that appoints people to work, and God that empowers people in the work, and God that commands people in the work, that has never changed. You might say, well, Joel, what can I take away from this this morning? Let me leave you with a couple of thoughts. There are some unique challenges to the time in which we live. And one of those challenges is that sometimes we become overly discouraged with what we are seeing. And we think there's never been another generation in American history or in Western civilization that has had to deal with these kinds of challenges and we become overly discouraged. On the other side, because of a lot of the opportunities that we have and the blessings that we enjoy, sometimes we become very complacent. My challenge to you is don't be overly discouraged, don't be complacent. Don't become discontented with the times in which you are living, or the opportunities that are in front of you, or the challenges that you are facing. Don't look and say, Yeah, I wish I would have lived in the 16th century, the 17th century. Or what about a hundred years from now? I wish I could live in those times. No. Don't be discontented with living in the times that God has placed you in. He has you at this time doing what you're doing for a reason. And so the ultimate challenge to you this morning is this. Let's accept what God has given us. And let us be purposed to be faithful in what He has given us today. Such a very simple truth, but something that we all need to be reminded of on a regular basis. If this has been an encouragement to you, I hope that you share that. Perhaps share with somebody that could be challenged by it as well. And Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our study as we work our way through this text and we reflect on the nature of Christian ministry. Have a blessed day. Bye now.