Good morning. Hope that you had a great Thanksgiving weekend and uh hope that you uh were encouraged by the passage of scripture that we dealt with this past Sunday. And uh we're kind of in a hybrid mode right now. We're going from the Thanksgiving season and the fall, and we're transitioning into our Christmas season. And so um this past Sunday our service was kind of a blend of those things. We had a lot of Christmas carols. And this passage of scripture that we're dealing with will be the last one we do in Luke for a little while. We're going to pause and we'll be dealing exclusively with Christmas-related themes. and the personal work of Christ. Of course, the passage we're looking at tonight or this morning is a passage that not traditionally being looked at as Christmas really does emphasize the uniqueness of the person of Christ and it emphasizes um his authority and his power and so I think this is a great text of scripture for us to deal with as we transition from the fall and thanksgiving into our Christmas season. The text in front of us is Luke chapter 11. We're looking at verses 14 through 23 together. And we'll just focus our attention in on the first verse. Here's what it says. And he and he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb. And it came to pass when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake. And the people wondered. And some of them said, He casteth out devils through Beelzebub, and the chief of the devils, and others testing him, sought of him a sign from heaven. But he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. A house divided against a house falleth. If Satan also is divided against himself, How shall his kingdom stand? Because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub, and if I by Bilzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them out Therefore shall they be your judges. But if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God is upon you. When a strong man armed keepeth his place, his goods are in peace. But when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome him, he taketh from him all his armour therewith, he trusteth and divideth the spoils. He that is not with me is against me, and he that gathereth not with me scattereth. Now this passage of Scripture begins uh with a very simple fact and I want us to kind of look at this as both the first piece of the text in front of us but also a bit of introduction. Christ is visibly demonstrating his power and his might, and I'll even use the word authority, his rightful authority, over Satan's dominion or Satan's realm. And we see this in verse 14. He says, He was casting out a devil, and it was dumb. And it came to pass that the devil was gone out and the dumb spake. Now, when he uses the term devil, he's talking about an angel that has rejected God's authority and was involved in um Satan's uh rebellion against God really during that creation week. We know it was sometime after the creation and before the fall of mankind. And so those angels that rebelled with Satan or Lucifer are called demons or devils, and that's what this text is talking about. And then when it says that the devil was dumb, that means that the person who was being dominated by this demonic influence is someone who lost the ability to speak. And so that brings us up to a very important principle that we find in the Bible. Satan has a realm, and his realm is real. And this text in front of us demonstrates the reality of that realm. Now the Bible talks a lot about this sense in which it's presented as if Satan has a kingdom or a dominion. And there is literal structure to this world's opposition to God Himself. And so in Ephesians chapter 6, verse 11, it says. . that we are to put on the whole armor of God, that we may be able to stand . against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities. against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Therefore, take the whole armor of God that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. Now, in Ephesians chapter 6, Paul is clearly demonstrating that the Christian is in a battle. And this battle is not physical battle, it's a spiritual battle. It is the kingdom of darkness against the kingdom of God. And we as God's children have been translated from the kingdom of darkness into his marvelous light. And so Jesus in this passage of Scripture is literally confronting the kingdom of darkness. And so that leads us to a question. Does Satan have dominion or sovereignty or right to a certain realm? And the answer is that Satan has a limited sovereignty at this time. Now when I say he has a limited sovereignty, what I mean by that is that the Bible teaches that Satan rules, but his rule is under the ultimate rule of God himself. In other words, Satan can't just do anything that he wants to. Satan can do much of what he desires to do What he is desiring to do is always in opposition to God, but God can limit or choose to allow Satan to do what he wishes. And we see many, many examples of this in the scriptures. I'd like to kind of limit them to some of the most prominent ones and some of the most significant ones that most of us, I think, are very familiar with. For instance, in Luke chapter 4, we have the temptation of Christ. And what we see is that the Father allows Satan to have the ability to tempt his son, but he did it with certain limitations. So in Luke chapter 4, verse 1, it says, Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan and was led of the Spirit into the wilderness, and was tempted of the devil. What that shows us is that it was God's will to allow his son to experience the temptation in the wilderness. And this temptation in the wilderness is really in many ways contrasted with the temptation of Adam and Eve in the garden. And so as Adam takes the fruit and he rejects the authority of of God, that he has um given him responsibilities and he's given him commands in in in his world. Um Jesus says the exact opposite. He faces the full onslaught of Satan's devices and his wiles, and he resists him. Secondly, we see that God allowed Satan to tempt Job. But this again was with certain limitations, and there's a lot that we could digest from those first couple of chapters of Job, but I want to draw your attention to two statements. The first is in Job 1. 12. It says, The Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power, only upon himself, put not forth thine hand. So Satan went from the presence of the Lord. Now what do we see in this text? We see that Satan is talking to God, and God permits him to attack Job. But he permits him with limitations. And what we see is that Satan has to follow the limitations that are given him because he's ultimately under the dominion or under the rule of God himself. Again, in Job 2, 6-7, it says, the Lord said to Satan, Behold, he's in thine hand, but save his life. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord and smote Job with sore boils. So again we see that Satan has power. He has the ability to attack Job, and he has the ability to make Job's life miserable. But he has to stay under what God permits. We also see that God allowed Satan to tempt Peter with certain limitations. In Luke chapter 22, it says, the Lord said to Simon, Simon, behold. Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat, but I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Again, we see that Satan desires to go after Peter, and he's allowed to, but there are limitations. Again, we see this in Revelation chapter 20. God allows Satan to tempt the nations, again with limitations. Revelation 20 verse 1, I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the peak the keys to the bottomless pit, and a great chain was in his hand, and he laid hold of the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil. And Satan, and bound him a thousand years, and cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up to set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more. Till the thousand years should be fulfilled, and after that, he must be loosed for a little season. You might say, well, that's Jesus. And that's Job, and that's Peter, and that's the nations, but what about me? Does God allow Satan to attack me? And does God allow Satan to tempt me? And the answer is, he can In 1 Corinthians 10, verse 13, it says, There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful. who will not suffer or allow you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape. that you may be able to bear it. Well what we see in that text is that God certainly permits us to be tempted, and that temptation could find its source in Satan's attacks. But that is with limitations. He does not allow us to be tempted beyond what we're able. He always provides a way of escape. So when we come to this question, of two kingdoms, the kingdom of darkness and the kingdom of light, we see that Satan's dominion, in fact, it is very real. The second thing I want you to notice in this text is that Satan had viciously oppressed this man in our text. In this case, it was primarily a physical oppression, but that's not necessarily exclusively physical. the man had did not have the ability to speak. And so it may be that it wasn't just that that his body could not move, his lips and things like that, but it may be that This affected his mental facility capabilities as well. And then we see thirdly that Christ liberated the man by commanding his oppressor to release him. Now, this is not the only passage in the Gospels where Jesus does something like this. There are many, many examples, and I want to draw your attention to two that are very significant. The first is one that actually took place in the synagogue. And this is what it says. Luke chapter 4, verse 33. In the synagogue there was a man which had a spirit of an unclean devil. And he cried out with a loud voice, saying, Let us alone, what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee, who thou art, the holy one of God. And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace. Come out of him. When the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him and heard him not, and they were all amazed, and spake of themselves, saying, What a word is this! For with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out, and the fame of him went out into every place of the countries round about. Another example is found in Matthew chapter 8, verse 28. It says, when he was come to the other side of the country of the Gadereans There met him two possessed with devils, coming out of the tombs, exceeding fierce, so that no man might pass by that way. And behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with thee, Jesus, thou son of God? Art thou come to torment us before the time? The devils besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, suffer us to go away into the herd of swine. And he said unto them, Go. Now, the point of this passage is to emphasize that Satan has real power, that Satan is really vicious, but that his power is limited And that Jesus has the ability to command Satan to stop. He has the power to command Satan to leave He has the power to overthrow Satan at any point that he chooses. And so I want us to begin our week thinking about that wonderful truth. That though Satan is real and though Satan has power and though Satan is evil, Satan is under the thumb of God. God will only permit Satan to go as far as As Satan will ultimately bring glory to God in the end. And so I remind you again of what it says in 1 Corinthians 10, verse 13. There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it. I want to encourage you that whatever you are facing today, whatever the source of these intense struggles that you face, God will limit the extent to which the evil can go in your life. And if God permits something, he will give you the grace to endure. And he will give you the path to overcome and ultimately triumph. And so may we be a people who recognize that in the midst of the great struggles that we face in life, there is a God who delivers, and there is a God who defends, and a God who protects, and a God who ultimately uses all these things to accomplish good purposes. I hope that you will stay with us this week as we work our way through this text and as we prepare our hearts to enter into the Christmas season. Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our series. Bye now.