Luke chapter 19, and we're looking at verses 45 through 48 together this morning. And as we dig into this passage of Scripture, it's going to be kind of interesting to kind of compare what we're talking about this morning versus what we talked about last week. And we looked at uh this passage last week. We emphasized the mercy of God, Christ's incredible love and compassion toward those who were ultimately rejecting him and would reject him, ultimately leading him to the cross. This morning what we're going to do is we're going to look at an event that happened Right after this event, a different day, I'm going to talk a little bit about the uh the last week of the Passover week in just a few minutes to just kind of help you to set set where that is in the narrative. But what we're going to see is both the holiness of God and the mercy of God set side by side in these two passages of Scripture. And so I know that our text is verses 45 through 48. What I'd like to do is actually go back a little bit, and we're going to see what we mentioned yesterday, our last Sunday. And uh then we're gonna dig into the passage that we're looking at this morning. So it says in verse 41, and when he was come near, he beheld the city and wept over it, saying, If thou hast known even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they're hid from thine eyes. The day shall come upon thee that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, encompass thee round, and keep thee in on every side. and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee. They shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. And he went into the temple and began to cast out them that sold therein and them that bought, saying unto them, It is written, My house is the house of prayer. But ye have made it a den of thieves. He taught daily in the temple, but the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him. And could not find what they might do, for all the people were very attentive to hear him. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to help us to understand the text in front of us this morning. Father, as we look at this passage, I pray that you would give us ears to hear, eyes to see, a heart that is very tender and very sensitive to your word Father, help us to recognize that the same Christ who wept over a city that was blinded to the truth It 's the same Christ who went into the temple and cast out the money changers because of their gross abuse. Of the true worship of the one true God during the Passover in Jerusalem. How they desecrated that very sacred time on the Jewish calendar. One that was pointing to the ultimate fulfillment of Christ coming and dying as the Lamb of God to take away the sins of the world. And Father, as we look at this passage of Scripture, I pray that you would help us to see the holiness and the righteousness of our Savior. to recognize the tremendous sacred duty that we have as your people to gather together and to worship you with reverence. and a seriousness, yet also a great joy as we consider the finished work of Christ. Father, help me this morning as I lay out this passage to do it in a way that is in fact consistent with the intent for which it was given. And that it will be a tool in the hands of the Spirit in our lives. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin by kind of giving you a couple of introductory thoughts that I hope will kind of help prepare us. for what we will be digging into this morning. First thing I want to say is this. There is a great danger in the desire to use religious practice to establish political power. Now I want you to think back over the context of what's going on in these verses. The people that Jesus has the greatest contention with are the people who do not just have religious power. But in fact they also have political power in the city. The Sanhedrin actually was a functioning body, not just of leading in worship in the temple, but they were also in league, you could say, with the Roman governors. And they had a working relationship where they were able to establish themselves with a tremendous amount of political power. There was a lot of political capital that was being built up between the religious leaders and the Romans And this is a major factor in why Christ was delivered up to the Romans to be crucified. The Sanhedrin did not like the way that Christ. was disrupting the political order. It was not just about religious viewpoints, but in fact it was also about political viewpoints. I want to remind you that the church is not A political party that rallies people emotionally and works to find a popular consensus. Now I don't want you to misunderstand me. I'm not saying That we as Christians shouldn't vote. We should. I'm not saying that we as Christians should not fulfill our civil duties. We absolutely should fulfill our civic duties. If you get called on uh to sit on a jury, you should definitely try to do that. Uh if you had the opportunity to run for political office, I think it would be a good thing for Christians to be in the government. The fact is we want godly people to be in positions of authority so that a godly influence is in those places. But it's very dangerous and it's very different to say that the church is a political body versus the church is a place where people worship God and they grow together into Christ's likeness, and then God chooses out people from that body who are engaged in the political world. When the church starts to treat itself as if it's a political party, really bad things happen. It's also not like a political party in the sense that it rallies around big personalities or incentivizes alliances with the potential for political power. You might say, well, why are you saying this? Because this is at the heart of why the religious leaders were so upset with Christ. They did not like the way he was disrupting their position. In fact, even Caiaphas goes to the point where he says It's necessary for one to die for the people so that it can be preserved. That's what he's concerned about. The church And true Christian practice are entirely different in the way that the church is to grow and influence. The church is built on a consistent standard, the Word of God. This standard is a sound standard. It's consistent with God's ordering of the universe. It's consistent with God's character. It's consistent with God's ways. This is a divine standard. And the church grows by the miraculous and mysterious work of God through the gospel, often defying the common assumptions of people in society. The gospel changes people at the heart level. And people's lives are transformed through the power of that message. The church should not grow because we can convince people to come here because they're going to have a good time and they can be a part of something really cool and neat. People should come because they are convinced the word of God is proclaimed in this place. And when they sit under the authority of Scripture being laid out before them, their heart is moved. And people are drawn to the gospel and lives are transformed through the preaching and teaching of the Word of God. When the church drifts away from its fundamental mission, really bad things happen. The religious system in Christ's day is a classic example of what happens when true faith is supplanted by activism and political maneuvering. And I will tell you it's a problem in the church today. It really is. It's a problem in all kinds of churches today. And what we need to do is we need to get down to what this text has to say. about the sacredness of the one true worship of the one true God through the finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ. We've got to get back to the basics So that we live in a way that's consistent with God's purpose for this body. So with it in mind, let me give you a first of all summary statement. Christ's second temple cleansing reminds us That God hates religious corruption. And he desires people to approach him in a godly, properly ordered sincerity. It's not just about sincerity. It's about a godly, properly ordered sincerity. I cannot come into the presence of a holy God, nor can you apart from the blood and righteousness of Christ. We cannot worship him in spirit and in truth if we don't have the spirit and we're not worshiping him in truth. So we have to make sure that what we're doing is in fact not some maneuvering or manipulating or some emotionally moving people, but in fact this is about truth. This is about the gospel. This is about proper order and how we approach God. So let's work our way through this text, and I hope that as we work our way through it, you'll find some very helpful things to you this morning. Alright, the first thing I want you to notice is this Christ was deeply grieved by the religious Corruption of his day. And before we dig into those details, I want to remind you this is not something that was a new problem in Christ's day, and it's not something that stopped being a problem today. Now it is important for us to recognize that we're not talking about the church in this particular context. We're talking about temple worship. We're talking about them coming up for the Passover. We're talking about people who were offering sacrifices in a temple. That was not the church. The church was not yet founded. But this shows us what the true worship of God was leading up to the cross. And so there's a lot we can learn here about the way that Christ approaches this issue. This is not a new problem. History is the story of endless cycles of people failing to learn from the past. I wish that wasn't the case, but in fact it is the case. If you study history, you will learn so many things and you'll go, I wish people that are living today would learn from those things. Because we're doing it again and we're doing it again. This is not a new problem. I'm reminded of Ecclesiastes chapter 1, verse 9. It says, the thing which hath been is that which shall be done, and that which is done is that which shall be done. There is no new thing under the sun. Is there anything whereof it may be said? See this is new? It hath already of old time which was before us. Say why is that? Because human nature doesn't progress. Now it's true that technology progresses. It's true that the way that people live today, because of medical advances and because of the political system that we live in, and because of the the the order in the world as it is at the moment, is going to be slightly different than Somewhat better, significantly better. People are living a lot older, long longer today than they did 100 years ago. I will tell you that's for certain. But the reality is nothing has changed on the fundamental root heart level. People are still people. The same kind of problems that you had in the 1800s, you have them today. The same kind of problems you had in the 1500s, you have them today. In the tens And the single digits. In the first century, thousands of years before the time of Christ. The same fundamental problems. Why? Because human nature is corrupt at its root. Christ reflected on this in Matthew 24. He says, I send into you the prophets and wise men and scribes, and some of them you all kill and crucify. Some of them shall ye scourge in your synagogues and persecute them from city to city, that upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel unto the blood of Zecharias, son of Baraccias. Whom ye slew between the temple and the altar. Verily I stand to you, all these things shall come upon this generation. Interestingly, after the death of Christ and the resurrection, the ascension, the first martyr, Stephen It says in Acts chapter 7, ye stiff neck, and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost. As your fathers did, so do ye. Which of the prophets have your fathers, have not your fathers persecuted? I hate to say it, but the same problems Go on in our society today. In fact, there's a lot of history in the Old Testament of God sending prophets to call out the corruption of their day. Let me give you a little bit of a sample of this, because this is really, really important for what we're going to look at here. In Isaiah 5, verse 20, woe unto them that call evil good. And good evil, and put darkness for light, and light for darkness, and put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter Woe unto them that are wise in their own eyes and prudent in their own sight, which justify the wicked for reward and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him. I remember when I lived in Ghana, one of the things that I got to be a part of as a pastor there for the time that I lived there was I got to be involved with what call naming ceremonies. We don't do this in the United States. Some people don't even have the name picked out for their child in the hospital. Okay? Somebody goes, what's your child's name? Like, ah, we'll have a talk about this, right? Or maybe there's been a little bit of back and forth about it before this But in Ghana, they didn't name children for several months. It was a cultural custom. There were reasons for that. So when a child was born, Their name would be assigned based on the day of the week, whether they are male or female. So if someone was born on a Friday and they were a boy, their name would be Kofi. So if you hear the name Kofi, I'm not saying that that person's from Ghana, but that would be a Friday born in Ghana. But then several months later, as the child was getting older, then the child would have a special ceremony for his naming or her naming. And there at the naming of the child, all these family members would gather together, and there would be lots and lots of things that were said. to that child. Obviously the child doesn't understand what's going on, but things would be said to that child. And one of the things that they would do As they would give the child a spoon of water and they weren't Christian Schnapps or soda for some people. And this is what they would say. This is water. This is soda. And then after that they would say, speak the truth. Kind of an interesting little custom, isn't it? Why did they do that? To simply say this. Say it like it is. Speak the truth. But here in Isaiah chapter 5, he said, here are the people who are the leaders of the nation. Not just the political leaders, the spiritual leaders, and they're lying to the people. They're not willing to speak the truth. He says they're wise in their own eyes. They do not justify. They justify the wicked and take reward. Isaiah chapter 10, verses 1 and 3. He says, Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees. that right grievousness which they have prescribed to turn aside the needy from judgment, to take away the right from the poor of my people. that widows may be their prey, that they may rob the fatherless. One of the things that they were doing was not just lying and justifying evil. But they were using the legal system to destroy and harm the most vulnerable people in society Jeremiah 23, 1. Woe unto you, pastors that destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture, the pastures that feed my people, ye have scattered my flock, driven them away, have not visited them. Behold, I will visit upon you evil of your doings. And will gather the remnant of my flock out of the countries whither I have driven them, and will bring them again into their fold, and they shall be fruitful in increase. And what was the problem here? These were people who were scattering rather than feeding and shepherding. Ezekiel thirty four, woe be to the shepherds of Israel that feed themselves, should not the shepherd feed the flock? The deceased have you not Strengthened, you've not healed that which was sick, neither have you bound up that which was broken, neither have you brought again that which was driven away. Now I pause and I say this: the problem was that rather than people using the authority that had been properly given to them by God, they were abusing the people under their care. And that is what false teaching and false doctrine do. They give people the opportunity to maneuver and manipulate and ultimately abuse people that are under their care. And so God is angry with these shepherds, in quotes, because they are abusing their authority. In fact, this was a hallmark of Christ's ministry. In Matthew 23, it says, Woe unto you scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites, you shut up. the kingdom of heaven against men. You neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye that are entering in to go. You devour widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayers. Therefore ye shall receive the greater damnation. You pay tithe of mint and Anis and Cuman and have omitted the weightier matters of the law. judgment and mercy and faith. You strain at a gnat and swallow a camel. You make clean the outside of the platter, but within are full of extortion and excess. There was no group that Christ was more aggressive with than these people. Isn't it amazing how Christ wept over a city and then the very next text of scripture that's talked about in Luke? is how he was going to go into the temple and drive out the money changers and he was going to do it very forcefully. Why? Because part of the blindness of the people was connected to the abuses of those who were over them. And so one of the reasons that these people were wandering in the darkness. is because those who are to handle the Word of God before them, day in and day out, lied to them, used them, misuse them, abuse them. And the fact is, this is something that is very, very grievous to God and should be to us. Second thing I want you to notice is this. His intense displeasure led to decisive public action In verse 45 it says, and he went into the temple and began to cast out them that sold therein and them that bought. Now I'm going to go back and I'm going to kind of comment on why it's the selling and the buying. I think that there's a reason for this. And and I'm going to draw this out when we see the quote that he makes from the book of Isaiah. But the first thing I want you to notice here before we get to that is this. This is not the first time that Christ goes into the temple and does what is recorded for us in Luke chapter 19. It's actually the second time If you're to go to the book of John and you read John chapter 2, this is after John narrates the wedding at Cana of Galilee when he turns the water into wine. The very next passage that he talks about is Jesus going up into the temple during the Passover and casting out the money changers. What's also very interesting about that in John chapter 2 is that the next chapter is John chapter 3. And who does Jesus talk to in John chapter 3? He talks to Nicodemus. And so we don't know how much time goes from Jesus passing out the money changers. And him saying, my house is something that needs to be kept sacred. But sometime after that, the people sent Nicodemus to go and talk to Jesus. And as Jesus talks to Nicodemus, you can see that he goes right to the point and he says, Nicodemus, unless a man's born again, he will not see the kingdom of God. Marvel not that I tell you you must be born again. So the result of this casting out the money changers is that Nicodemus has a conversation with Jesus. By the end of the story, it appears that Nicodemus became a believer. He was one who did not consent to the Sanhedrin sending Jesus off to be crucified by the Romans. The second example is the one in front of us this morning. And that is when Jesus finishes his public ministry. So it's almost like we have the book ends of Jesus. His inauguration of his public ministry, he goes up to celebrate the Passover, he cast out the money changers, and then at the end of his ministry, before he goes to the cross, he casts out the money changers again. There is a significance to what Jesus is doing. By the way, this event probably is very significant in why they finally said, let's kill him. They wanted to kill him, but they didn't want to disrupt the Passover. That was the tipping point. They said we're going to take them out now. Second thing I want you to notice here is the timetable. We talked about the triumphal entry two weeks ago. in Luke chapter 19 and here is Jesus coming down from the Mount of Olives and he's riding on a donkey and he's fulfilling scripture and the people are saying Hosanna blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord and as he comes up into the city from the Kidron Valley The people basically say, I say the people, the Sanhedrin says, tell your disciples to be quiet. This is not acceptable. And Jesus says, if I told them to be quiet, the very rocks would cry out. That night, Jesus goes up into the temple, according to Mark 11, but he does nothing. He goes back to Bethany. The next morning as Jesus comes up into the temple, Matthew 21, it records that he finds a fig tree that is barren. And he curses the fig tree and he says, this is the state of the nation today And from that moment, Jesus goes into the temple and the text that we're reading this morning and he casts out the money changers. He literally disrupts the system. And I want you to realize that this is a system that was built on two things. The first thing is it was built on instruction from God. That they were supposed to come to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover on an annual basis. That was the cause for the sacredness of this moment. But the second cause is that the people used it as an opportunity to take advantage of all those who are willing to come to Jerusalem and make that pilgrimage as they should have. You ever gone on vacation? And when you go to the gas station by that resort where you are, it's like a dollar and fifty cents more expensive than it was like 15 miles away from that place. Anybody ever been in that situation? And you're like, what's going on here? You know, you go you get out of the airport and you drive over and you you go to that gas station, you're like, well, why is this like, you know, a dollar more than it is just two miles down the road? Well it's because They know that there are people coming out of the airport. They don't know where the gas stations are. It's the first one that they see and they get gouged. Or I remember when I was a teenager, we had hurricanes come through and And and they would they would basically raise the prices of all of the gas stations all around there that still had gas. And people were scrambling to fill up their vehicles because they didn't know when they would be able to fill up their vehicle again Well guess what? That's what they were doing in Jerusalem with all these people coming up to the city. The city is now exploding with people. All of these people who have traveled a great distance. They didn't have the ability to bring all the animals that they needed. They didn't have all of the things that they needed. They were stuck. They had to have a place to sleep the night. And so they come into the city and everybody's raising their race. Everybody's cheating them. The people bringing the animals use the system to take advantage of people. Why? Because they raise the prices, supply and demand. This is an opportunity. to have people over the barrel. They're going to have to give for this moment. They're going to have to buy those sacrifices. We're going to make them pay a premium for that. The people selling the animals use the system. Because they're buying them from these folks wholesale, and then they're selling them at another inflated price. Then we have the people that are exchanging the money. They use the system. Now, if you're coming into the city and you're exchanging money, you know what that tells me? You're coming from a very far distance. I'm going to have more to say about this in just a minute. But the abuses were those selling the animals, those buying the animals and reselling the animals, those who were exchanging money in the market, the entire system was established in a very abusive manner. And when Jesus saw this, it made him sick. Because here are all these people that are coming up to Jerusalem to worship God, to celebrate the Passover, and they're to remember that an animal was slain. So that the firstborn could live. Jesus is the Lamb of God who's going to take away the sins of the world. He's going to fulfill the Passover, and all these people coming up to the city are being abused by a system. It would have been wrong for Christ to walk in there and go, ah, whatever. The zeal of his house ate him up The third thing I want to mention is this: the most faithful were the ones most abused. These were the ones who traveled the greatest distance. Who needed to exchange the money? These are the ones who needed to purchase the sacrifices. You know the story of Philip and the Ethiopian eunuch? Why was that man in Jerusalem? He was in Jerusalem because he was a Jewish proselyte. He was aware of this whole festive season. So here is a man who traveled with his entourage this massive distance. And you know, he wasn't the only person who came from the region where he was from. Those are the people that were the most taken advantage of in this system. And so when Christ sees it, it burns him up. The third thing we see is this. These abuses were primarily directed towards Gentile proselytes. Now I know this text doesn't specifically state that. But I think as I work my way through a couple of things, you will see that that is exactly what is in view in this text. Notice what it says in verse 46. It says this: It is written, My house is the house of prayer. But ye have made it a den of thieves. Now, if you're following in your Bible, you probably see that there's some kind of annotation that tells you that that is a direct quote from an Old Testament passage. And one of the things that I want to encourage you to do when you know that there's a direct quote from the Old Testament in the New Testament, it'd be very helpful for you to go back to that quotation, not just read the verse. but read the section so that you understand the context of that statement because what it will do is it will give you a lot of helpful information to appreciate why that was quoted by Christ. or by Paul or by Peter or by John. Interestingly, in each of the gospel accounts, one of those accounts mentions a part of what Jesus says that none of the other accounts mention. In Mark chapter 11, verse 17, this is what it says. He taught, saying unto them, It is, is it not written, My house shall be called of all nations? The house of prayer. Did you catch that? Now Luke did not record that. That doesn't mean it didn't happen, okay? The reason that Mark records this is because there's something very specific about his audience that he wants them to grasp. Do you realize that Mark was writing his gospel primarily to a Roman audience? And so when Mark is writing this, this little detail of what Jesus says is significant to him. Because he wants the Roman audience to recognize this Passover is not just about the Jewish people. And what Christ is going to do is not just about the Jewish people. This is supposed to be for all nations Then we go to the quotation in Isaiah, and it becomes very clear that that is what's going on here. Turn your Bibles back to the book of Isaiah, to Isaiah 55. In Isaiah 55, this is what verse number 1 says. Ho, everyone that thirsteth, come to the waters. He that has no money, come and buy and eat. Come by wine and milk without money and without price. Interestingly, this is the passage of scripture. That when Charles Spurgeon was converted, he heard this text being preached. And he said, here 's an invitation to someone who has nothing. And God says, Come and delight in me. Buy something without price. That's grace. You don't have anything to give God. He's going to give it all to you. He invites you. That's where the text starts. And then as we move a little bit further in Isaiah fifty five, verse five, he says, Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not. The nation that knew not thee shall run unto thee because of the Lord thy God. and for the Holy One of Israel, for he hath glorified thee. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call on him while he is near. And this passage of Scripture is an invitation not to just the Jewish people, but to the Gentiles who are all around them. Come. I call a nation that knowest not, and nations that knew not thee shall run to thee because of the Lord thy God. That passage of Scripture is very important. And then we move a little bit further into chapter 56, and this is where the quotation comes in. He says, Let the sons of the stranger that hath joined himself to the Lord, speaks, saying, The Lord hath utterly separated me from his people, neither let the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree. Even unto them will I give in my house and within my walls a place and a name better than of sons and of daughters. I will give them an everlasting name. What an amazing statement. An everlasting name. That shall not be cut off. And also the sons of the stranger that join themselves to the Lord. To serve him and to love him, the name of the Lord, to be his servant, every one that keepeth the Sabbath from polluting it, and taketh hold of my covenant, even them will I bring to my holy mountain and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices shall be accepted upon my altars. For mine house shall be called an house of prayer for all people. The Lord God, which gathereth the outcast of Israel, saith, Yet will I gather others to him besides those that are gathered unto him. You know what that's telling us? Here is God speaking to a nation that has been so exclusive in their disposition. And he says, this covenant isn't just for you. It's for the Gentiles. This temple is a sacred place not just for you, but for all nations. And when Jesus goes up into that temple, do you know who is being the most mistreated out of all the people in the temple? The ones who came the greatest distance to be there. The ones that came from other nations. The ones who are literally fulfilling the very words of this prophecy. And when Christ sees it , He says this is never to be. Fourth thing I want you to notice here is this. Christ's actions and teaching establish an irreconcilable division. And verses forty seven and forty-eight it says, He taught daily in the temple, but the chief priests and the scribes and the chiefs of the people sought to destroy him, and could not find what they might do, for all the people were very attentive to hear him. His actions and words inflamed some. The chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him. They wanted to kill Jesus. This has been building for all this time, and they're ready to take it to its next level. On the other side, we have people who were very attentive to hear him. Verse 17 of Luke 6. A great multitude of the people out of all Judea and Jerusalem from the coast of Tyre and Sidon came to hear him to be healed of their diseases. Luke 15, one. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and the sinners to hear him. Matthew 21, 14, the blind and the lame came to him in the temple. What does this show you? It shows you that as Christ teaches And as he heals, and as he invites people to himself, there were some that were as angry as you can imagine they wanted him dead. And there were others who sat at his feet and listened. Those who embraced were saved. Didn't matter who they were. Didn't matter where they'd come from. Didn't matter what they'd done. They came to the feet of a Savior who would die for them. Those who rejected him would eventually face the judgment that was talked about last week. There's no middle ground. So you might ask this morning, well, Joel, what do we learn from this? There's a lot we could take away, but I want to zero in a couple of thoughts in closing. The first thought is this: Christ alone is supremely qualified to call out religious corruption and hypocrisy. If you look back at what Jesus says, notice what he said. He said, My Father's house. You know what he was saying? This isn't your house. It's mine. I can't say that But he could. This isn't my church. It's not your church. It's his church. Yet here is Christ who says, You have made my father's house a den of thieves. He is the only one who could have walked into that temple and made that statement on that day And they knew exactly what he was saying. In fact, it made the boiling point get even higher. Religious corruption and hypocrisy are things that Christ calls out. And he's qualified to do it. The second thing I want to mention is this: corporate worship is a sacred duty. And those who take their faith seriously are going to be dedicated to this duty. What amazes me is that as Jesus comes up into that temple, he sees people from all over the world He sees people from all over the Roman world. He sees people that came from Africa. He sees people that came from what we would consider to be Asia, from up into Europe. Christ saw people from all over the Roman world. And the question is, why did they come? Because they believe that in the God of Israel was salvation. And when Christ when Christ is crucified and rises from the dead, and then Peter preaches at Pentecost, It says there were people, and he names the languages of the peoples who heard the gospel preached in their own language. That's what speaking in tongues is. Here they are in the temple, and they hear these apostles who are from Galilee. Who've never learned these languages, and they're hearing the gospel being proclaimed in their own language, and they say, this is a miracle. And you know what it was? It was to say, you are welcome, and those who reject will be judged. It was to draw a line in the sand. And when Peter preaches, he says, they say, what should we do? He says, turn yourself from this untoward generation, repent and believe. Be baptized, separate yourself from this system. Why did he do that? Because they needed to embrace truth. And when people are dedicated to the sacredness of worship, they're going to take that seriously. Thirdly, this conscientious commitment opens the door to a lot of vulnerability. I hate to put it like this, but it's true. You come into the church in context and you have somebody preach from this pulpit. And they say God said this, that, if it's not true, puts you in a very vulnerable place. If you embrace a message that is a false gospel, it will be the determination of heaven and hell. In fact, one of the reasons Jesus was so aggressive against these religious leaders is he says, you preach a message that is leading people to destruction. You're tying this massive burden on the shoulders of these people. They can't bear it. You can't bear it. And the end result is eternal destruction. And so what does that do? It tells you that when somebody tells you, thus says the Lord, that puts you in a vulnerable position if it's not true. Thirdly , fourthly, God hates the high-handed abuse of authority on the vulnerable. This is why God gave qualifications of spiritual leadership. When we read 1, 2 Timothy and Titus. There's a reason why he says that if a man desires the office of a bishop, he desires a good work, he must be blameless, husband of wife, one wife. He goes through this whole listing of spiritual and practical qualifications. Why is that? Because if you're going to stand up and lead people and you're going to tell them this is what God says and you're lying to them Or you're abusing that authority, it doesn't get a lot more serious than that. That's a sacred duty that ought to really sober people. People ought to be hesitant to step into a role without thinking through the true ramifications of such a calling. This is why God gives instruction regarding corporate worship. When we come together to this place, the things that we do, we find in the Word of God. There's a reason that we pray. There's a reason that we have public scripture reasons. There's a reason that we have expositional preaching and teaching. There's a reason that we celebrate the Lord's table the way that we do it. There's a reason that we have baptism the way that we do it. We do those things because that's what God has told us to do. And there's a reason that there's certain things we don't bring into the church. And the reason we don't bring into the church those things is because we don't find them in the scriptures. And when we don't find them in the scriptures and we bring them into the church in context, we are running the great risk of adding to the worship of God things that He forbids. Either by silence or by direct command, don't do these things. When we look at the Old Testament paradigm, what we see is that the way that people were to come to God was a very sacred thing. And they couldn't just come anyway. And so we have to be so very cautious. We ought to be very conscientious in our commitment to doing things the way that God wants them done. This is why he consistently reminds those in spiritual leadership that they're answerable to him. There are times that people say, hey, Pastor, can we do this? And I feel extremely conflicted. But if I can't in good conscience say let's do it, and I tell you no, it's not personal. I'm answerable to God. And in my own conscience, if I'm going to violate my conscience, say let's go ahead and do that. I'm going to answer God for that. And so as a church, we want to be very cautious about how we go about the things that we do in worship. This is why he gave us his written word, to leave us an unchanging standard to hold us accountable. The fact is that when we open up the word of God, there are going to be times that I'm going to, I hope I don't, I hope I wouldn't say fail miserably, okay, but there are going to be times I fall short. And there'll be times others who get behind this pole, but they fall short. And how effectively they communicate the word of God. There are going to be times that you listen to something that was preaching, I don't even know what that guy's talking about. I hate to say it, but it's true. There may be times that you go, I don't think he got it. I hate to say that, but it's true. But the reality is that when the word of God is proclaimed, I hope that the consistent pattern Is that it is simple, it is clear, it's consistent with the intent of the Word of God, and the authority is not the man who delivers the message, but the text that's presented. And as we walk out of this place, we say the word of God has fed my soul. Not my pastor, not an assistant, not a deacon, not a Sunday school teacher. The Word of God has fed my soul. That is the standard. We must approach God with a humble, conscientious reverence that causes us to genuinely glory in His grace. He delights in drawing those whom the world disdains, and his people should reflect that same disposition. We as Christians should never harbor bitterness against other people. We as Christians should never harbor a disdain or a self-righteousness towards other people. The reality is we are all either sinners saved by grace or sinners being drawn by grace We're one of those two. And so we ought to be very cautious about the attitude that we have. There were people in that temple who were cheating people who came from other nations, and they said, they're not going to know any different. They don't know they're getting cheated. They don't know that when I exchanged that money for that, that I totally cheated them, or that the cost of that animal is completely blown out of proportion. They don't know. And I don't care. And what does that show you? A horrible abuse. May God help us to be sobered by the seriousness of religious corruption. And may we be a people who approach him with a genuine, well-ordered love for him. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word. It is powerful. It gets down into our hearts. It exposes where we fall short. It brings to light where we have rebelled. It convicts us. It also comforts us and motivates us and gives us a steadfast assurance that you love us. May we be a people who take the Word of God to heart this morning and apply it as you intended it to be applied. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.