And I hope that as we continue in our worship, you will be blessed by the time we spend in God's Word tonight. If you could take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 13. John chapter 13. We're going to begin reading in verse 1. We're going to move down to verse number 5. But tonight we're actually going to be looking at a large portion of scripture. That doesn't mean that our sermon is going to be an hour and a half long. I'm not suggesting that. But we are going to cover a lot of ground in God's Word. But what we will find as we cover a lot of ground in God's Word is that though we're covering a lot of A lot of ground is as far as verses go, we're actually looking at a short period of time. In fact, all of the things that we'll discuss tonight are going to take place in the upper room as Christ is celebrating the Passover with his disciples. And so, if you could, let's go and look at our Bibles. John chapter 13, we'll pick up in verse 5 as it sets the tone for what we will be looking at this evening. John thirteen one. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come That he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end As supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot Simon's son to betray him, Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hand , And that he was come from God and went to God, he riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments, and took a towel, and girded himself. After that he poureth water into a basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. You might say, what is the point of the passage of Scripture that we're going to be reading through tonight? The point of this passage, this portion of John's record of the gospel account, was to help us to understand the flow of events. That led up to Christ's crucifixion and the resurrection. And the reason was to show us how they fulfilled prophecy and established the basis for our redemption. Really, all of the things that we looked at this morning, all the things that we're going to look at tonight, really fall into that category. They're giving us a running record of the things that took place. So that we'll understand all of these details were the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. They were driving to that point when the Lord Jesus Christ is going to go to the cross and he's going to die for our sins. The fact is that as we read these truths and as we dwell on and meditate on these things, God wants us to remember with a renewed sense of gratitude and humility what it took Christ. To give us salvation. God wants us to think about how much it costs a Savior so that we could be redeemed forgiven, justified, that we could be brought into racial relationship with God. God wants us to dwell on that. God wants us to meditate on that this evening. And so as we've sung these hymns That was an integral part of our worship. As we look at the scriptures, this also is an integral part of our worship. So the question is, how can we get that correct sense, that renewed sense of gratitude and humility from the scriptures. Well I want to begin by looking at in the first section the events that are recorded here in the upper room. You know what's really interesting? As I've been studying this section of Scripture, one of the things that occurred to me is that half of the book of John is recording the events that took place in the final week of Christ's earthly ministry. From chapter 11 all the way to the end of the book, basically what we see is all of the events that took place at the end of Christ's ministry. John is trying to focus. on the conversations, the movement of events, the way people are responding to one another, the way that Christ responded to his disciples. He's trying to show us all of those things to point us to understand the nature of Christ's work and the value and the depth of those things. So we see in verse number one, it was before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come and that he would depart out of the world. I want us to begin by looking at a series of observations dealing with this time that Jesus is there in the upper room with his disciples. The first observation is this. The disciples were gathered together to celebrate a very special feast, the feast of Passover. Notice what it says, it was before the feast of the Passover. And so for us to understand what was going on in that upper room, I think it's important for us to be reminded again of what took place during Passover. In order to answer the question, what is Passover, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to Exodus chapter twelve In Exodus chapter 12, we're going to see the story of when the Passover was instituted as a Jewish feast. the Jewish calendar so that every single year at a specific time of the year, actually it was the beginning of the year, the first of the year, the Jewish people would celebrate what they called the Feast of Passover. And so for us to get a good sense of that, I want us to look at the details here. Let's begin in verse number one as we see the story of Passover. In verse number one it says this, The Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying, This month shall be unto you the beginning of months It shall be the first month of the year to you. In other words, this was going to be a week-long celebration instituted by God that would start the Jewish calendar every single year. And basically what was going to go on in that that week, during that first month of the year, was that the Jewish people were going to remember when God delivered his people out of slavery, out of bondage in Egypt. For several hundred years the nation of Israel was living in Egypt. They were foreigners outside of the land that God had given them, and they were under this heavy burden by their captors in bondage. And so at the end of that several hundred year period, God sent Moses to go and lead his people out of that slavery in Egypt. But in order for God to do that, he had to move the Pharaoh to be willing to release the people. And so God sent a series of plagues. against the nation of Egypt and against the Pharaoh and against his servants, so that God could demonstrate his power and his might over the gods of Egypt. Ultimately, by the end of the story, God's people will be sent out by the Pharaoh and his people. And it's because God has demonstrated his power, his might, his deliverance. This Passover celebration was all about that time of remembrance, God's deliverance. In verse number three, we see a little bit of the details about what was supposed to take place when they sat down to celebrate the Passover. And tells us in verse number three that each family was responsible to set aside a lamb for the celebration. Look down in verse three it says this. In the tenth day of the month, they shall take to them, every man, a lamb according to the house of their fathers. a lamb for a house. It was the responsibility of every family to take a lamb from their uh their lands that they had, and they would set it aside, and they were going to set it aside for a series of days. That lamb was going to be set aside for a very specific purpose, and we're going to find out in just a minute what that purpose was. Next, we see that the lamb had to meet rigorous requirements. Not any lamb that was among their sheepfold could have been chosen out to be used for this Passover celebration. In verse 5 it says, Your lamb shall be without blemish. It had to be a spotless lamb. It couldn't be a lame lamb. It couldn't be one that was injured, that was sick, that had some kind of infirmity. They had to pick a lamb that was perfect. There was nothing showing on that lamb that showed that it was weak or sick or had a problem. Also, it had to be a male of the first year. We then move down to verse number six and we see some more details about the way that they were supposed to celebrate the Passover. It says that the lamb was to be set apart for five days until the nation would collectively kill it. and eat it to commemorate God's deliverance. Notice carefully the details we find in verse number six. He says, Ye shall keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month. And then listen carefully to the way that it's worded. The whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening. Now don't miss the way that this is worded. This is very important. Every single family was responsible to take their own lamb. Every single family was responsible to kill their own lamb. And there was something else that they were going to do. We're going to find out about it in just a minute But as each family was having their own celebration, they were collectively as a nation having a sense of a corporate fellowship, a corporate festival. In other words, in some ways it was very similar to what we're doing here tonight. Tonight, we are each as individual families celebrating the Lord's table together as a church. But in a collective sense, because we are all gathered together through this live stream, we are doing this together. That is the same kind of sense of what was going on there in the nation of Israel at that time. Though each individual family had their own celebration, they were doing it as a community, as a body, as a group. They were Celebrating the Passover as a nation. We then see in verse number seven more details. The lamb's blood was to be applied to the doorposts of the house prior to the time that they would prepare it for their meal. And verse seven it says, And they shall take the blood, and strike it on the two side posts, and on the upper door posts of the house, wherein they shall eat it. In other words, not only were they supposed to set aside this lamb for five days, and they were to kill the lamb, and they were to roast the lamb, and they were to eat the lamb, and they were all supposed to do it at the same time as a nation All of them remembering the same event together, but they were to take the blood of the lamb that had died, and they were going to spread it on the doorpost of their house. And you say, Why in the world? Would they put blood on a doorpost? What was the significance? What was the point of that kind of an observance? Well, the text is going to tell us in verse number 11. He then goes well, we'll get there in just a second. Verse number 11, they were to make their preparation and eat the lamb with a trusting anticipation of God's deliverance. In verse eleven he says this Thus shall ye eat it, with their loins girded, and shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand, ye shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Passover. You ask, well, why was it that these people were supposed to do it in that kind of a way Why were they supposed to be dressed like they're going to go out somewhere, like they're going to go on a long journey and travel? Why did they eat the Passover lamb in that kind of a way? Well, it was because they were to anticipate that God was going to deliver his people. In other words, as they were eating this together, They were establishing something that they would look back on for generations, but at the moment that they ate it, they were actually looking forward to a deliverance that had not yet taken place. In fact, it was by faith that they would actually do this Passover celebration. They were basically saying, we believe that God is going to deliver his people. We anticipate that God is going to deliver us. We eat this in preparation to go out. What an amazing thing to consider. And then we see this. They were warned that as they were waiting, God would be sending a terrible plague. Throughout all the land that would target and kill the firstborn in every household that failed to follow God's instruction. You know, we asked the question, why was it that they would take the blood and apply it to the doorpost? Well, here's the answer in verse number 12. He says, I will pass through the land of Egypt this night. I will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt And I will execute judgment. I am the Lord. In verse 13, it says that God told them that as they were trusting and trusting obedience, That would be verified by the blood of the lamb that ultimately died in the place of the verseborn. In verse 13, the blood shall be to you for a token upon the house where ye are When I see the blood, I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you We could put it like this. Basically what God said was this if you will obey what I'm saying, because you believe that I'm going to go out and I'm going to spread this plague throughout the land. And you believe that I'm going to send you out and deliver you from the nation of Egypt. If you believe that, you'll do exactly what I say. And when you kill that lamb and when you spread the blood on the doorpost, then it is your way of saying we believe, we anticipate, we look forward to deliverance from God. We believe that He says, When I see that blood on that doorpost, it's a sign of something. And here's what the sign was: A lamb was killed in the place of the firstborn. In other words, there was a death in that household. The death was not going to be the firstborn. The death was going to be the lamb, the substitute. The lamb died in the place of that firstborn. And so because there had been death The angel could pass by that house, it was safe. This is what took place in the land of Egypt thousands of years. Before Christ and his disciples gathered together in that upper room to celebrate the Passover. In verse number 14, it says that God established this celebration as a yearly reminder to the people to look back at what God had done for them. In verse 14 it says, This day shall be unto you for a memorial, and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations. In other words, as those people were celebrating Passover, they were looking with anticipation for God's deliverance. They believed that God had provided a way that the firstborn could be passed by through the death of the Lamb. And after it took place, they looked back at what God did. They remembered what God did. So this is what's going on at the time of what we are reading here in the book of John, chapter 13. The second question I think that's very important for us to ask is not only what was Passover, but what did the Passover represent? There are a couple of things that I jotted down as I thought about what the Passover represented, and that Christ and his disciples would have been thinking about as they were celebrating the Passover. First of all, this is a time of communal celebration. The entire nation. Yes, there were individual family units. that would celebrate as a family. But as a nation, each family came together. They stopped everything that they were doing. They killed the Passover lamb. They ate the Passover lamb. They remembered what Christ did when he delivered his people out of Egypt. Egypt. In fact, when they would have these Passover celebrations, the most appropriate thing that they could have done was to teach their children. Here is the significance, here is the purpose that for why we celebrate this. This is a time of remembrance. We want you to know what God did. But it was communal. The whole community came together and they celebrated. We also see it was a time to remember God's past deliverance. It wasn't just about people getting together and enjoying this bond that they have as a people that had been delivered out of slavery, but it was to remember that it was God who delivers. A third thing that was very important was that it was a time to think about how God had provided a gracious substitute. Folks, that lamb represented a substitute for the firstborn in every family If the lamb was not killed, if its blood was not shed, if the blood wasn't applied to the doorpost, then that family was going to suffer because the firstborn would die. But if that blood was applied, it was an indication that they believed the message, the substitute had died. And the plague was stayed from that household. In other words, this is a time for people to think about this concept of substitution. And the last thing that really stands out to me as I reflect on it is with it it was also a time to look forward to God's future redemption Now, at the very moment that those people were celebrating the Passover, they were not looking backward, they were looking forward. In other words, the original people celebrating Passover had not experienced deliverance. They anticipated deliverance. And what's interesting is that in this Passover celebration, there was an anticipation of a greater deliverance, even than the one that they had experienced as a nation. The sad reality though is that many people didn't understand the anticipation that was being pictured in the Passover. In other words, Passover wasn't just about looking back. It was about looking forward. And what's very interesting is that the Lord Jesus Christ on that night is going to call his disciples to look forwards. What an amazing concept. There were people, however, that understood the significance of the Passover and what the Passover represented. And I want to give you two simple examples Because by the things that these individuals said, we understood, they understood the concept that God was sending a deliverer in the person of Christ the Messiah. And they understood the nature of how Christ would deliver. It would be as a dying substitute who shed his blood so that we could be redeemed. The first example is a man named Simeon. In Luke chapter 2, verse 25, we see that Simeon was a man who was anticipating the consolation of Israel. And this is what it says: there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. The same man was just and devout, and here's what it says. He was waiting for the consolation of Israel, and it was revealed unto him by the Holy Spirit that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. Now, what does that tell you? Simeon believed that God was going to send deliverance. And deliverance would be in the person of the Messiah. He anticipated, he waited for it, he was looking for it. It then tells us that when Jesus was a little baby and his parents took him to the temple, this man Simeon met them. And God revealed to Simeon, that baby right there, that is the Messiah. That's the one you're looking for. And I want you to listen carefully to what Simeon said on that day when he met the Messiah and held him in his arms as a little baby. He says this. He took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord. Now let us thy servant depart in peace according to thy word. For mine eyes have seen your salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people And Simeon blessed him and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel, for a sign which shall be spoken again. And then listen to what he says. Because this reveals that Simeon understood the nature of how Christ would deliver his people. He says, A sword shall pierce through your own soul also. And the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. Basically, Simeon was telling his mother Mary. Jesus, that baby you hold in your hands, is going to deliver through a very painful experience. The truth is that at the end of Christ's ministry, his mother wept before his cross, watching her son die in agony, and what Simeon said would happen did There's a second person that understood this, and this was John the Baptist. John was actually the cousin to the Lord Jesus Christ. And in John 1. 29, we see that John is preaching in the wilderness. Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Prepare the way for the Lord. He's coming. And this is what the text tells us in verse 29. When John saw Jesus coming unto him, he said, Behold the Lamb of God taketh away the sins of the world. What does that tell you? John understood that Jesus the Messiah would take away sin as God's perfect Lamb. In other words, there were people who lived during the time of Christ that would have understood that the Passover was not just about looking back. A deliverance from slavery in Egypt, but it was looking forward with anticipation to the ultimate deliverance where God would deliver his people from their sins through the death of his son on the cross. We come to a third question. What does it now represent? What's the point of it all? And you know what's interesting? The Passover has a new significance. Because we are now on the other side of the death of Christ. Not only can we look back at what took place when God delivered his people out of Egypt, the Passover looked back to that, but we also look back at the cross. And what's interesting is we're going to see in this passage that the Lord Jesus Christ takes the Passover and he says, let me explain to you how the Passover doesn't just look back, how it looks forward at what I'm going to do. And once I've died, and once I've risen, and once I've ascended to the Father, it's going to be a time where you look back at what I did on that cross. 1 Corinthians 11, 23 to 26, this is what Paul says that Christ stated on that day. The Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. When he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat, this is my body which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me. After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as often as ye drink it in remembrance of me. As often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death until he comes. In other words, the Lord Jesus Christ was demonstrating that this is not just the time to look back. This is the time to look back, to look forward, and then to look back again at the work of Christ. We come to a second observation. That night in the upper room, Christ set the tone to take a position of servant. And I want you to see the way that Christ talked to his disciples And the interactions that we find in chapters 13 and following. In John 13, 1 it says this, Jesus knowing That the Father had given all things into his hand. He rises from supper, he laid aside his garments, he took a towel and girded himself After this, he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet. Jesus used this selfish act of to demonstrate humility and to initiate a conversation. about the cleansing that his disciples needed, and how he would ultimately bring cleansing to them through the cross of Christ You know, it's interesting. The Bible tells us that that night, when Jesus celebrated the Passover with his disciples, he wasn't hosting it in a house that he owned. He didn't have household servants who would come and wash everybody's feet and prepare the meal and do what they needed to do. Jesus was in a borrowed room because he didn't have a home of his own, and nor did his disciples. And so they're all gathered together in a borrowed room. There's nobody washed the disciples' feet. And Jesus says, now is the time for me to set the tone for the rest of this evening. He gets on his knees, he pulls out a basin, he removes his outer robe, and he begins to wash the feet of these men. You say, what was he doing? He was doing what a household servant would have typically done when someone was welcomed into a person's home. It might have been a little boy or a little girl, a child who would take that position of the servant and would wash the feet of those who were being welcomed. Nobody was there to do it. Jesus did it. And Jesus was doing it to demonstrate his humility and his love for his disciples. But there was more to it than that. Jesus did it to initiate conversation. You say, how do you know that? I know that because of what he says in verses six to eight. In verse six it says, Then cometh to him Simon Peter, and Peter said unto him, Lord, Dost thou wash my feet? Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know there ha hereafter. He says, If I wash thee not Thou hast no part with me. What was Jesus doing? He was establishing something to get Peter's attention So that after these events transpired, Peter would look back and he'd say, I remember what Jesus said to me in the upper room as he was washing my feet. And I said, I can't let you do this. And he says, if I don't wash you, you have no part of me. All of a sudden he realizes that's what the cross is all about. Christ went to that cross to remove my sin debt, to cleanse me, to make me whole. And he was using that as a picture to illustrate that. We come to a third observation, Christ revealed the painful realities that some of his disciples would not respond well And these unfolding events. As Jesus is there in the upper room, as he's washing the disciples' feet, now he's sitting down to eat with them. And as he's sitting down to eat with them, here are the things that they talk about. In verses 21 and following, Jesus revealed that one of those twelve, who had traveled with him everywhere for over three years, who saw all those miracles, one of the twelve, would betray him that night. When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit and testified and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, one of you shall betray me. He it is to whom I shall give a psalm. When Jesus made that statement, he broke bread and handed it to Judas. You know, when he handed that bread to Judas, nobody in that room, from our indication , understood what Jesus was saying. But Jesus was saying to Judas, I know what you're going to do. Go and do it quickly. Judas is, he's revealing that one of the twelve will betray him. In verse 36, he goes beyond that, and he says, one of you, Peter, will deny me. You won't betray me. But under the pressure of what we're about to go through in these next few hours, you will deny that you even know me. In verse 36, it says, Peter said unto him, Lord, Why can I not follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. And Jesus said this to him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, the cock shall not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice. Can you imagine if you'd been sitting that in that room that night? This is a festive occasion, you're celebrating the Passover, and all of a sudden Jesus, who has been your teacher and your master, you've been his disciple for over three years. He washes your feet. And he says, if I don't cleanse you, you have no part with me. And then as everybody's sitting down and they're getting ready to eat the Passover, Jesus says, one of you is going to betray me. And he breaks bread and he hands it to the very person that's going to betray him, and that person leaves the room to go and to basically sell Christ to the high priest. And then a few minutes later, he looks at his disciple Peter, the most outspoken of all the disciples, and he says, Peter, you cannot follow me where I'm about to go. And Peter says, I will die for you, Lord. And he says, You'll deny me. Before that cock crossed three times. Can you imagine how people felt? They were scared. There was a lot of confusion. And you say, how did Jesus minister to those people at that time? And here's what he did Observation 4. Christ immediately sought to encourage these disciples to help them heal and be restored after these events would unfold. Jesus knew everything that those men were going to go through. And you know, Christ didn't have this condescending, harsh attitude towards his disciples. In fact, he loved them deeply. He had tremendous compassion for them. He was merciful to them. He wanted to encourage them. He knew there was another side. He knew there was going to be a day when there the cross was finished, the tomb was empty, and the disciples didn't know what was next, and he wanted them to remember that he still loved them and had a ministry for them. Here's some of the things that Jesus said to them that night. In chapter 14, 1-3, it says that he encouraged them to look at their future eternal glory. He says, Let not your heart be troubled. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also. The very first encouragement Christ gives to those disciples is he says, look at your future, because I'm going to the cross. You have eternity with God in heaven. The next thing that he does is he encourages them to remember that he is the way, that this glory will be theirs. In verses five to six, he says, I'm the way. The truth and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. In chapter fifteen, he encouraged them by reminding them that they would be fruitful as they communed with him. Verse 4 he says, Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye except ye abide in me. He that abideth in me and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me, you can do nothing. Jesus says, you have an eternal home. That home is through the work that I will accomplish. And let me tell you, you're going to be fruitful as my disciples because you're going to commune and fellowship and abide in me. I will enable you and empower you to have a fruitful, vibrant ministry in spite of those things I've just told you are going to take place. In chapter 16, he continues to encourage them. He encourages them by revealing how the Spirit of God will indwell them. And would comfort them and empower them in their future ministry as apostles. In verses 7 through 13, Jesus makes this statement: I tell you the truth. It is expedient for you that I go away, for if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you. And when he has come, he will reprove the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. When he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth. He shall not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to come. In other words, he says, I'm not going to leave you alone. I'm going to go away, and you're going to experience the sorrows of this final chapter of my ministry. But the Holy Spirit is going to be your comforter. Your encourager. He's going to enable you. He's going to empower you in your ministry. Jesus wants to encourage his disciples. But then the final thing I want to mention about Jesus' conversation with his disciples that night was this. He wanted them to know That he had prayed for them. And he wanted them to know exactly how he had prayed for them. Look down at verse 17 of chapter 17. He says this. I pray Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. For their sakes I sanctify myself. that they also may be sanctified through the truth. Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word. That they all may be one as thou Father art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us. That the world may believe that thou hast sent me in the glory which thou gavest me, I have given unto them That they may be one even as we are one. You say, Pastor Joel, that's a lot of stuff. Let me tell you something. There is more detail to the time that Jesus spent in the upper room with his disciples than what I shared with you tonight. I wanted you to get a big picture of the general conversation of what took place that night. As they're celebrating Passover, they are looking back. At the deliverance of God's people out of Egypt. But Jesus says, you need to not only look back, you need to look forward. I'm about to go to the cross. And that Passover lamb really is a picture of me. And after we've passed through this season and I've gone to the cross and I've risen from the dead, I want you to remember what I've done for you. I want you to take that bread. And I want you to take that juice. And as you eat that bread, you remember my body was broken for you. When you drink that juice, you remember, my blood was shed for you. You do this in remembrance of me. In other words, the Passover is not just about looking back to Egypt. It's about looking back at the cross. And then he says, I want you to realize you're about to pass through some very deep and dark, troubling waters. One of you has already determined to betray me. One of you who says you'll die for me, you will deny me. But I want you to remember something. On the other side of the cross, on the other side of the empty tomb, there's going to be opportunity to serve me. And I want to encourage you if your future hope. I want to encourage you that I have to go to the cross so that that hope can be secured. I want to encourage you that God is going to make you fruitful as you abide in me. I want to encourage you that though I'm leaving you and going to prepare a place for you, I'm sending the Comforter so that he'll empower your ministry. And I want to encourage you that I am interceding on your behalf to the Father, and I've already begun to do this. In other words, as we read about what takes place in the supper room. We see that Christ's heart, his passion for his disciples, is clearly, evidently displayed, not only when he bows, gets on his knees and begins to wash their feet, but when he shares with them how he loves them and how he thinks about them, how he prays for them. And I want to tell you something about our Savior. He loves you in the same way. He absolutely does. The cross wasn't just for Peter, it was for you. And it was for me. That Passover wasn't just meant for them to look back. It was meant for you and me to look back. What is the significance of these events? Let me share with you a couple of very simple thoughts before we take a moment to remember Christ's body that was broken for us. And his blood that was shed for us. The first is this: the upper room reminds us that God's plan of redemption is not simply a New Testament concept. But rather it is the event that connects both the Old and the New Testament. The reality is that when Christ went to that cross, That pivotal moment in history was connecting everything that we read about in the Old Testament to everything that we read about in the New Testament. Those testaments, those covenants are connected by the cross of Christ. One is looking forward and one is looking back. And folks, we need to remember that when we remember the Lord's death and resurrection, we are celebrating the most significant event that connected two parts. Of God's plan of redemption. Two, the upper room reminds us that Christ humbled himself. He exercised tremendous patience and restraint for the future blessings that his people would enjoy. Can you imagine as the Lord Jesus Christ looked at Peter and he knew what Peter would do? He looked at Judas. He broke bread and handed it to Judas. That's the most amazing thing in this entire story. The very man who is filled With hatred for Christ, a willingness to sell him to know he will go to the cross, he hands that man a piece of bread. And he says, Go do what you're giving. Christ was patient with his disciples. He loved them. He wanted to encourage them. He was looking beyond that immediate time of fear and trouble at their future hope. The upper room reminds us that the cross was about reconciling God and man, to establish an intimate, abiding, eternal relationship. You know how much of the upper room discourse, the conversation between Jesus and his disciples, emphasizes the eternal relationship between God and his people? I go to prepare a place for you, and I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am there you may be also He's using the picture of the bride and the groom. The groom goes away and prepares a place for his bride, and he's going to take her to be with him. He uses that analogy. The vine and the branches, and he talks about how through abiding in Christ you become fruitful. When he prays for his disciples. He talks about the intimate relationship within the Godhead between Father and Son, and how there's perfect communion. And he says, I want you to have that with me. Eternal fellowship, abiding relationship, encouragement. That's what the upper room is all about. Let's together prepare hearts to remember in a tangible way Christ's body that was broken. His blood that was shed to remove our guilt, to establish this intimate relationship that will last forever.