I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are starting a new chapter in 1 John. We're in 1 John chapter 5. We're going to read verses 1 through 5 together. So let's go ahead and turn there and we'll look at this passage together. Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. Every one that loveth him that be is begotten, that begetteth him, also that is begotten of him. For by this we know that we love the children of God, and we love God and keep his commandments. And this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous For whosoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God? I love this passage because this passage is emphasizing several things. One of the things that it emphasizes is the fact that when we trust in the finished work of Christ, there are some wonderful things that take place inside of us. and some wonderful things that that change inside of us. And so really this entire passage is going to be focusing on how the gospel transforms us. And so let me give you a simple summary statement, and then we'll look at several truths that are connected to this passage. The passage reminds us that the gospel not only saves us from the penalty of sin, But it also transforms us as a person. And so let's look at those truths. The first is this: the gospel gives us the power to love God. Now you may have never thought I need to be empowered to love God, but let's look at what the verse says. He says, Whosoever believeth that Jesus Christ is born of God, that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. And everyone that loveth him that begot loveth him also that is begotten of him. Now he's basically saying if you believe that Jesus is the Christ, and there's a lot that needs to be unpackaged there, but you're placing your faith in the finished work of the Messiah. If you've done that, then you love the one who saved you, the one who begat you, the one who gave you life. You might say, well, why is that significant? Well, it's significant because we need to understand how we are by nature as it relates to God. In other words, think about some passages that talk about how people in their natural state respond to God. And in Psalm 2, it says, why do the nations rage? and imagine a vain thing. He says that the world is angry against God. In Romans chapter 1 it says that people hold the truth in unrighteousness. They literally suppress the truth. And they change the truth of the incorruptible God into a God made like unto corruptible man. People suppress the knowledge of God. They're angry at God's authority, his lordship, his sovereignty. And the truth is that people are masters of creating their own view of God to worship because they don't like God as he actually is. The Bible tells us that our mind is naturally at war against God, and it's not submissive to God. And so what's really interesting is this passage is just part of a long line of passages that emphasize the fact that we love God when we become Christians and we love Him because He first loved us. We love him because we have a new nature in Christ. A second truth that's really interesting here is that the gospel gives us the power to not only love God. But to love people. He says in verse 1, everyone that loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begotten of him. That means that we don't just love God, but we love the people that God has saved. We love other Christians. We love the church. Now that's something that's stated because we don't naturally do that. It's something that God enables us to do. In fact, in the book of 1 John, he talks a lot about the fact that part of what gives us confidence before God that we're a Christian Not the primary, but the secondary aspects of our confidence are connected to the fact that we love other Christians. 1 John 3. 14 says this. We know that we've passed from death unto life. because we love the brethren. In John thirteen, obviously not first John, but the same person that God's using to write these words, he says, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love for one another. In Colossians 3, verses 12 to 15, Paul talks about the fact that we're to put on vows of mercy, kindness, meekness, forbearing with one another, forgiving one another. He talks about the fact that we're supposed to love one another deeply. That means that the gospel is what gives us the power to love And we see that emphasized in this passage. We then see a third truth that's very important. The gospel also gives us the power to obey God's commandments. And verse 3 says, this is the love of God that we keep his commandments. Jesus says, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I go back to Romans chapter 8, because Romans chapter 8 is a really important passage. When we think about this issue of how people relate to God's law. In Romans chapter 8, it talks about the fact that we could not keep God's law in our natural state. It says that we couldn't be saved because we were not able to keep God's law. Our nature was so broken and so fallen. And so antagonistic to God's law that we cannot keep it. It's not just that we don't keep it, that we fall short of it, but we really don't have the power to keep it because our nature is bent in rebellion against God And so what the passage tells us is that what we couldn't do, God did for us. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, he condemned sin in the flesh. And I love this phrase. He says, so that the righteous requirements of the law may be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. And so what that passage is basically telling us is this. In our natural state, we rejected God's law. We broke God's law. We did not have the power to keep his law. So God did for us what we couldn't do for ourselves. He sent his son. He keeps the law perfectly. He dies in our place. He saves us. He regenerates us. He puts the Holy Spirit in us. And now when we walk in obedience to the Spirit's work in us, when he dominates our thoughts and our heart, when he is shaping and molding and working us, what is the result of that? We walk according to the spirit rather than according to the flesh. And we fulfill those things that we're supposed to fulfill. What that tells us is that it's the new nature in us that gives us the ability to be able to walk in obedience to God's laws. One of the reasons that there's such a fundamental change between a person before conversion and after conversion is because of the presence of the Spirit and this new nature. And so the gospel gives us the power to actually obey God's commandments. We then see a fourth very important simple truth. The gospel gives us the power to have godly affections. In other words, he doesn't just help us to do what is right, but he helps us to want what is right. It's so interesting. He says it like this. His commandments are not grievous. When he talks about them being grievous, he's saying, before we trusted in the finished work of Christ, We looked at God's law as a burden, as a weight, something that we could not perform, something that put this cloud over us, something that We struggled and we could not meet to it. We couldn't attain to it. And then he basically says, when you become a new creature in Christ, all of a sudden the burdens of God's commands seem like good and normal things to do. In other words, God says don't do this? Well then why would I want to do it? God says do this. And there's something compelling me to do that. It's God who works in us both to will and to do of his good pleasure. And so that the gospel not only transforms what we do, but it transforms what we want. In Colossians 3, verses 11. And following, Paul talks about this. He says, if ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth. And so the ability and the power, the enabling to set our affection on things above is something that comes because of the power of the gospel. And so it's God that enables us to love him, to love others, to keep his commands, and to want to do those things that are pleasing in his sight. There's a fifth and final thing that I want to mention here, and that's this. The gospel gives us the power to overcome the world. Look at the way he puts it in verses four and five. He says, whatsoever is born of God, that's the Christian, that's the one who's believed on the Messiah. Whatsoever is born of God. Overcometh the world. That's an amazing statement, isn't it? He says, this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he who overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God? He emphasizes three times that the Christian overcomes the world He is overcoming. He's going to overcome. He is an overcomer. The scripture emphasizes that. And that's so important because the fact is that the Christian life is not an easy life. It's a difficult life It's full of struggles. In fact, there are many places in the Bible where the apostles talk about the Christian life with the language of someone who's in the battle. Ephesians chapter 6, he talks about putting on the whole armor of God. Why does Paul use the analogy of armor? Because the Christian life involves a spiritual battle. Why does Paul talk about one who trains in the boxing arena or one who's running a race? Why does he talk about someone who is wrestling not against flesh and blood? He uses the analogies of the battle and the competition because the Christian life is an intense battle. The battle within our souls is something that we have to overcome. And the reality is that we face struggles from outside. We face struggles from the inside. And we need to realize that in the midst of that struggle, there's hope. And that hope is that God is going to make you an overcomer. He's going to strengthen you in the battle. He's going to enable you. And at the end of it all, you will be declared an overcomer. Why? Because of the power of the gospel. It's because of what Christ did for you. what Christ is doing in you and what God has purposed to complete in spite of you. That's really important for us to remember. God forgives us, God matures us, and he ultimately rescues us. And so the passage reminds us that we are overcomers. And this is a major emphasis in the book of 1 John. In 1 John chapter 2, he talks about them being overcomers. In 1 John chapter 4, he says, you're of God will churn, and you've overcome them, because greater is he that's in you than he that's in the world. In 1 John 5. 4, in 1 John 5. 5, he talks about the same thing. In Revelation 2. 7, he talks about the members of the church being overcomers. Fifteen times In the book of Revelation, he talks about Christians as overcomers. At the end of the book, Revelation 21, verse 7, he says, He that overcometh shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. What's the point? When John writes to Christians as an older man, as a pastor to people that he loves, He emphasizes over and over and over again that they are overcomers, that they are overcoming, that they will overcome. He emphasizes that because the Christian life is a struggle So how can we take this and practically apply it this morning? Let me give you just three very simple but important practical thoughts. The first is this. The gospel makes us a new creature in Christ. And the implications of that are so profound. The truth is that I can actually walk in obedience to God. I can love him the way that I should. I can love the people that are my brothers and sisters in Christ the way that he wants me to. I actually can obey his commandments. I actually can have a right kind of heart. Those things are possible because I'm a new creature in Christ. And those things are really emphasized in this passage. That is very practical for us. today. A second thing is this. God has given me all the tools that I need to be victorious. In fact, he's guaranteed that I'm going to be an overcomer But he's also given me everything that I need to be victorious today. He's given us his word. He says, get on your knees and come to me in prayer. He's given us other Christians. He's given us the church And so I want to encourage you, you have the tools that you need. Pick them up and use them today. And lastly, you are an overcomer. If you have placed your faith in the finished work of Christ, then you are declared by God an overcomer. Not just declared righteous through the righteousness of Christ, not just declared forgiven because of the death of Christ. Not just declared alive because of the resurrection of Christ, but you're declared an overcomer. And so that is reality. You may not feel like that's reality at the moment. There may be times today that you don't feel like that's true, but it is. That's what the Bible teaches. It's truth. And so we need to take that truth and we need to grasp it and we need to walk in the light of it. I hope that these things will have been an encouragement to you this morning. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for the chance to discuss 1 John chapter 5. I pray that it will be an encouragement to each person that's listened today. Strengthen them, strengthen me. Help us to be faithful as we continue to walk with you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning if this has been a blessing. I hope that you'll take a moment to share that, greet some of the other folks who've joined us, and I hope that you have a great rest of your day. Bye now.