I you realize today is the last Sunday in June, which means we're only two weeks away from VBS. And before VBS we have a couple of meetings. Uh today we got our teacher and counselor meeting, which will be meeting in the double door room. Um So it's just teachers and counselors and then of course be in prayer for the teens while they're away this week at the Wilds. And then we have our welcome fellowship next Sunday evening, uh, but that will be at 5 p. m. So not our regular service time, but at 5 p. m. we'll have a hymn sing and cookout, and that will be to welcome the Mitchells as well as the lenders. And then we'll have our VBS set up on the 9th. So with that, I also want to mention that there is a sign-up for food items for VVS. Please check the bulletin boards for that, as well as any other signups that we have. Passion Okay, if you could open up your Bibles start opening scripture, and that is Philippians chapter two. It's a very familiar passage of Scripture, and it will really prepare us to look at the text from Luke that will be the focus of our morning service. So Philippians chapter 2, and we will be reading verses 5 through 11. Here's what God's Word says: Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven and things in earth, and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. This morning, all of our songs are going to focus on a theme, and that is focusing in on the majesty of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the reason that that is the focus of this message is because we're going to look at The passage in Luke that that gives us the transfiguration. We're going to think about what it says about Christ and consider the very rich doctrinal implications, the very practical implications that we find there. So as we as we bow for prayer, ask the Lord to help you to think about these words as we sing these songs, as we listen to the preaching of the word, let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. And let's remember those who are traveling, those who are sick, and especially our young people as we'll be traveling down to the wilds this next week. Let's be out for prayer, please. Father, we are so grateful that we can assemble as a body of believers. We recognize that if it wasn't for Christ's death on the cross, His willingness to humble himself and be obedient unto death, to shed his blood for the remission of our sins. If it wasn't for his triumph in the resurrection, there would be no reason for us to assemble this morning. There'd be nothing to celebrate. We would be in a terrible position, having no hope without God in the world. And so I pray that this morning as we think about the majesty of Christ and we think about the weight of the cross and the triumph of the resurrection. That as we think on these things, that you would stir up our hearts, help our hearts to understand these things well and help our emotions to be directed towards praise and honor to the Lord Jesus. I pray that all that is done this morning would bring glory to you and would ultimately uplift and strengthen us as your people. Father, I pray for those who are sick and those who have traveled, those who are not able to be with us this morning. I pray that as they join us on the live stream from their various places, that you would use the word and use this time of singing praise to you to uplift and strengthen and encourage them. Father, I pray for those who are downcast and discouraged, that are wearied because of difficult circumstances in life. I pray that these truths would strengthen and uplift them, that they would not be weighed down, but they would find a firm footing in your kindness toward them, and they would rejoice in the gospel this morning. And Father, I pray for our young people as we travel down to the wilds this next week. Please give us traveling mercies and safety, help our fellowship on The way down and back to be very sweet and very focused on Christ. Help it to be just a great time for our young people. And as we hear the preaching of your word in many different contexts, This next week, I pray that each of those times that the word would work deeply in our hearts. We pray that all ultimately you would be glorified and you would do a great work in the lives of these young people. And we ask all of this in Christ's name. Thank you all for joining us for worship this morning. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number one. Rejoice the Lord is King. We'll sing all four verses of hymn number one. Let's sing out this morning. We are welcome to go. One of them Great singing Let's over to hymn number six. Number six, I sing the mighty power of God. We'll sing all three verses Oh Great singing, please be seated. As we turn over to hymn number fourteen, worthy of praise, we'll sing both verses And I'll tell you Great singing. Our scripture reading this morning will be found in the Gospel of Luke. Luke chapter 9, verses 28 through 35. Gospel of Luke, chapter 9, verses 28 through 35. The scriptures say, and it came to pass about in eight days after these sayings, he took Peter and John and James. And went up into a mountain to pray. And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistening. And behold, there stood with him two men, which were Moses and Elias, who appeared in glory and spake of his decease, which he should accomplish in Jerusalem. But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep. And when they were awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him. And it came to pass as they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here. And let us make three tabernacles, one for thee and one for Moses, and one for Elias, not knowing what he had said. While he thus spake, there came a cloud and overshadowed them, and they feared as they entered into the cloud. And there came a voice out of the cloud saying, This is my beloved son. Hear him. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Wonderful. Let's continue our great singing. We'll turn our hymn books to hymn number twenty-nine. Hymn number twenty-nine. Praise my soul, the king of heaven. We'll sing all four verses of number twenty-nine. No, I'm not sure. And let's stand before our message. Number 109 in our blue book. Please stand as we sing all three verses of our triune God. It's in the blue book number one hundred nine. Let's have the instruments drop out on the last verse. Enjoy my God to We praise you for your team that glory works on We bore God for bakers See how they do my call and break things come Yeah, one two one four three rows I man. Great singing, please be seated. Come, you weary heart now to Jesus. Commutation so now we'll see there is perfect love and comfort in your tears. Rest here in his wondrous peace. Oh the goodness, the goodness of Jesus Satisfied, He is all that I need. May it become what may that I rest all my faith in the goodness of Jesus Come find what this world cannot offer. Come and find your joy here. Teas for living water never thirst again Rest here in his wondrous east Oh the gladness The kindness of Jesus satisfy He is all that I need. Become what may that I rest all my days in the greatness of Jesus. Come and find your hope now in Jesus. He is all he said he would be. Grace is overflowing from the Savior 's heart. Rest here in his wondrous seed. Oh God, with the goodness of Jesus satisfied, He is all that I need. May it become what may that I Rest almight in the goodness of Jesus. Oh the goodness, the goodness of Jesus satisfied He is Is all that I need. May it become what may that I rest all my days in the goodness of Jesus. Become what may that I rest for my death in the jointness of Jesus. This is an old life. Okay, our children who are junior church age may be dismissed back with their parents' help. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Luke chapter 9. We're in Luke chapter 9. We're looking at verses 28 through 36. And I will say that we're going to put out a new preaching schedule so that you can see what text of scripture we will be dealing with from now until October. And so that will come out after camp. We've already got it planned. We just need to put it out there. But that'll show you what text of scripture we're dealing with as we work our way through the book of Luke on Sunday mornings. Obviously on the first Sunday of the month we take some time to look at each of the Psalms and then when we come to October we'll be in our missions month and We're going to focus in on such a very, very important topic. And I'm very excited about the missionaries that we're going to have with us each week. Some weeks we will have missionaries who we support and have supported for a very long time. Some are folks who are in the midst of trying to raise support, and we look forward to getting to know them, being a blessing to them, and prayerfully considering if the Lord would have us to partner with them at some point in the future. Luke chapter 9, verse 28 is where we'll start. Here's what it says. And it came to pass about eight days after these things. He took Peter and John and James and went up into a mountain to pray. And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistening. And behold, there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias, who appeared in glory and spake of his decease, which he should accomplish in Jerusalem. But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep, and when they were awake they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him. And it came to pass as they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here, and let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, one for Elias, not knowing what he said. While he thus spake, there came a cloud and overshadowed them, and they feared as they entered into the cloud, and there came a voice out of the cloud saying, This is my beloved son, hear him. And when the voice was past, Jesus was found alone. And they kept it close, and told no man of those days any of those things. Now this passage of Scripture is a very well-known account from the life of Jesus. And one of the things that's important for us as we work our way through these various texts in the book of Luke. is to recognize that as Luke is writing down these things, as he's being guided by the Holy Spirit to record these things, as the Holy Spirit is speaking through Luke and as he's recording for us. the inerrant word of God, every single one of these events and every single one of these conversations that Luke records in Matthew and Mark and John as well was Serving a very particular purpose. And that purpose is ultimately to point us to understanding who Jesus is, understanding why he came, and why it matters to us Here we are 2,000 years ago, why it mattered to the immediate recipients in every single generation from then on. What was the point? of this particular passage of Scripture and these particular details being recorded for us. And so let me give you a summary statement and kind of uh emphasize what I think the primary themes are in this text of Scripture. And then what we're going to do is we're going to work our way through each of those themes and hopefully drive home to some very, very practical uh and implications. So Luke chapter 9 reveals Christ's inherent glory. Now when I use the word inherent, I don't mean inherited, I mean inherent. In other words It is a glory that he possesses by virtue of who he is. In other words, this is not a glory that was given to Jesus, but this is The glory that he possesses as God. Luke 9 reveals Christ's inherent glory that was Veiled in his humiliation, but displayed as a foretaste of what would ultimately be revealed after he had fully completed his redemptive purpose. In fact, if we remember in the verses leading up to this, Jesus has just mentioned some things about the fact that he's going to die, and he's going to die a very humbling death. And he's going to rise from the dead. And he talks about the fact that all of those who are associated with him are going to have to be willing to take up their cross and to follow him daily. And so what he's basically saying is If you're a Christian and people know you're a Christian and you're associated with me, there is the great potential that you will suffer as a result of that identification with me. Those are the things that have just been recorded before we get into this passage of scripture dealing with the transfiguration. And I think ultimately what the text is driving at is that God wants us to understand the weight of who Jesus is and the weight of his glory and the weight of his redemptive purpose. And to see how it applies to us personally. That's really the driving point of this text in front of us. And so there are four themes. that we find in these verses. The first one is this connection between the agony and the humiliation and the suffering that Jesus would experience on the cross And the fact that Christ's glory was veiled and would ultimately be revealed in the future. There's a connection between the cross And glory revealed. We see that in the text. The second thing is the dual nature of Christ in his humiliation. We are looking at a person who is fully God. And fully man. In other words, we have the perfect blending in the person of Christ of God in flesh. And so when we talk about Jesus being God in flesh, Emmanuel, we have to recognize that there are aspects of who Jesus is that were veiled during that initial time where people are interacting with him as Emmanuel, God in flesh. What this passage of scripture does is it is as if God is revealing who Jesus is by removing the veil, removing the curtain. for a moment to a select group of people before the cross so they would understand they're dealing with the Messiah. It's kind of at the heart of what's going on here. The third thing Which is not in any way a secondary point, is the preeminence of Christ in the scriptures. The people who are there on the mount Represents something very significant. And the discussion point between them is something very significant. And the voice And who says, this is my beloved son, that is very significant. And even the very people that Jesus allowed to witness this, these three apostles It is very significant. And I want us to examine that for a moment today. And then fourthly, Peter's incomplete comprehension of these truths. I think there's actually a tremendous practical point for us to consider as you recognize that here is the Apostle Peter, probably the most privileged of all of the apostles. He didn't understand what was going on in front of him. It's easy for us to laugh at Peter, but there's a lot of times that God's doing things in our lives that are very profound. They're very significant and and they just pass us by. We don't understand them. So we'll talk about that So first of all, let's look at the first truth. God magnified his greatness through the cross. Now listen, the cross didn't make God great. The cross revealed the greatness of God. And this is a very important principle for us to understand. In verse 22, it says, the Son of Man must Suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day. In verse 26 it says, he shall come in his own glory. That's a great statement. And in his fathers and of the holy angels, he states three different aspects of the glory of Christ that are absolutely going to be revealed. His glory, his father's glory, and the glory of the holy angels. The cross magnifies the greatness of God Four statements. The first is he must suffer many things. Folks, you and I cannot be a saved people. We cannot be forgiven. We cannot be cleansed. We cannot be declared righteous. We cannot have access into the presence of a holy and righteous God. We can't have any hope in life and death if it's not for the cross of Christ. When he says that he must Suffer many things. This is an absolutely inescapable part of God's plan of redemption. There is no plan B There is no other way. Jesus is the only way. He is the truth. He is the life. And the plan of redemption came through the cross and the cross alone. It says in verse 22, he had to be slain. There had to be an objective basis for God to be able to say, not guilty. I think many people misunderstand this. Many people in the world today believe, well, you know, I know that God is loving and he's kind and he's gracious and he's merciful, and so because he likes me personally, he can just kind of like ignore my sin. Or he can excuse my sin, or he can just say, oh, not guilty, and he just lets me go because, well, he's just that kind of a God. He understands how people are. But folks, that's not true. God is good, and he is gracious, and he is full of mercy, but he is holy and he is righteous and he is just and he cannot Compromise his holiness. He cannot compromise his justice. He cannot compromise his just wrath against our sin When God saves a sinner, he never, and I mean it's never, just excuses their sin. He never just says not guilty without basis. God says not guilty because God's wrath is satisfied. God says righteous because Christ's righteousness has been imputed to us and he views us as righteous in Christ. This is a very important principle for us to understand. The cross was inescapable. He had to die. But if that's all that happened, you still don't have salvation. He had to rise from the dead. He had to triumph from Death. He had to conquer sin and death and the curse of the law against us. It says, and be raised the third day. All three of those statements are very, very important. But then we see a fourth statement, verse 26. He shall come in his own glory. The idea is that because Jesus did all these things, we can have absolute surety, confidence. that he will come in his glory. As messy and as frustrating as this world is to live in, we have this sure confidence based on the promise of God who cannot lie, because it has been secured by the cross of Christ and his triumph over death that he will come in his own glory. And so the explanation is very simple. God created us with an eternal purpose. Psalm 8. He made him a little lower than the angels and crowned him with glory and honor. That qu grounding of God that uh crowning us with glory and honor is that he created us in his own image He created us with the capacity to think and to feel and to choose and to have relationship. God wants us to know him personally, therefore he created us with the capacity for relationship. And so in Genesis 1 it says, God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. But when God created man with such capacity, he created a man who is good with a potential for evil. And the fact is, when Adam chose to eat that fruit, that God said, if you eat this fruit on the day you eat it, you will die. That's exactly what happened. We see in verses sixteen and seventeen of Genesis two every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt Surely die. We see the tests. We see the fall. We see the promise of redemption. God said in the garden, I'm going to send a redeemer who will crush the serpent. I love that. And that's what Jesus did on the cross. That's what he did when he triumphed over sin and death. We see the promise of redemption and we see it fulfilled in the scripture. I could summarize all of this with what it says in Romans 5. Listen carefully. When we were yet without strength, in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. When we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. That is the explanation of everything we just covered. Galatians 4, verse 4. When the fullness of the time was come. God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them who were under the law that we might receive the adoption of sons. So the first thing that we see in these verses is this connection between the cross and the glory of Christ. But the second thing we see is that the eternal Son took on flesh to accomplish this great work. Jesus had to go to the cross through a very particular manner. And that is that he had to take on flesh at a point in time, and he had to humble himself, and he had to go to the cross and pay the satisfaction of God's wrath against our sin. Verse 28, it says, It came to pass about eight days after these things that he took Peter and John and James and went up into a mountain to pray. And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance Was altered and his raiment was white and glistening. The key statement is: the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white. and glistening. Now it's important for us to recognize as we read through the text, there are several other places that indicate that this is not a glory that it's like the Father gave it to the Son for a moment and then took it back. This is not what we're talking about. But we're talking about the son 's glory being veiled from the eyes of the people through whom he was interacting. But for just a moment, God says, let me remove the veil so they can see who they are dealing with in this moment. What's going on in these verses is that Christ is not taking on something that he didn't already inherently possess. This glory was being revealed, not given to him. Or put another way, God removes the veil that is concealing Christ's glory temporarily. And so now we are seeing that he's not just a man. But he is the God man, fully God, and fully man. There's so many scriptures that talk about this In fact, really, when we read the book of John, he starts with this concept because the entire book is the unfolding of what he affirms in verses 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14. Listen to what it says. He was in the world. The world was made by him. He's the creator. He's God. He is the eternal God. The world knew him not. He came into his own. His own received him not. Verse 14, the word was made flesh, and he dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Philippians 2, 6, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. Another way to put that is when we're looking at Jesus, we're looking at God Himself. And so he's not saying, I'm going to steal glory from God because I fall below him. He's saying this is a glory that is inherent of who he is by virtue of his nature. He thought it not robbery to be equal with God. He made himself of no reputation. He took upon himself the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of men. Being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Folks, the incarnation is an absolutely essential component to the gospel itself. Just like you have no gospel without the cross, and you have no gospel without the empty tomb, and you have no gospel without the righteousness of Christ, you have no gospel without God in flesh accomplishing these things. And so we see scriptures like 1 Corinthians 15, 22. In Adam I'll die. In Christ shall all be made a life. Romans 5. 19, by one man's disobedience many were made sinners. By by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. 1 Corinthians 15, 45. The first man Adam was made a living soul. The last Adam was made a quickening spirit. The fact is that Jesus took our place on the cross. He represented every single one of us. And it's because of his representation, and it's because of his willingness. to die and bear the wrath of God's against our sin, it's because of that substitution that we can be saved. And so put in Galatians 3. 13, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law of being made a curse for us. That's the gospel right there. That's the gospel. This great exchange. Christ dies so that I can live. What an amazing, amazing truth I asked this question this morning. Do you understand that? It is possible to come to a church where you hear doctrine taught week in and week out, sitting in Sunday school classes, learning verses. You witness the ordinances, the Lord's table, you witness baptism, you see church members come in. You get involved in different areas, and in your mind, Christianity is just a bunch of rules And Christianity is the way that we look. And Christianity is like it's an us against them thing. But you don't really understand that Christianity is about being born again. Through the work of Christ, all of his grace, by faith alone in Jesus Christ. And I ask this question: do you know this gospel? Truth number three. Christ is the centerpiece of all of Scripture. Now, let me just pause for a moment and say this. We could very easily preach a sermon on every single one of these points. And I have to admit that I I kind of like skimmed down the sermon quite a bit from its initial place of of how it was. And the reason is because every single one of these pieces is such an essential component to us understanding the Christian message, to understanding the heart of the gospel. To even understanding the book in front of us, the Word of God. Every piece of this book points either to Jesus to come or Or Jesus who is here, or Jesus who came. That's really what the Bible is all about. The Bible continually points us back to Christ. And what is amazing about the transfiguration is that that really is pictured in the people who were in that scene and what they were talking about. It's really a phenomenal thing. You say, well, why was Moses there? I mean, why didn't he just pick a different person? Or why why wasn't it, you know, Zecharias is there? there, you know, John the Baptist's father. He's resurrected. Why these people, Moses and Elijah, and why God saying, this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. And what was this thing about Making tabernacles and all this kind of stuff. What in the world is going on? I think each of these components is actually very important because it teaches us something about the nature of Scripture. Listen to what it says in verse 30. He says, Behold, there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias. who appeared in glory and spake of his decease. By the way, these two individuals will also serve a function during the tribulation. They appeared in glory and spake of his deceased, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. I love that I love the way it's word. That he should accomplish In other words, he didn't just die. He wasn't just killed. He died with an intent. There was a purpose behind that death. It was accomplishing something. Very, very important. So the question is, well, what is the point? What did Peter and the other disciples, what did they witness, what did they see? What did they hear? And why does it matter? Well, when they saw Moses, Moses represented something Moses represented the Pentateuch. He was the person, the prophet that God used to give us those first books of the Bible. We could say that the Torah pointed to Christ. Now, there are many people today that would think, well, the Old Testament has absolutely no bearing on us today, and we we don't have anything to learn. But you read Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. And you see them pointing to Jesus over and over and over and over again. And then Elias represents the prophets. And so we see that the law and the prophets point to something. The question is, well, what were they talking about? Well, they spake of his decease. Which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. That's a fascinating statement. This tells us something. The thing that the prophets and the law cared about was the cross. That's what it's all about. In other words, we see that these pieces all come together. And we see it stated even more explicitly in Luke 24 when Jesus takes the Old Testament and he goes through all kinds of different places and he says, this is about me and this is about me. In fact, I'll just read it to you so that you can hear it straight for yourself. Luke 24, 44. All things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms concerning me. There it is. That is the significance of the transfiguration. That is why Moses and Elisha are there. They are there because all the things that they wrote were talking about Jesus They were going to see with their eyes and talk with him about what they wrote about and what all the Old Testament saints were looking forward to. Redemption through the Messiah. They opened, then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures, and said unto them, Thus it was written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. That is really the significance of that moment that we are able to read about that Peter and those other two disciples witnessed. All of Scripture and each of the three persons of the Godhead point to the identity and nature of Christ in his work. The Father bears witness to Christ at his baptism. You can remember back when Jesus was baptized, he comes up out of the water, and there's a voice in heaven that says, This is my beloved Son, in whom I'm well pleased. Did he not say that? He did. The Father bears witness. There are several moments through the Gospels where he does that. And this is one of those examples. On the cross, we see the confirmation of who Christ is and what he did by the things that take place in that moment. The son obviously bore witness to the miracles that he performed in his teaching. I mean, why did Jesus perform certain miracles? It was to prompt a question. It was to prompt a conversation. It was to state things that connected him back to Old Testament prophecies. And the Spirit bore witness through the law and the prophets. How does the Spirit testify to who Jesus is? Well he gave us the word. He gave us the word. So when I'm reading the Old Testament and it talks about what I'm to anticipate and who Jesus is and what Jesus has done, that is the Spirit testifying of Jesus. That's what it is It is. And there are other examples as well. He testified through the miracles that Jesus performed. But that is probably the most prominent way in which the Spirit bears witness. And so what is the point? The Father, the Son, the Spirit, the Law, the prophets, they all point to one thing: Jesus and redemption. Truth number four. We are privileged with a clearer understanding than the apostles who enjoyed what they saw. Now some of you go, that's not true. It is true. Not only that, the apostles will testify it to themselves. They will testify to that principle themselves. I'm actually going to read to you from Peter's own words this very principle that we're talking about. In verses 33 and 34 it says, As they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here and to let us make and let us make three tabernacles one One for thee, one for Moses, one for Elias. tabernacle And I think the next statement's very important. Not knowing what he said Now we could argue as to what was in Peter's head, but the fact is it doesn't really tell us all of why he said that. But it simply states this: Peter doesn't understand this moment. Don't miss that. Here he is. He has walked with Jesus. He has forsaken everything to follow Jesus He has heard him teach. He has seen miracles performed. He's had the privilege of asking him questions face to face. He has seen Jesus interact with so many people. And here Peter doesn't understand what's going on. Now we could look at this one of two ways. Either one, we could say, what's your problem, Peter? Or we could say, perhaps we have a better position than he did. In fact, he's going to even say this in another place. Peter heard and witnessed wondrous things, but he did not fully understand them. His misunderstanding was not a result of the Old Testament being ambiguous about these matters. Some of my favorite gospel uh Statements in the gospels about Christ are Zecharias. I I love reading that during the Christmas season. Because the statements he makes about Christ are so so profound and they are so rich and they are so gospel-centered. Some of the statements that Mary makes about Jesus, the baby that she was going to bring into the world. The statements that were made by Simeon, these are some of the greatest statements about Jesus in all of Scripture. They're made before the cross. They're made based on Old Testament teaching. You know what that tells me? That tells me you could understand the gospel from the Old Testament alone. In fact, I want to read to you some of the statements we read in Isaiah. If you really want some of the greatest statements on the gospel and all scripture, don't go to Romans 3, 4, and 5. I mean, go there, but go to Isaiah 52, 53, and 54. Listen to some of these statements. I'm going to read them to you. Isaiah 52, 14. His visage was so marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men. Isaiah fifty three one, who hath believed our report? Isaiah fifty three three, he is Despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised and we esteemed him not. Isaiah 53, 4. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. He was wounded. for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. These are some of the greatest statements about the substitutionary death of Christ. His suffering, his humiliation, the wrath of God being poured out on the Son so that we could be forgiven and cleansed and made God's children. I love this statement, verse number 11 or 10. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. Thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seed, prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. These are Old Testament texts. This is not Peter and Paul and Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. This is Isaiah, hundreds of years before the culmination of these things. Verse 12: He shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul unto death. He bare the sins of many and made intercession for the transgressors. Verse 8, with everlast some Isaiah 54, 8, with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the Lord thy redeemer. Isaiah 454, 10. My kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith the Lord, who hath mercy on thee. Listen to this one. Isaiah 54, 17. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord. Their righteousness is of me, saith the Lord. Folks, Peter should have understood this. But here's the simple reality: you and I can appreciate these texts Because we're on the other side of the cross. When I read through Isaiah 52, 53, 54, and I read these texts, I'm thinking about all these statements the Apostle Paul makes in the book of Romans. I'm like, there it is right there. He's just, Isaiah just lays it out and Paul says, I'll just tell you what that is. Hey, I'm just gonna tell you what it is But but the simple fact is on this side of the cross and on this side of the resurrection and having the completed Word of God right in front of us and having all these wonderful study tools available to us, some good and some not, but They're available. We read these passages of scripture and they just they they hit us. And you know what that tells me? We are privileged people. That's what it tells me. We ought to be so grateful for what God has showed us. Listen to the way that Peter puts this. Verse number sixteen of Second Peter one, we have not followed cunningly devised fables. When we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty. Do you know what he's talking about? He's talking about this event. And then he says this. He says, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, this is my beloved son in whom I am well blessed. pleased. This voice which came from heaven we heard when we were with him in the Holy Mount. Do you see what he's saying? But don't miss the next statement. We have also a more sure word of prophecy, whereunto ye do well that ye take heed. What is Peter talking about? Scripture. He is telling you this morning, he's telling me this morning That when I open up my Bible, I have something that I can stand on with even greater confidence than Peter could his own recollection of these events. And what I have here is the explanation from God of these events. Peter was making sense of it himself. That's what he means when he says, we haven't written to you cunningly devised fables. No prophecy of the scriptures, any any private interpretation. He's saying we're not writing to you just based on our own opinion about these things. We are being guided by the Holy Spirit so that the very words that we write are the words of God. And so when we open up our Bibles, what we have, we have a sufficient word from God on all of these things. And so the very simple fact is you and I, on the other side of the cross, with a Bible in our hands, have more opportunity to understand the weight of these things than the very people that witness them. face to face. It's the truth. In fact, let me just make a side note here for just a moment They did not understand the weight of what Jesus was about to do. They did not understand the weight of the things that they read and that they heard on that side of the cross. And you know, the truth is that many times when we live the Christian life, we kind of are in the same position. Think about the things that God does in our lives. The glorious purposes that he has for us. Sometimes you sometimes when I sit back and I look at my own life and I think about the way that things have fallen out in my life, if you want to use the word fallen out, the way that God has worked in my life. I go, man, if you'd have asked me 20 years ago, would this happen, I'd be like , I have no idea. Never even would have thought about it. In fact, sometimes the ways that God works are they're they're they're funny. They're shocking. They're glorious. The fact is, as we go through life, many times God's glorious purposes, they're veiled to us We don't seem to have the ability to see them. And what happens is as we walk through these circumstances, then what God does is he allows us to begin to approach Because on the other side of them, we go to the scriptures and we read and we go, you know what? Now it makes sense what was going on there. Now it makes sense what God was trying to accomplish. Sometimes it doesn't even answer all those questions. But it gives us a deeper appreciation. And you know what? We actually get a sense of that even in the text that we're looking at. Certainly not the primary purpose of the text. The primary purpose is to exalt Jesus. But what it does do is it shows us practically many times we do not understand what God is doing. Given that we have all this access to information. And as time goes on, as things play out, we're able to see that with greater clarity what God is doing in our lives. You know what? His ways are good. So the question is, how do you apply a text like this? How do we take what we have seen this morning, what we have thought about together, and how do we live in the light of these truths? Let me give you some questions to consider. That are very practical and very important. The first question is this: Do these truths move us? Are they just academic to us? Are we going to get in our cars and go home and just talk about football and baseball and camp and Some petty little thing that has nothing to do with eternity? After having set in this kind of a context, having sung the incredible hymns that we have sung, having read the scriptures together that we have read, having looked at this text together in front of us and considering all these doctrinal truths, are we going to go back into our cars and go back to our homes and act as if it never happened? I certainly hope we won't. Have these truths exposed deficiencies even in our own understanding of the gospel? The gospel is simple. Jesus died for my sins. He rose from the dead. I cannot save myself. I must depend on what he did for me. That's the gospel. Very simple. But sometimes in the simplicity of the gospel, we don't think about the implication of God in flesh. That's an essential component to the gospel. We just think, oh well, I just know I need to believe in Jesus, but we don't think about the weight of the cross. We don't think about the transaction that took place on the cross or the importance of the triumph of the resurrection. And all of these essential components of the gospel, we may not think about them, we may not understand them. We need to think deeply about these things. Have we understood the gospel and trusted in Christ alone? This is a very important question to ask. At the end of the service, if there's even one person here that says, Man, I'm not sure if I'm saved, then please do not leave this place. Without coming by and saying, Pastor, I need to talk to you. I'll sit down with you. And if it takes an hour, I'll sit down. Goes the gospel with you. And if we need to meet another time and another time and another time, no problem. This is the most important message that you can ever understand and embrace. Have we considered the tremendous weight of the humiliation of his sacrifice? If you ever doubt that God loves you, you need to think about the cross. Because the cross shows that God loved you in your rebellion. So much that he would send the Son to die for you. God loves us deeply, and his love is pure. It isn't like ours. Petty. He's pure. It's all in grace. Do we live abundantly in the light of this privileged position that we have? I want to challenge you. As God's people, we need to think deeply about truth. We need the truths of Scripture to get into our hearts, and we need to live as if we actually believe they're true. We need to reckon these truths on a daily basis. I 'm literally guided in life with a gospel-centered orientation of life. This is so, so very important. May God help us to live with a truly biblical view on these issues. Let's bow for prayer. Before I close in prayer, I'm going to ask just this one simple question: Is there someone here this morning that would say, Pastor, I do not know for certain that if I die today, I will go to heaven? You talked all about the gospel, and I am not sure that I truly understand it, and I'm not certain that I've trusted in it, and I need to talk to you. Is there anybody that raise your hand? I'm the only one looking. Who would raise your hand and say, Pastor, I need to talk to you about this. Give you a minute. I'm not going to call you out by name. I'm not going to ask you to stand. I'm not going to I'm just gonna make a note so that I can speak with you. Anybody at all? If you said in your heart, I needed to raise my hand, I need to talk to you, I'm gonna be standing right there in the center All you gotta do is say, hey, Pastor, I need to talk to you this next week. I won't be able to talk to you in person this week, but I can email with you. I can have a voice call with you. We need to talk About this issue. If you do not know the Lord is your Savior, don't leave this place without a sure confidence which is available Because of what Christ has done for you. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father in heaven, I thank you that these are glorious truths That gives us a firm footing. We are a forgiven people. We are righteous in Christ. They're called saints. We have access to the Father. We can cry out to you in our darkest, most lonely, and terrifying moments, and as our Father, you answer. We have a Savior who intercedes for us. Where there is nothing that can separate us from the love of God, there is no charge that can be brought against us because of this great sacrifice. May we never, ever get over it. May we live richly in the light of it. I pray that we would have an abundant Christian experience because our lives are built on these wonderful things. Truths. We ask all of it in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, I'd like to ask you to turn with me to hymn 44. Very appropriate hymn for us to sing, and that is to God be the glory. Everything that we've looked at, it is true. It is what he has done for you. Let's sing about it. Let's celebrate with great joy what Jesus has accomplished for us. What gives us a position before him? Let's stand together, please. We will sing all three verses of To God be the glory. And I'd ask that on our last verse, the instrument will drop out. My wife will stop playing and we will just sing it a cappella. 44 to God be the glory. To God see the glory , great things he has done so not me all. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people, oh God , who he was. Oh glory, great things they have done. Great things be thy father, great things we have done And great are in the always being through Jesus the Son, but your higher and greater will be. Our wonder our night for friends be must be. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord , let me earn his voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the weight Oh Rafael , good Jesus And him. If you want to be blessed on a Sunday afternoon, go back to the live stream and listen to the singing. Especially that one right there. It's a great. Great, great hymn. Frank Dumshow. Can you please close us in prayer? Hope that you can join us back tonight as we uh continue through our series in the Old Testament and uh be in prayer for our teens and for we adults who are driving them. Pray that we'll have a great week and the Lord keep us safe and that He will really do a work in the hearts of our young people. And in ours too. Not just Just our young people. Frank. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for your wonderful, glorious gift of grace that you've bestowed upon us. Lord and and that uh that you've just uh worked even from before the creation of of of the world. To make us your children, to redeem us from our sin and uh give us uh the hope of a glorious eternity in heaven with you, Lord. Just thank you so much. Much for your marvelous grace and love, and um that you've drawn us to yourself. You've given us eternal life, Lord. We just can't even comprehend your goodness to us and your mercy and grace and your your love, Lord. We thank you for it. Thank you for the honor and privilege to be Be your people and to be able to worship you in spirit and truth. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen