All right, good evening. Hope you all are are well. We have many folks that are out traveling on the roads, so be please be praying for their safety, including Pastor, as they're your now. All the way down to uh Florida. But tonight we're going to start off our our song time, then we'll have a word or time of uh testimonies. But for now, let's go to the Lord in prayer. And ask for the bless tonight. Father, we thank you so much for the privilege it is to be in your house, for bringing safety to all who were able to make it out to this evening's service and I pray you would be with all those who are uh either traveling or unable to make it out due to uh health needs or uh other things that are keeping them from being out. And I pray, Lord, you would bless all that we do tonight, that all of it would point us to you and to draw us closer to you. But in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Alright, if you would please stand. We'll start by singing hymn 418. We'll sing the first, third, and the fifth verse of hymn number 418. Trust and obey. God with the Lord in the light of his wife, what a glory we shall we While we do this good will, we are still there more than no day, not man, no payment. No other way to be happy and fast one trust and no way. Not a burden we beg, not a sorrow we shared, but after we done with wear No grief no moss, no one is less of , lost and no day. For us to our way , we have to But since I stand on him that in that was just me was the sweet O 'Stiense. Once he says we will stand we will go , never free for me cross and gray. To be happy and because But we must have no pay Wonderful singing. You may remain standing as we go over to hymn number 400. We'll sing four verses there of Take My Life and Let It Be. Take my beaver, make my hand a bamoon. Happy boss of my love, happy amount I love , and I mean Sweat and full joy Take my voice and my previous Always all the people for my clean Make my lives and love them with I will take my love, my love I 'm not gonna take my cast. And you may be seated as we go over to hymn number 397. Just a couple pages, 397, higher ground. What my be my ground? Left me of an enemy, sir. My thing on a stable eye, for your claim that I am found So let my feet on higher ground , I have no design stay, Where does the rise and fear display? Those are where these are bad. But where my aim is higher, Lord let me overleft me sun, I may not have a stable one, no harder claim than I am not. But when I feel on the higher ground I want to never bumble work Those Satan 's not said we are hurt Or say that home The song that says my ear Lord let me up and let me start My name on the table The loyal play and I am Don 't let my feet on high I want to scale the utmost high, Can't catch a gleam of glory pride, But still I'll make you have done God. Lord lead me on to higher cry. Lord, let me up and let me stand by make my heaven stable and Amen. You guys sound wonderful tonight. As we uh now go to um our testimonies time, I want to give you guys a Start with six twenty-two in the red book. Six twenty-two. All right. Easy day. Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord, for saving my soul Thank you, Lord, for making me home. Thank you, Lord, for giving to me my great salvation. Amen. Now over to four sixty-four, we'll sing first and second. And over We're normally doing first and last, but let's do something different tonight. 464, how firm a foundation. Saints of the boy is late for your faith In the accent word, what not can he say that to you he has said to you forever? I am with the non dismay for I am thy God, I will still give thee, I'll strengthen the help thee and God please stand. Uh hell by my righteous of a good one to add on. Good verse to end on that one. Alright, number 109 in the blue book now. I do have one. Alright, 109 in the blue book. Our triune God, why don't we play through this one once? All right, starting on the first. Oh yeah. Now starting on the first. Great God and Father of our Lord, our Maker and our King, we praise you for your glorious strength and grant. us everything before you ever frame the world you chose us as your own And they do says with Christ your Son, my sovereign grace alone. Sigallelujah. And praise his saving song. Give honor to the Holy Ghost. Adore the three and one. I got too excited on that. That when I was ready to sing it. Alright, now we're gonna go over to the red book again, and we'll sing 190, and then we'll have time for one more request. So hymn number 190. There is a redeemer. There is a remote These as not some precious lamaya hol Thank you, My Father , for giving us your son, and giving your spirits in the honor. Alright, do we have one more request before we continue? Just one more. One fifty one in the blue book. I think I know this one, but let's play it through once just to be sure and then we'll sing the f The worst and the last. Alright, let's stand as we sing the first and last of 151. I run to Christ. I want to Christ when chased by fear and find a refuge. Believe in me, his voice, I hear his words and pers I run to Christ when on thy creep and find abundant peace. I do have tears She gently speaks thus joy and rope meet on the third I rise to Christ When start my sin, and by God sure escape deliver me I Cry to him, temptation yields to grace. I born to Christ when place my shame and find my one even. I bore God's breath, he pleased my case, I have a gather. Great singing, you may be seated If you would please turn in your Bibles to Genesis chapter twenty-two. Genesis twenty two. Later we'll be turning over to Hebrews eleven. But for now, we're going to continue our journey through the story of redemption. We spent the last couple studies looking at Abraham and where he fits into the story of redemption and the coming Messiah. But before we start discussing him, I kind of want to talk about how we as Christians are often accused of a blind faith. Those that would believe in science and evolution, that they would have the answers, would say that our faith is uninformed or superficial. But while they are placing their faith in textbooks and in fickle-minded scientists, we individually and corporately have placed our faith in the Almighty God of Scripture. Now that's not to say that we are finished in our walk of faith by simply acknowledging that the God of the Bible is our Lord and Savior. We need to, of course, live a life of obedience to him. John 14, 15, Jesus says, if you love me, keep my commandments. So then how do we do that? By simply knowing them? By having them memorized? Well, it's important to know God's commandments, but before you can keep them, you have to love Him. You have to love God. And to love a person is to have a knowledge of Him. And so we must have a growing knowledge of our Almighty God. And that's where we find Abraham in Genesis 22. We find that he has finally matured in a greater sense in his knowledge of who God is. And that is why in Genesis 22 we see that God is now testing Abraham and his obedience by commanding him to do the most unthinkable things. thing. That's offering up Isaac as a human sacrifice. We know as possessors of God's completed, preserved word, how abominable and how wicked a human sacrifice is, how contrary that is to God's character. But you know, Abraham had no such privilege. Abraham was dependent upon little bits of revelation here and there, and none of it was written down for him. With us having the complete revelation of God Himself in our very laps, it's imperative for us to know. That God wants us to have an obedient faith informed by a biblical knowledge of Him. And that's what Abraham said Had. He had an obedient faith that was informed by what he knew about God. We're going to look at exactly what he knew about God. By looking at the example he sets for us, not just in Genesis 22, but later in Hebrews 11, when the author there expounds upon this very event. So let's start by reading tonight Genesis 22. And keep in mind that this chapter, really, the purpose of it is to reveal to us the wisdom in whom God chose as the forebear of his people and the Messiah. Who the thoughtful faith demonstrated by Abraham. So look with me in verse number one. And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham, and he said Said, Behold, here I am. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah. And offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of. and rose up and went into the place of which God had told him. Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off. And Abraham said to the to his young men, Abide here with the ass, and I and the lad will go up yonder and worship And come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it up on Isaac, his son, and he took the fire in his hand and a knife. And they went both of them together. And Isaac spoke unto Abraham his father and said, My father, he said, Here am I, son, my son. He said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went both of them together. In this, we read just a portion of how Abraham demonstrated his informed, faithful obedience to the Lord. Lord. And again, I remind you, God wants us to have an obedient faith informed by a biblical knowledge of Him. If we're going to do that, we need to first, of course, act in obedience toward God. Act in obedience toward God. That's what we see Abraham doing. We see Abraham obeying God, particularly in two ways. We of course see him obeying immediately in verses one through four. When God commanded Abraham to Isaac to sacrifice Isaac as part of his test for Abraham's faith in verse 3, it seems to imply to Abraham Got up early the next morning, loaded things up, got everything ready, and left. Now maybe there was a couple days here and there, but there's definitely a sense here. He did not wait He immediately did what God commanded him to do. There's no hesitation, no reluctance, no arguing. Now, of course, three days to Mount Moriah, he was leaving from Beersheba. That's only about 45 miles. For an old man, that that 's reasonable. He had no hesitation. He not only obeyed immediately, we see he also obeyed thoroughly. If you notice in verses five through eight, He got everything he needed. He got the wood, he got the fire, he got the knife, he even got donkeys and two young men to help just in case. He was an older man. He probably was making sure he could go through through with this. Notice what he didn't bring. A sacrifice. Not in the normal sense. He didn't bring a lamb. He didn't bring doves. He didn't bring any sort of sacrificial animal. He only brought his son. And as we see that he was thorough, he made sure everything was needed, everything that was needed was there for him to go through with this. There was no excuse. No, hey, I forgot this, I gotta go back. Hey, you know what? This may not work out. You know, my back's hurting today. I can't climb up this mountain. He made sure everything was in place. Bottom line is because Abraham possessed no written scripture, he was dependent on God's short verbal commandments to direct him, but His obedience was immediate and thorough. It's immediate and thorough. And we are far, far more privileged Than Abraham was. We possess the full, sufficient, preserved word of God. And yet, while we may for years have studied it and for years have possessed a knowledge of God's character and his commandments, we may, for example, hesitate to be sought and light in this world. While Christ commanded us to seek the kingdom of God, we are so often content to remain filled with worldly wisdom rather than be spiritually minded. When the author of Hebrews, under the authority of Scripture, commands us not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together, well we prefer to spend the majority of our time allowing the world to come into our homes and our homes to be Of the world. Recognize it took over a century for Abraham to learn this immediate, thorough obedience that he displays here. So then how are we doing? Do we have a thorough immediate obedience? That's where it starts. If you're going to have a faithful, a faith-built obedience that's informed by a knowledge of God, well, we need to learn from the start what it means to have a thorough Immediate obedience. But then we go on, and when we're seeking to demonstrate this informed obedience This informed faith. We see that not only did Abraham begin with obedience, but he also acted while observing God 's providence. Notice with me in verse nine. And they came to the place which God hath told them of, had told them of, and Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood in order. and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar upon the wood. Notice Isaac never struggles or fights with him. In verse 10, Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. And the angel of the Lord called upon him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here am I. And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns. I wonder where that came from. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son. And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah Jirah, as it is said to this day, the mount of the Lord, it shall be seen. Now, of course, this passage provides for us many applications, many things that we can glean from. And of course, we see Abraham continuing his thorough obedience. By following through with this act to the very, almost the very end, before God providentially interjects Abraham observed God's providence in two particular ways. We see God providing a descendant Now, of course, we know Isaac had been promised 25 years before he had ever been born. And finally Isaac came, and by this point, he was probably an older teenager. And he had seen this young man grow up from infancy, from childhood, through early adolescence. Now he's beginning to become a man. And God in His providence interjected at the very last second Why? Because he had promised to provide Abraham a descendant. He had promised to provide him a means by which a nation would come forth from Abraham. So then why did God command Abraham to kill Isaac? Well, Abraham needed to show that his obedience to God was more important than his understanding of God. But when Abraham showed that his obedience was more important than his understanding, it was an opportunity for God. to demonstrate that his providence in providing a son carried through to his providence in preserving his son. You know, if Isaac was one of our teens in our teen Sunday school, he'd probably give a praise. I'm thankful to be alive. Our teams probably understand Now, God's providence is not just an abstract reality that we can't fathom in the slightest. It's far more. God's providence is substantive. We can observe it playing out in our very hands. Just as God's providence stopped the hand of Abraham from plunging a knife into Isaac. God's providence can use your hands to bring blessing and preservation to others. Abraham observed God's providence and his descendant, his son Isaac. But then he was reminded of God's providence. In the lineage that was to follow. Notice what happens here in verse 15. And the angel of the Lord called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time. And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the Lord, for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thine son, thine only son. And in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of heaven, and as the sand which is upon the seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies, and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. Because thou hast obeyed my voice. So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and went together to Bathsheba, and Abraham dwelt at Bersheba. He went back to, or I believe he originally started before he went to Mount Moriah. When the ran had been offered up when Abraham had given glory to God for providing a sacrifice and sparing his son Isaac, the angel of the Lord, possibly the pre-incarnate Christ, came in and said , Remember the covenant that I had made with you. Through you will all the nations of the earth be blessed. Why? Because of his faithful obedience. He returned to remind Abraham that this covenant made between him and Jehovah was one that was a remarkable act of God's providence. But then from there, Abraham goes back to Beersheba and hears some news of his brother Nahor and Nahor 's son. Notice in verse 20. And it came to pass after these things that it was told Abraham, saying, Behold, Melkah, she hath also borne children unto thy brother Nahor. Huz his firstborn and Buz his brother and Kenuel the father of Am Aram and Chesed and Hazo and Pildash and Jildaph and Bethuel, and Bethuel ru begat Rebekah. These eight Melch did bear to Nahor, Abraham's brother, and his concubine, whose name was Rub Rumah, she bear also Taba and Gehan and Tehash and Macha. You say, why why read this genealogy? Because in this genealogy we see God's providence. You notice that while Hebraham was having one son with Sarah, Nahor was having eight sons with his wife. And while Abraham was having one son with Hagar , His brother was having four more sons with his concubine. But notice a name that stands out. Do you see it there in the middle? Bethuel begat Rebekah. Who do we read about just two chapters after this? We heard about Isaac meeting his wife Rebecca. And from them came Jacob. And from Jacob came the twelve sons, and from the twelve sons came the nation of Israel, from whom our Messiah was born. No doubt Rebecca was not the only daughter born among all these sons. Why make it stand out? Because we need to recognize God had a providential plan in place. God's providence is seen as he gives Abraham just a peek At his lineage. And it's further revealed 25 years later when a servant returns with Rebecca to marry Isaac. And when we go through life and we see the lives of others played out, we need to look for and remember God's providence, time. And time and time again. This isn't the first time God communicated his plan with Abraham. It's not the last time that he communicates his plan with these patriarchs. Why? Because he wants to remind them, I have a providential plan in place. And the same goes with us. God intends for you and I to be agents of His providence, along with our children and our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren. Say, how do I know this, Brother Christ? Well, Ephesians 2. 10 reminds us we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus. Why? Unto good works. Which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. God's plan from the start was for his people to walk in accordance with With his preordained providential plan, that we may be ambassadors, agents of his providence. So we need to act in observance of God's providence. But now as we turn over to Hebrews 11 We need to see another aspect to how Abraham viewed this event as it played out, as he was the agent carrying this scene out. Looking back at, or looking over at Hebrews 11, we need to note that God had two purposes in mind when he was testing Abraham through the near sacrifice of Isaac. Say why why would God test Abraham in such a such a way, such a brutal, bloody way? We need to read here in verses 17 through 19 and see. It says, By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac. And he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son, of whom it is said that in Isaac shall thy seed be called. Accounting that God, notice Accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, from whence also he received him in a figure. Did you notice that that statement? Abraham believed that God had purposed to keep Isaac alive. And in believing this, he acted in faith of God 's purposes. When we read about Abraham in Genesis 22, by that point, not a single person is recorded having experienced a resurrection. This was not really a thing. And yet Abraham, according to this verse, according to the author of Hebrews. Believe that God would raise Isaac from the dead. Where would he get such an idea? We don't have any recorded resurrections happening before this event. I don't know that it was an occurrence. I personally don't believe it was. I believe that such an idea would only come about knowing by knowing what kind of a God Abraham was serving. Abraham knew that he served a faithful God with a purpose. In Abraham's mind, he most likely thought that God would not have given him a son, only to take him away nearly twenty years later. But even if God did. Abraham believed that he would bring them back to fulfill the promise he had given to him repeatedly, over and over. We who have all the promises of God should know even better That the God of Abraham has a purpose. To redeem people to Christ, to make them his own. We often act as if the church and Christians are dying and there's no hope that everything is crumbling around us, that if America and Western civilization should collapse, that's the end of the church. No. America and Western civilization could collapse all around us, but I have faith that even if they did, God will fulfill his purpose to build up his church, that the gates of hell would not prevail against it. We have a God who will fulfill his purposes. But there's one last phrase here that we need to observe. Did you see it in verse 19, accounting that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead, from whence also he received him in a figure? received him in a figure. That's to say that Isaac was a figure, a foreshadowing of the death and resurrection of Christ. Christ. We often focus on the the bleeding ram, right? The one that God had provided to be the sacrifice. Now more than likely that ram wasn't really excited to be tied up and put on altar and and burned. I'm sorry. But you know who was willing to get on the altar? It was Isaac. And in Abraham's mind, Isaac was as good as dead. He was the sacrifice. And he one hundred percent intended on carrying out God's plan. command. So then when Isaac was spared and the Lord intervened and said, Stop Abraham, don't kill your son. It's as if Isaac, who in Abraham's hand was as good as dead, was raised up and given life He was a picture of a resurrection that Abraham had already believed could have taken place. Because of this, we see a picture of a father fully committed to the death of his son, Jesus Christ, who was in fact literally raised from the dead. You know, whereas Isaac was replaced on the altar by a ram, we were replaced on the cross by Jesus Christ. While Isaac was content to obey, and the ram probably not so much, humanity was content to kick and scream to justify itself before a righteous and holy God. We would give any excuse to say that there's no reason why we should have to die for our sins, but Jesus, who knew no sin, was made sin for us. That we might have life in Him. It's not a simple trade-off. We were as good as dead. But we're not for the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Christ, we would not experience the life He gives anew. God wants us to have an obedient faith, but it needs to be informed by a biblical knowledge of him. We need to learn not only simple obedience toward him. We need to follow it up by action in the Christian life that reflects our observation of God's providence and his providential plan and our faith in God's purpose. We're not a people of blind, ignorant faith. We shouldn't be, at least. Rather, we should be a people whose obedient faith is Informed by a biblical knowledge of our Almighty, providential, purposeful God Let's bow for a word of prayer. Father. It is a sobering Grave thing to read what you read or what you commanded Abraham to do as we read in Genesis 22. For us as fathers, we we know the anguish that such a commandment would give us us to give up any of our children, let alone an only child, a promised child. And Father, we know that you are a purposeful, providential, sovereign God. And you used your servant Abraham to demonstrate for us how our obedience, our faith should be informed by You and your character and your power and everything that you are. I pray that we tonight would have a hunger and a thirst to know you more. We have desire to inform our faith with a knowledge of you and an act in obedience. In accordance with who you are. Father, I pray that if any tonight, whether by live stream or even in this room, has not experienced That atoning grace extended to us from the risen Lamb. That tonight would be the night that they would Come to know you and the power of the resurrection. We ask all this in Christ's precious and holy name. Amen. Let's go ahead and turn now on our hymnals to a familiar song, hymn number 390. We'll stand and sing all four verses of I surrender all, hymn number three ninety. All to Jesus I surrender, all to him I freely give. I will ever love and trust him in his presence, mainly live I surrender all I surrender all Cosily, my blessed savior, I surrender all. All to death us , I surrender , humbly have misread I bow worldly pleasures not forsaken. Take me, Jesus, take me now I surrender all I surrender all All to thee, my blessing, Savior, I surrender Uh the whole menu easy to down five Ah de I surrender all to thee my blessed Savior, I surrender all. All to Jesus I surrender. I surrender all I surrender on this Call to thee my blast savior I surrender all. Amen. It's been good to be in God's house this evening Pray for the many who are traveling, who are out and about for Memorial Day weekend. And as you reflect tomorrow on the many sacrifices that allows us to to enjoy our freedoms. I pray that if you uh know anybody who uh may have a lost uh loved one, someone that was lost in sacrifice to our nation, please reach out to that family level know that you are caring for them, that you are praying for them. And then enjoy the the day and enjoy your families. Scott, would you close us out in prayer? Let's pray. Dear Lord God, we are so grateful to you for your um sacrifice of your son. Thank you for um the sacrifice that uh many have have made in behalf of this country and And um ask Lord that you would bless in the families that even have fresh wounds from uh the loss of a loved one. Pray Lord for the message that Pastor Chris was able to bring to us this evening. I pray that we would apply it to our To our hearts and um lift you up in Jesus' name, Amen