Well tonight we're going to be in James chapter 1 verses 1 through 4. And the theme is when believers suffer, they should rejoice and submit themselves to God. So as we get started, let's bring our hearts and minds to God through prayer. Lord God, thank you for today and just the power that you've given your word, Lord God. How it's always there for us, Lord, and always the same, Lord. That it can apply to our hearts, Lord God, no matter the year, no matter the time, Lord. It's alive and active Lord, I ask that you right now that you would take glory and take pleasure in what is going on, Lord, and in your word, Lord, and in our hearts, Lord, and that you would tune our hearts to be in heartbeat to your heartbeat, Lord God. that we would glorify your name. In Jesus' name. Amen. So we'll be in James 1, 1 through 4. Starting verse 1, James, the servant of God, and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience But let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. James starts out here by talking about the suffering Christian. That's our first point, which is the suffering Christian. But before he starts out, he talks to the believers as if he knows them, but we don't know them. And so to give a little bit of background, James Is the brother of Christ. He's was one of Jesus' many brothers. And even though he got to see all the miracles of Jesus, even though he got to see Jesus' infinite knowledge as a child, growing up his with big brother Jesus, even though he he grew up with Jesus, he did not believe He did not believe that Jesus was the Messiah. He did not believe that Jesus was his Savior until after Jesus died and rose again after the resurrection. James got to see, yes, Jesus is the true one. He is the Messiah. He has power over life and death. And his whole heart was changed. He was softened to the Word of God, and he became one of the leaders in the church. But once the church did start at Pentecost that we learned in Acts that we talked about earlier, once the church did start, it did grow. It instantly seemed to grow really quickly. But also persecution came really quickly as well. And that's where we meet the letter of James. Persecution is happening in the church. And the church has met some real Real struggles and trials that they're going through. So James starts out by saying in verse 1: James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the twelve tribes, so all the Jews, which are scattered abroad, greeting. And then he says, My brethren, counter all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. So he he mentions that they were scattered abroad because of the persecution. They were scattered to many different areas, and the Bible tells us in Acts 8. 4, it says, therefore they were scattered abroad and went everywhere preaching the word. And so already they're able to see that God could use the suffering that they're going through to reach more people for the glory of God to hear the gospel. The Jewish believers, though, that he was addressing, they were facing m much suffering from their own people. The other Jews that did not believe that Jesus was the Messiah, mostly the religious leaders, They gave much opposition to the Jews, and they would persecute the Jews, but it wasn't even just the leaders. Imagine growing up in a family and you were a Jew. And then all of a sudden this Jesus comes and your family doesn't believe he's the Messiah. And then all of a sudden you believe he's the Messiah. You trust that he is the one that came to forgive you of your sin. And your entire family now is at home thinking that you Are following a lie, even though you're following the truth. I'm sure it must have been really hard for the early Jews who, even when their families opposed them because they were following the truth of the gospel So James is addressing them that even though they're facing all of this trials and struggles in life, he's coming alongside them as a brother. That's why he says, My brethren. And he has a heart felt of compassion for The people, his heart is burdened for his brothers in Christ. And so James himself is also likely experiencing the same exact persecution. that the Jews were experiencing that he was writing to. Likely he himself was also going through the struggles that his audience were knowing of. And so he himself is coming along as a pastoral friend saying, yes. We are going through this together, but God is with us as well. So he starts out by saying in verse 2, my brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. I think a good clarification to start out with is the word temptation is not talking about enticement to sin. in these verses here. Later in the chapter it'll talk about when we're enticed our heart entices us to sinful desire. But here instead it's talking about the trial trying of our faith, the struggles of life the hardships of life that make it see if we're really trusting God, if we're really holding close to Him. And so here he says it. He says Count it or consider it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations or trials of various kinds in your life. But James doesn't just say, okay, so you're going through this, I feel bad for you, and we're in it together. No, he gives them hope. He goes on to say, even though it's not a natural response, he says, count it all joy. even when you are facing these different various trials of different types. He says that considerate joy No, James is not downplaying the struggle at all. He's not saying, yeah, you're facing this struggle and you're you're making too much of it. You're thinking too much of it. No, James is not at all downplaying the struggle they're going through. Instead, he's having them step back and see how God has a greater plan for the struggle in their life. This is a piece of the puzzle in their life that God's going to use to complete the picture that the church is going to go through to be able to bring glory to God. And so he's using he's using this He's using this word of saying counter all joy. We're going to talk a little more about this, but to show that yes, you can still have your heart focused on God and receive the joy from him even when your faith is tested. And so yes, there were um they were Christians that were going through trials, but they could also be point to a rejoicing Christian. And this is where we'll park a little more. But he says here, my brethren, counter all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, though the trying of your faith worketh patience. So why can they have joy? Why is it saying that they can have joy when they're going through the struggles and hardships of life? Why is it Well he says here, knowing this, this is why you can have joy, is that the trying of your faith, the testing of your faith It worketh or produces patience. So another way of saying it is the endurance and steadfastness in their faith. He was saying, yes, you're going through your faith is being tested right now. Your faith is at a hard point. It's not it's a point when you're being proven true. If you're you're truly in In step with Christ, and he's saying, and through it you will gain endurance. James is encouraging his audience to see that God has a greater plan than just what they can see with their human eyes. Even though it doesn't seem to be working out as they expect, God's plan is not going to be hindered. God will continue to work and mature their faith through this. God will work within their faith to mature them. That's why he's saying here, knowing this, that the trying of their faith worketh patience or the endurance, the maturity of their faith When I was thinking about this, I was thinking of slightly working out. If you're ever worked out lifting weights. Now I know some people here have done it their entire life. I have a friend at college and he's done it since he was very young that he used to lift weights. And you can tell he's very strong. And so at college he was like, come along, John, and you can start out lifting weights with me. I'm like, I've never done this, man. Like this is new to me. He said, that's okay. No one's gonna embarrass you. It's all good. So he drags me along into the weight room and he starts he starts giving me these really he these heavy weights that he's used to do using because he's always done this, you know. Well, I'm like, I can't do this, man. It's too much. So he gives me just a little bit less, a little bit less, until I'm able to do it And over time, I'm able to work up to having a little more weights. Now it doesn't look like it because I haven't been doing it as long as him. I look weak and puny still. But over time, I will Maybe. Hopefully. But I learned that even though it hurts, the next day it hurts that You feel like you can't walk anymore. You feel like you can't move your arms. You don't want to get out of bed and you want to cut all your classes the next day. Even though it talks about how it's gonna hurt Even though it does, it's going to produce something in your life that's way greater than the temporary hurt. The greater it is going to help you help your health And spiritually, when we go through trials in life, we go through things in life that weigh in our soul, and it's trying our faith, even though it hurts in the moment. And a long story of life, God's going to use it to build us up, to mature us in the faith. It's important to note though that we're not trying to create problems in life, trials in life like I go into the weight room deliberately. We're not trying to create these problems in life. But God sends the trials as He knows that we need them. So one way that God grows our faith is through the trials in our life And a very important thing to note is that we're not rejoicing that we're having the persecu like that they're having persecution. They weren't supposed to rejoice and say, Yes, they're beating me because I'm saying I'm a Christian. They're not rejoicing because they're being put that they're in prison. No, they're rejoicing in the outcome of that. They're rejoicing in the the outcome of their faith growing. They're rejoicing in their Savior. Saying that yes, this is going on. This is a struggle. But I rejoice that God has a greater plan for what is going on through my life. He has a better result for what is going on in my life. So he says here, My brethren, count all joy when ye fall into diverse temptations. Knowing this, the trying of your faith worketh patience, endurance, steadfastness. But it's going to be harder for the Christian to have that endurance in the midst of pain if they are not already in a habit of walking close to God. So maybe as you're sitting here today, you're thinking, okay, maybe I'm not going through a struggle in my life right now. Maybe you are. But if you're not going, even if you're not It could be easier to be like, okay, this doesn't apply to me, or I have to, you know, tug this away for maybe for the future when this does happen when I go through a trial But a heart that's walking close to God in any scenario in their life, in any circumstance in their life, will be that much stronger. when a trial hits their faith and says, is your faith real? Is your faith proven true? So walking close to God at all times. I've been reading in Psalms recently as part of the pastors had it planned for us interns to read through. And I've been reading Psalms and just how much David and the psalmist are able to just express their hearts to God, both in the the hardships of life, but also just praising God in spite of what's going on around them. Right now, if you're to think about one attribute of God, what would be the first one that you'd think of? I think I would think of, I've been reading in Haggai, that was the sermon I preached at my home church. And God keeps saying in Haggai, he calls himself the Lord of heaven's armies. So we are serving the Lord of heaven's armies. That's the God that cares about us, the shepherd of our soul. But maybe you're thinking of another one. Maybe you're thinking about how he's love. Maybe you're thinking about how he is how he's patient with you But as you are setting your mind on God throughout whatever circumstance of life and you're renewing your mind on God and you're praising God because of it. Then when a trial hits comes to your life, your mind will already be in practice of serving God. Your mind will already be It'll already be that'll be something so natural at you So it says here that the trying of your faith, but faith as an object. Faith is not just something that, oh I have faith, and then you walk around just saying just wearing a t-shirt that says love God and and have faith or something like that. No, face is an object. And so faith, object, is Jesus. Hebrews 12 talks a lot about the faith. And it talks a lot about it in verse 2 where it says, looking to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith who for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. And so we'll see in Hebrews 12 where it says how Jesus is the one who began that work in us, who set the faith within our hearts. because of his work on Calvary, because he died for you and I. He's the beginner of our faith, but he's also the mature, the one that matures our faith. It says it uses the phrase in Hebrews, the finisher of our faith, but he's the one that will continue to grow our faith in him. And it says, for the joy, Christ is able to see joy in the midst of his suffering. says who for the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross, despised in the shame, and is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. So James talks about, says, counting joy when we fall into diverse temptations. So we're able to see God has a greater plan in mind for my life than just this temporary circumstance. He's got this greater mind and plan in mind that I will grow spiritually in him. And he'll use this to bring me to my knees to him And Jesus, he was able to have the joy when he went through the trial of his faith. When he went through on the cross so we could have faith, he saw you and I. He saw you. He saw even though you and I choose to every single day rebel against him in our hearts, every single time we choose to sin, Even though every time we're unlovable and we don't give God the best of our our hearts and our minds, he saw you and I, and he saw how you are worth it, and he saw the joy that was set before him. And because of that, he sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. So Jesus was the one that started the faith in our hearts, and he's the one that will grow and mature our faith. So because of that, our focus needs to be on him in the midst of the trial. Instead of just focusing on the trial itself, instead of focusing on how hard it is. God's calling us to have our focus on Christ, the trying our faith. It's not just saying the trying of your character, the trying of who you are as a person. It's a trying of your faith. The faith inside of you is the thing that's growing, and the faith is set upon our Savior, the one who went before us, so that we could follow in his steps. So as it says, My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into diverse or many trials of life, knowing this that the trying of your faith works patience, as the struggles of life. comes to our life, God will use those things to grow us closer to Him. It'll produce steadfastness. But This is not something that's automatic. Just because we go through a struggle in life, just because we face something that is like we feel as a roadblock in our life, does not mean we're going to necessarily grow. I mean anyone goes through struggles in life. Unbelievers go through struggles in life. That doesn't mean they grow spiritually. So let's see what James says. He says in verse 4, but let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting or lacking nothing. So we saw the suffering Christian. We saw point two, the rejoicing Christian, and now we see the resolved Christian. So he says here, but let, that's a choice, patience, that endurance, have its perfect work, that you may be perfect. And entire wanting nothing. So trials will come. The Bible says all that live a godly life will suffer persecution. Trials will come, but how will you respond? That's what makes it so we can grow. That's what makes our faith mature and grow, is our response to the trials of life. So just because a Christian goes through trial does not mean that they'll grow, but it can mean that they'll grow. There's the potential for growth Our choice can be what brings us closer to God. Our choice to trust God and submit our hearts to Him. So as He says here, let patience have a perfect work. Allow God to work within your heart, the endurance, the maturity in your heart. It doesn't mean that we can't cry out to Him. David in the Bible, he said so many things that some of us it would be very uncomfortable for us to say those same things in front of a church But he was crying he was crying and his heart was out to God. It doesn't mean that we can't we can't show tears. It doesn't mean that we can't show emotion through the struggles of life. But in that, we're not giving in to despair. We're not giving into bitterness or apathy. Instead, we're choosing to allow God to grow trust in our hearts, even through the trials of our hearts. So he says here, let patience allow, allow the endurance to do its work in you, that you may be perfect and entire, you can be mature. And growth and growing and all that God is wanting you to be to the man or woman that He's created you to be. Wanting, lacking nothing. Isn't that something that we want in our life that at the end of the end of our life we can say, like Jesus can say, well done. And we can say, I have finished the course. I've kept the faith. And we can say, yes, I've done all I can in any scenario to walk with God the closer I can. But it's not going to happen by accident. It's not going to happen because our our faith isn't going to grow just because we're going through life and we got saved. Faith is going to grow because we are putting forth the effort to trust God to grow it within us. God wants us to submit our hearts to Him in the midst of the trial. And so James says later in his book, in his book in verse four, I mean chapter four. And in verse 6, he says, But he, God, gives more grace. Wherefore, he saith , God resisteth the proud, but gives grace unto the humble. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Now this passage is mostly talking about it's the beginning of it's talking about standing against sin, standing against the the things that make us to trip up in our faith and and entice us to sin. But if we're a step back and look at the flow of the book of James, we would see that it's also talking about That this is how the our heartbeat should be. Our heartbeat should be that we are humble before God. And so in the midst of the struggle, in the midst of the pain of James 1, 1 through 4, our hearts need to be submitted to God. Say yes God. I don't understand what's going on. Clearly, I don't understand what's going on in my life. You've seen that this struggle is best for my life, and I don't get it, Lord God. I don't understand. Why is it that you've done this in my life, Lord? I don't understand, Lord, but I submit my heart to you. And I submit that you've got the best plan for me, even if my eyes have no clue what's going to happen next. So instead of giving in to bitterness or apathy or any other response that would just allow us to not trust God. God calls us to submit our hearts to Him, to be resolved that no matter comes whatever comes in our life, we will not give in to bitterness. We will not give in to apathy towards God, but instead we will give in to trusting Him. So God says in 1 Peter 4, he says, Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God Commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing as unto a faithful creator. In the midst of the struggle, and in the midst of maybe even when you're not going through a struggle. God says to commit your soul. Not just commit your mind or just commit your ears or commit your eyes. Commit your soul, the very being of who you are. to him who does well, who the well-doing in your life, as unto the faithful Creator. And so James, back in James chapter 1. And he says, let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. Let God mature and strengthen our faith and let our hearts be in line with Him so that our heart is beating in the exact moment that His heart is beating. So that when he directs our heart and he says, this is what I want you to do next in your life, there won't be any resistance in our heart. But we'll be submissive to every little step that he has for us. God also says to another group of people who were suffering in First Peter, because First Peter and James are actually very um have a lot of similar themes in 1 Peter chapter 1. He talks to Christians who are going through intense suffering. And he says in chapter 5, who are kept by the power of God. through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time, wherein we ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations. Let the trial of your faith be much more precious than gold that perishes. Though it be tried with fire, might be found to the praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. God values our heart. He values our faith being closer to him. And so when God sends a trial into our life, it's not because he hates us. And it's not because he just wants to see what next thing he can do in our life because he's bored. He never does that. It's because he loves us as a faithful creator. He wants to see our faith. Even more precious. You see that more precious than the things of life. It says golden 1 Peter. Even more than that. He values that the trying of our faith, the faith in our hearts being knit closer to him I was thinking about as I was thinking about like kids and as they're with their parents. And sometimes when you see kids with their parents, you see where the kid is holding on to their mom or dad because they're afraid of the crowd and they don't want to get lost. And so they're holding on to their their suit jacket or their their skirt or whatever. But mom or dad are kind of just rushing through the crowd. Then I think of other kids where mom or dad They're they're holding the hand of their kid, and I'm not saying one way's better than the other, but in my mind, this is what was going on. And the mom or dad are holding onto the kid's hand, and you see that mutual love in both directions. That is just they can't wait to spend time with their loving father or mother. Well you or I, when we go through the fail um go through the struggles of life. It's not just that we're trying to hold on with all that we are until maybe we fall. No, it's that God is with us every step of the way. He's with us in that step. And he's holding close to our hand. And it's the mutual love between you and I. I mean him and Him and us, that's what I meant. And it's the mutual love between us and him that he is wanting to grow. He's wanting us to have that heart that beats with him. the heart that loves him and trusts the promises. But when we're going through the struggles of our faith, when it says here, um, let patience have a perfect work that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. It looks like a tall order. It looks like it's like, okay, we're going through the struggles of our faith. We're going to letting the patience to endure, and it looks like it's a lot for us to handle. But as we're talking about, faith has the object in the our God, in Jesus. God promises in Hebrews 13, 5 and 6, he says, how he will never, ever leave us. And he'll never forsake us. So we may boldly say, the Lord is my helper. I will not fear what man can do to me. And as we're walking through the the life that maybe wasn't as we planned it, or walking through the life as the struggle that maybe is a daily, maybe moment-by-moment struggle in our life. And we think there's no other option, and we think there's no other way for us to get to the day, and we wonder, how can I ever go through this? Our loving creator, the faithful creator. He will never leave us. He's the one that strengthens our faith, but he does call us to be resolved to put forth the effort to growing in him So we've been talking a lot about, as he says here, let um patience have a perfect work that means perfect and tired, wanting nothing. So yeah, we're having the endurance, but endurance has to meet a goal. What is the goal of our faith? What is the end of our faith? When will our faith be completed? James speaks on this as well. Not specifically in this section, but he speaks about the endurance and what it's going to come to in the very end of his book. In chapter 5, verse 7, he says, Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, as long patience for it, until he received the early and latter rain. Be ye also patient. Stablish your hearts for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh God is promising that Jesus will one day return. The same Jesus who's the one that is set before our face and the one that went before us. Enduring the pain so that we could be forgiven of our sins. This same Jesus will come again, maybe today. Wouldn't that be something? In the light of everything that's going on in life, and we we sometimes lose sight of Jesus. Maybe Jesus will come back. And so God is calling us to be patient, therefore, in James 5, unto the coming of the Lord. So the endurance, the patience that He's working our hearts through the struggles of life that he's talking about in chapter 1. All that patience and the trying of our faith, the endurance of our faith, the maturity that God's going to grow within our life. He's saying, so be patient. Brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. And then he compares God to a far husbandman, someone that grows grows fruits and vegetables. He says, The husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth. And has long patience for it until we receive the early and latter rain. So maybe maybe we don't see the end coming. God says we don't know the time or moment when Jesus will return. But God, as the as the wise heavenly Father, the one that it says in James 5 as the the one that's growing the the the plants like fruits and vegetables. So basically he's the the one that's seeing that our faith is maturing. As the farmer would see when the things that he's growing. He wouldn't just he wouldn't just Take and harvest it right away when it's just an inch off the ground. Maybe the plant would think, I'm growing, I'm mature, I've strengthened my I've strengthened myself and now I'm ready to do what I want next. Well the the person growing it would say, no way, we gotta wait till we can get the entire maturity out of it. We can have the entire face grown in that plant Well, God sees our life, and he sees when it is time for you and I to mature, and time when he's going to call us home. And so God's saying here that He is the loving Heavenly Father who sees that when it's time for us To mature, time for us to grow, time for us to maybe relax a little in um not having trial after trial. But he sees that he wants us to be established in our hearts and to be resolved that no matter what, we will follow God We are to patiently endure because one day Jesus will return. One day our faith will be made sight, and we will see that the endurance that we've we've gone through all of this We've gone through all the trials of our faith. We've gone through the daily pain that makes it so that you would think no one else could ever understand what you're going through in life. And you're going through this pain. Jesus knows when the time is that he will return. And one day we'll look at it when we're in heaven and it'll look like a tiny little drop in a bucket compared to eternity. God wants us to be mature and want lacking nothing. So that as we're here on earth, it says in James 1. 4, it says, let patience have a perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire. Lacking or wanting nothing. That as we're here, we're being faithful to the faithful God. We're all in We're the all-in Christian. We're not holding anything back, but our hearts are submitted to him, rejoicing in him, and patiently waiting for the Lord to return. So how about you? Maybe as maybe as you're listening here, there's thoughts that race through your mind. That's how my mind often goes on listening. There's all these thoughts that race through. Maybe as your mind is racing through you're thinking, well, how about me? Maybe you're not going through a struggle right now in life or one that you are at least aware of. God wants us to continue to hold fast to the faithful words that He's had in His in his word the Bible to hold fast to God and saying, yes, I'm going to purpose in my heart to rejoice in God. To rejoice that no matter what I'm going through, whether it's looking good or bad, that I'm going to establish my heart in him. I'm going to respond by saying, yes, Lord, I'm going to allow him to grow me. And you're going to be a resolved Christian. Ask God to help you to be resolved, to trust Him in this era of life that you have. Maybe you are going through a struggle of life. And no one else knows it? And you you look good on the outside, but on the inside there's something going on in your life, or maybe everyone knows about it God knows, and he's not going to just let the trying of your faith go by wasted But are you going to respond by using the trying of your faith? Are you going to allow this to make you turn to God and say, I trust you, God, through what's going on in my life? I don't understand it, and God doesn't ask us to understand it, but he does ask us to turn to him and trust. To be resolved, to rejoice in him and in the work he's going to do in our life, no matter The circumstances. Some of these Christians in James's letter may have never seen life got better. They might have got killed at the stake. They might have been tortured. But they knew that their faithful Creator had a greater plan in mind. So when believers suffer, we should rejoice and submit themselves to God. As James says, my brethren, count it all joy when we fall into diverse temptations, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. Let's submit ourselves to God by rejoicing in Him and what He will do in our lives And being resolved that no matter what happens in our life, we will serve Him. Let's come to God in prayer. Dear Lord, thank you that you are the faithful creator. Lord God, you know what we need in our lives. We don't, Lord. We may think we do, Lord, but you do perfectly. So I ask you, Lord, that we would resolve our hearts to respond in trust and joy, Lord, in the work that you are already starting in us and will continue till Jesus returns. And I thank you, Jesus, that you will return. Your promises will not be falling into the way side. You will keep your word. And we praise you, Jesus. In Jesus' name, amen.