Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. Today we're back in Ecclesiastes chapter 2, so if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to turn with us. And we are in Ecclesiastes chapter 2, looking at verses 20 through 26 together. Let's go ahead and read it together. Therefore I went about to cause my heart to despair of all the labor which I took under the sun. For there is a man whose labor is in wisdom and in knowledge and in equity, yet to a man that hath not labored therein shall he leave it for his portion. This also is vanity and a great evil. For what hath man of all his labor and of the vexation of his heart, wherewith he hath labored under the sun? For all his days are sorrows and his travail grief. Yea his heart taketh not rest in the night, this is also vanity There's nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw that it was from the hand of God. For who can eat, or else can hapth there uh can hasten hereunto more than I. For God giveth to a man that is good in his sight, wisdom and knowledge and joy, but in the sinner he giveth travail to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that is good before God. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit. Now we've been talking about this issue of work and how as a Christian we should live in this world and look at the work that we're performing. So let me give you a real simple summary statement of the passage and then we're going to dig into really kind of the main point of what's going on here. A summary statement is this, while there's futility in our daily labors, there's also a redemptive glory in our work as well. Now we talk about the fact that there's a redemptive glory. We're not saying that a person becomes a Christian by their work. Obviously the scripture teaches that it's by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. But the point is that if I'm a believer, if I believe in eternity, I recognize that there's going to be a day that I stand before God and be judged and held accountable for the way that I've lived my life, that I'm going to actually be evaluated as a steward of the resources God's given me. I need to realize that though there is a futility in my work on some level And he talks about that futility. There's also an aspect to my work that's not futile. In fact, it's very important. It's extremely important in God's eyes. It should be important in my eyes. And I can actually find some joy and I can find some satisfaction in the work that I'm doing if I'm doing it from the right perspective. And so what's really interesting is Solomon's going to kind of present both of those aspects of our work and really the two sides of perspective. realizing that if we look only at the side of what we can see in this life, we're going to be frustrated because we will see futility. But if we look at the full balance, the full perspective of work, we'll see futility and we'll understand that there's struggle and we'll understand that we have to labor and press on in the midst or in spite of that futility in our work. But there's also a redemptive element to that. There's something that we can find joy and satisfaction in. There's something that can drive us and motivate us in our labors. And so as God's people, people with an eternal perspective, we're able to do our work with the full perspective in view, not just a partial part of that view in perspective. So let's look at the two aspects of what Solomon's presenting in these verses. The first thing we're going to see is that there is a futility in our work. In verse twenty-two, he puts it like this. What hath man of all his labor of the vexation of his heart wherein he hath labored under the sun. Now when Solomon writes this, we need to understand that he's going to give another aspect to how we look at our work. But if all we're looking at is the fact that we live our lives, we do our labors, we suffer, we struggle, and in the end, if we actually worked hard and we had wisdom and we had knowledge and we actually produce something that had value, that value is going to live past us and it's going to be given to somebody else And we have absolutely no control over how they're going to handle those resources and all of the work that we did. All of the industry of our lives is going to be left to another person. And if that person is wise, we're going to be forgotten. And if that person is foolish, what we've done will be wasted. And so when Solomon looks at that, he says, this is something that just vexes my heart It troubles me. And there are really two other things that he's going to mention in this section that talk about sort of the futility of our work. The first is this, we can't keep the long-term benefits of our labors. In verse 21, he says, there's a man whose labor is in wisdom and in knowledge and in equity. In other words, he has a good perspective. He has all of the information that he needs to do his work well. When he talks about it's inequity, the fact is that he does his work righteously. He treats people fairly in the work that he does. This is a good man. He's left a good heritage behind. And he's worked hard and he's actually left something with substance and value behind. But this is what it says. Yet to a man that hath not labored therein shall he leave it for his portion. He's saying, when he dies He's going to give that to somebody that didn't do anything for it. Now that person might be one of his children, that person might be an heir. Who knows who that person will be. But the idea is, he says, he does all this work He's amassed all this wealth, he's built all this infrastructure, he's done it because he made good decisions, he worked hard, he treated people fairly, and in the end somebody's going to benefit from all of those labors He says, that's not fair. That's not right. That makes work fear our work futile. And that's what he's saying. The second thing that he's emphasizing is this work comes with a lot of challenges. In verse 23 he says, All his days are sorrows, his travail grief, yea his heart taketh not rest in the night. What he's saying is that if you're going to accomplish anything in life, then you're going to go through a lot of suffering and a lot of struggle in the midst of the work that you do. There's going to be a lot of grief and a lot of hardship. Now there's some people that that kind of think that, well, you know, maybe I can get this real easy job and I'm not going to have to do that. But listen, if you're going to build anything of value then you're gonna have to suffer and you're gonna have to struggle. When people talk about small business owners and somebody that's building a business, one of the things they say is, you know, I worked hard with my hands And I want to enjoy the fruit of my labors. Well, there's truth in that. The truth is that it takes a lot of discipline and a lot of suffering to actually build something of value. And at the end he also makes another interesting statement. He says, his heart taketh not rest in the night. If a person is really involved in being a very industrious person and they're building something of value. It's going to be something that that plagues their mind potentially. When they're going to bed, they can't stop thinking about all of the things that they need to do. You know what's interesting? Somebody might say, well, you know, that's what happens in the secular vocation. What about somebody who's involved in a sacred vocation? And I use that kind of tongue-in-cheek because the reality is all of our work is sacred if it's done for the glory of God. But what about somebody who's a pastor, somebody who's a missionary? Well the truth is if somebody's a pastor or a missionary and they're involved in Christian ministry, they can feel the same sense of futility in what they do. How many people labor for years in a ministry in a place just to find out 15 or 20 years things begin to collapse or deteriorate? It's a very common thing. Somebody labors on a mission field and they do all their labors on the mission field. They turn it over to uh folks and they give them the opportunity and then They don't take that on and they don't do what they're supposed to do with those opportunities. Those things kind of happen. Somebody develops a a ministry. They build a school, something like that. And then within one or two generations it's a totally different institution. It's a totally different kind of church. So we need to recognize That sense of futility doesn't just happen in the secular world. It can also work that way when it comes to Christian ministry and that thing as well. Our labors involve struggle, and those struggles are part of what allow us to actually build something of value. But in the end, out of all of that, There's going to be a day that it's passed on to somebody else and we realize that they're going to enjoy the fruits of our labors They're going to build on our shoulders if we've worked well. And so when Solomon looks at that, he says, This is futile. This is empty. What's the point of all the work that I'm doing? And I want you to realize you may feel that sense today. You may say, you know, I get up very early in the morning and I do the same thing over and over and over again, day after day after day. And in the end, if I actually accomplish something of value, I won't even la it won't even last forever. I'm going to give it to somebody else. And what are they going to do? That's futile. It's empty If you feel that way, recognize that there is that aspect to the work that we do. But before I stop there, I want you to realize that's only half the picture. That's only a part of the picture. There is a futility to our work, but that's not all of it. And so Solomon's going to point out the second half of that here. He says there's also a redemptive glory in our work. I want you to realize that while there's a futility in our work, there's also an opportunity for us to have something of real lasting value and significance. The truth is that we can do our work in futility and in the end also see something that has real value and lasting significance. And Solomon's going to express that in verse 26. He said, God giveth to a man that is good in his sight, wisdom, knowledge, and joy And he's going to develop the redemptive side, the glorious side of work, the positive side of work, the fact that it's not all negative and it's not all futile. There is value in what we do as well. And he wants us to keep that in our perspective. The first thing he mentions is this. There is a temporary satisfaction and enjoyment in our labors. In verse 23 he says, There is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labor. You know what's really interesting? When we talk about this pandemic and what we've been dealing with, one of the reasons that there's a lot of depression, a lot of irritability, that a lot of people are feeling under extreme pressure right now. One of the reasons. is because a lot of people lost their jobs. And the truth is that when people are not working and they're not involved in something that is developing and using their skills and using their energies when they're not doing those things, there is a sense of emptiness Why is that? It's because there is a sense of joy and satisfaction in what we do. There is a sense of joy and satisfaction in building something and producing something. in managing something, in using resources for the benefits of other people. That is a part of our labor. And the truth is that we should recognize that even though it's only a temporary benefit, it's a legitimate benefit. And we desperately need that. We need to learn to enjoy the fruits of our labor. And Solomon expresses that in these verses. The second thing that he expresses is that we become aware of God's goodness as we labor and enjoy the fruits of our labors Now this is really of more significance than the first statement, but the first statement is important and it's significant, and it was worth being stated. He puts it like this in verse 26. God giveth to a man that is good in his sight, wisdom and knowledge and joy. Now basically what he's saying is your ability to actually produce something, to actually manage something effectively, to actually leave something of value is something that ultimately Is a reminder of God's goodness. Who is the one that gave you the physical strength to do what you do? Well, it's God Who is the one that gave you the skills to be able to do the things that you do? It's God. Who's the one that blessed your labors? It's God God. Who's the one that gave you the perspective that you needed to be able to do what you did? It's God. In other words, he's saying part of the redemptive element of our work What makes it glorious, what makes it truly impactful and valuable, is that as we labor, we learn of God's goodness. By the way, if someone's idle and they're lazy, they will not get this same sense. But when someone is industrious and they're doing their labors for the glory of God, One of the things that they're going to do is they're going to become more and more aware of God's goodness. He uses the term wisdom, knowledge and joy. When he uses the term wisdom, he's saying it's the ability to keep our work in perspective. The ability to look at what I'm doing and see it from God's point of view, not just the here and the now under the sun perspective, but with eternity, with the judgment, with God's perspective in mind, that wisdom comes from God. When he talks about knowledge, he's talking about the tools that are necessary to do our work well and effectively. That management ability, that ability to produce something, to create something. to use the resources. That's all from God's hand. And then it talks about joy, the ability to actually enjoy what we do. Lots and lots of people are doing good things that they should have the ability to enjoy that are actually benefiting them and the people that they're serving. Yet they don't enjoy the fruits of their labors at all. Why? Because the enjoyment of our labor and the enjoyment of what is produced in our labor and the satisfaction that comes from that, it's a gift from God. And not everybody experiences that. And one of the reasons they don't is all about perspective and how they relate to God and how they look at work. The last thing I'll mention here is this. We become aware of God's providence through our labors. What I mean by that is that it's God who ultimately lifts people up and puts people down. It's God who ultimately prospers people or allows people to experience leanness. Think about the book of Haggai where Basically, God sends a prophet to Israel and he says, you've labored in vain. You put your money in bags and there are holes in the bags and they're gone. You plant your fields and you do the labor and then the mildew comes and it destroys the crop. And he says, why is it that you're not prospering in what you do? Why is it that you labor and your labors are vain and empty? He's saying, because God's not allowing you to prosper. He's not blessing your labors. And then in other places he says, why are your fields bursting with produce? And why are you expanding and growing and thriving? He's saying it's not because of your wisdom, because it's because of the goodness of God. It's because he is blessing your labors. And so we see this sense being expressed in Ecclesiastes 2 as well. He said, God giveth to a man that is good in his sight wisdom, knowledge, and joy, but to the sinner he giveth travail. to gather, to heap up, that he may give to him that is good before God. Basically what Solomon's saying is, I've observed in life that when people walk in God's ways and they live a righteous life and they do their work honestly and they do it for the glory of God, I have learned that God prospers those people. And when people reject God, while they may temporarily prosper, there comes a point where their prosperity will begin to deteriorate. And they'll end up at the bottom of the barrel. God will not allow them to continue to prosper indefinitely. But there are times that God will lift someone up or he will put them down. And I'm recognizing that that is ultimately God's prerogative. It's according to his wisdom and his purposes. And so I recognize when I do my work that I can enjoy those labors. that I can learn things about God and his goodness in those labors and I ultimately recognize that it is God who's ultimately in control. And so as I work, there is a redemptive element to the work that I do. So here's the question this morning. How do we practically apply what's in front of us? I think there's actually a lot we could say here, but let me just give you a couple of simple thoughts I jotted down today. The first is this, learn to enjoy what you do. There are far too many people that despise their labors When what they're doing is good, what they're doing actually benefits other people. What they're doing can be done to the glory of God What they're doing, they can delight in, they can enjoy it, they can learn things about God's goodness, but because of their perspective. Because they're not thinking about their labors in light of eternity and in light of the good hand of God, they despise what they do. It is a drudgery. It is empty. It is a frustration. And I want you to realize that we can do our work to the glory of God and we should do it and we should enjoy it while we do it. God wants us to enjoy our labors as we do it from a godly perspective. The second thing is this. We need to do our hum our work humbly for God's glory. Don't live for your work. Don't allow your sense of value to be exclusively connected to what you do. But let your work have value because it's done for his glory. There's a huge difference between those two concepts. The third thing I'll mention is this. See God's good hand in your labors. Do you have physical strength? Do you have wisdom and insight? Do you have the ability to plan and are you seeing your labors prosper? Then recognize it's because God's been good to you It's not because you're just a smart person. It's not just because you made good choices. It's because God has blessed you God has been kind to you. He has been very good to you. And you need to recognize that your prospering in your labors and your enjoyment of those labors is a result of the goodness and the kindness of God. Very, very important for us to recognize that. I want to close with two simple scriptures that I think will be a help to you this morning. The first is in James 1. 17 it says this, every good gift And every perfect bist is from a above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shout of turning 1 Timothy 6. 17 says, Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. that they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation. against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life. It's so important that we do our work to the glory of God and from a godly perspective. If this has been an encouragement to you or challenge, I hope that you'll share that. Perhaps share it on your Facebook page so that others can be benefited by it. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will continue in our ecclesiastic study. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the opportunity to discuss such an extremely important topic. Help these truths to settle in our hearts. Help us to live in light of eternity. Help us to enjoy our labors as your good hand prospers us. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Well, I hope you have a wonderful morning, and Lord willing, we will see you tomorrow. Bye now.