The text this morning is 1 Peter 1, verses 6 and 7, but just to kind of get a good sense of the context, I want to begin in verse number 5. I don't usually give a title to our messages, but this morning my title is Thinking Biblically in the Face of Trials. And I think you're able to see a theme throughout our worship this morning as we've sung these hymns, as we've listened to these songs being played, and our attention has been directed to God. All of our attention has been focused. on how God takes care of people when they're going through struggles and trials. 1 Peter 1. 1 says this, Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ To the strangers scattered throughout Pontius, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Grace unto you and peace be multiplied. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away reserved in heaven for you who are kept by the power of God through faith into salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptation. That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise. and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. You might ask, what is the main point of this section, of the beginning of Peter's epistle to those strangers who are scattered throughout those regions mentioned. The purpose of the section is to help suffering Christians understand the nature of the trials that they're facing. And the reason that he wants them to understand the nature of those trials is so that they can be faithful. And they can grow in the midst of those trials that they're experiencing. The fact is this, God wants us as his children to be faithful and to grow when we're tested. And every single person in this room understands that as a Christian, we are not exempt from trials of our faith. In fact, as we dig into this passage today We're going to see that trials of our faith are something that God allows and sometimes God even appoints us for specific tasks because He wants to grow us and He wants to mature us. He wants us to go from being a young, immature Christian to someone who is strong and who is settled and trusts God and finds him to be the center of their delight and their joy and their security and their stability. God at times calls us to walk through the shadows, to go through the valleys to experience pain and suffering. And it's not because he's evil, and it's not because he's harsh, and it's not because he delights in seeing people struggle. It's because he understands the process. that we must go through in order to grow and mature and be strong. Last week we talked about how Christians can have stability in the Christian life. In the midst of ups, in the midst of downs, in the midst of struggles and trials. How can a Christian experience stability, calm , rest? Well, what we saw last week is that, first of all, their lives have to be rooted in the authority of Scripture. If your life is built upon emotion or circumstance or assumption Your life is in trouble. It will not be stable. You will not be able to stand firm when the trials of life come. And so God tells us in his word that if we want to have stability, we have to build our lives on the rock of God's word. Remember the story of the two men who built their houses. One built it on the sand and the other built it on the rock. And when the rains descended and the floods came and the wind blew on the house, what happened? One house stood firm because it was built on the rock. The other crumbled because it was built in the sand. The fact is that if our lives are rooted in anything but the authority of Scripture, then we are building our house on sand. The second thing we saw is that their expectation of the nature of the Christian life has to be realistic. The truth is that there are some people who, when they trust Christ as their Savior, They think that every struggle and every trial that they faced is gone forever. I hate to tell you, but that's not true I wish it was true. If it was true, I probably wouldn't have to be a pastor as much as I'm a pastor. If it wasn't true, then you wouldn't have to be a mom or a dad who Comforts a struggling child as much as maybe you have to do. If it wasn't true you wouldn't have to walk through the shadows With some of your dearest friends. We wouldn't need the strength and the stability that we draw upon from one another as Christians in the body of Christ. But the reality is this: the Christian life has high points. And it has low points, and we need to understand the nature of the Christian life as it is. We, like these people, are strangers. And pilgrims, and we seek a city whose builder and maker is God. We also saw that thinking must be grounded in the gospel. And as we looked at that text, Paul or Peter talks about how God has worked in the lives of these Christians. How through his work, through the Spirit's work, through the Word, they've come to place their faith in Christ. They've been obedient to the call to repent and trust in the finished work of Christ. They have been separated to God. They are beloved. They have an inheritance that is incorruptible and undefiled and that fadeth not away. And they're kept by the power of God. God did all that work in them. And the more we understand the gospel, and the more our hearts are rooted in the gospel and those dear truths, the more we'll have stability. Well, this week we build on what Peter said in general, and now we're going to look at it in a specific application. Through a specific set of circumstances. And I want to begin by introducing you to a young man who grew up in one of those cities that Peter is writing to. Now this is a fictitious young man, but the story that I'm going to tell you could very well be the situation that many young Christians faced As they came to understand the gospel and they turned to the gospel and they trusted in Christ's finished work. This young man, he's in the prime of life. He's getting ready to get married. He's so excited. Because, well, they didn't have engagement like we do today in our culture, but he and his future bride are preparing to get married. And so they're setting their life in order and they're excited about the prospects of life together. And it's at that season in life that this young man comes face to face with the realities of the gospel. Through the preaching of the gospel, through godly people that God sets in his life, he begins to come under the conviction of the Word of God He begins to recognize that he's a sinner and he's separated from God and his righteousness is not acceptable to God and that the Lord Jesus Christ died for his sins and he rose from the dead and through turning to the Lord Jesus and trusting in his finished work He can be saved. That young man, as he hears the gospel over and over again, and he comes under the conviction of the word of God, he comes to this place where he cannot turn away from this message. He knows he must embrace the gospel. And that's what he does. In fact, he goes from being under this tremendous load of guilt. and pressure and fear, thinking of himself before a holy God. And he feels liberated. He feels like this load has been lifted from his shoulders. And he has peace and he has joy and he's satisfied and he's delighting in the Lord and he is enjoying his new life in Christ. Until until he has a conversation with his bride to be. And he begins to lay out to her the wonderful gospel message. And she says, you are now one of them? Please tell me you're joking. This is not a dream come true. This is a nightmare. I can't marry a Christian. Those people, their whole Horrible people. You hear what people say about Christians? There's no way that I'm going to marry you. Do you really believe that message? That a Jewish carpenter died on a cross and rose from the dead? That's impossible. It can never happen. And they meet and they worship together and they do this thing called the Lord's table. Nobody knows what actually happens there, but We've heard things. I can have nothing to do with that faith. It's me or the gospel All of a sudden, the cloudless sky just got really dark. And it comes under this tremendous pressure. And he knows in his soul that it's Christ. And he tells his bride to be that in fact he truly is a Christian. And he cannot turn from his faith in Christ. It's truth. He's convinced of it. He's embraced it. He's been baptized. He's identified with the body of Christians, and he cannot and will not turn from it And she says, Then we will not speak again. And that was it. We think how his family responds as they hear about the good news that to them is not so good. In fact, they become fearful and they say, we know what Christians do. Christians don't take part in the festivals that we have in our society. Christians don't worship and pour obeisance and pour out libation to the emperor like everybody else does in the right season. And you know that when somebody in the community doesn't pour libation to the emperor, the emperor is going to be angry. If somebody doesn't involve themselves in these festivals and all the traditions that we're involved in. You know that our women, they won't get pregnant anymore. And you know our enemies are going to come and they're going to fight us. And they're going to destroy us. And it's going to be your fault. You're going to be one of those people That keeps us in line with the gods. You can't even live in this house anymore. Because if you do, we will face the wrath of the city. And you're sitting there going, Whatever, that's not true. Folks, read history. Read history, and you'll find out that what I'm telling you is exactly the kind of pressure That Christians faced when they embraced the gospel. In fact, they were rejected. And as we go later on in the book of 1 Peter We will see that some of the very issues that I mentioned just now will come out in the context of the passages we're looking at. The fact is that that young man's work associations begin to pull away from him. He loses his job. He loses his position in the community. The city authorities begin watching him and they say That young man is not somebody we can trust. He's somebody that needs to be watched. In fact, things got very, very difficult for this young man. But he wasn't the only one. In fact, many of those Christians that were a part of that Christian community that are a part of that church, they experienced the exact same kinds of hardships. That this young man faced. And I asked the question, if you're talking to him, what do you tell him? How do you help him? How do you encourage this young man? Well, the passage that is in front of us is the encouragement for this young man. And I want us to look at a couple of truths that are laid out in this passage that would be a help to him and most definitely can and should be a help to us. in the current situations we find ourselves in as well. The first truth is this. We need to understand our faith We need to understand the nature of faith and the Christian experience. Look down with me in verse number seven at the statement that's made He says, the trial of your faith being more precious than gold that perisheth, though it is tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. That passage of Scripture, those little phrases are very, very important. And I want to break down a couple of facts very quickly about the nature of faith in the Christian life The first is this, faith is always rooted in something. It says in Romans chapter 10, verse 17, that faith cometh by hearing the word of God. In 1 Peter 1 18, Peter says this. He says, you are not redeemed with corruptible things. as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. And then it says this, Who by him do believe in God 's Our faith is rooted in something. Our faith is rooted in the Word of God. If the Word of God is not presented, you will not, you cannot have faith. That is the means that God uses to draw a person, to convict a person, to open their eyes to their need, to turn to Christ and trust in his finished work. When the Spirit of God convicts people of sin and righteousness and judgment, he does it through the Word of God. And so God draws us to Himself through the preaching and teaching of the gospel. It says in 1, or excuse me, in James chapter 1 verse 17, it says, every good and perfect gift is from above and cometh from the Father of lights. With whom is no variableness or shadow of turning, of his own will, begat he us by the word of truth. And basically what this young man needs to hear is that your faith is rooted in the word of God. That book that came to you, that opened your eyes to your sin and Christ's righteousness and his death and his resurrection. That book that has convicted you and convinced you, it is authoritative, it is truth, and therefore your faith is steadfast. We also see that faith is always focused on something. It's not just that the Word of God is something that produces or draws us or convicts us or opens our eyes so that we come to that point of resting and trusting in what God has done for us. But that faith not only is what is or our faith is not only rooted in the word, but it becomes the object. the sole focus of our faith. He says, by him you believe in God. In other words, when a person places their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, their faith is ultimately focused on one thing. What God said he would do, he will do. In other words, God says he's going to judge me. I believe that's true. I'm a sinner. I deserve his wrath. I believe it's true. I believe what God says. I believe that Jesus died for my sins, and he rose from the dead, and his righteousness stands and can be given to me, and I can stand righteous in Christ. I believe what God said is true. The Bible says if I repent and trust Christ and call on the Lord to save me, he says he will do it. My faith is rooted and is focused on God and His Word. And so what happens? This young man needs to remember something. You've not embraced just some superstition. It's not just this emotional high that you've gone through or the right alignment of circumstances through the preaching and teaching of the word You have been drawn, you've been convicted, you're convinced your faith is rooted and is focused on the word of God and the gospel. We see a third thing. Faith is always not only focused on something, but we see that faith is something that can be substituted by a superficial replacement. The fact is this, in Matthew 7 it says, Not everyone that saith to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. He says, Many will say in that day, Lord, we have done all these things in your name. He says, and then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. There is a real, genuine faith in the finished work of Christ. And there are people who claim to have that, but truly don't. You say you mean that somebody would actually claim to have placed their faith in Christ and deep down inside and have not really done that? Of course, it's possible. It's possible you can be associated with the church for many different reasons. There are lots of people who will lay claim to the gospel because they want to get a job. And they think these people can help me get a job. And so it's really not about understanding the gospel. It's not about being rooted in what Christ did for them. Not about them seeing themselves as a sinner separated from God. It's about whatever I need to say to get that job, I'm going to do it. There are some people they desperately want to get married. And they say, that girl or that guy, they won't marry me unless I become a Christian. And so I'd like to go to church and I'd like to learn what I can learn so I can be one of them and I can do. Now in our illustration, this young man had the opposite effect. When his future spouse finds out he's a Christian, she says, I'm done. And that happens to people. But on the other side, there are folks that say, whatever I gotta say, whatever I gotta do, you tell me, write it down, and I'll do it because I want to get this. There's some that believe I just get a better life. People are bound by certain addictions and they say, I'll try anything. I'll try religion. I'll try God. I'll try this. If it works for me, great. And it's not really about a conviction of sin, righteousness, and judgment and placing their faith in Christ. It's about, I'll give this a try and see what happens. Others come to that place where they say, you know, I I I'm lonely and I I know Christians are nice people. I want to be a part of a community. I want to be a part of a faith group. But here's the saying. If a person says, I believe, for one of those reasons, when the pressure comes, they will walk Walk away. Bottom line. They won't stand. Why? Because they didn't get what they came for. And if they didn't get what they came for, then they walk away. My question is, how do you know if faith is genuine or if faith is simply a superficial substance? This passage is the answer. The trying of your faith being more precious than gold that perisheth. Though it be found unto praise and honor and might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ The bottom line is if your faith is real, if it's rooted in the gospel, if it's focused on Christ, and you recognize This message is non-negotiable. This is true. I've been convicted by it. I'm convinced of it. I'm trusting in it. When those trials come, you will bend, but you will not break You won't walk away because you know what is there and you embrace it and you hold fast to it Another point is this faith by its nature has to be tested, it has to be stretched, it has to be matured. He gets this statement, he says, if need be. In other words, he's saying, you have to go through this. It's important. It's a part of the process. The fact is that when we get saved, we get saved not because we have strong faith. Not because we have mature faith, not because we have concluded I will never sin again, we get saved because as a child we trust in what Jesus did for us on the cross. In other words, because our faith is rooted in Christ and focused in Christ, God has saved us. But God doesn't want us to stay in that childlike position. He wants us to mature. He wants us to develop. He wants us to know him more intimately. He wants us to rest in him more fully and more completely. He wants us to be able to stand fast in the midst of hardships. He wants us to be strong. He wants us to be mature. And the only way that can happen Through the trying of our faith. I think of the example of Abraham, and it's interesting in James 2. James refers to the testing of Abraham. In James chapter 2, James is basically saying this. If a person claims to be a Christian, they say that they have faith, the way that you believe it and are convinced of it is you see the evidence of it in the way that they live. In other words, when they come to the test, though they bend, they don't break. And they say, This is true, I hold fast to it. I can't walk away from this. This is where I stand. And he says the perfect example of Abraham. Now we know when Abraham got saved. Abraham got saved in Genesis chapter fifteen. It says Abraham believed the Lord and it was counted unto him as righteousness. That was not a huge test. He believed that God was going to send a Savior. He's going to send the Messiah and He's going to do it through Abraham's seed. And so Abraham said, I believe it's true. I'm resting in it. But in James 2 he says, We're convinced that Abraham was saved in Genesis 22. Why is that? Because God said, Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love. And take him to the mountains of Moriah and there offer him as a sacrifice. And Abraham, as conflicted as he was in his heart, said, You know what? God promised he's going to send his Savior through my seed. This is the child of promise. So I'm going to obey God and I'm going to trust him to do what only he can do. That's phenomenal. In other words, his faith went from being in a point of immaturity to a point of tremendous maturity, confidence in God. In Romans chapter 1, verse 16, it says, the gospel of Christ is the power of God unto salvation. to everyone that believeth. And then he makes a statement. Therein the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, the just shall live by faith. I know that I've looked at that phrase many, many times and asked myself the question, what does he mean from faith to faith? Either you have faith or you don't, right? Well, in one sense that's true. But from Paul's perspective, as God moves him, he says, it's going from a point of immature faith, yes, rooted in the gospel, yes, you're saved, but it's not where it can be. It's not where it needs to be. It's not where I'm taking it. And so you go from that point of conversion, placing your faith in Christ like a child. You rest in the finished work of Christ. But there'll be a point when you stand firm in faith. And that's what I want. Faith has to be tested and has to be stretched and it has to be matured. And it may be that today you are facing trials that are the very results of how God does that. There are things that we face as we go through life, we could have never gone through them in our youth. We could have never been faithful in the young days of our Christian experience, but over years of tests and trial and stretch and maturing, God brings us through troubled waters and we stand firm. Because of his hand that strengthens us. The fact is, our Christian faith is not just something that we have focused on Christ, but it's something that matures and it grows and it develops and it's stretched over the course of our lifetime. Next, faith that is genuine, though severely tested, will pass the test. He says the child of your faith might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Peter believes and is convinced that these people who are being tested are going to pass the test. Doesn't mean that every single day they're going to do it to the extent that they should or you'd want. But at the end of the story, they will walk through those waters and they will survive and they'll be strengthened. Lastly, genuine faith pleases God and is used to accomplish his wonderful purposes. He said it might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. It says in Hebrews that without faith it's impossible to please God. And so the way that you and I please the Lord in our faithfulness of walk is by walking by faith. We come to a second truth and that is suffering. We need to understand the nature of suffering and the Christian experience, and this is extremely important. In verse six it says this, ye greatly rejoice, so now for a season, if need be you're in heaviness through manifold temptation. Let me lay out a couple of simple facts about suffering that are stated in this passage. And these are important. I'm going to tell you this is fundamental to being a faithful Christian. We're going to face trials. And we need to be ready. The first is this suffering is a normal part of living in a fallen world. There are some Christian ministers, and I say that rather cautiously. And in huge quotes, Christian ministers who say that God will never allow you to suffer as a Christian. Folks, that's a lie. It's a lie. There are some people that that will teach on the other side that every time you suffer, it's a direct result of a judgment from God. Again, that's a lie. You believe that, you act on that, you're going to have major trouble in life. Folks, the Bible teaches that suffering is a normal part of living in a fallen world. That doesn't mean that God delights in our suffering. That doesn't mean that God created the world wanting us to suffer. He created a world that had potential for evil. And when Adam sinned, the result was sin, death, and suffering. Listen to what it says in Romans 8, verse 22. We know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. Not just people, but all of creation is affected by the fall. A lot of human suffering is the result of living in a fallen world. It's not about a decision you made, and it's not about a decision somebody else made. It's about the fact that the environment you live in has fallen. It's broken. He says we ourselves groan waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our bodies. There comes a point in life and we stop being healthy. We stop being strong and we stopped being able to do the things that we once did. Simple things that we took for granted for years and years and years, and all of a sudden we can't do it. And what does it say? We groan waiting for the redemption of our bodies. One day it will be different. But suffering today is a part of living in this world. The kind of potential sufferings that we encounter are limitless. Notice the phrase he says, the manifold temptations. That means there's all different kinds of temptations that we face. They're emotional temptations. There are physical temptations. They're interpersonal temptations. All kinds of different ways that we suffer. From the fact that we go through temptation to sin, the fact that our bodies get weak. And tired, the fact that people oppress us, the fact that we feel emotional struggles, the kind of suffering that we encounter is limitless. In James chapter 1, he talks about falling into diverse temptations. If we sat down and said, let's make a list of all the different ways that our faith can be tested, we'd just be here forever writing them down. Okay? That means that we have to be ready for the principle, not necessarily for the specific. We come to a third, suffering for the Christian does not have to be crippling. He says, in this wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season. You say, how in the world can anybody rejoice in troubling circumstances? It's through the grace that's in Christ Jesus. It's not because we know it's going to get better. It's not because we know how it's going to unfold. It's because God pours grace and strength into our heart in our time of need. We know that suffering will always come to an end. And notice he says it's for a season There's nothing that you will encounter on this side of eternity, in the form of a suffering as a Christian, that will last forever. That's a wonderful blessing, isn't it? You know, it could be that some of you are running a hundred-yard dash, and that's the nature of this suffering that you're going through. That suffering is intense. It's severe, but it's going to be gone. And maybe some of you are running the 400. Maybe not as intense But it's a little longer. Some of us are running marathons. And the fact is that it's going to take a long time. And it's going to be a constant irritation and a constant source of frustration and discouragement. But you know what? The race eventually ends. And God comes to a point where he says, you have passed the test, now let's go to the next. The fact is that all suffering is seasonal for the Christian. Sometimes Christians have to suffer in order for God to accomplish his purposes. Now, I'm not saying that you're going to understand why God allowed you to go through what you've gone through. In fact, I don't think we can ever fully understand the reason why. We may understand aspects of something. We may realize that this is something good that God has accomplished in this bad. But we never can see all sides of the picture. We never understand every dimension as to what God is doing, why he's doing it, what he's accomplishing. But what we do know is this: God has purpose. And it's good, even when we suffer. He says in Psalm 119, It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. In Hebrews 12, 11 he says, No chastening for the present seemeth joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterwards it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness to them which are exercised thereby. Therefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees and make straight the path of your feet. In other words, God strengthens people through suffering. And suffering can knock you down and bring you to low places. He says that even though ye rejoice, ye are in heaviness. I think there are Christians sometimes that get into very low places and they say, no good Christian could ever be here. No godly saint has ever been here, but I want to encourage you to read your Bible very carefully and look at some of the godliest people who God has ever worked in and through. Look at Moses. Look at Elijah. Look at the Lord Jesus Christ as he's in the garden facing the cross. And what do you see? Godly people, specifically the Lord Jesus, perfect person. Feeling the weight and the burden of what they are experiencing In Psalm 6, it says this, return, O Lord. The psalmist is speaking as if God has walked away from him. He feels abandoned. He feels he has no hope. He says, Lord, return. Deliver my soul. Save me for thy mercy's sake. In death there's no remembrance of thee. In the grave, who shall give thee thanks? I'm weary with my groaning all the night. Make I my bed to swim. I water my couch with tears, my eyes are consumed because of grief. It waxeth old because of mine enemies. The psalmist is talking about being in a very low place. And that might be where you find yourself from time to time in the Christian life. But I want to remind you of this wonderful truth. Christian suffering always serves redemptive purposes. Maturing of our faith, demonstrating the genuineness of our faith Opportunities to experience a deeper level of communion with God. Glory to God. Opportunities to demonstrate faithfulness and to ultimately be rewarded in the future. God has purposes in why He lets us suffer. And he's always there to strengthen us by his good hand. Christian suffering will never be forgotten by God. Notice the last statement of the phrase, he says, that it might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. I'm going to close with a couple of thoughts about glory. We need to understand God's ultimate purpose and why we suffer. You know, it's interesting when you read that verse, I want to ask you this question. Who is the one who is going to receive glory and honor and power at the appearing of Jesus Christ? Read the context and ask yourself that question. Is it God? Is it the Christian? Is it really in some ways both? Think about it this way. In Revelation 4 it says, the 24 elders fall down before him that sat on the throne and worshiped. him that liveth forever and ever, and cast their crowns before his throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things. For thy pleasure they are and we're created. No question, when we stand before Christ, we will fall down at his feet, and any reward we receive, we will lay at his feet and say, You are worthy. You have done it. My faithfulness is only because of your sustaining hands. And so, of course, it's talking about the fact that on that day he will be glorified. But I don't think that's what the passage is actually referring to. I think it's referring to how God will crown the Christian who's been faithful and who has suffered. Listen to some passages that talk about this concept. In Romans 8, it says, we know all things work together for good to them who love God. To them who are called according to his purpose, for whom he did for know he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son. When you stand before Jesus Christ He will look at you and say, I have seen the image of myself reflected in you. All those circumstances were meant to shape you When you stand before him in his judgment, see, listen to what Paul says. 1 Corinthians 9. Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. So run that ye may obtain. He says, every man that striveth for the mastery is temper in all things. They do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible Therefore so I run, not as uncertainty, so fighting, not as one that beateth the air, but I keep under my body and bring it under subjection, lest by any means when I preach to others I myself should be a castaway. Paul lived the Christian life and he was willing to suffer and he was willing to be temperate and he was willing to be focused because when he stood before Christ, he wanted to be found faithful. Second Timothy 2, he says, Endure hardness. No man that wareth entangleth himself, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. If a man strive for masteries, he's not crowned, except he strive lawfully. He tells Timothy, Be faithful, you will stand before Christ. In 1 Timothy 4, he says, Take heed to thyself. Unto the doctrine, continue in them. In doing this thou shalt save both thyself and them that hear thee. He says, Be a faithful minister, because you will stand before God and give an account, and so will pay. My point is this. All the suffering you face as a Christian serves a purpose. To conform into the image of Christ. And it provides opportunity for God to say, well done. You have been faithful. You have been persistent. You took up those means that I provided for you, and you stayed the course. And I want to reward you for your faithfulness. I want to praise you as my child. For doing a job well done. Paul writes in Romans 8, I reckon that the suffering of this present time Is not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. He writes in 1 Corinthians that we faint not, though our outward man perishes. Yet the N-word is renewed, for our light affliction is but for a moment, but it worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. While we look not at the things which are seen, but the things which are not seen. The things which are seen are temporal, the things which are not seen are eternal. I want to encourage you today, Christian. That suffering and the testing of your faith serves a purpose in God's plan for you. Don't be discouraged. When you get to that very low point, don't think you're the only one who's ever been there. When you think that God has walked away, realize he hasn't. When you think that God has no plan, realize that he does When you think that God's not accomplishing anything, realize that he is. When you think that God will forget this and there will never be a remembrance in his mind again, you're wrong. He's going to bring it back up and he's going to say, well done. Good and faithful servant. As we go through life, may we be Christians. Whose lives are fixed on the truths found in this text. God wants us to be faithful, grow through testing. May we carefully apply these scriptures. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, thank you for this passage and the many that are connected with this text. Suffering is a real part of our Christian experience And I pray that you'd help us to think correctly about it. Help us to realize that our faith will be tested and must be tested But it can come forth purer and stronger, more resilient. I pray that you'd help your people to bear the loads that you give them in your own strength For your own glory, may you strengthen us as your people today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.