Well, good morning. Great to see each of you today, and I hope that you had a wonderful Christmas. And I know that uh this year has been an unusual Uh time to have Christmas. So we have Christmas Eve service on Friday night and then Saturday and then here we are. So for each of you that are here, it's so good to see you, and I know that many are joining us say also on the live stream. Wanted to welcome you as well. A couple of announcements just to kind of get you up to speed with what we have going on First of all, this Wednesday we do not have our midweek service as usual. So because of the way the holiday is falling out, we will not have a midweek. So please Make sure that you mark that on your calendars. Also, we will be back into full swing coming into January, so we have our SOS list Ladies, uh brunch coming up, that's on the calendar. Um we also have uh the teens have a sing spiration on the 9th, and then on the 8th, there is uh a baby shower for the Lewis's so please make sure that you mark those on your calendar. Also if you uh purchased a Poinsetta, please make sure that you pick that up today. Unfortunately, they're not going to get watered. Indefinitely. So uh we've done a good job. We've kept them, you know, in in pretty good uh order this year. Uh but if you did purchase one of those, please do come and get that. We do have a couple of extras too, so if you really, really want a point so you didn't get one, you can come and talk to me and we'll see if we got an extra one for you. But please make sure you do that. Also we have some Oranges and candy canes in the back that are uh left over from our Christmas Eve service. And so if you're interested in picking up some of those, uh please do that. Whatever doesn't get picked up, I'm taking home, and I'll be eating candy canes a lot. Actually it's the oranges I really want. Uh but uh I hope that you really enjoyed those services. They are um online and I know that we had an issue with the live stream. Um so uh the computers crashed. I guess it's an annual thing. It's got to happen on Christmas Eve. But if you missed that and you want to see that those are on Facebook and on Let's go ahead and open up our Bibles to Ecclesiastes chapter 12 for opening scripture reading. Ecclesiastes chapter 12 and we're reading Verses 1 through 7 it says, Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure While the sun or the light or the moon or the stars be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain And the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the window they be darkened And the door shall be shut in the street, when the sound of the grinding is low, and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music Shall be brought low. The desire shall fail because no man because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about in the streets. Or even the silver cord be loosened, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern. Unto God who gave it. This morning we want to focus our attention. I know we're coming into the new year, and I want us to focus our attention on the importance of living this moment in submission to God. God's will. So let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we'll ask Him to bless our service. Father, thank you for the opportunity to gather together. I thank you for uh our our family members uh who've come and and visited in the area, I think uh of uh folks who are traveling today and tomorrow Uh please give safety to all those who'll be on the roads. Pray for those who've dealt with sickness that you'll strengthen their bodies and allow them to be in good health very soon. Um Thank you for those who've been able to join us on the live stream and also those who are Are you here with us in person? I pray that this morning would be a time of uh important reflection as we enter into the new year. I pray that we would be sobered by the reality of our short lives, that we would also recognize the incredible opportunities that you've set before us, that we had Seize those opportunities. And as we continue to reflect on the incarnation, I pray that our hearts will be filled with gratitude and praise that the Lord Jesus Christ 2,000 years ago took on fire flesh. He dwelt among his people, and he ultimately did it to go to the cross for our sins. May we not get over the glory of the gospel. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church. By a show of hands, can I see the number of folks that when you were growing up Whenever you left the Christmas programs, you had a sack, it had an orange, it had peanuts, and it had a candy cane in it, or was I the only one? There's a couple of us. Well very good. Yeah, that's a tradition. Every every Christmas uh service we would go away with a everybody bag of uh with an orange, candy cane, and a handful of peanuts. So brings back old memories to see those candy canes and oranges out there. But now we're gonna start the song service off page two hundred and eighteen. I'm sorry. Page two hundred oh two. I got ahead of myself. I had it marked at one time. Good Christian men rejoice, stand with me. We're going to sing all three verses Of good Christian men rejoice. Sing out Christian men rejoice with hard and gold and voice. Joy, joy , the time with the burden. Christ was done by Christian in the house, but he needed to be the point. Now we're gonna go to page two hundred and eighteen. How great our joy, and we'll sing three verses of this Christmas song, Christmas Carol. That's Pray our joy, praise our joy, joy , joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, pray for the Lord, and God died, pray for the Lord. Lord in God I give I'm afraid Joy , pray and joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, pray my Lord , and my Praise my Lord in God Go ahead and have a seat. Well the musicians turn to page 223 to 23 while sing three verses of Thou Didst Leave Thy Throne. When we pray , comes for the first we shall come through the There is proof and I forgot. Amen. We'll have the second reading of scripture. We're going to Ecclesiastes twelve, verses eight through fourteen this time. And the scriptures say, Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher, all is vanity. And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge. Yea. He gave good heed and sought out and set in order many proverbs. The preachers sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written was upright, even words of truth. The words of the wise are as goads, and as nails fastened by the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd. And further, by these, my son, be admonished. Of making many books there is no end, and much study is a weariness of the flesh. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil Amen. Alright, we will pick up our songs on page 227. Page 2 Hundred and twenty seven Who is he in Yonderstall So you know that 's really commercial. Amen. Now we're gonna go to our blue book, page 105. right in the middle or follow along on the screen. We're gonna sing all four verses of For Me to Live is Christ. Sing Stand with me on the third floor, stand with me. Amen. Please be Amen. Okay, our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for junior church. And uh some beautiful music. Love this season. The music that is written for this season is some of the most beautiful music that uh we listen to at any time of the year. And it's such a glorious reason to celebrate. If you could take your Bibles and let's turn together to Ecclesiastes chapter 12. And I have to admit to you that this morning I feel like I'm in a tough place because uh this is the last Sunday of the year It's also the day after Christmas. And so the question that I have to ask myself is so do I go with a Christmas theme or do I go with a New Year theme? And uh you're gonna find I'm gonna go with a New Year theme, okay. Um and uh it's certainly not because I want to leave the Christmas I absolutely love this season. But I think it's important for us as we think about the time that we're living in and As we think about the new year before us, that we stop and we think soberly about the scriptures that are before us. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, we know a lot about the book of Ecclesiastes because we've been spending a lot of time there on Wednesday nights. And before the Wednesday night, we were working through the book of Ecclesiastes on Sunday nights. It's a book that I would say uh has a very pessimistic tone, but I would like to look at it as really it's it's a realist book. It tells you about how life really is in a fallen world. Life is difficult in a fallen world And that doesn't mean that life is only negative in a fallen world. It simply means it's difficult and we've got to live wisely in a fallen world. So I want to invite you to look with me at verses one through five, but we'll actually look at the entire chapter throughout our time together this morning. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verse 1. It says, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. And I'm not sure how you define youth, but uh I would say most of us probably fall into that category. Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them While the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain, and the day when the keepers of the house shall trust And the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened. And the doors shall be shut in the streets when the sound of the grinding is low. He shall rise at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low. Also, when they shall be afraid, or that which of that which is high, and fears shall be in the way, the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail When we read these verses from chapter twelve, I think I would summarize it this way. Ecclesiastes twelve reminds us that the strength and the opportunities that we enjoy when we are young And by the way, when he uses the term young in this particular passage, I think he would say, if you're not elderly, where your body is beginning to really get to that stage where you can't physically do the things that you I think he kind of put everybody in that category. He reminds us that the strength and opportunities we enjoy when we are young, they're short. And they should be seized to their fullest, or we will look back on those years with painful regrets. What I want us to see this morning from the scriptures is that God wants us to seize the opportunities that He set before us in the new year. The truth is, when we look back over this past year and then we look back over the year before it, there are a lot of things that have taken place that we would have never, ever been able to predict. We would have never conceived of some of the history that we have lived through in the period that we're living in. And there's absolutely no way that we can predict what is coming in the new year. But I can tell you this. In spite of all the things we've walked through, God has given us the strength and the grace to endure many challenges. In the midst of those challenges, he's also given us Incredible blessings, rich blessings that we've been able to enjoy. Some of us have been able to enjoy them to their fullest, some of us have maybe not been able to enjoy them to their fullest, but we were able to then enjoy them to Degree And I know that in the coming year we're going to have the same mix back. There are going to be challenges, there are going to be unexpected things that we'll encounter, but there will most certainly be incredible blessings. That God is going to set before us in the new year that we will not get again. This this season that we're going to live through with the blessings and the opportunities that we'll face in the new year. They're opportunities and blessings that if we miss them, we have missed them, and we will not be able to go back and relive those moments. I think the passage in front of us is really not so much about predicting what's to come, but to say, why don't you seize what you have? That's really the sense of the verses before us. God wants us to seize the opportunities that he has set before us in the new year. And those opportunities really fall into all kinds of categories. There are personal categories, there are spiritual growth categories, there's family categories, there's job categories. The reality is that these opportunities fall into all kinds of different, diverse aspects of our lives. God doesn't want us to waste those things. He wants us to embrace the opportunities. So the question before us is how can we be a people that embrace the opportunities that God will set before us? in this new year. I want us to look at just three very simple truths, though we're going to unpackage those truths, and these truths will help us to live in light of this reality that the opportunities before us are short. And we need to seize them. The first fact that we see is that we must be sobered by the frailty of our strength and our opportunities Whether we like to think about it or not, we are all a people that are getting weaker, and we are people that are getting older. And we are, if we live to be old enough, going to eventually get to a place where we will not have the strength that we have today. In fact, Solomon lays this out in incredible detail, very poetic language, to help us to understand the nature of what it is like to get to a point in life where we can't do what we used to be able to do. Look at what he says in verse number one. He says, Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. There are three phrases I want to draw your attention to that we find in verse number one. The first phrase is really the focus of Solomon's appeal. The focus is now. Notice what he says. Remember now. It's very important that we are a people that live in the present that God has given us. None of us have the ability to change our past. It's impossible. You can't go back to 2018 or to 2012 or to 2020 and go back in time and relive those moments and correct the decisions that you made. You don't have the ability, I don't have the ability. Nobody has the ability to change the past. None of us have the ability to secure our temporal future. You know, we make plans, wise plans, in preparation for the future, but we do not have the ability to come manipulate to control to secure to guarantee our temporal future. We don't have that ability. We all have the potential to waste our present though. And there's lots of different ways that we do this. Many of us fail to learn from the past. I say, fail to learn. We've all failed to learn from the past on some level, okay? And we have to kind of relive certain things again and again and again until we finally figure out how to respond in those circumstances. We can fail to learn from the past. We can fail to get over the past. There's a difference between not learning from the past and not getting over the past. Not getting over the past means that we become captured, we become a slave to something we have no ability to control. We become a slave to something that we regret, and we can't change the fact that we've made poor decisions. Getting over the past is an important thing for us to learn how to do. There's a third thing though that I think is very important, and it is kind of found in these verses. We can be crippled by the fear of our future. So we can we can fail to seize the opportunities before us because we don't learn from the past. We can fail to to deal with future or our present situation appropriately because we're crippled and we're enslaved by the past. And we can get so fearful about what lies ahead, which we cannot secure, that we fail to take the opportunities that God has set right before us. And I want to encourage you in this new year, don't do any of those three. Learn from the past, don't be a slave to the past, and don't be crippled by fear of the future. And he puts it very simply: remember now. Remember now your creator. The second thing I want to note want you to notice is that his appeal is made in the shadow of something that is guaranteed. And what is guaranteed in these verses is that if we live to be old people, there's going to be a day that our health and our strength diminish. We're going to suffer in this fallen world, and we're eventually going to die. I know that's not something we want to think about, but it is the truth. In fact, in this month, I've done three funerals in the last four weeks. Three funerals. Over the past year, I've done several others. And every single time a person is laid to rest, it's a reminder: I'm going to be there one day, and so will you. His appeal is made in the shadow of that guarantee. Notice what he says. While the evil days come not. In fact, it's interesting. If you read verses 1 through 7, look and see where the first period is in verses 1 through 7. It's on the last word of verse number 7. And by the way, it's not just a long sentence in the English, it's a long sentence in the Hebrew. Seven verses are one sentence. That is the like ultimate compound complex sentence. Solomon was preparing the way for us to read, you know, from the epistles from the Apostle Paul, because he was also a long sentence kind of a guy. But what that tells us is that from verse 1 to verse 7, it's all one main thought that Solomon's trying to communicate. The evil day is going to come. So you need to live today and seize the opportunity today so that when that day comes, not if that day comes, when that day comes, you're ready for that day. And this is how he describes it. Notice in very poetic language. The first thing he talks about is how our eyesight will decline. Look down at verse 2. He says, while the sun or the light or the moon or the stars be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain. If there's anybody here who's had a cataract surgery, you might understand what he's talking about in that last verse, well that last part of the verse where he says And the clouds return after the rain. What he's basically saying is there's going to be a day, it's not right now, but there's going to be a day you're not going to be able to see clearly anymore It's going to be like looking out of a foggy window. Your eyesight's going to diminish. Your physical strength is going to diminish as well. He says, in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grassers the grasshopper shall be a burden. I saw a news article recently. It was a picture of Arnold Schwarzenegger. You know, he was like when I was a kid, this guy was like, he was really something. He's he's getting to be an old man. Like it's it's a shocking thing. Like you look at him back in the uh the 80s and the 90s, and you look at him. That man was incredibly strong, incredibly fit. But the the the reality is if you go and you visit someone in a care facility who is a World War II vet, this might be somebody that stormed the beaches of Normandy That guy was no slouch back in the 1940s. Someone who was an incredible athlete. Someone who was fearless in battle. And today they're sitting in a wheelchair. And they can't eat solid food. And they don't even have the strength to pick up something that falls on the floor. And that's going to happen to you. And that's going to happen to me. That's a humiliating thing to consider, but it's reality. We're gonna make our dentists rich. Verse number three says the grinders will cease because they're few. Of course, you're gonna make your dentist rich and then the dentist won't have anything to work on. That's basically what he's saying. Verse number four, we're going to lose our independence. He says, the doors shall be shut in the streets. People used to travel and people used to live vibrant lives are now. They're not able to leave their homes. They can't drive. They can't get out of their house. Even to go to the mailbox is not something that's safe. It's not something that they do anymore. lose their independence. Verse number four, going to need hearing assistance. Maybe some people are listening to this with hearing assistance. He says in verse number four, he says, the sound of the grinding is low and all the daughters of music shall be brought low. We listened to this beautiful music today. We listen to wonderful music at our Christmas Eve service and during our cantata. And the reality is your ability to hear that music is a gift from God. You won't always have it potentially. Even some of the great composers of the past got to a place where they lost their ability to hear. It's a stunning thing. If they wrote some incredible music, it happens and lost Says in verse number four, you won't be able to sleep at night. He says, He shall rise up at the voice of the bird. By the way, the birds don't start chirping when the sun comes up. When we lived in Ghana, I remember we had we had roosters. It was our neighbors' roosters and our roosters, and those things would crow at 2. 30 and 3 in the morning. It was shocking. They basically what he's saying is every little noise is going to wake you up and you won't be able to get back to sleep. Verse number five, we won't be able to do the task safely that we normally did and were part of our normal routine. He says in verse 5. He says, also, when they shall be afraid of that which is high, fear shall be in the way. And then verse number 5 will lose Our motivation to live life vibrantly says desire shall fail. The things that you loved to do, you just don't feel like doing them anymore. I don't have the energy to put up a Christmas tree. I don't have the energy to write Christmas cards this year. I don't have the energy to go and do the things that I used to do. This is going to happen to all of us. If we live to be old enough, if we don't die before this time, this will happen to all of us. And someone will look at our picture of when we were 25 or 30 and they'll go, You are a beautiful young lady. Wow, you were a strong young man. Like, not anymore. Times will change. That's a very personal thing. In fact, it's stunningly personal how he puts it. He says, When thou shalt say, I have no pleasure You know what's interesting, it's almost like Solomon is saying this with a little bit of a twinge in his own heart. Think about what he says in verses two and four of chapter one. He says, Vanity of vanity saith the preacher. All his vanity, what profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? And we talked about how those verses were talking about when you look at this world And you live in this fallen world and you don't have a perspective of God in eternity, and you don't have the gospel in view, the reality is this is a terrible world to live in. It's a painful world to live in It's a suffering kind of a world. And it's very empty and it's very repetitive. And if it's not for God and eternity and the gospel, this life is empty. What about when you know about those things, but you don't live in the light of those things? That's the question. Because that's the way that Solomon lived his life First Kings chapter eleven it says, When Solomon was old, his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God. God. As was the heart of David his father. Verse 11, it says, The Lord said unto Solomon, I will surely rend the kingdom from thee and will give it to thy servant. We don't know the timing of when this particular book was written, but in my mind I see it as, here's someone who has lived with regrets. But they still have that perspective. And so here they are at the end of life reflecting on what they had, what they missed, what they lost, and what they want the people coming behind them to That's the sense that I see in this book. It's a stunningly personal statement. And so I asked this very simple question: Will you seize the sea season of life to its fullest and for God's glory that He's put before you at this moment. Or will you wallow in the past and stare aimlessly into the unknown of the future? The simple encouragement is remember now your creator. Truth number two. We must invest our lives wisely in one another. Another way to put it is don't invest your life in stuff. Invest your life in people. Don't invest your life in stuff. Invest your life in people. You know how many people live for things, not image bears That's one of the reasons sometimes people say, I don't want to ever get married. I don't want to have any children. I want to invest all my life into this career. And they live their life consumed to make money and to buy stuff. to only die all alone, with having invested very little of their lives in what really matters, eternal souls, people. Solomon talks about how he in his wisdom did not do that. Listen to what it says in verse number nine. It says, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge. Yea, he gave good heed and sought out and set in order many proverbs. The preacher sought out to find out acceptable words, and that which was written was upright, even words of truth. Now, another way to put this in very simple terms is because the preacher was wise. The preacher invested his time in people. In other words, he wanted to invest what he knew and invest what he had in the people around him. This is the way wise people live their lives They invest in the people that God and His sovereignty has brought into their midst. They invest in their spouse. They invest in their children. They invest in their parents. They invest In the generations that are following them. They invest in their church family. Wise people invest their time and their energy into the people that God has brought into their lives. Foolish people. Pull away and invest their resources in other things, namely themselves. Listen carefully to a couple of things that we pick out in these verses The first thing that really caught my attention is that wise investment starts with a body of truth, a certain kind of disposition, a certain kind of character. A wise investment starts with a Personal godliness. If you are not a person who is walking with God, then the investment of your time and your energy is not going to be for the good of the people you invest in. Does that make sense? In other words, if I'm pouring my life into the people around me, but my worldview is not godly, and my character is not godly, and my dis Position is not godly, my perspective is not godly, then I'm investing to the detriment of the people around me. I'm pointing them to a deficient worldview. Notice the way that he puts it. There has to be a foundation of godly wisdom first. He says, because the preacher was what? He was wise, he taught. In other words, he had something to teach. There was a body of truth that he had to give. The motivation that this man had began with the fact that he had godly wisdom. Secondly, I mentioned this, not all the instruction or mentoring that is given is good. He says, I gave good heed, but what's very interesting is later on in the verses He's going to talk about how there's a kind of wisdom out there that is an emptiness. It's a drudgery. There's no end to it. And it's almost like he's contrasting the kind of wisdom and the kind of knowledge that he's investing into people And a kind of wisdom that's different. You say, what's the difference? One is godly wisdom and one is worldly wisdom. One is a worldview that's shaped by God and eternity and the gospel. The other is shaped by materialism. God is not in the picture. Eternity is not in the balances. One wisdom is one that instructs for people's goods. The other It is not for their eternal good. The third thing I'll I'll notice in these verses is that all the instruction that he gave was conformed very precisely to an infallible standard. It's kind of interesting the way that he puts it. He says, that which was written was upright, even words of truth. Now that word upright has the idea of something that is very precise. You know, when we talk about the difference between truth and a lie, sometimes it's just one very small detail. So you might give 95 % of the information correctly, but the little sliver that you change completely poisons the truth that's there and it becomes a lie. You understand what I'm saying? So when someone is communicating truth, it has to conform very carefully to a standard. And the standard is the righteousness of God. Okay? In other words, God's truth is the standard of truth. And it has to conform precisely. So that's what he means when he says What was written was upright. In other words, the preacher is saying, the wisdom that I had was of very careful conformity to infallible standard. These are the words of truth. That's the way that he puts it. And so when we talk about this issue of investing wisely in people, it's important for us to recognize that we have to conform our wisdom to the standard of the Word of God. And it's not just that we talk about the Bible, it's not just that we read the Bible, but we're literally cutting straight what we're giving to people. I can't tell you how many times I've listened to a sermon and a pastor makes some comment that's, let's just say it's it's it's a little careless. It's a little bit sloppy. And the fact is that most of the people that are out there, they're not really going to be bothered by it. But when I listen to that little sloppy statement, I think about some counseling situations I dealt with over the years. And I go, this guy right here, or this lady right here, they accepted what that pastor just sloppily said that is not in conformity to the truth. And it was to their detriment. It was devastating. It harmed them immensely. Good instruction conforms precisely to an infallible standard of truth. The third thing I want you to notice here that's very interesting is that all good instruction should be done with care and with skill. He says that the preacher sought out to find acceptable That little phrase acceptable words, another way to put it is, the person tried to package the truth in a way that the people could understand. understand. You know, the book of Ecclesiastes is it's a series of teachings that are written in a proverbial way. When Jesus was teaching parables, he was teaching in a proverbial way. The book of Proverbs, this is proverbial teaching. What I mean by that is a lot of times it's a very simple statement. that you don't understand immediately. You have to really think about it. You have to digest it. You have to chew on it. You might even need to ask a more experienced person, can you explain this to me? And they say, okay, here's what it means. And all of a sudden when you understand that thing, that little proverb It just sticks with you. And not only does it stick with you, but it leaves you with this illustration that you can understand. I think that's the sense of what he means when he says acceptable words. I'm communicating something in a way that people can get. They can understand it. It's going to stick with them. And so the point is that Solomon is saying this. He's saying, look, you've got to invest your life in people. And you've got to invest your life in people, beginning with the fact that you're walking with God yourself. You are godly wise. And then what you teach has to be precise. It has to be conform to this standard, an infallible standard, the Word of God. But then you've got to put it in a way that people understand. It's got to be simple. It's got to be relatable. It's got to be understood by people. And folks, if we're going to invest in people, all three of those things have to be bound up in that instruction. It's gotta be true. It's gotta start with us first. It's gotta be precise. And people need to be able to understand it. It because it's on the level that sticks with them. That is what we mean by mentoring. We talk about churches being disciple-making. What we're saying is you bring underwing people that are young believers, they're less matured in the faith, they're less experienced, you bring them alongside and you teach them the word of God. And you teach it to them on the level that they can understand. And you do it, you invest in them so that they can grow and mature and they can thrive. That's what disciple making is. Folks, that's what parenting is. Parenting isn't just about constantly restraining our kids. I mean, that's that's part of it. That's a significant part of it. But the bulk majority of what we do as parents is we we disciple our kids. We teach them the Word of God. We show them how to live in a way that is ordered by God's principles. We show them the goodness and the greatness of serving and worshiping the Creator. That's what mentoring is. Maybe they're not your kids. Somebody else's children in a Sunday school class. That's what mentoring is. Maybe you're a teacher in a school. This is what we mean by investing our resources and people. We've got to be godly. We've got to conform to a standard. The Word of God. We've got to teach it precisely. We've got to put it on their level. And that's what Solomon's telling us to do. But there's another point that I thought is really, really interesting. Godly mentoring is an invaluable catlist for spiritual growth. Look down in verse number 10 and notice something very carefully about the way that it's worded. It says, the words of the wise are as goads. And as nails fastened by the masters of assemblies. And I love this statement, which are given from one shepherd. That's a wonderful statement. That verse tells us about how mentoring affects people who are being mentored. He talks about a goad, which is something probably nobody in this room has ever used and held in your hand, but a goat is something that someone who is who is trying to move cattle would use. A goat is like a stick. And so when this animal, this massive strong animal, is going to the wrong way, you stick it in the side so that it will move in the right direction Or you're trying to get it to go here. It's not so much that it's in trouble, but you're trying to move it along. And so you prod that animal and this massive animal because that prick, oh yeah, ooh, I don't want that. They start moving in the right direction. And and that's what mentoring is all about. When an older man or an older lady is is giving their lives, investing in someone who is younger and less matured, sometimes their instruction, that mentoring, that disciple making, or that parenting, mom and dad Sometimes that functions like a goat. Don't go over there. And it's pressing them. That instruction is pushing them away from something that's harmful for them. Sometimes it's about motivation. Sometimes a person just kind of needs to be pushed along a little bit so they'll take that step. Sometimes we just need that motivation. And so that older, wiser, matured person invests in us so that we don't end up over here. So we take those steps that we're, we kind of know we need to take them, but we don't quite feel like taking that step, and that person kind of presses us along. So godly mentoring provides correction. The words of the wiser as goes. But godly mentoring also provides stability. I love this statement. as nails that are fastened by the masters of assembly. What does a nail do? A nail fixes something to something else. So maybe you want to hang something on your wall. What do you do? You get out a hammer, you get out your nails, and you nail that piece to the wall, you hopefully hit a stud, right? Or the thing just kind of falls off And so the words of the wise are like that. Not only do they press us and motivate us and goad us along, but the words of the wise provide stability. You know, I think about what the scripture says in the Proverbs. It says it many times. It talks about when a person receives counsel, there's safety in the multitude of counsel. Their safety. Don't go to war without counsel. I hope nobody in here's gonna go to war without counsel. But the idea is that sometimes in life we just need other people around us to speak. Speak the truth to us. And when they speak the truth to us, we may not hear it immediately, but eventually it kind of works its way in, you know, kind of like water, you pour water into sand. And just kind of start settling in. You know what I mean? Sometimes that's what counsel does for us. It just kind of soaks in a little at a time, and then finally we get it. Or sometimes a person says something to us. us. And then we hear it in another place. We hear it in another place. And we go, there's like this conformity to what I'm hearing. And deep down in my heart I know it's true. And then I finally take that step. Why? Because of that around me. But here's what he's saying: the words of the wise are like a nail that fastens something. You know, people who go through life without the input of godly counsel, you know what they do? They're very unstable people. They just drift. They get beat around by life. Why? Because they have to learn everything the hard way. Instead of having people around them to kind of help them, you know, know how to navigate these challenges. Instead, they just get beat up in the process. And so they don't have stability. And so he says the words of the wise, they prod us sometimes, and they give us stability. And I hope that you think about the generation coming behind you and you say, I want them to be stable people. Maybe some of the instabilities we see in our culture Because we don't have parents teaching kids. We don't have mentors mentoring children. We don't have within the church context disciple making going on. And part of it is because that worldview is being lost in our society today. But the greatest statement of all of them in this verse, number 10, is this. They're given from one child. Shepherd. Godly mentoring always points to a higher standard than ourselves. Dad, when you teach your kids Don't tell them you do this because I told you. See Daddy's showing what God says As a pastor, I can come along and try to encourage somebody and strengthen them, but I mean my I'm just another person. I'm another human But mentoring that has a biblical worldview is me going to somebody, I'm a little bit further along in the journey than they are, I have a little bit more experience than they do. In fact, in some areas they might have more than I do, but in this particular context I have more than they do. And so I'm investing in them, but I'm constantly pointing them to Somebody above me. It's not about me and it's not about you, the mentor. It's about the giver of truth. It's God Himself. In fact, it's interesting. If you have a modern translation, it capitalizes shepherd. In other words, they're interpreting that the shepherd is referring actually to Christ. That's very interesting. He says, one shepherd. That shepherd is God Himself. I even think about what it says in 1 Peter chapter 5. Peter, he says, you're to feed the flock of God, taking the oversight, not by constraint or willingly. And then he says, when the chief shepherd shall appear, you will receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. What's the point? He says if you're an elder, a teacher of the word, you're a mentor, you're a pastor. You are under somebody who's higher than you. And that is the chief shepherd. He's the one that you're ultimately pointing to people to. And so we shouldn't have to feel the burden to be the authority. We are pointing them to the authority, God Himself. To me, that's probably the most amazing thing that's stated here. In other words, what you're giving isn't coming from your own head and your own experience as much as it is you have learned his ways in life experience. Goads nails one shepherd. Godly mentoring is an invaluable catalyst to spiritual growth. I know in these verses he's not talking about sanctification in New Testament terms. But that is exactly what is undergirding this particular statement. People are growing, they're maturing because they're surrounded by investors of time and energy. But then the last thing I want you to notice here, very interesting. Godly wisdom recognizes the futility of worldly wisdom. In verse number 12, he says it this way: By these, my son, be admonished. Of making of many books there is no end. Much study is a weariness of the flesh. I know if you You're in college or seminary, you know, there was a time when you read this verse and you laughed to your buddies and you said, Oh, we're wasting our time because we're learning. That's not what he's saying here. He's not suggesting that it's a waste to learn. He's comparing a kind of learning to a kind of learning that he has given. In other words, he is comparing this to what he's already talked about before. That infallible standard. I think another way to put it is that Solomon is saying, look, you can live your entire life trying to learn another way. And you will never, never come to the answers, or you can come to the fountain of truth, God Himself, and you can invest your time and energy in what He says. There's worldly wisdom and there's godly wisdom, and they're out there. And the question is: which one will we embrace? Godly wisdom recognizes the futility of worldly wisdom. So my question is this will you seize the season of life that God has put you in to its fullest? God wants us to invest our lives wisely in one another. The final thought, and it's a very simple one, is this we have to live God-centered lives. Verses thirteen and fourteen he says, Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God, keep his commandments. For this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment, every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. I ask, how do you view God? He says you need to fear him. How do you view his authority? You need to keep his commandments How do you view his justice? God will bring every work into judgment. Another way to put it is we need to live lives that are centered on God and eternity. And the Bible is full of statements like this. For instance, in Matthew chapter 6, he says, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Or Romans chapter 14, he says, none of us lives to himself, no man dieth to himself. Whether we live or die, we are the Lord's. 1 Corinthians 9, he says, Every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate. He does this to obtain a corruptible crown. He says, I run not as uncertainty. I fight not as one that beateth the air, but I keep under my body and bring it into subjection, lest by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be A castaway. You know what, you know what Paul is basically saying in that verse? He's saying, I'm living for eternity. I fear God. I keep His commandments, and I am very much aware that one day I'll stand at his judgment seat. And so my life is motivated by those realities. So I want to be very practical here, and I want to ask you some questions to ponder in the new year. God obviously wants us to seize the moment. We're going to stand before him one day. And so I ask these questions. Has God given you a family, physical strength, and a sound mind? Now, when we come to the sound mind one, you might go But you you're hearing what's going on, you're paying attention for the most part, right? Has God given you a family? Has he given you physical strength? given you a sound mind, then I ask these questions. Are you investing in those relationships? Are you discipling your children? Are you spending time with them? Are you pointing them to Christ by example? Second question, has God given you a great job? Now you may not like the job, but it's paying your bills and it's putting food on your table. Maybe you love your job. Some people love their job and it becomes an idol. But here are my questions. Are you doing your work for God's glory or your own? Are you a slave to your work because it has become your identity? Let me tell you, when I talk about people in ministry, that one right there is probably the greatest problem that pastors and missionaries face. Their identity is their work and their A slave to it. But it's not just pastors and missionaries that have this problem. Are you a slave to your work? Is it your identity? Has it become an escape from reality and your sacred duties? You know how many people work extra hours because they don't want to be at home with their family? You know how many people would rather take a few extra hours on a Sunday so they don't have to be in church and deal with people that are part of their congregation. I think in the UK they said this year that people are using COVID as an excuse not to get together with family for Christmas. That's what they said. More than fifty percent of people in the UK admitted they were using COVID as an excuse so they wouldn't have to get together with family. But there are a lot of people that their work is their excuse. Does it take you away from what God commands you? And I'm not here to beat anybody over the head. I'm here to ask you. Ask these questions of yourself. You're going to stand before God. I'm going to stand before God. And these questions, well, I asked them of myself and the answers that I got were not good in some situations. And I have some adjustments I need to make first. Probably you do too. Third question. He's given you the ability to read and easy access to his word. How often do you read the scriptures with focused attention? There's no excuse in our time for people who are Christians not to read the Bible. There is no excuse Excuse. Just none. Literacy is like it's never been. We have incredible tools. You can do the same research that I can that I do if you buy logos or Bible word. You could do it. You don't have to be a pastor to this kind of research. You need the time, I get to it. But we can know God's word. Yet, so many times we we don't pick up the Bible once. We don't pull out our phone and do some study. We don't read the scriptures. How often do we reflect on what we're reading and discuss it with family and friends? You know, it's one thing to say, oh, I checked it off, I did my reading. Don't have to feel that burden of guilt the rest of the day because I did my reading and we never think about it again. We don't ever speak of it. We don't meditate on it. Growth comes through chewing on the word and discovering Discussing it with people that love the Lord and love us. Has He given you a gospel preaching church? I hope. But my question is: do you invest your time and energy in this church body? And when I say the church body, I mean the people. I mean the people that are here and the people that have traveled but will be back. The church isn't the carpet and the flowers and the lights. The church is the people. Do we invest in them? And the people are the ones in our own family first. Our kids, our spouse. Do we know about the physical and spiritual burdens of other brothers and sisters in Christ? Are we aware of burden everybody in our church carries a burden in some way? And they need to know that people here and are praying for them and are carrying that burden. Are you selective in whom you'll serve or whom you'll serve? serve with. This is a huge problem. I don't mean in our church, but I mean just as a generalization, people love to serve the people they love. And they love to serve with the people they like, but there are some people, Pastor, I'd leave the church before I work with that person right now. I leave the church before I worked and served that person right there. That's that's partiality How often do we spend time in prayer? Are we faithful to the assembly of the church? I don't put a number on this. I just ask: are you faithful? You can't know people and pray for them and bear their burdens if you never interact with them. Are we willing to invest our time and our energies And the service of Christ Church. These are questions that you don't need to answer to me. They're questions you need to think before God. Because we're entering a new year and we have opportunities, and we need to be faithful with those opportunities. Remember this text. There's going to be a day that you're going to be old and frail. So don't waste the opportunities that are here. It's really easy to invest our time in stuff. Let's invest our time in people. And let's have a biblical worldview. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask someone. the Lord to really take these truths and settle them in our hearts today. Father, I thank you for the passage before us. It's a sobering one. It's a delicate passage to deal with, but it is something that we have to be reminded of from time to time. Father, I thank you for each individual in our church. It's by your sovereign plan that you brought us together. That we can serve together, we can grow together. We can serve one another. And I'm so thankful for that. I pray that you'd help us to be a godly people who believe in mentoring, who are invested in it, and who are living lives without Regret. I ask that you'll take these truths and use them in the way that you know each person needs it today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, Doug, can you bring a close us in our closing hymn? Hymn two hundred and one. And after uh Doug leads that, I'd like to ask Chad Peterson if you could come up and close us in prayer. Right Thank you. Okay, we're gonna go to page two hundred and one in the red book. Two oh one, O come all ye faithful, the first and the last. Please stand. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this day. Thank you for the awesome weather that you've sent. Thank you for the time of friends and family and fellowship. And the opportunity to come again into your home and uh glean from the word. Pray that we continue to dwell upon it, apply it to our lives. as we go forward this week. Pray that you give us rest and health the rest of this week. And as those that travel, travel home, pray that you give them traveling mercies and protection on the roads. All these things in Christ's name. Amen.