Revelation chapter 3. Revelation chapter 3. As you can tell, I've talked too much today. Well, it's not just that. I'm starting to come down with something, but it's really been a sweet day for our family. It's been a delight to reminisce. It's been a delight to reflect on God's goodness and his providence. And the truth is that y you know, for testimony time, I think if I was to just lay out my testimony, it wouldn't be brief So I'm holding back. But I I have a lot to be thankful for. And the the truth is that God's providence is one of the things that is just the most um Out of all the things that I think about, that's probably the thing that strikes me the most is how God works in our lives. And you know, a lot of times when we're when we're in the midst of circumstances, we do not understand. What God is doing. We have no concept of where God will take things. Let me tell you something funny. So this week uh Micah came to visit us. Okay? We haven't seen Micah in a little while. And um when Micah went to c my wife's gonna kill me for this, but I'm just gonna say it anyway. She's not here. She's taking care of Caleb. So when my wife when my wife went to college, she was a uh a homeschool uh student and mica was a homeschool student and many many many years ago we're talking almost twenty maybe more than twenty There was a church up in Massachusetts where there's a pastor named Pastor Niner. Does anybody know who Pastor Niner is? I don't know if you know Pastor Niner. Well, Pastor Niner was good friends with the Countermans And uh he was also good friends with uh my in-laws, the Burkholz family. And so it just so happens that Micah and my wife met each other at that church. So when Mike went to college, you know, he's never asked a girl on a date in his whole life, probably. So one of the people he asked was, yeah. And uh so he went to fine arts with Deanna and obviously nothing ever came of that. I'm all the better for it. She is too. No. No, I love Micah a lot. So it was I think it was uh Thursday evening. Micah uh came in the area, he comes up in the prophets the the the house up there, and I say, Hey Micah Twenty years ago. Twenty years ago. You went to fine arts with my wife. Did you ever think that she would be the pastor's wife at the church in Maryland? He's like, no, that's kind of scary to think about. I said, you know, the truth is God has a sense of humor sometimes. And some of the things that God does in our lives, we would never anticipate them. We would never have any clue that that God would do some of the things that He does. And I remember when I was coming to the end of my seminary education, I was finishing up, I had a strong conviction that I needed to get some local church experience. You know, I'd grown up at uh in Pensacola. My my parents were on the faculty at the college. My dad was the dean of the seminary at the time And all I had known was that college environment. I had grown up there. And I remember telling my mom and dad, I really need, before I go to the mission field, I need to work in a local church. I need to get some teaching. I need to just see how a church functions. And all I know is classroom. And so there are several churches that we came in contact with along the way. And um I visited those churches. Deanna and I went together and visited some of those churches. Some of them were close to where we lived in Pensacola, so we could just drive over there for a service and I preached and things like that. But I remember out of those churches, the thing that drew me to Anchor Baptist Church, one of the things, was that this church years for years and years worked with young men. And uh if you've been here for a long time, you probably know a lot of names of young men who came here and they were part of an internship program. And that was the thing that caught my attention. I said, I want to go to a place that believes what I believe, but where there's a pastor who's been around for a while. And he's worked with a lot of young young men. And so that is why I came to Anchor Baptist Church. I didn't know anybody here, well, initially, except for Micah and Debbie. It ended up being that we we knew some people here as time went on. But that was the thing that really drew me to this congregation. That there was a heart to see men trained and equipped and challenged to go into the ministry. And in fact, over the years, the church had a really neat preacher boy program. And a lot of guys came and they just spent the summer here and they lived at, you know, maybe in the basement of the counterman's house. They lived here in the church, and maybe they stayed with some of you you guys here, but that was something that was going on over the years. Another thing that really caught my attention was that there were several young people that were going into Christian college, they desired to serve the Lord in some kind of ministry capacity. Something that really caught my attention was there were individuals that were pastoring churches who had grown up in this church. There were missionaries on the field from this church. I say all that to say this church has had tremendous opportunities. And so I invite you to turn with me to Revelation chapter 3, because in Revelation 3 we'll see another church that had opportunities. And in verses 7 to 11, I want you to see what Christ will say to that church, because what he will say to that church is important for us today. Revelation chapter 3, verses 7 to 11 says this. To the angel of the church of Philadelphia, write, These things saith he that is holy. He that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth and no man shutteth, and shutth and no man openeth. I know thy works. Behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it. Thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name. Behold, I make them of the synagogue of Satan which say they are Jews and are not but do lie, behold, I make them to come and worship before before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee, because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I will also keep thee from the hour of temptation. which shall come upon all the world to try them which dwell upon the earth. Behold, I am coming quickly, hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy crown. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, and then I'd like us to observe some things from this text, and then I'd like us to develop those things with a little bit of detail tonight. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for this congregation, a church that has been in existence for many, many decades now. A church that has sent out many men into ministry hasn't been involved in the training of many men and women who are now serving you in various parts of the United States. and various parts of the world. I thank you so much for the doors that you have opened to this congregation over many decades. And I pray that as we open up this text and as we reflect on what Christ says to the church at Philadelphia, we will take heed to this challenge. And that we will do exactly what you tell the church at Philadelphia to do: that we might hold fast that nobody takes a crown. I pray that you might be exalted this evening. I pray that you would stir up the hearts of your people. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. There are four observations that I want to bring out this morning or this evening before we develop the text. The first observation that I have is this: God's providence. Opened an opportunity for the church at Philadelphia. Notice what he says. He hath opened and no man shutth, and shutteth, and no man openeth. He says, no man can shut it, for thou hast little strength and hast kept my word. What that tells us is that the Church of Philadelphia, we don't know the nature of this open door necessarily. But there was something that God in his providence had opened up as an opportunity for this church. And despite the fact that they had faced tremendous obstacles, Tremendous probably persecution based on what is being stated in this text, those things could not stop what God was going to do in that church. He said, there's nobody that can shut the door that I have opened because I'm in control, though you're facing persecution. I'm going to continue to keep that door, that opportunity open. A second observation is this. God was watching the work of the church. Notice the phrase, I know thy works. You know, a lot of times as we go about our business, we forget something. There's a God in heaven who's observing. When things get very difficult and things get very discouraging, a lot of times we say, does anybody care? Does anybody know what's going on? Does God know what I'm experiencing? And he says, yes. I'm watching you. Notice what he says later on. I make them of the synagogue of Satan which say they are Jews and are not but lie. I make them to come and worship. The idea is to bow down before your feet. I know to know that I have loved you. The reality is that their group of people that were causing a lot of problems, if he calls them the synagogue of Satan. Well, what does that tell you? There's literally satanic opposition to the work that God's doing. Observation three Though God has protected them from some trials, they still need to persevere through a season of suffering. They've gone through a lot as a church. And God has preserved them. But what we learn about God is this: God doesn't stop everything that we can face. If God let us face every single trial that was available, we'd be in big trouble. But just because God limits the kind of suffering we experience, Does not mean that God preserves us without any kind of struggle and without any kind of trial. The truth is, God knows exactly what we can handle. And sometimes to humble us, to teach us, to grow us, whatever God's purpose is, to use us to be a help to somebody else, what God does is He allows us to go through circumstances. That are not easy, and he is guiding how much pressure we face. God is in control of even our struggles. And as Satan fights the church, God says, you can't shut the door. Those people that are attacking you from outside in your community, they cannot stop what I'm doing. But you still are going to face some opposition. That's what he's saying. And then the fourth observation is this. There's a warning To faithfulness and the potential for loss of reward at the judgment seat of Christ. He says this in the last verse: Behold, I come quickly, hold that fast. Which thou hast, that no man take thy crown. Did you catch that? Hold fast what you have so that no one takes your crown. You know what's interesting when John is writing in his epistle, 2 John and 3rd John, he makes a statement kind of like that actually. He says, Don't do this because if you do it, you will lose your reward. The fact is there is a judgment seat of Christ. We won't develop that in any detail tonight, but how we live our lives on a day-by-day basis as Christians. After salvation, after we have come to repentance and faith, after we have experienced the new birth. Yes, we are complete in Christ and we are accepted in the beloved. But what we do does have significance. God is going to have us stand before Him on the judgment day. He is going to evaluate our faithfulness. If you will, He's going to look at our stewardship. And he's going to say, Well done, and He's going to reward us in proportion to our faithfulness. Or he will say, This was something you could have had. This is an opportunity that I gave you and you squandered it, and there will be some kind of loss. Now I don't understand the entirety of that, but what I do know is the Bible is very clear about that. So he warns the church that though I've given you opportunity, I'm watching you, I've protected you, you're going through struggles, and I don't want you to lose the reward. So then I look at this question. What are we to hold fast to as a church? What do you think that Christ was talking about when he wrote this to the church? at Philadelphia. Let me give you a couple of suggestions. He does not, we could say, develop these things, but I think we can develop them from a lot of other biblical texts. Let me look at just three basic things that we need to hold fast to. If we are going to be a church that holds fast until Christ comes. We have to be a church that is sound in doctrine. That's the first thing that I want us to focus on. If we are going to be a church that holds fast till Christ comes, we have to be sound in doc in doctrine. I don't know if you enjoy studying church history. I do like to read a lot of church history. There's a magazine that I got when I was in Ghana called The Bible Expositor. I don't know if you've ever heard of it. But the Bible Expositor is a magazine that talks a lot about various facets of church history. One of the most fascinating of those magazines that I received was one on the Reformation in England. Now, whether we realize it or not, the British nation was a nation that experienced tremendous revival around the same time that we experienced tremendous revival in the United States. So when Whitfield was preaching in the United States, well, the colonies, if you will, he would also preach over on the continent in the UK. We had people like William Tyndale. We had a lot of great names in church history. I remember one time I was traveling to the UK and I stopped in London and I was with a friend and we went and we saw the various graves of people like John Bunyan. We saw the Wesley brothers and where they had been buried. We saw several very well-known people from the time of the Reformation in England, John Owen. You know what's amazing? The British nation today is a very different nation than it was 200 years ago. 150 years ago. 100 years ago. I listened to Martin Lloyd Jones preaching during the time of World War II and the 1940s and the 1950s and the 60s. And I think about the things that he said about his nation. Martin Lloyd-Jones was an amazing preacher. He understood the times that he lived in. And one of the things that he warned the churches about was this: we are losing doctrinal soundness in our churches. And if we lose doctrinal soundness in our churches, we're going to lose our nation. He would preach that way. You know what's amazing? A lot of those great churches. You know, I've I've been to the West uh uh Westminster uh where Martin Lloyd Jones was preaching. My mind isn't working tonight. I've been to Metropolitan Tabernacle where Spurgeon is preaching. preaching. Do you realize that the Metropolitan Tabernacle could not hold all the people that used to go to that huge Building. They actually had to give tickets so that people could get into the services. But times have changed in the UK. A lot of churches that once were thriving congregations are community center buildings. They're actually mosques and some of the very places that were once gospel preaching. congregations. Because what happens is when the church loses sight of what's important, the church will ultimately die. When the church loses doctrinal soundness, it ceases to be a church in the biblical sense. The same is true in uh in in up in New England. There's a little town just north where my in-laws live. It's a beautiful town. In fact, if you have ever seen some of those Norman Rockwell paintings There's a there's a there's a a certain place it's called Stockbridge, Massachusetts. And if you go into Stockbridge, Massachusetts, you can see that painting. Okay, you can see the actual building. Well you know Jonathan Edwards used to live in that in that area. You know, the majority of people don't even know who Jonathan Edwards was. They don't even know his name. Yet he was an amazing preacher back during that time period. God used him mightily. Lots and lots of church buildings are community centers today. They're not churches. Why did that happen? It's because churches did not hold fast to sound doctrine. When we get a warning like this, we have to take heed to it. The reality is we have to hold fast to sound doctrine as a church. We have to understand what we believe and why we believe it, and it needs to be biblical. Think of what Paul says in 1 Thessalonians 5, 22, 21. He says, prove all things, hold fast to what is good. 2 Thessalonians 2. 15, he says, stand fast and hold the traditions which you've been taught, whether by word or whether by epistle. 2 Timothy 1. 13, he says, Hold fast the form of sound words which thou hast heard from me in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. The reality is that if this church is going to hold fast until Christ comes, it has to be a doctrinally sound church. I don't mean that we just say we're doctrinally sound, but we have to actually teach doctrine. We have to teach the fundamentals of the faith. We have to teach sound doctrine so that as a congregation we know the Christian truths. We need to hold fast to the gospel. I am convinced that in our nation, in many, many churches, many, many independent Baptist churches, we are losing a sense of the clarity of the gospel. You know, don't forget as a missionary, I've traveled in many, many churches. Before I went on deputation, I traveled several summers and we did vacation Bible schools and I don't know twenty or more churches probably And what I learned in many of those churches is that while there are many people who were genuinely saved, their pastors were genuinely saved, their ability to communicate the gospel was becoming quite fuzzy. If you were sitting in that pew and you were hearing the preaching, you would not understand how to be saved. Well, you know what happens when that happens? Eventually, our adults will move on, they'll die, their children will come along, and they will lose that sense of gospel clarity. And eventually the church will collapse. What does he say in Jude chapter 1 verse 3? Earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered for the same. We need to communicate what it means to be justified. We need to communicate what repentance is, what faith is, what it means to be declared righteous before God. We need to explain what it means to be saved by faith alone. We need to understand these truths and we need to teach those truths to our congregations and to our children. We've got to hold fast to the gospel. We need to hold fast to not just the gospel, but all of Christian doctrine. In Matthew 28, we tend to think of evangelism in that passage, but notice what it says in verse 19. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. I was having a conversation with a good friend recently and I said, I have noticed that in a lot of churches, if they're strong in evangelism, they don't teach doctrine. And if they're strong in teaching doctrine, a lot of times they don't evangelize. We have to have a balance in our churches. We have to preach the gospel to people, but we have to teach them all things whatsoever he has commanded us. You know, the the the glory of the Christian life is not just, oh, I'm saved and go into heaven. There's a lot more to it than that. God wants to grow us in our faith. He wants to build us. He wants to understand the truths of the gospel, and then he wants to understand their implications in our daily walks. We need to hold fast to preaching and living personally holy lives. First Peter 1 14, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust and your ignorance, but as he who has called you is holy, be ye holy in all manner of conversation. You know, in a lot of a lot of our churches, we've lost a sense of the distinction that we need as Christians. Now, when I say distinction, I don't mean that we have to be a bunch of weird people out in the community. But there should be something very distinct about the way that we live our lives. There should be things that we we just don't do those things. Because as God's people, that's what we did before we were saved. Before our conversion, those activities, those entertainments, those kinds of associations, whatever they might be, there's a difference now that we are in Christ. We need to hold fast to the sufficiency of Scripture. You know, I believe that a lot of, and I have seen this, especially in young men of my own generation. There's not a confidence in the sufficiency of Scripture. Rather than just preaching the Word of God and letting the Word of God speak for itself and letting the Spirit of God take that and deeply root it in the hearts of people. There's a lot of program activity and a lot of things that we kind of move away from the preaching of the Word of God and we try to hang our hats on those kinds of things. 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness. And I love this phrase, that the man of God may be perfect. The idea is mature and complete, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. The Word of God has the ability to fully equip us to be godly in Christ Jesus. And so we have to depend upon the sufficiency of Scripture. We have to be people of the word. If this church is going to hold fast, it has to hold fast to sound doctrine. Second fact, if the church is going to hold fast until Christ comes, then we must be Christ-like. We must be Christ-like. You know, this book is different than a mathematics textbook. It's true and math is true, we hope. Okay. Mathematics. People who deal with mathematics, they love that because of the clarity of mathematics. But there's something that's very, very different fundamentally about the truths of the Word of God in mathematics. The truths of the mathematics will never step on your toes. They won't. It doesn't convict your conscience. You don't reject it because it bothers your heart. But the word of God is different. The word of God changes us. The Word of God tells us that what is going on inside has fundamental flaw because we are fallen creatures. And it tells us this needs to change. This thought process needs to change. These activities need to change. What you are doing has to be different. The fact is that there are a lot of folks who don't really want to change. And we need it in the church. I remember the story of Brother Michael Entity. I wish Michael could could be with us. And Michael, one day I 'm sure will be able to come and visit this church It's kind of a funny story. Micah Colbert had a problem with his glasses. I don't know if they broke or what the deal was, but he went to a guy and he asked him, can you help me get my glasses repaired? Well, the guy was a little bit like Eric's doctor. He messed up, okay? And when he got those glasses back, it was not good. And so somebody recommended you need to go to Michael. He's really good with that stuff. So Eric went to Michael and they got to talking. And the truth is that Maybe you don't realize this, but in Ghana, especially in the community where we live, I I think that there's kind of a resistance to, you know, a foreign missionary saying, hey, you don't know the gospel. Because people say, We're Christians, okay? We're we're Christian people here. You don't tell me I I go to church. I'm more faithful to church than you are as a missionary. I go to late night services and you don't do that kind of stuff. I've fasted for a week. I mean that kind of mentality is there. So Michael does uh Micah's eyes for him, and Micah gives him one of these gospel books, what many Ghanaians are saying about eternal life. I'm not sure what went through Michael's mind when he got that, but I would guess that he was like, who is this guy? He came to my country? I mean like like look at these people. He came to my country and he's told me I'm not a Christian? Like what in the world? Well, Micah invited him to some program at the church, and at that program, some of our church members were given their testimonies. And I can remember Michael telling us this. He said, when I went to the church and I watched the people interact with each other, I said, there's something here that's different than in the other churches I've been in. There's something about the way that they interact. I don't understand it, but I like it. It's a good thing. It seems like it's genuine. It's real I believe that that was a major factor in Michael being open to coming to church, to sitting down with Pastor Mike, and now look where we are today. He's going to be a pastor at that church. What an amazing situation. The thing is that one of it was not just the preaching of the gospel that drew him to the gospel. It was the lives and the distinction of the people within that congregation. I remember listening to some messages on revival by Martin Lloyd Jones. He preached these many, many years ago, back in the 40s or the 50s. And one of the things that he said is: revival is not for the lost, revival is for the church. If the church is not revived, then evangelism is not going to be effective. Because when you go out and you try to bring somebody into the church, And you try to explain to them the gospel and you say, What we have is real and genuine, if they look around and it's not real and genuine, then they're gonna say, What is this? I don't want this. You don't have anything that I want or that I need But when the church is revived, when the church is healthy, when there's legitimately godliness and there's Christ-likeness, people come into that congregation and they say, I don't know what they have. And I don't know if I want it, except I believe it's true. And as time goes on, God opens their heart to the truth. Philippians chapter 2. I've quoted this passage many times, but I come to it again. Fulfill my joy that ye be like-minded. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. Colossians 3. 12, put on as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering Romans 12, 2, do not be conformed to this world, but be ye transformed through the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. The reality is that the gospel stings the soul of a man. The gospel says you are a sinner You are unrighteous. You do not know God. You are not seeking after God. You do not want his ways. You have gone to the side. The gospel says you have no righteousness that God accepts. All your righteousness is a filthy rag. The gospel says that a Jewish carpenter's, could we say stepson, if you will This individual who was crucified 2,000 years ago, who was humiliated and stripped and beaten and nailed to a cross and rose from the dead, if you don't depend on what he did for you on the cross, you will die in your sins. That message is not beautiful to the lost world who's perishing. The Bible says it is foolishness to those who are perishing. It's foolishness. They say, I don't want that. But you know what is interesting? As you go through life and you interact with people, you will find something about the true Christian. The man who walks with God, the lady who walks with God, your life is a mess, but they have peace. It's true. And you can't explain it. You cannot get along with anybody. They have deep and abiding and sweet relationships. And you don't understand it. People wrong you, and you are so bitter and so bruised and so angry. And people wrong them and they forgive. And they're gracious and humble. And you go, I don't get it. How is this possible? Do you not realize that that is what Jesus says when he says, You are the salt of the earth? You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hid. People are watching you. And the reality is as we get alongside people who are hurting and who do not understand the darkness they are stumbling in, we are light. God reaches into their lives and he draws them to the truth. And the reality is if we are going to be a church that holds fast , We have to be Christ-like. That has to be the character that we have as individuals. Humility, a graciousness, a teachableness, a peaceableness. Compassion. We need to genuinely care about others' spiritual and physical needs. Conviction. We know what is right. We actually believe something. You know, people admire that. A lot of people in the world don't have any convictions except their own self-interests. And as Christians, we have strong convictions. Yet other things, we see them as not essential. And focus. We are living for something that we believe matters, has eternal significance. The reality is that the world around us thinks that this world is just a playground or a helpless mess. And the reality is that this is the ground upon which God matures us as Christians. And he uses us to draw people into his kingdom. He uses us to teach and to preach. And people are convicted of sin and righteousness and judgment. But that will not happen in a church that is not Christ-like. We then come to a third fact. If this church will hold fast till Christ comes, and this is important, we have to be a reproducing church. I don't know how many of you like gardening, but one of the things that I've learned gardening is that it'd be hard to live off of what I grow. Am I not correct in that? And I've gotten a lot better at it over time. But if I was dependent on what I grow, I would be one really lean guy. I'd be hungry all the time. You know, a farmer, when he decides this is what I'm gonna do, he makes a huge commitment on the front side. He has to buy land. He has to set in order a plan. He has to buy seed. And then he goes out and he does the work. And he's gotta work and work and work. And in that first year his leans, his his yields may be really, really lean. And he's got to learn and he's got to study and he's got to talk to people. But think about what would happen to the farmer who that first year he plants his crop, he gets a wonderful crop, but he doesn't plan for the next year. What's going to happen, man? It's got to start all over again. And the reality is that we have to learn to prepare the next generation because they're going to replace us You know, one of the things that is such a firm conviction for me as someone who has been a missionary is that from the day that you start a church, your your goal is to see that church be self-sufficient. That is your goal. You are training people that you want to see replace you. You are loving them. You are coming alongside them. You are trying to pattern things for them. But the entire time your goal is to see them replace you. Can I suggest to you that that should be your attitude for this church also? I don't mean that, you know, in five years you're just gonna leave. I'm not I'm not encouraging you to do that. Please don't do that. But are you equipping the next generation? There's a reason that New England is cold in a spiritual sense. There's a reason that there are people in the United Kingdom going as missionaries to establish churches. When there was a day when in the UK they were sending missionaries throughout the entire world. There's a reason for that. At some point, the churches stopped reproducing themselves. When I say reproducing ourselves, I don't necessarily mean that we will physically plant another church, though that is something that would be wonderful to see. What I mean is that this church has the next generation being trained and equipped and discipled. From within our own midst, we see the next generation of leaders. I remember reading a work many, many years ago, and it was talking about the Puritans. The Puritans didn't have seminaries. You know what they said? The seminary of the church is the family. So they had family worship, and fathers would sit down with their kids, and they'd be sitting around the table, and they would expound the scriptures. They would teach them doctrine. They would use the longer and the shorter catechism. Not that I'm recommending that y'all do that, okay? But let me tell you something. Those young people were getting taught the word of God. We don't do that in our generation, do we? It is a lost art. We bring our kids to Sunday school because we don't have the time to teach them anything, and we just hope that their teacher teaches them something. And the truth is that we neglect probably our greatest ministry. One of the things that I tried to communicate to the folks in Ghana Was that I wanted to see every individual in the church be grounded in the faith. And that I wanted to see that this church congregation is going to have pastors come out from it. Not that we're going to go and look for somebody and say, man, we don't have a pastor. We need to bring somebody in. But from within the congregation, there'll be the depth and the maturity. And God will call and gift individuals. And put in their heart those those burdens to pastor and to care for the congregation. And within that congregation, there's leadership. As one generation is passing, the next one is coming along, and there is depth and there is soundness in the church. We need to be a reproducing congregation. We need to reproduce from within our families, teaching our kids the gospel, seeing our kids come to faith in Christ. My dad led me to Christ Now, it wasn't only conversations with my dad that led me to understand the gospel, but I remember one Sunday coming from church and saying, Mom, I need to be saved. She's like, there's your dad. He's gonna talk to you. We went back and he opened up his Bible and explained to me how to be saved. You know, one of the one of the neatest blessings I had in Ghana was seeing my son Joel get baptized. And uh man, I Joel at a very young age was already asking questions about the gospel At a very young age. But that's because we talked about it at the table. That's because he sat and preaching and teaching and all those things. We need to see evangelism going on within our homes. Discipleship going within our homes Ephesians 6. 4 says, Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. We need to be doing this within our neighborhoods. Acts 5. 42, it says that these individuals daily in every house did not cease to teach and to preach Christ Jesus. You know, one of the things that is a lost art in our culture is hospitality. You know, we we can't have somebody come to the house. We've got to have everything perfect. We have lost that art. We don't have front porches on houses anymore, do we? I I understand why they had front porches Because you didn't want them in the house. But you could hang out on the front porch, right? It was cool with a breeze and they didn't see what was in the house. But you had fellowship. Think about what would happen if we genuinely had hospitality with our neighbors. A lot of times we don't even know our neighbors, don't even know their name, never had a conversation with them, never never entered their house, they never entered our home. This is the generation we live in. Our future leaders. In 2 Timothy 2, Paul says: the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses The same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Wouldn't it be a wonderful blessing if this church was able to get to a place Where we had sound leadership from within. Where there was groundedness. And disciple making going on from our youth, watching a teenager come up to the youth group and eventually be in a position to be a pastor sent out of the church church. Those kinds of things. That is God's plan. And then church planting. I love this particular passage, Acts 14. When they had preached the gospel to that city, had taught many, they returned again to Lystra and Iconi and Antioch, confirming the souls of the disciples, exhorting them. to continue in the faith that they through much tribulation must enter the kingdom of God. When they had ordained them elders in every church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom they believed. This is what God wants in our churches. Reproduction. One generation teaching the next generation. You say, Pastor Joel, why do you go to this particular passage on this day? I'll tell you why. Because this church has very obviously been a church that has done these things. My burden is it continues till Christ comes. That's the prayer. We've got to hold fast so that no one takes our crown. We've got to hold fast to sound doctrine. We've got to hold fast to Christ's likeness and character. And we need to hold fast to God's program of churches that are reproducing themselves from within families, in the community, and as a congregation. Congregation. May God grant us the grace to be that kind of a church. Let's put our hearts together in prayer this evening. Father, it's been a wonderful day to be with your people. What sweet reflections on your your grace that we've enjoyed, and what sweet reflections of your providence. You've you've planted a church in Cape Cosgana because of the faithfulness of this church. A young man who was a member of this church when he was a teenager. Was sent out. The young man who came to get ministry experience was sent out. Man, what a blessing. This church has prayed and has given and has been a part of that. And Father, our burden is that we will continue. That this church will not cease to be that kind of a church till you return. That when you come, we will be found faithful. Father, help us to hold fast to sound doctrine. Help us to hold fast to Christ's likeness. And help us to hold fast to your program of reproduction. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.