Ask you to take your Bibles and turn with me to 1 Timothy chapter 4. First Timothy chapter 4, I'll read the text we've been looking at. Give you a little bit of review about where we've been, and we'll continue with this section dealing with false doctrine. My hope is that tonight we finish this, but It really kinda just depends on how it goes. So we'll see. First Timothy chapter four, verses one to five. The scriptures say, Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter time some shall depart from the faith. giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils, speaking lies and hypocrisy, having their conscience seared with a hot iron Forbidding to marry, commanding to abstain from meats which God hath created, to be received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth. For every creature of God is good, nothing to be refused, if it be received with thanksgiving. For it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer. Now, when we were dealing with this section of Scripture, we saw that Paul is giving instruction to Timothy to help him to be well equipped to deal with false teaching. And what we see when we deal with this topic of false teaching is that really there's kind of a spectrum of what we would call false teaching. Some aspects of false teaching on a spectrum are so severe that they really undermine the very gospel itself. And we would put it in the category of apostate teaching, or we would put it in the category of a heresy. Then we have false teaching that that would be significant, but it would not be on the same level as doctrine. It would actually filter out into some areas of our of our practical lives. In fact, tonight I want to actually get into some passages And I want to give you some practical uh examples, and I'm giving you examples based on things that I've heard and I've even heard taught of messages I've listened to, read, taken notes on. um that I think are really examples of taking the Bible out of context, misusing it, and in its application, it's very damaging to people 's whilst with the Lord. And so we're going to get into some really practical things. But in this particular passage, what we see is that Paul is addressing three specific kinds of false teaching that are specifically going on at the Church of Ephesus And from those three different kinds of teaching, we see three different problems with how they're handling the scriptures. And then I want us to kind of see how this really relates itself into some contemporary issues that we deal with today. So the first truth that we saw is that we need to have a realistic expectation of church life, and we talked about how Paul predicted that there would be people in the church that would not Embrace fault or embrace truth or for a period of time they would embrace truth and then eventually they'd walk away. You talked about that We got into a second truth where we need to understand the nature of false teaching. We looked at its dishonesty, its inconsistencies, and how these teachings had the ability to really deconstruct our conscience. And so God gives us this sense of right and wrong. That's in all of us. And that sense of right and wrong can really be abused. Where we can begin to be sensitive about things that we shouldn't, and then things that we should feel very uncomfortable with, we're totally fine with them. And really our conscience can get inverted. And one of the things, I mean, listen to some of the debates that go on today within our culture when you talk about some of the ethical issues. You can hear people that are passionately presenting a case, a moral case in their their view, for something that is the exact opposite of what God says to be morally right. In other words, they'll look at God's word on a particular matter, and their conscience is bothered by it because their conscience has been perverted. It's been twisted, it's been inverted. And so we see that false teaching has the ability to really damage the conscience. We then got into a couple of facts These individuals had a false teaching that was undermining the stability of the church. And we talked, first of all, last week about marriage and how their forbidding to marry was something That was actually going to really undermine the strength, the stability, and even the future of the church. We then got into a second topic last week, and that's the fact that they're teaching was undermining areas of legitimate freedom. And so we talked about the fact that there were Jewish individuals in the church who were telling Gentile Christians That in order to be a Christian, you had to submit yourself to the Mosaic Law, which involved things like circumcising your male children, or not eating pork, or shellfish, or shrimp. And following the festivals and the holidays that we find on the Jewish calendar, observing the various Sabbath rests that God prescribes in the Old Testament for the Jewish people. And so what God basically tells us in this passage is that these Gentile Christians were free, legitimately free, from having to follow those Old Testament practices. But they were being forced, those things were being forced on them by some well-meaning Jewish Christians and others who were not actually Christians, but were in the church meeting there. And so we saw that these areas were bringing confusion, they were undermining the conscience, they were dividing the church, and they were really causing people to become very proud. Tonight I'd like us to get into a third fact that we find about these false teachings. And here it is. Their teaching was distracting Christians from thinking about the real issues of life and faith. by living in the theoretical. Now let me give you just a real practical example. Let's say that you're watching a debate between two individuals. Both individuals are passionate about their position. One person is passionate about a position that is well-rooted in facts The other person is very passionate about a position that is not well rooted in facts. When you listen to that debate, the person that has a position that's rooted in facts is going to stick with the facts. Doesn't that make sense? He's going to build his case on what is objective. He's going to say these things are true, and this is why I believe what I believe. The person on the other side that doesn't have the facts on his side, you know what he's going to do? He's going to refer to rhetoric. He's going to build cases that are really not part of this debate and he's going to go after those cases and he's going to distract you from really the main issue We see that kind of a thing happen in debate when people get into an argument and all of a sudden the one person starts realizing that they're wrong, but they're not going to back down. What do they do? They start using distraction methods. Maybe they get a little bit louder and they get a little bit more animated. They start talking about something that has nothing to do with that. Distraction. Well, you realize within the church, sometimes the teaching ministry is more of a distraction than built on facts and truth. I remember I was sitting in a Sunday school class one time. This is when we were in an early church plant, uh, when we were in in Ghana. And I remember I wanted to get some guys into teaching Sunday school, but they probably really weren't ready to do that at the time yet. But I really wanted them to do that. And I just I was amazed where the Sunday school classes would sometimes go You know, is like off the rail, let's kind of brought bring this back. Let's find a text of scripture and let's dig into that text. Instead of getting into all these superficial things that have nothing to do. And you know the truth is I sat down one of those teachers and I said , This may not sound very good, but I'm just telling you the truth. We're we're wasting our time here. We've got to go and dig into the facts and deal with the facts. These other issues, they're interesting discussions, but they're not really helping people grow. That's exactly what was going on at the church at Ephesus. Rather than people digging into their Bibles and saying things like, you know, the way that you treat your wife is wrong, you need to do the right thing. Or the way that you're working with your kids is wrong, or the way that you're handling this situation in your workplace. Here's what the Bible says. Let's do what God says. Instead of that, it was Let's talk about something that is completely hypothetical, completely theoretical, completely subjective, completely emotional. And let's really get passionate about those things and let's just kind of downplay what's really important. What really makes people grow. This is what Paul says in the passages that we have. 1 Timothy 1. 4, he says this. Tell them neither to give heed unto fables or endless genealogies, and here's the reason why. They minister questions rather than godly edifying. That's really important. In other words, there are people that rather than talking about sound doctrine, the gospel, the deity of Christ, Things that help people grow and mature in the faith, they want to talk about things that are fables. They want to have arguments about how many angels you can put on the head of a needle. You ever had a heard of discussion about that? They want to get into some theological debate. The Bible never addresses it. It's nothing more than a discussion about assumption. Something that God is completely quiet on, and they get very passionate about it. Fables, endless genealogies, things like numerology, and numerology was really popular when I was a kid. Okay? You can make the Bible say anything you want it to when you get into the area of numerology. It's just the truth. You go to some areas of eschatology and talk about what this could possibly be referring to, and you just don't know. But here's what he says: they minister questions rousing godly edifying. He said, what I'm really concerned about is I want people to grow spiritually. You are wasting that time Talking about things that have no ability to grow people in the faith. Don't do it. Don't waste your time. That's what he's saying. If did first Timothy four seven, he says, refuse profane and old wives fables In 2 Timothy 4, 4, he says, they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. Titus 1. 14 says, not giving heed to Jewish fables, commandments of men that turn from the truth. Do you get the idea that Paul is a little bit passionate about this and he feels like it's a problem? In other words, he's saying people want to just deal with hypothetical, theoretical rather than what is clearly black and white, right and wrong in truth. And it's because it wastes time. Let me tell you, when you get into these areas of hypothetical, it'll never tug at your conscience. It won't. It won't cause you to change your ways. It won't bring repentance. It won't bring trust in the Lord. It won't bring a change of character. It'll just puff your head up. That's all it'll do. And Paul was so burdened about it. On the contrast, listen to what he says in 2 Peter, or what Peter writes in 2 Peter 1:16. He says, We, the apostles, have not followed cunningly devised fables. When we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. In other words, Paul is telling Timothy and Titus, he says, don't deal with these fables and these ideas of men. Deal with truth, what God says Peter says, when we wrote the scriptures to you, we weren't writing fables and assumptions. We were writing to you exactly what God said we were to write. There's authority there. What happens when people live in the theoretical rather than in what is objectively true? Here are some things. One is distraction. People have their energy and time poured into unnecessary, wasteful pursuits. I have sat in many, many sermons. in churches over my lifetime, Sunday school classes, discussions, group Bible studies that quite honestly you didn't even need your Bible for. You could have just shut it, set it to the side, and just talked like you were just, you know, who wants to talk about something else? The fact is that we have the Bible in front of us because it's authority. And so he's passionate about distraction, division. People withdraw from one another over matters that really they shouldn't be dividing over. Why? Because it's simply an opinion versus an opinion. It's not connected to objective truths Pride. People have an elitist attitude based on their opinion and practices in these areas of conscience. In other words, where you stand on this hypothetical matter becomes an area of pride. It's like it's a hill to die on. And this right here is what I think is perhaps one of the most devastating. It's that we begin to approach the Bible in a very subjective way. Instead of objective way. Here's what I mean by that. People lose their ability to rightly divide the word of truth. Instead of people reading their Bible and saying, what does that word mean? Instead of them saying that, that is objective. That word has a meaning. What does the word mean? Instead, they're theorizing about things that have nothing to do with that. Instead of people digging into the context and asking the question, what was going on here? Why did God give that instruction to those people at that time? What is that timeless truth that is being taught in that particular passage? Instead, the context is completely ignored. It's subjective instead of objective. Some passages We need to realize our descriptive of what happened, not necessarily prescriptive of what we should do. But people ignore those things. And sometimes God is purposefully silent on a matter. You know, if God chose not to reveal something to us, then we need to just leave it be. I remember having a conversation with a young Christian one time, and they said, Pastor Joel, what do you think about such and such a matter? And I said, I don't think about it. He said, Why not? I said, Because God didn't give us that answer. He 's like, well, you should tell me what it is. I said, well, I have no authority to do that. It's complete speculation. I said, if God's silent Let it be. We don't have to know it. We don't have to figure it out. And we most certainly shouldn't tell people we figured it out if God chose not to tell us. Very, very important. We come to a third truth. We need to guard ourselves against these three ways of truth, these three ways that the truth was being undermined by these false teachers. I'm going to give you a couple of dangers that we should be very cautious about when it comes to this issue of teaching, study, doctrine. Danger one, the danger of adding to what God says. You know, one of the things that I hope that you're passionate about and convinced of is the sole authority of Scripture. I hope that you believe that this is our final and only authority in the church. I hope you're convinced of the sufficiency of Scripture. What I mean by the sufficiency of Scripture is that not only is this our final authority, but this is enough. In other words, we don't need to go outside of the authority of Scripture to build doctrine and practice. We simply go to what God said. God is omniscient, He knows everything. And so being omniscient and all-wise, he gave us exactly what we need so we can grow and thrive as Christians. We need to guard ourselves against adding to the scriptures. There's another danger of cutting it short, and there are people that do that. But adding to it is another problem. Listen to what it says in Deuteronomy 4. 2. He says, You shall not add unto the words which I command you, neither shall ye diminish aught from it. That ye may keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you. Deuteronomy twelve thirty-two What things soever I command you, observe to do it, thou shalt not add thereunto, nor diminish from it. Revelation twenty-two, eighteen, I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book. If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues which are written in the book. Colossians 2. 8, beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. You know, when we get up and we teach God's word, we're not only responsible to make sure that we don't cut short from what it says. But that we don't embellish what is there, that we don't add to it something that really isn't there. In fact, it's a very sobering thing to pick up a Bible and teach it. It's a very sobering thing to preach the word. Because when you handle that scripture and you say this is what God says, you're responsible. That's a scary thing. And so we need to be cautious we don't add to what is there. That's exactly what these individuals are doing. I'll give you an example of it. In Matthew 15, 1, we see a conversation between Jesus and the scribes and the Pharisees. And this is what they say. Then came to Jesus, scribes and Pharisees, which were in Jerusalem, saying, Why do thy disciples transgress, listen to the word, traditions of the elders? Interesting statement. Why do your disciples transgress the traditions of the elders? Now, these traditions, question, were they rooted in Scripture? No, they weren't. They were they were cultural practices. Now they weren't evil in and of themselves, okay? In fact, what we're going to see is what they're talking about is washing hands before you I washed my hands before I And I hope that you wash your hands before you eat, okay? And if you have small children, I hope you wash their hands before they eat too. Washing your hands is good, but the Bible never tells us to do it. It doesn't. It's a traditional matter. He says, they say, why do your disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? They wash not their hands when they eat bread. But he answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandments of God by your traditions? Whoa! That was an interesting statement. Let me read it again. He says Why do you transgress the commandments of God by your traditions? This is what he's saying. You have added to the scripture an authority that you've actually put higher than God's Word. I mean, ultimately, this is really why we have Roman Catholicism. Okay? It honestly it really is. The reason that there is a divide on matters like justification and we talk about the Lord's table versus the Eucharist and all of those various issues, the reason that there's a difference Primarily is this. Not because the Roman Catholic Church rejects the Bible, it's that the Bible and tradition are on the same level. And all of a sudden, tradition and Bible being on the same level actually ends up being tradition above the Bible. There's an addition to the scripture. They don't believe sola scriptura. That's why there was a whole Protestant Reformation. That's why there was a nailing of 95 thesis to the door at Wittenberg. Because Luther said, I'm looking at the church and I'm reading the Bible and I see a problem. The church and the Bible are not saying the same thing. There's a lot of tradition here. Jesus says your traditions have actually usurped the authority of Scripture. He gives an example. And this is a really interesting example. Listen to it. He says, for God commanded, saying, Honor thy father and mother. He that curses father and mother, let him die the death. But ye say, whosoever shall say to his father and his mother, It is a gift by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me. Honor not his father or his mother. He shall be free. Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your traditions. I'll put it in like real simple terms. Basically, instead of you know taking care of mom and dad, they said, oh, that money's been dedicated to God. And because we've dedicated it to God, we can't take care of you. I'm sorry, mom and dad. That's basically what was going on there And so Jesus is saying this. He's saying, you know what you did? You built a tradition that you have used to ignore God's word. That's what it is. And I am convinced that when we get into this area where the Bible becomes just a subjective discussion point. Where we're getting into all these areas of hypotheticals. We have actually taken the Bible and we have put it to the side and its authority to the side, and we simply have emphasized what we We see a second danger, and that's the danger of creating doctrine on assumptions. Doctrine on assumptions. We shouldn't teach it unless God has clearly stated it. And by the way, I'll even say this. If we're going to teach it, we should see it stated explicitly over and over and over again. Because you know what's interesting. God knows that we, you know, are people that often forget things. So, you know, he happens to say things over and over and over and over again. I mean look at an issue like the gospel. I remember sitting down with people and I'd you know I'd have like a list of verses this long. Why is that? Because God has stated in his word over and over and over again salvation is by grace alone. Through faith alone, and Christ alone, rooted in the work of Christ alone, is based on his righteousness, not our own righteousness, over and over and over again. You can go to so many scriptures. Why is that? Because God's driving the point home. The fact is, there is a danger that we face by creating assumptions, and then those assumptions become points where we develop doctrines. That's a very dangerous thing to do. Let me give you an example of this, a very practical example of this. Job 42. You know the story of Job. So Job was a godly man. There's no question about it. When God looked at Job, he said, There is none like him in all the earth. Okay? So he's like, I look at everybody on the earth, and Job is he is the godliest man I've ever seen. He is the godliest person of his time. And Satan says, Well, if you take everything away from him, he'll curse you. And God says, No, he won't. You can go after him. Now, did God ever tell Job that that's what was going on behind the scenes? To my knowledge, he didn't. It's interesting, when we read the book of Job, we never see a time where God says, Job, let me tell you the story now. Okay? You know all that suffering that you went through? There was actually a conversation between me and Satan. And he wanted to see if you would stumble. And I told him you wouldn't. And I said, go ahead, you can touch Job. I mean, limited, but you can touch him. And so all those terrible things that happened, it was really me demonstrating to Satan the kind of character you have. He never said that. But you know what's interesting? As we get into the story, Job's friends come alongside him, and they were silent for several days. That was the good part of the book. But then, as they got to the end of the silent time, they decided it was time to talk. And they talked a lot. And they, you know, they said some pretty harsh things to Job. Truth be known, I've been a little bit like this in my life at times, and maybe some of you have to. You come alongside somebody and you've got figured out why they have what's going on in their life. That's what these guys did. They basically said, well, Job, you know, God doesn't punish people for no reason. You have stuff going on in your life. You have some things that you've kept under the surface and nobody knows about them. And Job says, I'm an innocent man. And he declares his innocence and they say, You better be quiet. This is what God says to those men at the end of that story. After the Lord had spoken these words unto Job, the Lord said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee and against thy two friends. For ye have spoken of me things that is spoken of me the thing that is right, as you have not spoken of me the things that is right, as my servant Job hath Therefore, take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams. Go to my servant Job and offer up for yourself a burnt offering, and my servant Job shall pray for you. For him will I accept lest I deal with you after your folly, and that ye have not spoken of me the things which are right like my servant Job. This is basically what God's saying to them. You told Job things that were not based on facts. They're based on assumption. And you were woefully wrong. They assumed all the bad in Job's life was directly related to sin that Job was covering and hiding. That's what they believed. They were totally wrong. It's just a simple example. But the truth is, you know what? People do that. Another example, John chapter 9, verses 1 to 3. There's a man who's blind. And listen to what the disciples say when they see this man. As Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. The disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin? This man or his parents? That he was born blind? What did the kid do? Okay? In the womb, they said, what did he do so that he would be born blind? Why did they think that way? Because that's the way lots of people think. Lots of people think this way. If you have bad, then it means you did bad. It's that simple. That's what we believe. Yet, what do we see in the scriptures that that's not true? It can be true at times But it's not always true. And this is what Jesus says: Neither have this man sinned nor his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest in him He's basically saying, you guys don't know what you're talking about. There is something that's about to happen that is marvelous, it's beyond your comprehension, and this is part of the reason this man Lives so many years this way. It's a shocking thing. I mean, they would have never come up with that. But my point is this: we do that. We assume things and we teach them as doctrines. And we find out that we're woefully wrong. I want to give you a very important reminder. Deuteronomy 29. The secret things belong unto the Lord our God But those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of his law. Let me tell you, this book is thick enough, and it is deep enough, and it is complex enough that you could spend your whole life studying its and not having to worry about the hypotheticals It's the facts. And basically God is saying, you know what, there are some things I did not reveal them, and they're for me to know and not you But I've given you a lot. Spend your time digging into what I've given you. Revelation uh Romans chapter eleven, thirty-three to thirty-six, when when Paul talks about this relationship between Jew and Gentile and how the Jewish nation has rejected the gospel and now the Gentiles have embraced the gospel and they're grasped it in. and how God is going to use the Gentiles and their acceptance of Christ to ultimately bring the Jewish people back to the Lord. It's a fascinating thing. It's something that you go, how in the world could anybody ever come up with such an idea? Well God did. And he says, Of the depths of the riches, of the wisdom, knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. Who hath known the mind of the Lord? The point is this: building doctrine on assumption is foolish, it's dangerous, it's wrong. Don't do it. The third danger is this: the danger of misapplying scripture I'm gonna save this for next time because there's a lot that I can get into here. And you know, this one's a good one. I like it. So I'm gonna get into this one next time. But but I think we've got some things to chew on And really, what I want to do with this study is I just want to emphasize to us how absolutely important it is that we read the Bible, that we humbly read the Bible, and we responsibly read the Bible And I'm concerned that really the way that we often see the Bible being in it, this is this is I don't it's not just an American problem. It's not just an evangelical problem. It's not just a Baptist problem, an independent fundamental Baptist problem. It's a problem with Christians that many times the way we read the Bible It's not careful. We don't think about the words. We don't think about the context. We don't think about application in light of the context and how it flows properly. We just, the first thing that pops into our head, that's what it's saying It's so dangerous. I'm going to give you examples because I want you to see how these examples, though they're not all equally dangerous, they're all still substantive and they are affect us. And ideas have consequences. You know, you have a wrong idea about salvation, you'll spend your turn in hell. That's the most serious. But these other ones are serious too. And we're going to talk about those a little bit next time. So we'll stop there. We'll get into the third danger, the danger of misapplying scripture. And we'll look at some practical examples, and then we're going to get into how do we approach studying the Bible responsibly and rightly dividing the word of truth. I want to give you a couple of practical suggestions at the closing of that. But we'll stop there. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we'll uh get our prayer bulletins out and we'll we'll pray together tonight. Father, it is such a privilege to be able to open a Bible, to be able to read it in our language, to be able to understand exactly what you said. To know your will and to know your heart, to have these wonderful truths presented to us, we have an embarrassment of riches at our disposal. Yet, Father, we still can be very sloppy in the way we handle it. We can be very careless. And I pray that you'd help us to be sober, diligent students of the Bible Who rightly divided, who are passionate about expounding truth and living in the light of the truth. I pray that you'd help us to be a church where doctrine is expounded clearly and articulated. And we are a learning culture where people are growing in the knowledge of the truth. We ask that you'll bless our prayer time and work in the lives of the various people that we will bring before your throne tonight. We ask it in Christ's name, amen