Our study tonight will be a blessing. Let's go ahead and bow for a word of prayer, and then we will uh sing our opening hymn. Which is uh 363. Let me just turn there so I don't forget it. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you so much for your word and the opportunity tonight to open the Bible and dig into these scriptures. Help me to effectively teach these truths, help us to understand the significance and the weight of them. Be with those who are sick. uh not feeling well, not able to be with us tonight, uh please uh strengthen their bodies and help them to be in good health soon. Uh be with those who uh have challenges that uh They're just not able to be here. I pray that you'll bless them. And uh for us who are here, I pray that uh we would have a sweet time of fellowship. And as we uh as we pray together, I pray that you would uh just work in these individual situations. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. 363 at Calvary. We're going to sing the first and the last verses together, please. Of this song Here suspense in vanity and pride, carrying not my lord. was crucified knowing not it was for me he died on calm me mercy there was great and grace was free And there was multiplied to me There my burden so found liberty and count me Oh the love that you shall be shown Oh the grace that brought it down to man, oh the mighty hope that God did spend and calm me. There was great and grace was free , heart and there was most and five to me , where my word is all ever tea and come for me. Okay, good singing. And if you could, let's all turn together to Ecclesiastes chapter 10. Ecclesiastes chapter ten, and I will say that as you uh look at the passage in front of us uh when it comes to uh commentators on this passage. There's a lot of uh divergent opinion on how to handle this text. And so the way that I'm going to deal with this is I'm going to look at uh this passage as several different expressions of a deep heart issue. And so with that in mind, we're going to look at three expressions of an unsettled heart. An unsettled heart. Ecclesiastes chapter 10, verse 18 is where we'll start. Here's what it says. By much slothfulness the building decayeth. Through idleness of the hands the house droppeth through. A feast is made for laughter, wine maketh merry. Money answereth all things. Curse not the king, nor know not in thy thoughts, and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber. For a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter. The passage in front of us is an interesting passage. We're kind of coming to the end of chapter 10, and uh we are moving our way towards really the summation of the book of Ecclesiastes. And I've said this several times. But the book of Ecclesiastes is a book that's written primarily to help us to have perspective. And one of the things that's so often laid out in the Book of Ecclesiastes is that as we observe life, There are certain things that we observe that don't make sense. We can't necessarily make sense of them. There are times that when we look at what's going on in the world The conclusion we have is this is all that we have, so let's just eat, drink, and be merry, because tomorrow we're going to die, and that's the end. But when we read the book of Ecclesiastes, we have to recognize that the entire book is driving to this very important truth that there is an eternity. And because there is an eternity, there's also a judgment. And because there's a judgment, you better live life soberly. And even though there are things that you won't be able to figure out in life, you still need to prepare yourself for that day And when you go through challenges in life that are very painful, and it doesn't seem like the good guys win on this side. It seems like the bad guys are prevailing, if you want to use that kind of an analogy. That's okay because in the end God's going to settle it. And so we can take heart and comfort in those truths So that's really where we're driving. We have to remember that all the observations that Solomon is laying out are driving to that point So let me give you a summary statement for the verses before us, and then I want to kind of dig into a couple of introductory thoughts as we look at these different expressions of an unsettled heart. The closing verses of Ecclesiastes 10 reveal three expressions of an unsettled heart that often manifest themselves when we have authority. or are suffering under the burden of unprincipled authorities. Now when people are reading through these verses and we come to verse number 18 If you look at verses 16 and 17, obviously he's talking about someone who is a king and how to relate to a person who's a king. Then we come to verse number 20. He says, don't curse the king. So When a lot of commentators are looking at these verses, what they'll say is, well, this is all a unit, it's all a section, it's all talking about how to relate to authority. But the truth is that the two verses that we're looking at, 18 and 19, they really don't seem to be connected to the authority discussion. But what I do think we can see in these verses is that these verses are showing how we respond in situations Whether we're in a sorty or whether we're under authority or whether we're managing a matter when our heart is very troubled internally Now when I talk about a heart being unsettled, I'm not suggesting that a person is going to be free from difficulty and trials. The idea is, even though they're being bombarded with challenges in a fallen world, there's a rock that they have a foundation upon. Others go through the exact same things. They don't have that rock. And so when all of the difficulties of life begin to press on them, they begin to crumble, they begin to fall apart because they don't have a sure foundation. So When I talk about someone having a settled heart, I'm not suggesting, oh, he doesn't have problems. This person doesn't experience difficulties. They don't get knocked down sometimes. It's not what I'm suggesting. What I'm suggesting is That they have a rock to stand on. And so when they do stumble, they have a sure footing because of the rock. And when someone has an unsettled heart and they get beat down, guess what? They don't get back up. They don't have sure footing. Things begin to spin out of control and they get worse and they get worse and worse and internally they're falling apart. We're going to look at some ways that that internal difficulty expresses itself. And the way that it expresses itself might be very interesting as we look at it. You might go, huh, I never thought of it that way So first of all, let's look at a couple of introductory thoughts. When we talk about our hearts and the condition of our hearts, And whether or not we have a settled, stable heart, or a heart that's very unsettled, that issue is absolutely critically important. In fact, in Proverbs chapter 4, verse 23, it says, we're to keep our heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. That word keep has the idea of guard it, set a watch over it. In other words, we have to be people who are diligent about making sure our heart is in a healthy place. He says we're to do it with all diligence. This is something that we have to maintain continually. Just like a person who plants a garden has to weed the garden continually or someone has to constantly do the dishes because, well, there's always dirty dishes in a house. We always have to sweep and we always have to vacuum and we always have to wash our car and all those different kinds of things. Maintenance is a part of life. I'm going to talk about that in just a minute. But there's nothing in your life that's more important, more critical to maintain than where your heart's at. He tells us why. For out of it are the issues of life. In other words, if things are right inside, then you'll respond right to what you're going through. If things are not right inside, doesn't matter what you're going through, good or bad, you're not going to respond well. So the heart is absolutely critical. The second thing I want to draw your attention to Is that the ultimate remedy for an unsettled heart is found in God Himself? Matthew chapter 11, verse 28. I think we know these verses, but I'm going to read them to you just to remind you about them. It says this. Jesus says, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Now when he talks about laboring, laboring is what we're doing. And by the way, what's very interesting about the verse is that he's going to tell him to put on his yoke. And a yoke is a picture of something that is a form of work. I mean, if you put yoke on an oxen, then that animal is pulling a plow. So he's not inviting us to live an idle life. A life that doesn't involve labor. It's the way that we do the labor that actually matters. So you who are laboring and are heavy laden, in other words, as you do the work You're discouraged. You're weary. You're way down. You're not able to bear under the burden. If that's you, then he says, Come to me. Do you feel that way sometimes? I do. Okay. Life in a fallen world is hard. And so he says, as you're laboring, if you're way down and you're burdened, come to me and I'm going to give you rest. Now, the rest that he's talking about is not the rest of idleness. It's the rest of a spirit that can handle the labor that you're doing. In other words, God doesn't say, check out for the rest of your life. Take a vacation till the day you die. That's not what he's saying. Oh, just go into an early retirement and just kind of like kick back and go golfing every day. That's not what he's saying. He's saying the labor that you're going to do, you have a different disposition about it. You're going to be able to handle the load because you're coming to me, and I'm going to sustain you in the midst of this. So he's talking about how as we labor, we labor with a rested heart. We labor with a heart that's settled, that's steady, that's stable. I know that's what we want. And God says, you can get it, but you can't get it outside of me. He then goes on. He says this, I will give you rest, take my yoke on you, learn of me I am meek and lowly in heart, ye shall find rest unto your soul, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. And what's great about this picture Is he saying, I I want you to think about these two animals that are plowing. You have one that's plowing along and and this animal is weary and it's not able to handle the burden. And so you take another animal and you you you yoke them together. And they carry the load together. So they're both working, but they're sharing the burden. That's the picture that's here. So when we come to Christ, all of a sudden, the labor that we're doing, he's empowering us. He's right there with us, and we're going through this process, and it rests our souls. That's what he's talking about. Come to me all, I will give you rest. In fact, it really reminds me of two passages in the Old Testament, or one in the Old and one in the New. I know I've mentioned these a couple of times. But they really stand out to me. Jeremiah chapter 2, he talks about the people did something that was terrible. He says, you went and you built your own cisterns. so that you'd have water to sustain you, and when you built the cisterns, you were replacing me, the source of living water, and the cisterns that you built are crafts. And so when you're going to get the water from the place that you built, guess what? It's empty. It doesn't give you what you need. So he's saying you replaced me with something that can't satisfy, it's broken. That's the picture that's behind this right here. Or we think about Jesus in John chapter 4 talking to the Samaritan woman, and he says If you knew who it was that was saying, give you this water, you would ask me to give you water, and I'd give you living water and you'd never thirst again. It's absolutely incredible. He's saying, look, your life has been lived With a desire for satisfaction, and everywhere you look, it's just falling apart. It's not working. So we find that Jesus is the source to having our hearts settled. Let me put it this way. It's expressed very simply in Proverbs three five. It says, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, lean not unto thine own understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Be not wise in thine own eyes, fear the Lord, and depart from evil. It shall be health to thy navel and merit to thy bones. Every word in that verse is significant. The word trust is huge. That means I'm gonna rely on him, his strength, his wisdom, his ways, not my own. Trust In the Lord. He's the object of the trust. With all of your heart. You know how easy it is for us to kind of like segment our lives and be like, I'll give God this area over here and I'm gonna trust him on this area over here and I'll just kind of like ignore that area. You know I'm talking about we're we're really good at that. He says, you need to trust me in all with all of your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him. And I and this is very interesting. I remember when I was in um Probably in college. I remember this pastor one time. He was preaching a message and he talked about the different ways of life And he said, you know, in our lives we have ways that are going this way and this way and this way. And and you know, some of those ways are conform to God's will, and others are not. And he said, We need all of our ways to be conformed to God. Conformed to the Lord's will. In other words, every single one of these areas is important. Not just some of them or most of them, they're all important. So he says, in all of your ways, acknowledge him. In other words, you need to see what he says is right and do it. Submit to his will, submit to his word. So when we talk about this issue of having an unsettled heart, the scripture tells us, look, where our hearts at is really important. There's nothing more important in life. If we want to have a settled heart, we've got to go to God. And in the very practical way we do it, we trust Him with all of our heart. We don't lean on our understanding. And all of our ways swear to submit to his will. He'll direct our paths, and the result is health to our navel and mirror to our bones. In other words, a heart that is settled and is in a good place. So I asked this question tonight. Do you have a settled heart? Or is it restless? Weary? Angry, discouraged. How would you say your heart is? You know, we need to go to the doctor. And I I mean we we I don't like going to the doctor. I just I don't like going. But but but here's the reality. You go to the doctor so they can tell you what's wrong so you can get it fixed. Not so they can just laugh at you out. Did you know that you have high blood pressure? No, we're like, let's talk about how we can get your blood pressure where it needs to be. Let's talk about how we can how we can get this uh these numbers down. Let's talk about a game plan. Yeah, you go to the doctors so they say, here's the problem, here's how we can help you out here. You know, it's it's to help us maintain good health. A lot of times we don't like to think about the fact that our heart's not in a good place, but sometimes we just need to stop and reflect and go, okay, God, it's true. The light is shining on me, I'm not where I need to be, so help me to get back on track. And that's where we want to move in this. So let's look at a couple of different expressions of an unsettled heart. We're going to find them in these verses. The first expression is this: the unsettled heart lacks healthy motivation. Let me say it again. The unsettled heart is a heart that lacks healthy motivation. We're all motivated in different ways. Some people are motivated by greed. Some people are motivated by lust. Some people are motivated to not do anything because they're crippled in fear. And so they're afraid of people, and that is a motivation as well. In these verses, he's going to give us a very practical example of when a person is not thinking clearly and thinking the way they need to and they're not motivated the way that they need to be, how it's just going to express itself in a very practical way. And when you see it, you're going to go, what? But it's true the more you think about it. Here's the example. Verse number 18, he says this: By much slothfulness the building decayeth, and through idleness of the hands the house droppeth through. One of the greatest reasons that people don't manage their home, their health. Their finances. It's because their heart is very troubled and they are so distracted with what's going on inside that they don't have the ability to think clearly and put their energy and work to those things. It's true. There's a reason that our health begins to deteriorate. We begin to physically deteriorate when things are not going well inside. You know, sometimes you can tell if a person's dealing with some depression or discouragement or heavy-heartedness because you'll see that their health is beginning to decline. It's really true. I mean I've experienced this in my own life. You've probably experienced it too In other words, when things aren't going right inside, I don't have the energy that is necessary to manage the things that are important to life. It's something that we deal with. And so the illustration is this a building that's falling apart. You know, sometimes we will talk about the uninability or the unwillingness to manage something or to work hard. We'll put it in terms of, oh, a person is just lazy, they just don't want to work. And that can be the case sometimes. But there are other times that a person is crippled with anxiety and discouragement and frustration. And because of those things going on inside, the heart is unsettled. They're not able to do the work that they need to do. Proverbs 24, 30 to 31. He says, I went to the field of the slothful and by the vineyard of the man that is Void of understanding, and lo it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall there was broken down. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep, so shall thy poverty come as one that travaileth, and thy want as an armed man. Sometimes when things are not right in our hearts, we don't have the energy. And when I say they're not right in our hearts, I mean we are unsettled. We're not in a healthy place. We don't have the energy to get up, to go do the things that we need to do. It's like we just feel drained physically. And when we're in that place, guess what? We've got to stop and admit, I'm not in a good place. How can I get where I need to be? in my own heart so that I can get back to doing things the way that I need to do them. Let me give you a couple of implications here. We know it takes time and energy to plan a project and to build something of value. We know that. But it takes just as much energy, actually it probably takes more time and more energy to maintain the things that we actually have. So let's say that you're building a house Building that house might take 10 months, 12 months, whatever your house is like, it's going to take a lot of time and money and energy But if you live in that house for 30 or 40 years, guess what? Your energy and the time is going to be compounded exponentially because you are maintaining this thing for decades. We have to recognize that maintaining something takes a lot of time, a lot of energy, a lot of strength And we have to work at maintaining what is built, or when we get done with it, it's going to end up falling apart. It's going to be wasted. The time, the resources, the energy that we invested in it on the front side, it's going to be lost. We're going to have to tear it down, we're going to have to rebuild it and go through the process again. But here's the question, what's the root cause of this? It could be that we don't value what we have. It could be that we're looking forward to the next thing and we're dissatisfied. But ultimately, many times it's because something inside isn't right. We're unsatisfied settled. And I asked this question, do you find yourself in this place? Well some might say, well that's not me. I'm a great manager I'm able to continually do the things that I that I need to do to maintain what I have. Great. Here's a second expression that I want you to notice tonight. Expression number two is an unsettled heart pursues worldly distractions. In verse 19 it says, A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh merry. Money answereth all things. He gives three very interesting illustrations that are basically three ways that people distract themselves when things are not going well inside. The first is throwing an extravagant banquet. And I want to say a couple things about that in a moment, but that's the first illustration. Something they have the money, they have the resources, they have the friends or the acquaintances, they throw a big party. The second one is a person that doesn't necessarily have the money and the resources, so they just cover their sorrow with intoxication. And by the way, obviously he's talking about alcohol here, but we could t we could put in any kind of chemical intoxicant, okay And we could even put it this way. It's not just something that I put in my body. Our body produces chemicals too in certain situations that we can become basically We can become addicted to as well. But covering our sorrow with some kind of intoxicant. The third is building security through accumulating wealth I want you to think about it this way. Every person in this room, every person that's joined us on the live stream, we all want to be able to enjoy life. Nobody wants a miserable life. Everyone wants what they do to have a sense of meaning. The question is, what gives you enjoyment? Or what gives you a sense of purpose and meaning? If we have our thinking straight on the scriptures and we think about where we are in light of eternity and the value that God ascribes to us, We can enjoy life in our position in Christ and the relationships that God builds into our lives and our relationship to Him. We can find tremendous enjoyment in those things. We can have a sense of purpose and meaning and value in what we do because there is a Godward focus there. But the person that doesn't have that worldview, or the person that on paper has the worldview, but not in practice What ends up happening is they don't really find enjoyment in things of value. They don't have a sense of purpose and meaning. So they have to look somewhere to kind of to kind of medicate in their own thinking those longings that they want that they can't find in all these other places. So some people do have the ability to establish themselves where they can literally buy their friends and create an artificial environment. There's a verse that says that a man that hath friends must show himself friendly. I think you know this verse. Okay? But if you're to look at it literally in the Hebrew text, the idea is this. A person who has friends has to maintain those friendships with stuff. And the end result of that is that person is gonna be crippled because they're constantly giving and giving and giving. And I didn't really understand this until I lived in a third world country. And I saw that people that had stuff were constantly, hey, can you help me out with this? Can you help me with my school fees? And I have this small challenge here and I have this small challenge there. And all of a sudden all these friends became I'm trying to get some money siphoned here and some money siphoned here. And all of a sudden, if you wanted to maintain that relationship, you had to give them something or they'd walk away. Well this person that's throwing banquets is a person that is essentially buying their friends. Hey, you want to hang out with me? I got enough money, I got enough substance, I got the ability to throw this big party, pick who I want there and who I don't I can exclude them if I don't want them there. And we're just gonna have a great time. Guess what? It creates this in artificial environment where for a little bit there's fun and pleasure. And then it's gone If you run out of money, guess what? All the friends, they find somebody else. Like the parable of the prodigal son. He goes to a far country and he has all these people who hang with him until he runs out of money. When it runs out of mind and say, goodbye. Lots of people who have an unsettled heart, they pursue that kind of a lifestyle. Because for a little bit of time, they can have something that they want, but it goes away. But not everybody has that kind of money and that kind of substance. And so they they go to something they can afford. Why is Baltimore falling apart right now? Drugs. It really is. Drugs are destroying Baltimore City. Where is a lot of the crime coming from? Drugs. You have people that literally from the time they get up in the morning to the time they put their head down at night. They're looking to make money or to get money acquired through SEF or whatever. So that they can get enough money to buy something that's going to give them a high for a little while, and then they're going to go for it again and again and again. And they are slaves. to substances, alcohol, drugs, whatever it is. So they don't have the ability to throw the lavish banquet. Instead what they do is that unsettled heart drives them to find something that gives them a temporary thrill. You know, it's really easy for us to look and say, well man, I'm glad I'm not a drug addict. I'm glad I'm not an alcoholic. Well I'm glad you're not too But the truth is we find other ways too. We really do. And the question I think we need to ask ourselves is Are we going to something to kind of medicate away what's going on inside of us? So many different places we can go. You can put in music and entertainments, and yes, chemical substances, but we are going to that for some temporary escape from the miseries of life. Or lastly, people who sacrifice everything of value so that they can accumulate assets that they believe are going to give them security because they desperately want that security. So if I could just get that better job, or I could just get into that new location and they pursue it and they're willing to sacrifice everything. And all their principles so that they can get that. Why is that? Because people believe that a good time, a chemical substance, or money is going to help solve their problems. Well, if there wasn't a God and there wasn't eternity and there wasn't a judgment and there wasn't a gospel, then yes, that's true. But there is a gospel, and there is an eternity, and there is a final judgment day. What's the root cause of these sometimes life-dominating enslavements? These enslavements are all worldly distractions that are rooted in an unsettled heart. The third, which I think is the most intriguing of all, is that an unsettled heart is a heart that criticizes rather than focuses on constructive contributions Now listen to what it says in verse number 20. He says, Curse not the king, know not in thy thought, and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber. This is a funny statement. For a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter. Let me read that again. Curse not the king, know not in thy thoughts, curse not the rich in thy bedchamber, for a bird of the air shall carry the voice in that which hath wings. shall tell the matter. Now what's interesting is that he kind of goes from what you're thinking to what you say to those who are the closest to you to the end result of thoughts expressed to those who are closest to you, and then, well, the embarrassment of now being found out, this is what I think or this is what I've said. In other words, if you curse the king in your thoughts, eventually you're going to tell the person closest to you where you sleep at night, your spouse. Your closest friends, the people that you live with, the people that you work with, you're going to start telling them what you're thinking because, well, you know, you can't keep it inside forever. And pretty soon, guess what? It's going to get out. It's just gonna get out. It's impossible for it not to. Someone just inadvertently slips up and says something like, oh man, I shouldn't have said that because that was stated in confidence. Anybody ever done that before? It was not your intention at all. And it happens. What's the point? The point is you got to deal with your thoughts. Because if you don't deal with your thoughts You're going to say things you regret. Even though you think you're saying it in private and in confidence, it's going to get out. And when it gets out, well , not going to be good And say, well, what's the point? The point is what you what you think you will eventually say. And what you speak to those who are closest to you is not going to stay private forever. There will be some painful or embarrassing consequence as a result of your unguarded thoughts and words. You know, your kids will be the ones that will do it. Okay? You know, you'll You'll have a conversation, you know, your husband and wife, they'll be talking about something they saw on the news or you know, some story that's out there and then your kid goes next door and tells his neighbor, Oh, you know what my daddy said about this or that? I'm like, Yes, it has happened to me. Before. Yes. My neighbors know what my political views are. Because my children have told them. And that's okay. Maybe they need to know. I don't know. They're still friends of mine, right? But what's the point? What you think, you'll say, and what you say eventually it's going to come back. But here's the question. What is the root cause of complaining? You ever thought about that? Like why is it that we get so upset inside about something that we gotta tell people? And then when we start telling them, eventually it kind of trickles out and then when it comes back to it's like, oh I can't believe they that that they think I said that. Well I did say that. I can't believe it's been known now. You know what I mean? What is the root cause? Of that cycle. You know what it is? A heart that's not settled. An unsettled heart that doesn't trust God with what we can't control. I mean, there's a lot of stuff in life that I complain about. I have no control over it. You don't either. So like what's the point? Like why do we complain about stuff we can't control? Why can't we just trust God to deal with what's right? Or things that we're not responsible to address. Now there's a lot of stuff in life that we are responsible to address. Those are the things that we just somehow overlook for some reason. And the stuff that we're not responsible to address, it's somebody else's job, we've got to trust God to work on them in that particular situation. So this unsettled heart expresses itself in not trusting God with what we can't control or what it's not our job to actually address. There's a third way too though, an unsettled heart that doesn't trust God to enable us to do what we are responsible to do. So some things I need to just leave in God's hands because I can't control it. You can't control it. He's in charge. I'm going to let him deal with it. Sometimes it's not my job. It is his job, and God's going to work on him. And I gotta let God do it. Sometimes it's my job and I go, I can't do that And God says, you can't trust me to just enable you to do what you need to do? What's the point? The point is that these are some of the ways that we express it unsettled These are just three really practical things. We don't have the energy to focus our attention on maintaining what really has value Because our heart is not in a good place. Or we go and we complain about this and that and this and that. Why is that? Because our heart's not in a good place. Or we're looking for something to kind of cover it. Something to kind of make us take our attention away, a distraction for a while. What's the result? It's something going on. What's the problem? There's something going on inside. And when something's not right inside, we gotta stop and deal with it. It's so very, very important. So the question that we should all ask ourselves is what do we do when our hearts not settled? If I find myself in one of these places, what am I supposed to do? Well, we already answered that earlier in this time today. We've got to go to the Lord, and we've got to allow him to be the one that gives rest to our souls. He says, Come to me, you who are laboring and who are weary, heavy laden, I will give you rest. He says, trust me with all your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding. In all of your ways, submit to his ways, acknowledge him. That means submit to his lordship. Ask, what does God want me to do here? What is his will? And all your ways acknowledge him. And he will direct. Your past. That's my encouragement tonight. It's easy for us to get been out of shape and go, oh man, look at those people that they just don't take care of what they have. Oh look at those people. They're alcoholics. They're druggies. They're going after this and they're going after that. And we can get all high and mighty and all self-righteous and go, I'm not like that. Oh, I'm just the third one. I'm just the one that complains about everything. I'm always That's me. You have the same problem You just express it in a different way. I got the same problem, just expressing it in a different way. Are we willing to just apply God's word? And that's my encouragement to us tonight. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to do that. Father, I thank you for the text that we looked at this evening. I pray that you'd help us to be people who maintain what you've given us. Who don't live like the world, who are constantly looking for something to cover their pain, to hide from reality. We're not the kinds of people that complain in our souls. But we're the kinds of people that we recognize that these signs are indicating things aren't right inside, and we come to you. And we throw our hearts upon your throne of grace once again. We acknowledge our tremendous need. And we find rest for our souls in you. And we trust you. We don't lean on our ununderstanding. We submit to your ways in all that we do. And we find rest for our soul. I pray that you would help, if there's even one here tonight that is very weary and very burdened, that you would help this message to really encourage them. And I pray that as they run to you, that you would give them tremendous rest and settle their hearts, their hearts would be soundly fixed on you. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen