Turning our Bibles again to the book of First Corinthians, and we are in First Corinthians chapter nine again tonight. And uh hopefully, Lord willing, we're going to finish uh this little section right here. And uh this is such an important topic. When it comes to our overall mindset about the Christian life, we have to be very, very careful. that we have a solidly biblical viewpoint. And I do think that we are living in a time where there is a lack of we could say strength. a lack of resolve in lots and lots of places. And the truth is that we as God's people cannot be like our culture. We do need to be resilient. And I did mention this last week. We talk about strength. We're not talking about someone being nasty, uh, someone being combative with others. When we talk about resilience, we're talking about strength. and grace, strength and kindness, speaking the truth and love to people, that's very, very important. But nonetheless, it's strength. Alright? And we're really going to see that emphasized in the text in front of us. So let's go ahead and look down at verses 19 down to verse 27. And we'll read that together. Here's what it says. For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all that I might gain the more. And if you like to circle in your Bible or underline your Bible, there are three statements. I am free, I make myself a servant, that I might gain the more. Those are the three key statements there. He says, unto the Jew, I became as a Jew. Interestingly, Paul was a Jew. Okay? That I might gain the Jews, to them that are under the law, as under the law that I might gain them that are under the law. To them that are without law as without law, not being without law to God, but under the law to Christ, that I might gain them that are without law. To the weak became I as weak. that I might gain the weak. I made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some. And this I do for this gospel's sake, that I might be partaker thereof with you. Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth a prize. So, run, that you may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. I therefore so run not as uncertainly, so fight I not as one that beateth the air, but I keep under my body, and bring it under subjection. lest that by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be a castaway. Now last week we talked about how Paul loved to use athletic analogies He talked about running in this particular passage, in Philippians 3, Galatians 2, Galatians 5, Hebrews 12. All of those texts of Scripture are examples of Paul referencing running. And by the way, his reference to running was not a sprint. It was a long-distance marathon kind of a race. The second analogy he used was that of wrestling, and I like that one. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 12, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. Then he used the analogy of boxing, 2 Timothy 4, 7 through 8. By the way, there is an analogy to boxing in the text. that we're looking at this evening. And I'll mention that once we get into it. And then the general concept of athletic competition. And by the way, athletics in the ancient world were generally combative sports. The reason that people trained as athletes was because they were warriors. Okay? So that's why we see running and wrestling and boxing and uh what would probably be the equivalent of ancient mixed martial arts. The reason for those things is because This was a part of the warrior mindset for people in those days. And by the way, people needed to have a warrior mindset to defend their families and where they lived. Some important words that we talked about last week were the words struggle, like pressing, striving, patience, he fought, agonizami. The end of the struggle, and that was he talks about a course and rules and a prize. That word prize is not like, oh, I I found a prize in the in the box. It's more like being crowned because you have won the competition. That is the idea of the prize, reward for the victor. So as we dug into this passage last week, we started with looking at the concept of self-restraint. Paul says in verse 19, I have personal freedom. I'm free from all men. But he was willing to limit that freedom. He talks about putting himself under Jewish cultural practices. He talked about dealing with people who were bound in their conscience under the law. He talked about interacting with Gentiles. He talked about interacting with those who are weak, and that could be talking about weakened conscience. or weakened society, someone who is in a lowly position in society. And then he basically says this, I'm willing to do whatever is necessary To win people to Christ, so long as what I'm doing is not a compromise of what is true and right. So when Paul is laying aside these things, he's laying aside his rights. so that he can engage with people in the gospel. And so this is not a pragmatic adjustment. This is a principled adjustment so that he can Reach people with the gospel. So it kind of gives you all the sense of what we talked about last week in a nutshell. Second thing we're going to do tonight is we're going to move into part number two, his motive. And Paul's motive was the gospel. Paul wanted people to be converted. He knew that what changes lives is not self-improvement, education, not that education doesn't have value, not that self-improvement doesn't have value, but that's not what transforms people What transforms people is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so notice what he says down in verse 23. He says, this I do, meaning all those things that he's talked about. And by the way, we look past what we just read this evening. And I mean, really this is a topic that he's addressing for a good chunk of 1 Corinthians. He says, this I do for the gospel 's sake. that I might be partaker thereof with you. Paul says simply, I want the gospel to spread. Here's a question we should all ask ourselves. Are we willing to lay aside our rights for the advancement of the gospel? Are we willing to be uncomfortable to put ourselves in positions that maybe are very challenging. Perhaps they're a little bit painful. And the reason we're doing it is because we love the gospel. And we want people to know the gospel, embrace the gospel, have their lives changed by the gospel. That's what Paul was saying. And it's more than just he wants the gospel to go to these places. The word that he uses here in this verse is an interesting word. Notice he says, I do this for the gospel's sake. so that I might be a partaker thereof with you. Now that word partaker, the Greek term that's used there is a very interesting term. I actually have it there in the PowerPoint. How you pronounce it doesn't matter to really anybody in this room. But I want you to see a couple of verses where this term is used. And by the way In that term, we see the word koinonas. And if you if you hear about the word community, koinonia, okay, this is a term that's used. So the idea is that there is a sense of communion with other people, and that communion is built on the gospel. You know what should unite us as a church? More than anything else, the gospel. That's what drives us. And by the way, when the gospel unites people, it's amazing how many other parts of their life begin to begin to uh be shaped because that is the center, that is the core of their identity. But look at some of these verses. The first one is Romans 11 verse 17. Listen to what it says. He says, if some of the branches be broken off, and those being a wild olive tree were grafted in among them with them. partakest of the roots and the fatness of the olive tree. This is a really interesting verse. So what Paul is talking about in Romans chapter 11 is this whole Jew and Gentile discussion. So we have the tree, and we have people who are not a part of the tree, who are grafted into the tree. And what's really interesting is when that branch is united to that tree, now the sap The energy, the life-giving substance of that tree is channeled into that branch because that branch has been united, has been planted into this other tree through grafting. In fact, when the Bible talks about how we are placed into Christ, we are united with Christ, that is the illustration, that is the picture that is being used. When Paul uses this term, he's saying when we become Christians, when we preach the gospel, our lives are connected together in a living and vibrant way. Do you look at it at Christians that way? That's a pretty amazing thing to think about. We don't have that connection with anybody else in the world. It's because the gospel is the most uniting thing that you can ever find in all of life. And so he's literally saying our lives are United together because of the gospel. That's the picture. Or another example, Philippians 1. 7. He says, I have you in my heart. Insomuch as both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, ye are all partakers of my grace. Now that one uh is kind of an interesting one. But what he's basically saying is this I'm okay with the fact that I suffer in prison because through that suffering, you actually get to participate in a real and vibrant way with the grace that God has given me to endure what I'm experiencing. That's a pretty awesome illustration if you think about it. And by the way, this is really true in life. When you have a Christian who is going through great affliction, and as they go through that affliction, Their worldview that shapes the center and core of their identity, their worldview is squeezed out by their responses, what they say, how that how their perspective looks at the situation that they're in and the people that are around them that come alongside of them as they interact with them in their suffering they literally become a partaker of the grace that God is giving that individual. It's pretty awesome to think about. It's sort of like you read a biography of someone's life, someone in the past, and you you read about their suffering, and you read about their endurance, and you read about the strength that God gives them. And as you're reading that book, all of a sudden you feel the sense of resolve boiling up inside of you. And you're like, where does that come from? That is God using that life that is your life is coming in contact with that life through a book. Or through a member of the church in suffering, whatever it is. And so what God has done in their life is influencing your life. That's the idea. And then I'll give you a third example. Experience of the same affliction, Revelation 1. 9. I, John, who am also your brother and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ. And the word companion there is the term that is the same Greek term. So the point that I'm trying to make is this. When Paul talks about How he endures all things for the sake of the gospel so that we are partakers together. Paul is expecting that when a person embraces the gospel, that life is going to be united to his life. in a very special, in a very vibrant, in a living way. And that's what the church is supposed to be. It's a place where our lives become bound to one another ultimately because all of our lives are bound to Christ. That's what Paul wanted. In other words, what is in Paul's mind is a really big deal. This is not some tertiary issue. This is a huge issue. Third thing we notice here. Is that Paul is all about running to win? I don't know if any of you are familiar with Erwin Luther. Is that a name that you're familiar with? when I was in college I used to listen to Erwin Luther. Now he sounds like a pretty old guy. Okay. But he was the pastor of Moody Church back in the day. I don't know if he's I don't know I don't think he still is anymore, but I think he's getting pretty old. But he used to have this program called Running to Win. Okay? And guess what? That's what this statement means. Know ye not the day which run and race run all, but one receiveth the price, so run that ye may obtain. Literally, run that ye may obtain means run to win. That's what it means. So he's like, what's the point of going and being involved in a competition to just complete the race? Run to win the race. Everybody runs. That's what he says in verse 24. Know ye not that they which run, run and erase all? It's kind of interesting. I I saw online the other day the high school that I attended years and years ago. And um I just happened to notice that one of the kids Um they ran in this this this race. I think they had something like a thousand runners in it. I was like, unbelievable. They didn't do that when I was in high school. And the and the one kid on the team, the top finisher for the boys, his time was like 15 minutes, 11 seconds on the 5K. He said a new he said a new rec he broke your grandson's record, Mr. Burks. I hate to tell you that. You might have already known this. So there's a picture of of Mr. Burke's grandson with this young man who just broke his record for the score. But 15 minutes, 11 seconds for a 5K, that's that's pretty good for a high score. In fact, the top girl competitor was under 18 minutes for for the uh the Academy. But the reason that I bring this up is to say this. When I ran cross country I was like, yeah, I'm in the race and I'm gonna be like a top 40 competitor. Or top 30 or whatever. You know what? If you're really serious about running, you're not trying to be top 20 or top 40. You want to be the top finisher. That's the goal. And in the ancient world, winning in this competition was one of the hugest honors, one of the largest honors. that a person could experience in their society. In fact, when they would go up and they would stand before the person that crowned them victor , There were actually, sadly, pagan roots to the crowning of that individual. That crown that they received had a lot a lot of significance to it. And yes, it was just a wreath that was going to wither and fade away. But to them, running and winning was everything. And Paul says everybody runs in the race, but not everybody wins. Only one receives the prize. So run that ye may obtain. He says, run with the mindset you're going to win. Now, this is important to just kind of make note of When we think about the analogy that Paul's using, when people are competing, they're competing against one another. But when we talk about the Christian life, we're not competing with one another. I'm not competing with my wife. Good thing, because she'd beat me, right? I'm not competing with Casey. I'm not competing with anyone in this room. You're not competing with me. We are running to be found faithful in whatever God has assigned to us. But the point that he's making is not that we're competing against one another, it's that the same mindset that gave someone the discipline and the focus to win the race is the mindset that ought to drive us to be found faithful on that day. And what we mean by that is when we stand before Christ, the judgment seat of Christ, he will say, You have run well. You have completed the task that I laid before you. You use the resources that I gave you to manage and steward in a way that honored me, you have been found faithful. That is what he means when he says, run to win. Not you're competing with other Christians. No. You're running to be found faithful. That is the idea. And so he's trying to encapsulate that mentality that drives the person to such an achievement. The fourth thing that we see is that he makes a point. that the prize that we are looking for does not fade and does not corrupt like the prizes that athletes win at the games. Verse 25 says it like this. Every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now They do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. Now, I want to kind of break this down so that we understand not just kind of the main point of what he's saying, but what these individual words mean, because they are very rich terms. The illustration that he uses here is that of an elite athlete. Every man strives for mastery and is temperate in all things. Now Earlier in this passage, there was a term translated or translated fight. He says, I fight not as one who beats the air. Okay? Now that word fight is the word agonism. And we we get our English term agonize. We're struggling. The same term is used here in that phrase, strive for the mastery. So he says the person is agonizing in their training, and part of that is their temperance. And that word temperate means their self-control. That means they're disciplined in their thinking. They discipline their passions. They discipline their appetites. Nobody in this room is naturally a disciplined person. No, we're not. Now, some of us are more naturally inclined toward uh routines than others. That would be a true statement, okay? But we're not all naturally disciplined people. Discipline is something that you develop through a training process. We talked about this last night at uh Freedom That Last. When somebody goes to basic training in the military, what is the point of basic training in the military? It's to take a person Break them down and rebuild them in the image of the military. Okay? That's really the point, right? So that they're gonna go and they're gonna be successful in battle. They're gonna be a part of a unit. Whatever they are told to do, they're going to fulfill their obligation because every single component of that unit matters and they need to do their job. And the truth is that's not how we think. We think as individuals who want to do our own thing. We ask, why, why, why? Well, you can't do that when you're a part of a unit. It's yes, sir, I'm going to do it, and I'm going to be absolutely committed to whatever my assignment is because the unit has to be successful because we're part of the mission. And so when we talk about someone being temperate, we mean we have a discipline in our thinking. We have a discipline in our passions. We learn to control our appetites. And by the way, parents, just a little pause here. We are training our children to be undisciplined or disciplined from a very, very young age. If you rarely or never tell your child no, you are ruining your child. You understand that? You're ruining them. You say, well, I don't like telling them no. I don't and I'm not saying tell them no just for the sake of telling them no. I'm not suggesting that at all. But what I am suggesting is this. You're their parent, not their buddy You're not there to affirm everything they want to do. You're there to make sure they do what is right. You're there to make sure that they learn how to do what they're told hold and to do the things that they're assigned to do. And the truth is that an undisciplined adult was an undisciplined child who was never trained properly. And that's a huge problem that we have in our society. Parents are not raising their children. They're letting society raise their children, which means they they really let a tablet raise their children. They're very, very undisciplined. And so when we talk about these issues of discipline, these are things that we need to instill in our children. These are things that we need to work through with our teenagers. And these are things that we should expect of our young adults. But what Paul is talking about is not just personal discipline in a physical sense. He's talking about spiritual discipline. The ability to control one's emotions in a godly way. The ability to control one's thinking in a godly way. The ability to deal with real temptation. That is what Paul's saying. And so he says, I strive like the athlete. I am temperate in everything. And the question is why? Why do I do this? Well, for the athlete, he does it to obtain a corruptible crown. It's so interesting. I I I really do love sports. And it's been a big part of my life for many, many years. But the truth is, I go back and I pull out these old boxes of like wrestling medals, like like little little ribbons that you you won at some event. And um sometimes the story is greater than it actually was. Just saying, you know, it's true. And uh, you know, some old trophy effect it was funny. Uh we went to the the walk for life and um Owen got to run in the little toddler trot thing and he's a real big free-year-old, okay? So he won the toddler trot and he get he gets his trophy, you know, and he was just like He thought it was the greatest thing ever. I mean it he was beaming. And you know, he was very proud of his trophy. His trophy was broken. Probably within 40 minutes of being home. Okay. He's like sliding it down the little railing uh uh uh from the top floor to the bottom floor. I'm like, don't do that! Crash and the thing's like broken on the ground. And uh you know, that's that's the way that worldly trophies work. I mean, the truth is that I have trophies, I they are so rusted, I I don't even know for sure what they were from. There are medals that they're well, they're not so pretty anymore. And what's really amazing about it is that in those days they didn't get like a gold medal, a silver medal, a bronze medal. They got a wreath like you'd put on your door. Okay? And so you know how long that lasts, right? They put it on their head, and while they're putting it on their head and they're experiencing this great glory, they're like, Alright, when's the next game because I'm gonna take it on the next game. And that's the same thing that happens when people win the Super Bowl. That's the thing same thing that happens when people win the World Series. That's what happens when people win a national championship. For crying out loud, look at Bill Belichick. He's like one of the greatest NFL coaches in the history of the game. And uh if you're a UNC fan, I'm sorry, but it's a joke down there. It really is an absolute joke. It'd be really interesting what his legacy is. It's really sad And you know what it shows you? It shows you that the crowns that we win in this life, they're very fleeting. You could have someone that was an amazing college athlete, and they never make it at the next level. You could have someone that was an amazing coach and they had a dynasty, but when the team starts tailing, everybody is calling for their resignation. Fire the guy. He's old and washed up. He's only 52. What's the problem? Let's get a real winner. And that's the way the world works. He says, but what you're motivated for is not temporary. It's lasting. It's incorruptible. It's a crown that nobody can take away. After you have run your race and you've lived your life for Christ and you stand before the judgment seat of Christ, and he says, Well done, good and faithful servant, his reward is forever. It doesn't fade away. It doesn't fall apart. And so the point that he's making is if you have people that live with such dedication to get a wreath that falls apart. How much more should we be motivated in the Christian life? It's an amazing concept to consider. Fifth thing is the word disqualification. Now this is a really interesting word. Verse 26 and 27. He says, I therefore so run not as in certainty, so fight I not as one that beateth the air. But I keep under my body, I bring it into subjection, lest by any means when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway. Now, the question is, what does Paul mean there? And there are several words that we're going to have to kind of explain here. First of all, Paul's teaching is something that wasn't just for Down. And it's not just for you and me. It's for all of us. And Paul's saying, the things that I taught you, I live by them. I therefore so run. Paul could even say it like this. If you want to know what it looks like to do this, flush me. Now I know that sounds a little proud, proud and conceited, okay? But that's really not the intent here. Paul is saying I am motivated not to win your approval, not because I want to be an example to you. I am motivated because it's the right thing to do. And if you want to see what that looks like, follow me. Watch me. That's what he's saying. Second thing is he had a goal, verse 26. He says, I don't do this with uncertainty. I don't do this like someone who is beating at the air. And interesting that word fight is the word for boxing. It's like someone who's just, you know, they're they're they're kind of they're not actually in in the arena fighting. They're they're just kind of like Pretending. He's like, I'm not like that. I'm the real deal. I'm in the battle. I'm in the arena. I'm in the competition. He says, I discipline my body. And these two phrases, I keep under my body and I bring it into subjection are very descriptive concepts. The first one, I keep under my body. The term used actually has the idea of I'm bloodied and I'm bruised. Okay? And so the illustration that is there is Paul is like, I'm training for this combat sport, and after my training, I got a black eye. I got bruises all over my body. And why is that? Because I'm training so intently. It doesn't matter. I remember when I was in high school, the first time I ever wrestled. And the kid I was training with every day, he was a very fair-skinned individual. And one day we're we're standing there in the locker room. And he's like, he's like looking in the mirror and I was like, what in the world happened to you? His whole he was black and blue all the way down his arm. He's like, well, you're my workout partner, and you slammed me down on the right side every single day. I was like, and then I realized I had some too. That's what Paul's talking about. He's saying you you don't care what it's doing to your body. You are so focused on training. He says, that's what I'm doing. That's what he means when he says, I keep under my body. And then that phrase I keep, I bring it under into subjection. It has the idea of I have personal self-mastery. I control my body like I'm a master to it. It's a pretty amazing thing. And he says, why do I do this? Verse 27. I don't want to be a hypocrite. Lest by any means when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway. Now, important statement here. When he uses the word castaway, he's not talking about, I'm afraid I'm gonna not be saved in the end. Okay? Paul is in no way concerned about his salvation. That word castaway has the idea of being found approved for what you have done. I use this illustration. It's like uh differ during certain times of the year you might have to uh go through evaluations. Maybe you work a job where on a on an annual basis, uh twice a year. You you you have to sit down and someone's gonna explain to you what you're doing well and what you're not doing well and how you can improve and hope hopefully they're approaching you it in a you know in a constructive, not destructive manner. But but you sit down and they basically say, you know, we have we have this criteria and we we look at what you've done and we look at how you've done it and here are your marks in these areas. And these are all excellent marks, and here it's not so good. But your final score is such and such. And so guess what? Well done. You've done an excellent job. You're not just meeting the standard. You exceed the standard. You're excelling. But there's areas where we can improve, and they'll talk about those areas. So when we have an evaluation time, what is that doing? It's a real-life metric measurement of how you are doing your job. That's what it is. And either it's approved or it's not. And that's the idea of what Paul is saying here. When I stand before the Lord, he's either going to say, you've done well or you haven't. You've been an effective manager of what I've given you, or you've not. There is reward for that faithfulness, or there is loss. That is the sense of what Paul is saying. He's saying, I don't want to tell you how to live the Christian life, encourage you to be motivated and to be strong and to be found approved on that day and how you've done your work, and then I myself am not. Interestingly, that's one of the reasons that God gives pastures to the church. Because pastors are to warn And they're to encourage, and they're to shepherd, and they're there to give guidance, and they're there to teach the word of God. But the bottom line is that a pastor is uh he's he needing to walk his life just like everybody else's, okay? And the truth is that a pastor is even more accountable to God because of the level of knowledge and and and how much is stated, all of those kinds of things. And so that is what Paul is concerned about. He does not want to stand before God on that day and not pass the test of faithfulness. He does not want to be in a position where he is not approved. And so we see 2 Timothy 2. 15. This passage uses the exact same term. He says, Study to show thyself approved unto God. That phrase, approved unto God, is the exact same term as what he means by not being a castaway. He's dealing with the exact same concept. One is looking at it from a positive, one is looking at it from a negative. He says, I am diligently laboring so that when When I stand before God, I will not be a castaway, but rather a workman who is not ashamed, because I've handled the Word of God the way I'm supposed to, rightly dividing it. So, what's the point of all this? How do we apply everything that we've seen here over the last two weeks? Let me give you some final thoughts of application. The first is this: we need to think with a biblical perspective. The Christian life is a race that means it demands endurance. God sets the rules or the expectations. Maybe rules might not be the best word. But the expectations, how we are to do this, he gives us the specific race to run. You are not running my race. I am not running your race. We are given individual races based on how God has wired us, the opportunities that He's given us, lots and lots of factors that you and I have absolutely no control over. Some of these factors are simply God in his providence. He gives you these things. He gives you these opportunities. He gives them to you for this period of time. And the question is, what will you do with that? We are personally responsible for what we do in that race. It's an intense struggle. It demands personal restraint, self-sacrifice. And we must be clear in our objective that we must endure and strive as Paul commands. The truth is when we talk about ministry, ministry isn't just planting churches. Ministry is raising our families. Ministry is being a faithful spouse. Not even if you have children. Maybe you don't have children and you're just a faithful husband. You're a faithful wife. Or you're a faithful parent. But when we talk about ministry, we may be talking about faithful in your job, where you are and where you're working, and the people that you're rubbing shoulders with. Faithful in your family, your extended family. This could be talking about lots and lots of different things. We must lay aside our perceived rights, our preferences, and we must do it for the sake of ministry. Don't hold on to every demand. I have the right to do this, so I'm gonna do it. Doesn't work in marriage. It really doesn't. It doesn't work when we're raising our kids It doesn't work in life. It doesn't work in these areas. The second word is the word resolved. Resolve to submit to God's absolute standard. Resolve to set your mind to endure. Resolve to be willing to lay aside those rights and preferences. Resolve to stay committed to the end of your race. Resolve to not waste your life in temporal secondary pursuits. Resolve to get up when you have stumbled. And everybody in this room goes through seasons where we have to reevaluate. Every single one of us goes through seasons where we acknowledge we have stumbled and we got to get back up. up and God says, go ahead and do it. And by the way, every one of us may be in the position that we're an integral part of someone else getting back up too. When somebody falls down, don't be standing there on the side kicking them. Encourage them. Encourage them to get back up. Encourage them that they can. Walk with them. Give them some stability along the way. That's the way we need to be as God's People. May God help us to take his word here and accurately apply it to our lives. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you for this passage. It is a very A very vivid illustration. A very sobering illustration. I just pray that you'll help us to be faithful people. Help us to come alongside those around us who are struggling in their race and encourage them and lift them up. Help us to listen to those in our lives who are trying to lift us up when we stumble. Help us to keep our eyes fixed on you and what matters. Help us to develop maturity in our thinking, in our character, in our temperaments. I pray that you would help us to be a faithful people, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.