First Corinthians chapter nine is where we are tonight, and uh we are continuing the section that is dealing with Paul breaking down uh his own ministry as an example for how the Corinthians were supposed to be uh conducting themselves. And if you remember from our previous studies, the church at Corinth was a church that was in a lot of conflict with the Apostle Paul. He loved them dearly But there were some contentions between them. And part of that was because the things that he had to say to them, they were very heavy. They were very difficult things. If they were going to take the Word of God seriously and they were going to live out a distinctly Christian life, it was going to set them in opposition against their culture. And when I say in opposition, I don't mean that they were going to be antagonistic towards their culture. What I mean is that distinctiveness, that salt and that light was something that was going to cause the world around them to be disrupted. And it was going to cause him to have challenges. And so that was the reason that this church was pushing back against Paul and explains a lot as to why Paul handled his his ministry with him the way that he did. So what we're going to do is pick up in verse number 19. We're going to read down through verse 27. And I'm not sure exactly if we'll get through this entire section tonight or not. That's the goal. But I'd rather move methodically and slowly and kind of really absorb what is here. then just run through it, get it done. I want us to really meditate on the truths that are here. So here's what the scriptures say. For though I be free from all men , Yet have I made myself servant unto all, that I might gain the more. Unto the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews. To them that are under the law, as under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law. To them that are without law, as without law, being not without law to God, but under Is a law to Christ That's an important statement. That I might gain them that are without law. To the weak became I as weak. And that I might gain the weak. I am made all things to all men that I might by all means save some. And this I do for the gospel's sake, that I might be partaker thereof with you Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. So, run that you may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now They do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. I therefore so run not as uncertainly So fight I not as one that beateth the air, but I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection, lest that by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway. It's a very interesting passage of scripture. And as we work into the details, I want to begin an introduction talking about how the Apostle Paul loved to use athletic analogies. Now I think that sometimes athletics gets in a very imbalanced position. Some people take the position that athletics is everything and it literally consumes all of their lives. It becomes the all-encompassing thing that drives them. It's like the soccer mom who is uh going from one thing to the next really has no life except uh a taxi service. That would be a problem. But then I think sometimes people go to the other extreme and act as if athletics are evil and it's something that we shouldn't have be a part of our life. The truth is that athletics is something that gives us a tremendous environment to learn about life. It gives us a tremendous environment to see a lot of the illustrations of how life works. To learn that what you sow is ultimately what you're going to reap. If you put in a thing, you're going to get it out, whether that is good or whether that's bad. It gives you a lot of opportunities to develop good tools. For myself, athletics was a huge part of my development as a teenager and then into college. And so it's something that that totally shaped me as a person I want you to notice how the Apostle Paul used the analogy of athletics in many different ways to describe the nature of the Christian life. The first thing I want you to notice is how he talks about running. And maybe we have some runners in here, maybe we have some people who used to be runners and some people who despise running. And they do everything in their power to stay away from it as much as possible. The Apostle Paul used the analogy of running a lot to describe his Christian life. For instance, the text in front of us would be the first example I'll show you, chapter 9, verse 24. Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. So run that you may obtain. Another way to put that is, he says, you know that if you run a race, only one person wins. So run to win. That's what he's saying. In other words, you should be motivated, and he's going to use this as a description of our mindset going into the Christian life. We should be a people who are motivated people. Now it is true that we are saved by grace alone, through faith alone and Christ alone. We do not merit salvation, we don't earn salvation, we don't somehow get God's approval through the things that we do. All of that is true. And in no way is Paul diminishing the reality of justification by faith alone. But what he is doing is saying on the other side of now being a new person in Christ, a believer in Christ, On the other side of your conversion is a life that is supposed to be lived for God. Think back into the Gospels when Jesus is talking about salvation. He says, enter through the narrow gate and then he says broad is the way that leads to destruction many find that and he says narrow is the way that leads to life and it's a difficult way Now what's the point of that? The point is you become a Christian by walking through that gate. That is faith alone in Christ. But on the other side of that gate, the Christian life, now that you're on the other side in a new position, there are going to be challenges And so we have to think biblically about this issue. That's why he uses the analogy of running. Another example would be Philippians 3. Listen to what he says in verses 13 and 14. He says, I count on myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before. I press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus Now this to me has always been an interesting scripture. I do one thing. I forget what's behind, and I look forward at what's in front of me and you go, well, that sounds like two things. Well, it's two sides of one action. If I'm going to be focused forward, then I'm not looking back. I can't be doing the two at the same time. So he's describing it in both a negative sense and a positive sense. I am looking away from what's behind me. That could be the good and that could be the bad. That could be my stumblings and my failures. It could be the fact that I've done quite well in the past or I've been involved in some wonderful things. I'm not living in the past I'm pressing forward into the future. And what's really interesting about that statement, I press toward the mark, actually has the idea of a runner and he sees a person in front of him and he says, I'm gonna catch that guy. I'm gonna pass him. And so he kicks it in gear and he Steps it up a notch because he's going to catch that competitor that's in front of him. That's the idea of Philippians chapter 3, verses 13. and 14. Pretty interesting analogy. You don't get to do that in a sprint, more than likely. It's over in 10 to 12 seconds, depending on what level you're at or whatever. Anyway. And then a third example would be Galatians chapter 2, verse 2. Listen to this one. He says, I went up by revelation and communicated unto them that gospel which I preached among the Gentiles. but privately to them which were of reputation, lest by any means I should run and had run in vain Again, he's using that analogy. I don't want my running to be a waste. And so it shaped the way that he did ministry. Another one, Galatians 5. 7 Ye did run well. Who did hinder you that ye should not obey the truth? There's that analogy again And then Hebrews 12, 1. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight. And by the way, in the ancient world they took that pretty literal. Lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset thee, and run with patience the race that is set before you. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. And what's he saying? All of those things that encumber you, that keep you from running freely. Lay them aside. And as you lay those things aside, look to Christ. And as you look to Christ Run a patient, enduring race, the race that he has put right in front of you. You see all these verses are pointing to the illustration of running a race. He uses a second one. I love this one. Wrestling. I like that one because of uh former days, right? Ephesians chapter 6 verse 12, he says, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers. against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. The other day I was watching the uh the world It was the World Games. And so it was an American, and I don't remember what country the guy was wrestling. It was freestyle. And he got down by 10 points. And I mean the match is only like seven or eight minutes. I don't remember the length of the of the match and you're like, Yeah, he's not coming back. And nobody thought he was gonna come back. And would you believe that guy, he pushed all the way to the end of the match and he He won. He t he overtook him with a ten point deficit. And you say, how do you do that? It was endurance It was tenacity. It was it was exploiting every single opportunity. He wasn't giving up no matter how far he was behind. And wrestling is one of the analogies that the Apostle Paul uses of the Christian life. Doesn't sound like an easy life, does it? Doesn't sound like a pushover, does it? Wrestling, running with endurance. Oh, here's another one. 2 Timothy 4. 7, boxing You like boxing? Some people are, that's a barbaric sport. Well, Paul used it as an analogy when talking about the Christian life. He says, I have fought a good fight. By the way, when he talked about fighting, it was probably a little more like MMA than it was our traditional boxing, just to just to tell you that's how it was. But anyway, he says, I fought a good fight, I have finished my course. There is the running analogy. I've kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day. And I'll give you one more. A general athletic competition. 2 Timothy 2. 5. If a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully. Those are all examples in the New Testament of the Apostle Paul using the illustration of athletics. And let me tell you, athletics was a really, really big deal in the Greco-Roman world. It was huge. People loved it. In fact, the Apostle Paul was feeding himself by making tents for people who came to Corinth so that they could watch the Isthmian Games. It was a big deal. But I don't want you to miss some of the important statements that we find in these verses. We see two concepts that are prominent when we talk about the athletic illustration. The one is the concept of a struggle. And the other is the concept of an end. What I mean by an end is there is a direction that I'm pushing toward, and there is a goal, and I'm going to push and strive so that I reach that goal. Those are the two concepts. So under that struggle, we see words like press. That's running swiftly to catch someone in a race. I see that person in front of me and I'm going to beat them in the race. I'm going to push it a little bit harder and I'm going to strive so that I can win the race. That's the picture. Or the next word is the word strive. And interestingly the Greek word is Athlet. What does that sound like? Athletics? Why is that? Well, that's where we get our English term from. It has the idea of contending an athletic competition. And a lot of that would have been describing probably the wrestling or the boxing, one of those more combative type sports. Striving patience. What is patience? It's a steadfast endurance. It's being willing to have a mindset that says I won't quit I'm going to keep pushing. I'm going to do this for the long term. Not just I'm going to get it done for five minutes or for two minutes. I'm going to endure until the end of this race. until the end of this struggle, until the end of this competition. That is the idea of patience. And then he uses the word, I have fought. And that word is agnizomai. What does that sound like? Agonize. Agonize. contending in the athletic games. Interestingly the two words strive and fought, athleto and agonizomai, these are two Greek terms. that we pretty much have borrowed in the English language to talk about the agonizing struggle or the person who's contending in competition. So what does that tell you? That tells you that as Christians, we can't be soft. We can't be pushovers. Now, there's a difference between being soft and being gentle. We should be strong and resilient yet gentle, kind. You don't have to be a nasty person to be strong. You can be strong and you can be gentle. You can be strong and you can be patient. In fact, a person who's truly patient is strong. And so the Christian life calls us to that strength of spine, but also the kindness and the humility and the love and the mercy that are to distinguish us as God's people. It's an amazing blend. The world does not have this. In the mindset of the world, either you're strong and nasty, or you're a weak pushover. In the Christian experience, you're strong and resilient, and you're kind and you're compassionate. We need this blend as God's people And then we see the second part, that's the end. We see words like a course. What is this? This is the location where the competition takes place. It could be running around a track, it could be running a course through the woods or wherever, but the idea is that whoever has established the competition, established the rules, has laid out where the competition takes place. Who is the one who establishes the course for you and me? It's God. He's the one who gives us the course that we run. And then we see the word rules. These are the expectations for competition. Boy the refs sure get a a a hard rap these days, don't they? I think we we may end up just going to machines. You know, it's like I watch these games and it's like, all right now we gotta have the referees watch for, you know, you know A football game, you know, it's like every single call is being contested these days. But why do you have rules in competition? Well, because if if you didn't have rules for competition, it would be a war. That's what it would be. And so you have to have rules that establish fairness so that you have a real competition. Well, guess what? God gives us instruction on how we're to live the Christian life. We're to follow his instructions, follow his commandments. And so we see the parallel. And then the third is the prize, a reward given to a victor of an athletic competition. The Bible teaches clearly that while we are saved by grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone, there's no condemnation of them which are in Christ Jesus. That does not change the fact that one day we stand before the Lord Jesus Christ. And we will give an account for the way that we have conducted ourselves, the way that we have managed the resources that God has given us. Our talents. our time, the period of life that he has planted us in in all of human history, all of those things. God is going to call us to give an account for how we have served him. That's not about our salvation. That's about reward. That's about being commended by God or being found unworthy of commendation. And so all of these concepts are there. Now I know that's kind of a long runway for an introduction. Sometimes I do that. My wife's laughing. But here's the truth. That is what Paul's going to talk about in these verses. The athletic analogy is there. So let me summarize the passage like this. Every Christian must develop the mindset and the discipline of a well-trained athlete. And some of you are saying I'm glad you didn't say you have to become an athlete, just you have to have the mindset of an athlete. What I mean by that, or what the scripture teaches here, is that we need that mental toughness. We need that resilience. We need that willingness to push through difficulty. These are character qualities that are being lost in our society. By the way, to our parents, these are qualities we need to put into our children. We need to well equip them to live in a very, very nasty and aggressive and combative world. So let's work our way through the text a little bit here tonight. First of all, I want you to notice the concept of self-restraint, and we find this in verses 19 through 22. Notice what he says. He says, For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all. That I might gain the more. And unto the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews, to them that are under the law, as under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law. To them that are without the law, as without the law, being not without law to God, but under the law of Christ, that I might gain them that are without law. To the weak became I as weak. That I might gain the weak. I am made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some. Now, this is a really important text of Scripture for us to understand. And by the way, I'll say this. It's important that we don't misunderstand what Paul's saying. Paul is not suggesting in this section that it's okay to compromise so that we can win people to Christ. That's not what he's suggesting. What he is suggesting is there are certain things that are completely legitimate. You have the right to do them. You also have the right to not do them. It's not an issue of sin, it's an issue of preference. It's an issue of personal choice. And in those areas, rather than demanding your rights for the sake of the ministry to another person, you lay aside those demands, those perceived rights. And you minister that person to the very best of your ability in a way that does not bring unnecessary conflicts or unnecessary hindrance to the gospel message. I'm really going to break this down in just a couple minutes here. So let's work our way through what he says here. First of all, Paul is saying I had personal freedom. By the way, if you've been paying attention the last several weeks. He's gone to great lengths to explain what he means by that. Out of all the examples that he gives, he gives you an example of the fact that as an apostle, as one who planted the church, as one who ministered in the word to these people, he had the right to expect them to financially support him in the work. And after spending all this time to lay out that right, he says, but I don't do this. It's pretty amazing. And you're like, why do you do that? To shame them? No. It was to say, listen, I know that by taking from you, it will hinder the work. Because of the mindset of this city and the mindset of that concept in this society. I'm choosing to lay aside that right for your good so that I can minister freely to you. It's an amazing concept. So that's what Paul is saying when he says, I have personal freedom. He talked about the freedom to get married, he was single. He talked about the freedom to be able to financially be supported. He was not. He talked about the freedom to eat whatever he wanted, and he chose not to. Those are the kinds of things we're talking about. So in verse 19, he says, Though I be free for all men, from all men. Yet have I made myself servant unto all. By the way, that word servant , that's a little stronger than the way that we tend to think of that. It's really like a bond slave. In other words, I serve other people for their good. That's an amazing concept. Paul is a free man. Paul is a Roman citizen. Paul could have easily pushed around that status that he had as a Roman citizen. And what did he do? He says, I'm a Roman citizen, but I'm the servant of everybody so that I can take the gospel to them. What an amazing, amazing example. And he gives specific ways that he does this. By the way, probably every single one of the things he's going to touch on. That there are people in that church that when he mentions that particular group or that situation, they're like, oh yeah, he's talking about me. The reason that Paul has ministered to me the way that he has is because he knew that this would have been a hindrance to me. And so he laid aside his rights. He loved me. He gave the gospel to me. That's the way it's supposed to be done. Listen to some of the examples. He talks about the Jews. Unto the Jews I became as a Jew. Paul was a Jew, okay? He didn't have to pretend to be one, he was. But what's the point? Paul is now a New Testament Christian who grew up in Judaism and has rejected the false gospel that was presented within the pharisitical traditions. And he is now a New Testament Christian who recognizes I'm no longer under that old system. And that system didn't give me the gospel. And so I've rejected it. But for the sake of reaching people that are culturally Jewish and religiously Jewish, I'm willing to put myself back under that system so that I can minister to them. Isn't that amazing? Now, was that sinful for Paul to do that? No, not at all. Now, it would be sinful for Paul to think, oh, I can become a Christian by doing this. He didn't, he wasn't doing it for that reason. He was doing it so that he could have an opportunity to share the gospel with these people. In other words, Paul would have never invited a Jewish person to his house and said, here, let's have pork rinds. Or shrimp or crabs. Crab cakes, all right? Come on guys, let's have some. He wouldn't have done that. Why? Well, because that would have been a vi a violation of Jewish dietary laws. And so for this group of people, he lays aside his rights, he ministers to them. The next one is interesting. He says, to those that are under the law, as under the law. Now, it would be really easy for us to say, well, he's talking about Jews again. That's just a redundancy, but I don't think that's what he's saying. I think he's talking about people that are not Jewish. But they have come to the synagogue as unbelievers at the time, and they have assimilated into the Jewish context. They are not Jews. But they are following the customs because they believe they need to do that. Or these could be people that they're Gentiles, but they're trying to follow those customs. And so these people, he puts himself under that system so that he could work with them. These are people that were conscience-bound unnecessarily. We talked a lot about conscience issues. That's who he's talking about. Then he says to them that are without the law, you say, well, who are those people? They're the lawless ones. They're the Gentiles. These are the people that did not understand the Jewish laws. They didn't understand the Jewish customs. They had nothing to do with it. They were thoroughly pagan. Now, when Paul says to those that are that to them that are without law as without law, is he saying, I went to their shrines? I went into their temple. I worshipped with them and I said, oh, by the way, let me tell you something. I'm actually secretly a Christian. I didn't want to be an offense to you, so I did that for you, but I'm actually a Christian. Is that what he's doing? No, that's not what he's doing. Paul's not being a hypocrite He's not compromising what is right and wrong. What he's doing is he is going into a Gentile context. And without compromising what is right and wrong, he is willing to go into that setting and to minister to those people in the very best way that he possibly can. I don't know if this is a great example, but I'll I'll I'll I'll give it as a try. It will fall short. Okay. But I remember when I was ministering in Ghana. And I remember going on visitation. And going on visitation, if you sat on someone's porch, no problem. But if you went into someone's house, it was like sitting in an oven. I mean, it was so hot. You cannot imagine unless you've lived in the Philippines. Or maybe you maybe you were uh in Iraq at one time or something like that. If if unless you've been in the desert area, you will probably not appreciate this. But you would go and sit in that house There'd be no fan, no air blowing, and and it was it was a metal roof and you'd have block walls. And let me tell you, during the hot season, you sat there and you're just like, I'm dying. I'm dying And I would sit there with my friend and we would give the gospel to someone and I would I would not complain. But in my heart I'm just like, I hope I don't die while I'm doing this Now I know that that falls short, okay? And I'm not trying to prod myself as the up as this perfect example because the truth is the brother who was with me, he was sitting in the same house that I was, okay? So but but he was more accustomed to it than I was But the idea is you you're going into a setting or maybe you're going down into a market area. I remember going down into the fish market And I like fish. I like to fish. I grew up on the bayou when I was a teenager, going out fishing and crabbing and all that good stuff. But I'll tell you, going to a fish market in Ghana was very different. It was a very different experience. I I I had some some hard times. Going through there, the smells were very, very intense. I don't do well with smells. Yes. My wife's thinking about times that I change diapers for kids and it did not go well. Okay, so the idea is you go into a context like that, and guess what? You can't go in there and be like, man These smells are terrible. Hey, let me tell you about Christ. Person's like, maybe not. I don't think I can sit in your house anymore. It's too hot. Well, I sleep here every night. So it's just normal, all right? The point is this. You have to be willing to go into settings to minister to people, and sometimes you're going to be uncomfortable. And sometimes it's going to put you out of your comfort zone. And there's nothing sinful about sitting in a house that's hot or walking down the street where there are lots of awkward smells. That's not a sinful thing. That's about laying aside rights so you can minister to people. And Paul was willing to do that. He was willing to go into context that would have made him extremely uncomfortable as a Jewish Pharisee. And he loved those people and he gave them the gospel. And that's what he's talking about, as to them that are without the law. But notice how he qualifies this: being not without law to God, but under the law of Christ. So Paul is telling you by that little statement right there that even though he was willing to go into those Gentile contexts, there were limits to what he would say, what he would do, what he would refrain from speaking. He wasn't going to give someone the gospel and not tell them that they were a sinner. Not tell them that they need to repent and believe, not call out their sinful behavior, because that is why a person needs salvation. So the offense was going to come through the preaching of the gospel. Not through Paul's demeanor or not through his unwillingness to go into an icky environment or to eat something that made him uncomfortable or push him outside of his comfort zone. So you see that balance there. And then the last one I think that's very interesting that he mentions is to the weak. And you say, well, who are those people? And the truth is we don't really know for sure. There's two possibilities. One possibility would be those who are weak in conscience. And I think that would make a lot of sense. Because if you look at the context leading up to this, Paul has talked a lot about the fact that there are people who their conscience condemns them doing certain things, and it's a totally legitimate thing for them to do. He also talks about people who their conscience is free to do something and it shouldn't be, okay? But when he talks about the weak, he may be talking about those who are of weak conscience. That would make sense in the context. But there's a second possibility, and really both of them have a lot of merit to them. The second is weak in position within society. I want you to think about it like this. The Apostle Paul was one of the most educated people of his time. He was a Pharisee. He sat under Gamaliel. He went through the rabbinical schools and traditions. When you look at the way that Paul writes New Testament books, He doesn't just talk about uh Jewish Old Testament. He talks about Greek philosophy. He uses analogies all the time. What it shows you is that the Apostle Paul was a very well-trained man. He was highly intelligent. He was able to interact with people who were extremely educated The Apostle Paul stood in front of kings and Roman dignitaries, and he was able to conduct himself in a way that was very compelling and very convincing. And the Apostle Paul was a Roman citizen. In fact, if you look back at some of the stories when Paul was beat in some of those locations, he went to them and he said, Do you not realize you just beat a Roman citizen without a trial. And they're like, oh, are you serious? He's like, yes. They're like, oh, we beg you forgiveness. He's like, you can come and get me. And you can come take me out of prison. And you're like, what? Why is he doing that? It's his way of saying, you better follow your laws, folks. I have rights. I am a Roman citizen. And interestingly, the guy that's talking to him says, how did you become a citizen? He says, I was born one. He says, I became a citizen through my military service. And so in his mind, he's like, this guy, he's on another level. But here's what's interesting about Paul. Paul was willing to sit in nasty Roman dungeons. He's willing to put himself in those situations. Paul was willing to work with his hands making tents. With people that had been kicked out of Rome. In other words, Paul is kind of living like someone who got kicked out of his country. I mean, that's really what he's doing. He's just trying to make ends meet. Paul is living like a person who has no rights, though he has those rights. And you say, why is that? Because Paul was willing, he wasn't going to go around and say, hey, I got my PhD card right now. Just want to let you know I have a doctorate. These people were like, I don't care. He did not deal with them that way. Paul dealt with them like he was one of them. If Paul walked into a construction site, he dealt with people just like they're construction workers. If he walks into the king's palace, He acts like a dignitary. The Apostle Paul knew how to relate to people in all walks of life. And so when he says to the weak I became weak, I think what he may very well be saying here is not just the weak of conscience, but But that person who is in a lowly position in the Roman world, that person who has no rights, that person who is treated with such disdain by people in society, and he gets right there on their level. the weak And he ministers to them in love, and he could care less about his education, his background, and all the accolades. He doesn't care about it at all. He says, I am made all things for all men that I might gain some. And that's the way we're supposed to live. This adjustment is not pragmatism. It's not about him advancing himself. Verse 19, yet have I made myself servant unto all that I might gain the more. He's limiting freedom, not throwing his moral obligations. Verse 21, being not without law to God, but under the law to Christ. What was Paul's motive? He loved people. And the question is, why do people love people? Because God puts in their heart something that is not naturally in us. The world does not love people. We don't love people by nature. We love people when God has done a work of grace in us. And that's what he's saying in verse 22. I do this because I want to see people be saved. He laid aside unnecessary offenses because he wanted to see people be saved. By the way, he had to articulate some necessary offenses so that people could be saved. You don't get saved unless your sins confronted. You have to repent. You don't get saved unless you recognize it's Christ alone. It's not Christ and. The Roman world was okay with another God. They were not okay with another God that said, It's me and it's only me. And Paul says, this is an exclusive gospel I was looking at some statistics the other day about Americans in religion. I'm going to share some of these, Lord willing, on Sunday. And one of them was, do you believe that the Christian faith is exclusive? In other words, there's not another way that God accepts people. And you know that what's amazing is it was like less than 20% of Americans believe that. There's a lot of people that say they're Christians that don't meet the mark. It's the honest truth. They don't. They say, I'm good with this way, but God's good with other ways too. And that's not the way the scripture teaches it. And so as Paul addresses this issue While he is so cautious not to create unnecessary offenses, he is unashamed to address those issues he knows are pertinent to the gospel. Fundamental to how a person is converted, yet he knows it's going to step on toes. It's going to make people upset. He always called people to hope in Christ. Paul's not going to throw salt on a wound without saying, come to Christ and trust him. He's not going to do that. He's not going to chop someone down and beat them down and then leave them there. No. He will always say, this is where you stand before God, this is what you can have in Christ. And that's how we are to live the Christian life. May God help us to take a heart this analogy. Well, Lord willing go to part two next Sunday next Wednesday. Let's stop for prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for the text in front of us. A lot to process, a lot to think through. Father, in the days that we live, may you give us discernment. May you help us to be strong. May he help us to be principled. May He help us to have backbone. But may He also help us to be gentle and merciful and patient and loving. May we be so cautious in the way that we could create an unnecessary offense, but may we be so bold to proclaim the truths of Christ. I pray that we would function appropriately as we are, salt and light. May we see many people drawn to you through our testimony. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.