Well, good morning. Good to see each of you today. I hope that you've had a great weekend and uh looking forward to a wonderful Lord's Day. Uh Pastor Chris is going to come and give a couple of announcements and then I will uh close it out before we start our service. It's not me, I promise. All right, got uh several things here to close out the month of February coming up. Um first thing that is on there is the Sunday School Workers meeting. That is being postponed. Um and we'll put out when that date is for the for the meeting. Uh youth group, we got a Friday night youth group coming up this week on the twenty fifth at five thirty. Uh one of our families is providing the food for that. With that, if you are interested in providing a meal for the Friday Night Youth Groups, that's once a month. And there's a sign-up sheet in the back on the bulletin board. It's a little less than having to do the the synxpirations. You just drop off the food and let the teens get fat on their own. And um they'll they'll enjoy that, I know that. We also have a welcomers, uh, ushers meeting coming up next Sunday. Uh it will be a very important meeting after the morning service. If you are a current tether, if you're a deacon, if you want to be working the welcome desk, or if you're interested in the ministry in general, please plan to be a part that will be here in the Teen Sunday School Room. And we'll have some very important information to put out to you there. Mother of Littles, you have an activity coming up on the 28th at 10 a. m. So No, you guys are talking about that. And we also have a concert coming up here in March, March 10th. That's our Forever Be Sure service. That's a Thursday night, I believe. Yep. And I hope you guys make plans to be there at 7 p. m. There's more things there in the bulletin, so if you haven't grabbed one, uh go ahead and do that before you leave That will be our midweek service as opposed to Wednesday and then Thursday. So just mark that on your calendars. Also wanted to mention that after our choir practice today, we're going to have just a general meeting for all those that are involved in our music ministry. I would really like to encourage you if you play an instrument and uh you're not currently in the orchestra, we would really love to have you consider uh getting involved in that. So I'm just putting that out as a general thing. If you would like to do that, I hope that you'd be able to make it to that meeting. And if not, just touch base with me and I can give you those details and we'd love to get you there into the orchestra. Also wanted to mention that we're going to be starting some ESL classes and ESL is basically teaching English as a second language. That'll be on Monday nights. And so if there's anyone that would be interested in assisting with that, just reach out to the office and we'll talk to you about the details and how you can get involved with that. And one of the things we want to do is just have snack food that's available. We want it to be a way that we can connect with folks in our community and minister to them and they'll be able to learn English. and we'll be able to reach into their lives and give them the gospel and take that opportunity. So if that's something that you would be interested in, please do reach out to the office and we'll get you those details. So you could take your Bibles and let's turn together to our opening scripture, and that is Hebrews chapter 4, verses 14 through 16. And last week we talked about the temptation of Christ, and we're going to look at that passage again with a little bit more detail. And so this will be a very appropriate passage for us to open our service with. Here's what it says. Seeing then that we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. But was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. That we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. This morning, as we sing praise to the Lord, as we look at the scriptures that are read, and as we look at Luke chapter 4 again. The focus of our attention will be on the fact that we need to depend upon the Lord and what He's provided for us when we're tempted. So I hope that this uh this service will be a tremendous encouragement to you, very instructive. And that God will really use it as you continue to walk with the Lord. Let's be out together for prayer and uh lift up uh this time to the Lord in prayer. Father, thank you so much for the gospel message. I thank you for our Sunday school hour where we're able to look at Romans chapter 3 and really the heart of the gospel. Thank you for all the instruction that went on in our kids' classes. Father, I thank you so much for the focused attention that has been given to this service. I pray that as we sing praise to you that our hearts would really think about the important truths that we'll express in a song to you. As we think about the scriptures that are the focus of our worship, that you would instruct us through your word. Help me as I preach the word to do it with clarity. And I pray that the Holy Spirit would take it and use it in our midst in a very special way. Father, we pray for those in our congregation who are carrying heavy burdens. I pray for those who carry affliction. They're going through physical challenges. I pray that you would strengthen their bodies and help them to be back in good health and strength very soon. Father, we think about our missionaries all over the world. We're so thankful for the way that they have served you faithfully in various countries around the world. Some In places that are very dangerous today, I pray that your hands would be at work protecting them. I pray that as they Seek to do your work and proclaim the gospel and train men and women and lead people to Christ, I pray that your hands would encourage them in the work. Father, I pray that as we assemble this morning that our hearts would be knit together as one body, that we would worship you in spirit and in truth, and that indeed you would be magnified, glorified in this time together. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Um All right, good morning Anchor Baptist Church and esteemed guests, both with us in person and joining us live stream We're going to start off the morning's song service. We're going to turn in our red book to page 26. Or you can follow along with us on the screen, page 26. We're going to sing praise to the Lord Almighty. Please stand with me. Sing it out Praise to the voice, the Almighty of creation. Oh my soul, praise him for his night and sound. On the back end of the Lord who all things shutters be under his way. Hast du not seen how thy dear thy day? Now and the last pray of the glory over the Lord All right, we're gonna turn to page one oh nine. 109 and sing all three verses of great is thy faithfulness. All three verses. Great is thy faithfulness, O God, my Father. There's no shadow of turning with thee Thou changes not thy compassion thing fail not as thou hast been Thou forever will be great is thy faithfulness, great is thy faithfulness, morning morning. All I have needed thy hand provided break is thy face on Summer and winter and springtime and harvest and winter Joy with the grave. Mercy and God is thy faithfulness, great is thy faithfulness, morning morning. Wait for that Lord For a door beast, I didn't I don't need to let us give. Oh yeah, go ahead and have a seat. Next song, just back a couple hundred a couple pages to page ninety-nine. A shelter in the time of so I just believe that I 'm still all things around. I will be back , oh season , and I will be there , I should have. I shall get I love one the way Oh shelter is the colour of all Вы помили не хранитель баннер, поле понятия боля , но почему не подать. Amen. That's excellent singing. And at this time we'll do our scripture reading unless we've got okay. We're going to go to Luke. Chapter four. And we're going to read verses one through thirteen. So follow along with me either in your Bibles or up on on the screen. Luke chapter 4, verses 1 through 13, the whole chapter. And Jesus, being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness. being forty days tempted of the devil. And in those days he did eat nothing. And when they were ended he afterward hungered. And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command thee stone that it may be that it be made bread. And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God. And the devil, taking him up unto an high mountain, showed unto him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. And the devil said unto him, All this power will I give thee, and the glory of them, for that is delivered unto me, and to whomsoever I will give it. If thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be thine. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan. For it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. And he brought him to Jerusalem. And set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down from hence. For it is written, He shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against the stone. And Jesus, answering, said unto him, It is said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a season. Oh, that's not the whole chapter. May the Lord add his blessing on his the reading of his word. Okay Now we're going to get back to some singing. Page 91. Page 91 in our red book. Whoops. The steps of a good man. Sing out with me Lord dark be the night, and Lord may the day. If we follow in my brother, the Lord God is hard alone. You know to children and everybody still deserves your Yes, dedo que solo me la ve a la gente que lo repetimos, pero la mano que tiene como. We're going to take our blue book now and go to page thirty-eight of the song of the month Page 38. Follow along in the blue book or along on the screen. Great. All three verses. Deberme un día, yo le digo , puedo entender, cuando lo debería , tu espacio. I truth for me the poor I 'm looking for. They knew that I 'll be brought to you. What do you mean? In with me on the way. And her own Alloy can lay down. Amen. Please be seated. Pressing upwards again, unless we prize April. My winter still has caught all the night and they watched on the grass and in the skies. Faithful men have gone before all Faithful men I want to fall with their football I am those people and take up joy The people chose him on the heart was a friend with the mighty men of old There were demonic to make him need a report Faithful men Faithful men have gone before us Faithful men who quite instant. I want to fall in their footsteps. Guided by those faithful men Invite you to take your Bibles out and let's turn together to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 4 this morning. And our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back. And I want to say before we get into our passage, first of all, that uh we had two uh wow, we had three great events this week. One is we had our senior luncheon, and this is the first time we've done our senior luncheon in two years. Is that right, Clio? I think it's in two years. And we had a really good time. And so those of you that were able to come out to that, thank you. You bless my heart. I always have a good time interacting with our seniors. And it's always a good time of fellowship. Uh we also had a college and career activity at our house and we had a really good time. Our Bible study, we I don't remember how long we spent, but we really got deeply into the passage. And uh it was a really rich study. And so we had good fellowship with that. And then uh our men had uh a men's meeting on Saturday morning, eight o'clock. It was our men's breakfast, and I'll tell you ladies, the guys came out in number. I I think we had close to 40 guys there. Uh and I say our we also we include the uh the young men, our boys as well. Uh so we had a good number of our boys there as well, but we had a really good group. and uh good fellowship and uh just thankful for the opportunity to fellowship uh with our church family Luke chapter 4, and I'm not going to go ahead and reread this entire text. I'm just going to read a portion of it. But we looked at this passage last week. And we looked at kind of the main purpose of this passage, and today I'd like us to look at another area of, I think, very important and appropriate application. So let's begin in verse number one, but I won't read the entire section as we've already done that this morning. It says the following. Jesus, being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan. and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, being forty days tempted of the devil. In those days he did eat nothing. When day were ended he afterwards hungered And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command this stone that it be made bread. And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written That man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God. Now the passage in front of us is a very rich passage. I want to remind you again, kind of the main point, the summary of the passage, Luke chapter 4, records Christ's personal temptation, revealing many details about the nature of temptation. But it's not just about revealing the nature of temptation. It reminds us how Christ is able to comfort us when we face Temptation, testing. In fact, it's very interesting. The song that we sang this morning as a man, we sang Faithful Man. But the fact is that Faithful men will still let you down at times. Even men who are uh godly men who've walked with the Lord many years, they still stumble in many ways. But when we look at the Lord Jesus Christ, we look at a person who never stumbled We look at a person who was tempted in all points like you and I are, yet he never sinned. Jesus never had to go and apologize to a person the way You and I would have to do that. Jesus never had to go and ask for forgiveness from his Father because he had sinned. The fact is, the Lord Jesus Christ, the perfect God in flesh man, the Lord Jesus Christ. was tempted to the fullest extent, and he demonstrates what it's like to have victory or to triumph over temptation. In these verses, we can learn a lot from the faithfulness of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we can learn a lot also about the way that Satan attacks people. Because the fact is that the way that Satan attacked the Lord Jesus Christ gives us a lot of insight in the way that he goes after you. And he goes after me. It teaches us a lot about how to deal with this issue of temptation. You know, even this morning, from the time that you got up to the time that you got into your car and came to this location, most certainly you were tempted in many points, and you probably cannot say without sin. Even this morning as I was getting my kids together and as I'm getting them into the car, we're taking two cars, we're getting there early, and I'm trying to get you know, it's kind of a cold morning. We're trying to get all the car seats situated in the back of my truck. There were times that I got frustrated and I thought, Lord, I'm gonna be preaching on this. I better I better respond properly to the temptation to be upset and frustrated with my children. The reality is that temptation is something we deal with all the time. And God wants us to learn from the example of Christ how to triumph over temptation. How can we do that? Well, I want to remind you again of what we talked about last week. The section in front of us is not primarily about learning how to think and respond to temptation. So the way that we're going to look at it this morning is we could say a secondary level of application. The primary point of these verses was to show us the superiority of Christ. over the first Adam. The fact that he is fit to go to the cross and ultimately redeem us to himself because he is the sinless one, the just for the unjust. that he might redeem us to God. That really is the primary focus of these verses. As Luke was recording these verses, under the guidance and the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, I believe that is what Luke would have been thinking primarily in his mind as he's writing these words. We also saw last week that there's kind of a secondary level of application, and that is it shows us that the Lord Jesus Christ can comfort us. Or he can encourage us because he was tempted and he triumphed over temptation. So when we think about the primary, we think of That first Peter passage, when we think about the secondary, we think about how he was tempted in all points, like as we are yet without sin, and how we are invited to come boldly into the throne of grace. and find mercy and grace to help in time of need. That's kind of that secondary level. Well this morning we're going to look at kind of a third level of application. And that is how Christ shows us by example how to triumph over temptation. And verse 15, he was tempted in all points without sin. How did Christ respond to Satan when Satan tempted him? That tells us a lot about how we are to respond when we are in similar yet different circumstances, similar scenarios. So with that in mind, let's begin by looking at the first truth that I think we find in these verses that is extremely important. And the first truth is this. Sin's nature has to be precisely articulated. When we talk about what sin is and what temptation is. We need to understand in our minds that while sin is something that follows temptation, there is a difference between temptation and sin itself In other words, when I got into the car this morning and the circumstances were, well, not not the smoothest of circumstances, I gotta go into the other vehicle and I gotta pull out a car seat and there's already a car seat there and I gotta climb over the first car seat to install the second car seat and yes my hands are getting a little numb because of how cold it is and I'm stumbling and trying to do this and the kids are talking about who's going to sit in which car seat. There's a temptation in a situation like that to say, stop for a minute and then you start responding in the flash. Well, we do have a large number of children. But the fact that there was a moment of frustration Or a moment where I was tempted to say something that I shouldn't or respond in a way that I shouldn't is not in itself sin. The fact that the circumstances were conducive to fleshly response does not mean that you have sinned in such circumstances. In other words, there is a need to distinguish between temptation, opportunity, and sin giving into opportunity. The Lord Jesus Christ was tempted without sin. And we see it here in verse number one. Jesus, being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, being forty days tempted of the devil. Yet the scripture is so clear, Christ never sins. Yet he experienced the full weight of the opportunities that were presented to him in very specific situations. all throughout his life on this earth and his earthly ministry. There is a difference between temptation and sin. And I want to just for a moment park on this and talk about it. Sin is a violation of God's law. In 1 John chapter 3, verse 4, it says, Whosoever Committeth sin transgress also the law, for sin is the transgression of the law When I am presented with opportunity and impulse begins to press me in a certain direction, I have a choice to make about the temptation that I'm in. Will I give in? Will I move forward? Or will I say no and put to death those fleshly passions that are welling up in my soul? Sin is the violation of the law of God. Now I need you to understand for just a moment that when we talk about sin being a violation of God's law, we're not saying it's only a physical violation of God's law. Sins of the heart, in fact, are really where the battlegrounds most often lie. This violation of God's law could be physical, like murder or adultery. Or theft or lying or gossip or abusive language. When a person sins with their lips or sins with their eyes or sins with their hands, we see it and we say, you have violated God's law. But we need to recognize that the Bible doesn't just tell us that it's the physical acts that we do that are sinful, but it can also be the acts of the heart that are sinful as well. In other words, the sins that build the foundation for someone to take another person's life, or the sins of the heart that lay the foundation for a person to be unfaithful to their spouse Or the sins of the heart that lay the foundation for a person to take something that doesn't belong to them. Or the sins of the heart that lead a person to begin to gossip or to begin to lash out in anger at another person. The sins that we see are not the only sins that are done. It's the sins that lie under the surface that many times we excuse and ignore. There's a difference between sins of heart and temptation. And we need to recognize that distinction. Hatred, greed, lust, plotting or dreaming of sinful activities, pride, embracing of lies and self-deception, these are types of sins of the heart And the Lord Jesus Christ was very clear when he talks about sin that he emphasizes it's not just what we do with our hands. But it's what we decide to do in our heart that leads us to do something with our hands that is sin as well. Sin is the result of wrongful responses to temptation. And I want you to see this progression. In James chapter 1, verses 14 and 15, we see it stated the following way. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. When lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. What these verses tell us is that there is a process from opportunity and temptation to sin. That process may take weeks, months, or years. That process may take just a few moments. But the reality is that opportunity leads to an impulsive desire that has to be dealt with in the moment or it will lead to sinful activity. Jesus was in the opportunity stage. Jesus was being compelled by the words of Satan to follow through. And Jesus, being a sinless man, said, no. And we will see exactly how he responds because it gives us tremendous insight into how we must respond when our flesh begins to tempt us. Temptation is opportunity. That fleeting thought that pops in the mind, that internal urge that begins within our hearts. Sin is the embracing of that opportunity. The allowing of that fleeting thought to take root in our hearts, and we begin to believe that lie, or we begin to indulge that thought, or we begin to plan on how we're gonna follow through with that thing that passed into my mind. It's the giving in to those internal urges in disobedience to God's laws. One of the greatest examples I can think of on this It's something we read about in Genesis chapter 4. It's the story of Esau, or not Esau, of Abel and how his brother Cain killed him. Now what we see in that story, and this is something we dealt with some time ago in our Sunday night study, is that Cain brought a sacrifice that God rejected. And Cain was very displeased, he was very angry And there was a beginning of hatred and bitterness in his heart, not just toward God, but toward his brother. And listen carefully to what God says to this man in this moment. He says, if thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted. If thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. Very interesting statement. Unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him. Let me put it in a very literal sense so we can understand what the scripture is saying here. What he's literally saying is sin like an animal is crouching behind the corner and it's ready to pounce It's ready to destroy. It's lying at the door. And that desire that's welling up in your heart, it needs to be crushed. It needs to be put to death, or you are going to follow through with that temptation. You're going to do something terrible That's exactly what he did. He didn't crush the desire. He didn't deal with the temptation in his heart. He began to meditate on it. He began to believe the lies. And then eventually that hatred led to murder. Folks, this is what temptation ultimately leads to when we don't deal with it in appropriate ways. I think that there's a pastoral concern here. Sometimes when we talk about this issue of temptation, we begin to panic or feel guilty because of the presence of temptation. You will never live on this side of eternity without the experience of temptation. The fact that there are opportunities And there are thoughts that may pass through your minds, does not mean you have sense. It's what you do with the opportunity. It's what you do with the thought. It's how you respond to the impulsive desire. Sometimes we minimize our sin by making this unwarranted distinction between sins of the heart and body. Say, well, you know, sure I was thinking that and sure I believe that, but I would never act on that. I never actually do that. Nobody knows what I think except me and God, so what's the big deal? We minimize those sins of the heart. We act as if they're not a big deal. Yet God couldn't be clearer, they are. Sometimes we're lazy and unguarded when we need to be vigilant and sober. Sometimes we become self-confident, self-reliant, and we should be humbled. We should distrust our own abilities. You and I will never get to a place in the Christian life where we do not struggle with sin and temptation. We just won't get there. It amazes me how when I read 1 John 1, the Apostle John was the oldest living of all the apostles, and you could argue that he was the closest of all the apostles to the Lord Jesus Christ. This is what he says in 1 John 1. He says, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have no sin, We deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. John didn't say, if all y'all do that, he'll you confess your sins, he'll forgive you, but you know I I I'm eighty-five years old. I've walked with the Lord all these years, so I'm kind of past that season. He doesn't say that. He says, we. That's really imp important for us to recognize. We never get to this place where we need to let our guards down and say, we've arrived. This world is a battle of the heart. The second truth I'd like us to see this morning is that Satan's method needs to be soberly considered. Satan is a master manipulator. He's a master manipulator. Now, all of us probably on some levels have some manipulative tendencies If you have a toddler, you will learn that a toddler has manipulative tendencies. A toddler is sometimes going to stomp their foot and look you in the eye and say, not a chance, Dad, and not a chance, Mom. Or they may lay on the ground and start screaming and acting like they're in terrible pain. Okay, we know what that one's like. Or they might get this little sly look and look you in the eye. And then you just kind of melt like, oh, that's so cute. Manipulation. Well, that's in your heart too. It's in my heart too. The reality is Satan knows how to exploit that in us. But he is the master of all manipulators. Think about it this way. Satan can viciously accuse you, or he can set you up with flattery. I mean, think about that. He can he can fill your head with all kinds of nonsense about how great you are. And then he can take you and crush you and make you feel like you could never stand in the presence of God for any reason at any time. The same person can do this. He can intimidate us, or he can embolden us to become self-reliant. He can wear us down with discouragement and lure us to remove our guard, or he can or lure us to remove our guard in times of prosperity. He could take the good times and he can use it to exploit you. He could take the bad times and use them to exploit you. He knows what to do and when to do it. He can keep us from the scriptures and catch this. He can take the Bible you're reading and he can twist the text of the scripture you're reading. And he can cause it to begin to press on your conscience in a way in which it was never intended to press on your conscience. In other words Satan can even take the very words of God, the precious pure word of God, and he can use it as a tool to destroy your heart. You see he could do that? I'm going to show you an example of him doing that. This passage shows us Satan doing that even with the Lord Jesus Christ. So let's just take a moment to look at the way that Satan approached Christ. This is a perfect righteous man, God in flesh. The Lord Jesus Christ didn't have a sin nature like you and I have. So he didn't have that compulsion in his heart. to sin like you and I have. Yet these were real tasks, real opportunities that Satan is putting in front of him. I want you to notice how Satan does this. The first thing that he does, to me it's very intriguing, the very first thing Satan does is he challenges Christ's identity Do you catch that? He challenges Christ's identity. We have so much discussion about identity today. Lots of people believe that they are somebody that is not consistent with reality. Where do you think that comes from? Satan literally went after the Lord Jesus Christ in who he was as a person. Verse number three, he says, if thou be the son of God. Hold on, this is an established fact. There was no if about it. He is the son of God. Satan says, Are you? If. He did it that way. He enticed Christ to satisfy normal appetites in an unlawful way. Verse number three says, Command these stones that it may be made breads. Seems like such a little simple thing. What's wrong with eating? Well, in and of itself, eating isn't really wrong, and being hungry isn't wrong, but that appetite can be used and twisted in a perverse way to accomplish a sinful action. So many of the sinful passions that we experience are literally the taking of the good gifts of God and twisting them to be appetites used in unlawful ways. There are a whole host of examples of these kinds of things. He challenged Christ to rush the Father's timing. Verses 6 and 7. He says, all this power will I give thee, and the glory of them, for that is delivered unto me, and to whomever I will, I give it. Does the world belong to Jesus? The answer is of course it is. He's going to rule and reign forever. This is his world. He's seated at the right hand of the Father during his kingdom, the millennial kingdom, he will sit on the throne of his father David And we as his people get to rule and reign with them. This is his world. He has the right to it. But in the moment that Jesus is being tested His role was to go to the cross so that the kingdom could come. You don't have a kingdom without the cross and the resurrection and the gospel because nobody's redeemed. Yet Satan's saying, Why don't you just go around this? And do it your own way. That's what he's saying. He presented a bypass to the most painful yet essential part of the Father's will. If thou wilt worship me, then I'll give this to you. Yet the way to the kingdom was through the cross and through the resurrection. The way that he would have inhabitants in this kingdom was through redemption. And Satan is saying, just bypass it. I think about Jesus in the garden. He says, Father, if this is possible, remove this cup from me. But it wasn't possible. Yet not my will but thine be done. You see that? The Lord Jesus Christ understood that He came into the world to go to the cross, to establish the means that we could stand in His presence righteous. And he would do it. He understood that. He tempted Christ to take authority that was not rightly his at the moment. Verse number seven: if all shall be thine. What's very interesting about many forms of temptation is that many times we are tempted to take something that won't be wrong at one point down the road, but it's wrong right now. You understand what I'm saying? Many, many times. We talk about something as simple as marriage and the sexual relationship between husband and wife. Obviously nothing sinful about that. God created that. It's something that He designed for a good purpose. But when you take those two people that are going to get married in six months and they decide we're just going to come together anyway, God calls that sin. God calls that fornication. What's the problem? The problem is the timing. And we see a sense of a timing nature to sin here. To me, maybe the most intriguing of all of these is the last one. He twisted the scriptures by applying them in ways that were outside their original attempt. Listen to what it says in verses 9 through 11. He said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down from hence. And listen carefully to what Satan says. For it is written. Satan is actually reading the Bible, quoting the scriptures to the Lord Jesus Christ, because it is written, He shall give his angels charge over thee to keep thee, and in thy hands they shall bear thee up lest thou at any time dash thy foot against the stone. Now, please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I believe in temptation it's a good thing for you to quote the Bible But you better make sure that the Bible you're quoting is Bible that applies in that particular instance or matter. In other words, I have to make sure that what I'm saying to myself, or what I'm accepting as true, is actually the intent for which it was given. That's an extremely important thing. Does anybody here kind of sometimes feel like when you read the news or when you watch the news you're kind of getting propaganda? Do you ever kind of feel that way? Well, the reality is, whoever gives you the information has incredible power over your perception of those details. Huge. Because all they got to do is leave out one little detail, and the way you see it changes. Entirely changes. I mean, even in our interpersonal relationships, think about how many times there'll be a conflict between husband and wife. And the ultimate reason that there was a conflict was because there was probably one question that could have been asked before the response that would have completely changed the dynamics. You know what I'm talking about? In other words, we have to make sure that when we take the Bible and we apply the Bible, we say, Thus saith the Lord, it's thus saith the Lord, and that's what he intended us to understand in that particular moment. How we handle scripture is so critically important. Satan knows how to deceive people, even taking the Bible and twisting it to our own destruction. This is why the Apostle Paul told Timothy that we are to make sure that we rightly divide the word of truth. This is why Peter said that there are some people, false teachers, that rest. That means they twist the scriptures to their own destruction and to the destruction of those that actually follow them. We have to make sure that we understand the original intent of the passage in front of us so that we are properly and appropriately applying it in the context that we're living. You know, Satan does the exact same thing in my life and yours too, though. He attacks Christ in his identity, he does it to you too. Let's say that you're a believer, you've trusted in the Lord Jesus as your Savior. There's now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus And you know what Satan does? He says, Are you sure that there's no condemnation of those in Christ Jesus? Or maybe you have sinned and you know there's a need for restored fellowship with the Lord, or restored fellowship with another brother or sister in Christ. And you go and you make this matter right, and you speak the truth about what you've done, and you're reminded that the blood of Jesus Christ, this Son cleanseth us from all sin. And then this thought pops in your head and goes, Well, are you sure it's true about that sin? What's going on? Satan attacks our identity in so many different ways. He exploits our physical and emotional appetites The majority of the sinful passions you and I deal with are the misuse of the good gifts of God. Our emotions are a gift from God, but don't we get in trouble with our emotions a lot? I do. I'm sure that you do as well. He exploits those appetites. He exaggerates the length and weariness of the processes that we go through in life. You know, there are times that we are caught in a series of events, a season of life, and in the middle of that season, we believe this will never end. We see this as the entirety of our life, and the reality is it's actually two weeks. Maybe it's a month, maybe it's six months, but if you live to be 70, 80, or 90 years old, That six months probably isn't a real big deal in light of the length of your lifetime. It's certainly not a big deal in the length of eternity. Yet Satan will blow out of proportion the length To weary us and toss us. He lures us into pragmatic ways of working around principled living. And yes, he even uses the scriptures against us by sowing partial truths. Of misapplied principles. We need to be wary of Satan's devices. The third truth, and this is the final truth we'll look at in this text, is that Christ's response Must be meticulously imitated. We have to recognize that when it comes to the issue of temptation and sin, we are in the midst of a spiritual battle Now I'm thankful that in the midst of that spiritual battle, I have the security that in Christ there's nothing that can separate me from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. I'm so thankful that in the midst of this battle, this struggle, I can put on the helmet of salvation and I can be reminded there's going to be an end to this struggle one day, and I'm going to stand complete in Him for all of eternity. I'm thankful that I can have my feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, and I can be reminded that I'm at peace with God through the Lord Jesus Christ and his sacrifice. But while all those truths are there, we have to recognize we are still in the midst of a great spiritual struggle within our souls. I think we're living in a day where a lot of Christians don't give a lot of thought to this. We have a book in our bookstore. Written by John Owen. Yes, he lived 400 years ago or so. And it is it is an abridged version of his book on the mortification of sin The Puritans cared about walking in a very sober way because they listened carefully to the scriptures that were before them. I think we can learn a lot from church history and from those who went before us who really soberly pondered Satan's ways. And really ponder the temptations and we could say the the ways that we tend to lean in our Christian experience. And how we need to respond when we are leaning in such a way. They gave careful attention. We need to give careful attention to how Christ handled these tests. How did Christ respond to Satan's test? He affirmed his unwavering conviction in the unchanging nature of Scripture. I love the statement. He says, it is written. Now, that's very different than saying it was written or it's going to be written. It's saying it is. He says it is written. In other words, it's a perfect tense, and it's a whole discussion, but the idea is when God gave his word, what he gave still stands. It hasn't changed. What he said then applies today. And it's going to apply tomorrow, and it's going to apply forever. When Jesus says it is written, it's his way of saying, This is my conviction. The word of God stands in the past, in the present, in the future, and we have to come to such place. There are many areas of practice as Christians that our culture has not only abandoned, but has viciously maligned. Believes it's complete nonsense. In fact, I might even say it's been demonized. Something as simple as how we view marriage. Something as simple as how we view morality issues, the sanctity of life. There are lots and lots of things that I could say about this, but the reality is this: what God said then is what he says now. That's what he's going to say forever. His word stands. Jesus affirmed the unwavering conviction of the nature of Scripture. Secondly, he confronted the lies with truth Jesus quoted a scripture back to Satan. And we see it repeatedly over and over and over again. Even when Satan takes the word of God, And he twists it and tries to supply it in an inappropriate way to the Lord Jesus Christ, he still responds with scriptural affirmation. He confronted the calls to rebellion with deliberate acts of submission to his father's authority. For Jesus, it wasn't just about saying, the scriptures say, it was about the scriptures say, Therefore I will submit. Action to the will of my Heavenly Father. He refused to be duped by the misuse of Scripture. You say, well, how can we imitate these things? How can we follow the example of Christ? Well, in the same way that Christ affirmed this unwavering conviction to the unchanging nature of Scripture, you and I need to have an unwavering commitment to to the inerrancy and sufficiency of Scripture. When we talk about inerrancy, what we're saying is God's word is pure. God's word is perfect. God's word doesn't change. When I go to the Bible, what I'm reading is the truth. Not truth in some ways or truth in some places, it is the truth. There's a difference. We talk about the sufficiency of Scripture. What we're saying is not only is the Bible true, But the Bible stands as our final rule for what we're supposed to do and what we're supposed to believe. God's word speaks sufficiently on areas that we need to know in our lives. We need to have such a commitment. In other words, when we're in the midst of temptation, we need to say, what does God's word say? This is what I'm supposed to do. This doesn't change. I need to understate it and I need to submit to it Number two, we need to read, diligently study, and meditate upon the scriptures so that we can actually speak them back to ourselves. I think about some of the sermons that I've listened to over the years, and one of the things one of the pastors would say is: he'd say, you need to learn to start speaking to yourself the truths of God's word. In other words, I feel this internally. This thought has crept into my mind. And now I need to ask the question: is this feeling consistent with the facts? Is this thought consistent with reality and what is true? Well, how can I know what is true and how can I know if this is the way I'm supposed to lean or not? How can I know this? Well, I've got to go to what is unchanging, the Word of God In other words, I have to read the word, I have to study the word, I've got to meditate on the word, and I've got to speak the truth back to myself. So that maybe those thoughts are right and need to be affirmed. Maybe those thoughts are wrong and need to be rejected. We have to read, study, meditate, and speak the truth to ourselves. Thirdly, we need to put off the works of the flesh and to place these works of the flesh with godly virtues. by the Spirit's enabling. I think that when we go to the books of Colossians and Ephesians, we see lots and lots of examples of this. One of the most prominent of all of them, I believe, is in the book of Ephesians, where it says, let him that stole steal no more. But let him work with his hands that he may administer grace. You go, what's going on? In other words, if I am tempted to steal , Then I need to stop stealing. But I need to go beyond stopping stealing. I need to take these hands that have been used in the past to take from others what doesn't belong to me, and I should use these hands To give to others so that I'm replacing the wrong thing with the right thing. In other words, rather than stealing from someone, maybe I should serve them with my labors. Instead of taking their money, maybe I should give them a gift. In other words, I am uprooting what is wrong and replacing it with what is right. And by the way, the scripture talks a lot about this. Here are the works of the flesh, put them to death, uproot them, and replace them with these godly virtues, the fruit of the spirit, love, joy, peace, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. What's he saying? You uproot and you replace. Folks, in many ways, that's what Christ was doing. When the temptation comes, he speaks the truth, and then he actively submits to his father's will. We've got to do the same in our lives. The last thing I want to mention that is so very critical is this. We need to develop biblical discernment. You and I need to learn to filter what we hear and ask the question, is it true? You know, just because you came to church and just because I opened up the Bible and I read you a verse and I told you this is what it's saying, it may or may not be what it was intended to mean. Now, if I'm a faithful, reliable teacher of the Word of God, then you're going to see a pattern. You're going to read in your Bible and you're going to look at the context, you're going to go, that's what God says here. And you're going to see it over and over and over again. But just because you see a consistent pattern doesn't mean you should ever just check your brain out and not think about this. Every time you pick up a book and you read it, I can't tell you how many books I've read where I love about five chapters. But there's one chapter that keeps you from giving it to somebody. Because in that one chapter, that will be a hook. That will be a detriment to their soul. One of the things we have to learn how to do is we have to learn how to read the works of other men carefully and critically. Just because a pastor gets up and says, God says, doesn't mean God says. Or maybe God said, but that's not what God meant. And the same way that you listen to the news, and sometimes you go, I wonder if there's another side to this story. I wonder if there's a little piece that they've left out over here. You read the entire article, and in the last little section of that article, there's something that's stated that completely throws off how you were perceived These details. You ever been there? I've been there many times. We have to develop biblical discernment. I want to encourage you, be a student of God's Word. Listen carefully to what is stated. Verify that what you hear is true. Satan can take the word of God and use it to really harm your soul. So be very, very wary of his devices. I conclude with this final thought. God wants us to learn from the example of Christ. We must put on the whole armor of God So we can stand against the wiles of the devil. Ephesians 6 11, put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. That you may be able to withstand in the evil day. We need to put on the whole armor of God. We too can triumph in the moment by our Savior's power and righteous example. First Corinthians 10, 13, it says, God is faithful. Who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it? What does that tell us? God provides a means of escape. You know what Joseph's escape was when Potiphar's wife was there? It was to run as fast as he could. You know what the escape was when his brothers were standing before him? It was to forgive. The reality is that God always provides a way of escape. The question is: do you want to escape? May God help us to have victory over sin and temptation. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for this passage of Scripture. It is so rich. It is so full. Of practical wisdom. I pray that you'd help us to be godly saints, people who walk with a soberness of heart People who develop biblical discernment, people who rightly divide the word of truth. Father, help us to develop the disciplines, Of putting to death those fleshly passions and replacing them with godly virtues by the Spirit's enabling, where we will submit actively in obedience to your will. Strengthen us through these things. You know what we need at this moment in our walk with you. Use this for your honor and glory. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, I want to ask you to take your hymn books out. And the hymn we're going to sing is Standing on the Promises. Of course, I won't let you sit down while we're singing Standing on the Promises. And I always try to remember to say this. If I don't say it, it's because I I forgot and I do forget in the moment sometimes when I'm preaching these things. But if there's anybody in this room that does not know the Lord is your Savior, or maybe you've made a profession of faith, but frankly you really are tormented with doubts, I want to encourage you, please reach out. When you go through those doors, ask the question, Pastor, can we talk about my salvation? I'm uncertain. And I will be glad to sit down with you and take a Bible and we can work through this. It may be that there's someone here that's like, Pastor, I'm saved, but I'll tell you, I'm not even trying to fight temptation almost at all. I just I just give in. And I'm weary in this battle. I just want to reach out, pray for me. Let's talk about some ways to begin establishing healthy patterns of life. Please don't hesitate to reach out. Out. You can reach out when you walk through those doors. You can send a text. You can reach out through email. There's lots of different ways. God 's work is so important in our lives. We need Him. to work in us. And so I want to encourage you at that. Let's stand together as we sing him 445 standing on the promises, verses 1 and 4 together, please. Standing on the promises of Christ my key and hope and blessing days and read I still shall see, standing on the promises of God, standing, standing, standing on the promises of the I see. I can also promise your God Standing on the promises I cannot fall, Listening every moment to the spirit fall, Resting is my Savior as my all in all. Standing on the promises of God. Standing, standing, standing on the promises of God, my Savior, standing, standing. And I wish you could hear what I heard. That sounded really good. It's a beautiful Thankful for congregational singing. Frank Dumpshaw, do you mind closing us in prayer, please? And he's easy to walk up and say, no, actually I do. You do that to me. Now please close us in prayer. And I hope that uh you'll be able to make it back tonight. for our service and don't forget if you're in our music ministry after choir practice we'll have uh a quick meeting And uh just looking forward to a great time. And with that in mind, let's let's make an effort to be here a little earlier for choir uh rehearsal so that uh we don't cut into um that time. So go ahead, Frank. Thanks Oh, sorry. Our Father in heaven, we thank you so much for this time we've had to come together and worship you as our God and our Savior and Creator, Lord. We're so thankful to know that our Savior Christ was tempted as we are and was an example Of how we can respond to that temptation, Lord. And I just pray that we might be strong in thy word and uh know how to resist the wiles of the devil, Lord, and and uh not to sin against you when in those situations, Lord Lord, and just help us and strengthen us in that, Lord. And again, we just thank you so much that you did send your son to be our Savior, that we might have eternal life and just the wonderful love and grace that you've bestowed upon us. And it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.