Okay, well good morning. I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn with me to James chapter 3. We're in James chapter 3 and we're looking at verses 6 through 13 together this morning. James chapter 3, verses 6 through 13. And uh hope that you've had a great week. Uh my week was very busy. I traveled down to Pensacola on Monday. I flew down there and then I preached uh twelve times and flew back on Friday and so it was a really busy day. Basically I did three chapels back to back to back. Uh pretty much as soon as the kids came in or left from one chapel, then the next group came in. We sang one song and then it was It's time to go again. And it was very difficult to recalibrate mentally every single time that I was doing that. But the Lord really blessed this week. And I'd like to share a little bit of that during our testimony time, but uh it was really a blessing to be back in my alma mater uh to get to uh preach in the high school that I grew up or that I that I graduated from to see some of the teachers. It was kind of weird to meet kids in the hall so I knew their parents from high school. So that was weird. Some of you are like, ah, it gets worse. You go to their wedding someday and things like that. But uh it was really a blessing to be able to be down there and to uh just see the Lord work. They were young people that trusted Christ as their Savior. There were students that some of them their first year students had no church background. Some of the most basic things that you would think that someone would know about the Bible Um, they did not know these things. I asked one young man um if he could name one of the Ten Commandments we were talking about sin. So high school boy said, I I have no idea It's really amazing that you could have a situation like that. But I'm thankful for the opportunity. I also heard that on Wednesday night we had a really good time with our uh ladies group that was singing, um I did not get to watch the whole thing, but I was able to watch part of it uh in between some of the things that I was doing while I was down there and the part that I watched was a blessing. And so thank you for those who were a blessing to those ladies. I hope that it was an encouragement to you. And I'm just thankful that we get to have events like that. James chapter 3, we'll read verses 6 through 13 together. Here's what the Bible says. The tongue is a fire. A world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature, and it is set on fire of hell For every kind of beasts, of birds, of serpents, and of things in the sea is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind. But the tongue can no man tame It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. Therewith bless we God, even the Father, and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessings and cursings, my brethren. These things ought not so to be. Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter? Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries, either of vine figs? So can no fruit both yield salt, or no fountain can yield both salt water and fresh. Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. We come to this passage of Scripture. This section reminds us how evil our tongue can be. And the reason that he does that is he wants us to be motivated to be a people who develop godly wisdom and measured speech. You know what's really interesting if we're going to go verse by verse through a book of the Bible We're going to give as much time to a topic as God chose to give to that topic. You realize that when we come to the book of James, He's going to spend 13 verses in chapter 3 dealing with this issue of the tongue. And really, this is not the only section in the book of James where he's going to talk about the importance of the tongue. I want you to realize that this is a very significant issue in this book, and it's a very significant issue because it's a very significant problem for each of us. Not only is it a significant problem in the sense that it's something that we battle with and something that we struggle with, but we also realize that the way that we use our tongue has the power to do tremendous good And it also has the power to do tremendous evil. It has the ability to get down into really saying on the most basic level what kind of a person I am inside. And so with that in mind, God wants us to be people who use our words wisely for his glory. God wants us to use our tongues consistently for his glory. Not just from time to time, but he wants it to be the pattern of our lives. He wants our lives to be characterized, distinguished by uplifting, encouraging, God-centered, Christ-exalting speech. And I want you to realize if that's what God wants, and that's what God expects, then it's possible. In fact, when I say that it's possible, I say that as an encouragement to you because I realize that every person, from me down to you, we all struggle with this issue of how we use our words. So the question is, how can we do that? How can we be a people who use our words wisely for God's glory consistently? Well, this morning we're going to look at several truths about how we can be a people who do that. The first truth is this: the passage is full of sobering warnings for all of us. In fact, there's several sobering warnings. I'm going to go one by one through those warnings. I'm not going to spend as much time on each of them as we could. Really, in some sense, we probably could almost spend an entire session dealing with each of these warnings. Developing each of those warnings. And I guess if we were Puritans, we would have done that. But we're Baptists, so we're just going to deal with the whole section together. The first warning is this. We need to be weary, wary of our words. And verse 6 he puts it this way: the tongue is a fire. Now we think of fire. We can think of a fire being something that we use to drive us here, a combustion internal combustion engine. Well, until we start driving electric cars almost right. Well we think about a fire. We could be thinking about something that cooks our meal for us. When we think of a fire, we could be thinking about something that's going to be a furnace that keeps our house warm during the winter. Something that is controlled and something that is used for good. But in this context, it's not the way he uses the word fire. He's using the fire as something that is out of control and that is destructive. When I say he's using the term fire in that sense, I want you to think with me for just a moment of some of the images you have been seeing on the news or on social media in places like Wisconsin, places like Minnesota, places like Washington, D. C. where you see buildings that are being smashed, looted, and burned to the grounds. That's what he's talking about. Destruction. Our tongues have the potential to do that. You know, they interview people on the news and they say, can you tell me what happened? And as people are weeping, they're saying, This is the building where my father started a business and he served in this community for decades. And now it's ashes. Fire. Fire. Our tongues have the ability to destroy like that. To take a relationship, to take a person who feels a sense of value and worth, and all of a sudden, because of our words, we just destroy what's going on in the hearts of that person. Our tongues can be used for tremendous danger. And he wants us to be wary of that. Notice way how he puts it. He says the tongue is a fire, a fire that's just He says it's a world of iniquity. The idea is that it represents the full spectrum of all the ways that we can be corrupted from what is good. In other words, the tongue can be used to express all kinds of evil. If we were to sit down and we were to say, how many different ways can you speak Evil things with your words, we would exhaust our time and our energies, and we could still say more Because the tongue is a world of iniquity. Every single way that you can express evil, it can be expressed through our words. He says it defileth the whole body. It's one of the most significant ways that we express what's going on. deep down in our hearts. And it says it set it on fire the course of nature. It literally destroys the path that we're walking down. There are people that have promising futures. They have wonderful opportunities. And because of the flippant use of their words, they destroy their future. People like that. People have built a long career doing something in the public eye, and because they get up and they say something that becomes public, it destroys their career just like that Our words have the potential to destroy what is good. The second warning we see is this. We need to take responsibility for our words. In verse 7, he puts it like this every kind of beast, of birds, of serpents, of things in the sea is tamed and hath been tamed of mankind. But the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison Now, you know, I can remember reading this verse many, many times as as a as a young person, as a teenager, as a college student. And whenever I read this, I would always say, you know The Bible says that you can tame an animal, but no man can tame the tongue. , So I guess that means that there's no hope. I can't actually control what I say. That's not what he's saying there, folks. He's not suggesting that it's impossible to get to a place where we use our words wisely and consistently and for the glory of God. That's not why he says it that way. His point is this. Nobody can control your tongue. That's what he's saying. You know, we talk about freedom of speech. We treasure freedom of speech, don't we? The ability to express what we believe. But here's the bottom line. Even if you're afraid to speak what you believe publicly, nobody can stop you from speaking what you want to speak privately, can they? What you believe, you will express. And his point is that nobody can take the responsibility from you and make you responsible in your speech. Wouldn't it be great if you could go to a person who was wise and godly and more mature than you and they say, I can't control my words, and they say, Okay, well let me help you with this, and all of a sudden they flip a switch and all of a sudden you start stuff Speaking the way you're supposed to Wouldn't that be great? That would be amazing. We would be able to take care of a lot of the problems that we have. But it doesn't work that way. You can't go to mom and dad. You can't go to your spouse. You can't go to somebody that you work for. You can't go to your pastor and say, can you help me do this? And all of a sudden, a f uh all of a sudden we don't have the problem anymore. You can't do that. It doesn't work that way. The tongue can no man tame. You can train an animal. You can even train an animal that's bigger than you, that's stronger than you, that can do things that you can't do, but you cannot tame the tongue of another person. We are responsible for our own words. I want you to think about some of the disciplines that we know of. Think about athletes These are people that control what they eat. They control how much they exercise and train. They spend countless hours day after day after day, developing skills, developing disciplines. They are the best of the best in all of the world in what they're doing. Yet that same athlete who has so much discipline, if you could stand in the locker room with them for 30 minutes and you listen to the way that they use their words, you'd say this person has zero self-discipline. Incredible discipline with it their body, what they eat, but their words flow Look at soldiers. We've got folks in the military. How many people have tremendous discipline when it comes to keeping a schedule, following order? Doing what is right in these areas, yet at the same time in their personal lives, the way they use their tongue is vicious, it's evil, it's wicked, it's repulsive. How many people in our governments will get up and talk about how we should be morally on a different level, yet if you could sit down in private conversation with these people And here the way they use their words, you would say, the moral high ground, huh? Why is that? Because our tongue really demonstrates what's going on in our hearts. Nobody can tame your tongue. You alone are responsible for what you say. His point is that responsibility falls entirely on us to govern what we say. We can't tame the tongue of another person. Because we can't get down into the heart and flip a switch that changes the source of a person's words What we say is really the result of what we think and what we love and what we treasure and what we value. And nobody can change your heart. The only power, the only one that can change your words is the Holy Spirit. And we're going to talk at the end of this message about how God is in a place to help us to become the kind of people that we should be in this area. But we need to realize we cannot usurp the authority of other people. We can't find shortcuts. We cannot do this apart from God's enabling. The third warning we find is this, we need to strive for a healthy consistency. In verses 9 and 10, he says this, therewith bless we God. Even the Father, therewith, curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessings and cursings. My brethren, these things ought not to be What's James expressing in these verses? What he's basically saying is how is it that the same tongue can sit in church on a Sunday and sing these glorious hymns of praise to God? can read the Bible, can preach and teach God's word, can tell a person about the glories of God, and at the same time that same tongue can go home and can shred one of those kids in the car. Can be out at work and chew out one of the people that works with you, can say mean and hurtful and terrible things, the same mouth that glorifies God can destroy the man or the woman or the child or the teen who is created in the image of the same God that you glorify. He said, how in the world can you do this? We must strive to have a healthy consistency. He's saying if you're going to speak God's glories, then don't destroy those he made with your words. Blessing and cursing in the same tongue. God and the man that was made in his likeness, the same tongue. The inconsistency has no place in the life of the Christian. We come to a fourth warning, and that's this, we need to address the heart of our struggle. In verses 11 and 12, he says, Doth a fountain send forth at the same place Sweet water and bitter. Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries, either of vine figs? So can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh. I want to give you this illustration. I probably mentioned it before, but When we lived in Ghana, we lived in a really interesting place by the ocean. There was an estuary where there were three rivers that came into the ocean and flowed in. And so whenever we get heavy, heavy rains during the rainy season, those rivers became as well, they look like chocolate milk for lack of a better way of putting it. They would overflow and they would flood their banks, and they would basically look like chocolate milk because of all of the sediment that would flow into that river. And so when you would stand by the river and look out into the ocean, the ocean, all around where that river was flowing out, essentially looked like chocolate milk. But during the dry season, what would eventually happen is that that river would have less and less water flowing out of the forest and out of those areas, and that water would start to clear out But during certain times of the year, probably the best time of the year to go fishing, you would get an interesting situation where the place where I would fish, during the low tide, as the water was flowing out from the forest, it looked like chocolate milk. It was fresh water. I say fresh in the sense that it wasn't salty water, okay? But it was full of sediment. And you would stand there and you would fish, and as the tide would start to turn back in. Eventually, the tide would start pushing back up into the river. And as time went on, the tide would build and it would build and it would build, and eventually the water would turn direction So instead of it flowing out into the sea and looking like chocolate milk, it would flow from the sea and it would start to get clear And so in this one location, at the right time, was the tide was flowing in and the water was pushing out, you would actually see the water flow this way, chocolate milk, and then it would start flowing back this way, and it would be clear seawater. And there, between the battling of the two different directions, you would see the waters not mixing. It was the most fascinating thing The water that was clear and full of seafish would be flowing in from the ocean with the tide. And the water that was dirty was flowing in from the forest. And the fish liked that place. What's the point? The point is that the waters didn't mix. You could actually with your eyes know the source of that water based on the color and based on the salinity as they were moving back and forth based on which was pushing stronger. And here's the point of the text in front of us. Your heart is the source of your words. Just like the water flowing from the sea is salty because that's the source. And just like the water flowing from the forest is fresh. And it's full of sediment because that's the source. Our heart is the source of our words. He says it's impossible. In fact, he asks that a question. He says, it's impossible for us to have fresh water from a salty source or salty water from a fresh source. It's impossible to get a fruit from a tree that's from a different kind of plant variety. You don't get fig trees on a grapevine. You don't get grapes on a fig tree. And I know that because I'm growing both in my yard. If I want grapes, I go to the grapevines. If I want figs, well, I gotta wait till next year, unfortunately. But the point is this: what's going on inside comes out once you say. Our words are the fruit, not the root. They are the waters that are downstream, not the source. And so he asks multiple questions and he gives multiple illustrations because he wants us to understand that we cannot change the pattern of our words without changing the source being our heart. We've got to come face to face with the reality as to why we say what we do. Rather than being so focused on what we say, we need to be focused on why we said it. That's what's going on inside. So he's given all these warnings. That moves us to a second truth, and the second truth is this: Scripture gives us encouragement in the midst of those warnings. Look down carefully at verse 13 and notice how he puts it. He asks a question. He says, who is a wise man? Now when he asks the question, he's expecting us to be able to say, well, there is a kind of person that's a wise person, and here's what he's like. In other words, he's not asking the question saying, there's nobody like that. He's saying, there's somebody like that. Who is wise? And endued with knowledge among you. Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. He gives us hope in the form of a question and a challenge. The question is: this: who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? And I asked this question, as God asked the question through James. Who is wise among us? Who is it? Well, the answer is those who control their words. If you want to know who's really wise, it's the man, it's the woman, it's the young person, it's the teen, it's the person who specifically uses their words for the glory of God. consistently, fervently, rather than for their own wretched devices. Who is wise? And then he gives this challenge. Let him, the wise one, show out of a good conversation or the way that he lives, the way that he does things, let him show his works with meekness of wisdom. He says, if you are wise, which it's possible to be, then demonstrate that with the way you speak, and the way that you live, and the way that you relate to people. In other words, he asks the question, he gives us the challenge, giving us hope, believe it or not. You say, well, that doesn't give me hope. It should give you hope. Because if he asks the question, that means it's possible. If he gives the challenge, that means it's possible. That means if you're sitting here today and you say, My words betray me, and they demonstrate what's going on in my heart isn't good, I want you to be encouraged. It can change by the grace of God. It's possible to be filled with God's wisdom. It's possible to have a life That's distinguished by humility and godly wisdom. And if it's possible, then the question is, how is it possible? How does God help me when I can't control my own tongue many times? And when nobody else in this room can come and control my tongue, how can I have victory in this area if God wants me to do that? Well, I want to give you good news. The word of God gives us the answer. And it's interesting you actually gave the answer earlier in the book of James. So turn with me to James chapter 1, verse 5, because what we're going to see Is that the way to have our speech be guided by principle and truth, and the way that our mouths can be controlled by the Spirit of God begins with how we view God Himself. It begins with a high view of God. In verse 5, this is how he puts it. If any of you lack wisdom , That same statement being brought back into this context where he's moved throughout the book is if any of you lack wisdom, which is being demonstrated by the way you speak. If any of you lack wisdom, Let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally, and abradeth not, and it shall be given him Don't miss what he's saying. If you lack wisdom, and it's being demonstrated by the way that you speak, then you need to go to God. And you need to know who he is, and you need to know his character, you need to know what he promises, and you need to take him at his word. First of all, he says that God is the source of godly wisdom. It's interesting in Proverbs chapter 2, it says, out of his mouth comes knowledge and understanding. And we should pursue wisdom. We should long for wisdom. We should love wisdom. We should want it. And so we've got to go to God because He's the source. You're not going to find it in a self-help book. You're not going to find it in another person. You're going to find it in God. He is the source of godly wisdom. But there's a second thing that's expressed in these verses. This God, who is the source of wisdom, delights to give it, and he delights to give it in abundance. God wants you to be wise. If you go to him, he wants to give you his wisdom. In other words, he's not holding back and saying, I want your life to be miserable and difficult. He's saying, I want you to have my wisdom. I want you to be the person that I've called you to be. It's possible. It's available to you. He delights to give it in abundance. He giveth to all men liberally. That's an amazing thing to think about, isn't it? Liberally. And then he says this, he abraideth not. He won't be condescending to you when you come to him for it To put it in simple words, if your speech demonstrates you don't have godly wisdom in your heart, then God says, come to me and I'll give it to you. And not only am I going to give it to you, I'm going to give it to you in abundance. And not only am I going to give it to you in abundance, but when I give it to you, I'm not going to be con Ascending and cruel and hateful to you. I'm going to give it to you with compassion and with love And the last thing he says is, it will be given to him. In other words, he will give it to you. Folks, the key to our speech changing is going to the one who gives us the wisdom we need. And he could do it. He not only can do it, he wants to do it. He promises to do it if we will come to him in our time of need. The truth is, there are times that God allows us to get in a set of circumstances where we sink to the bottom and we do things that we would have never thought we would do, we say things we would have thought we would never have said. We would think things we would thought we would have never thought, and he allows us to sink to that point to bring us to a point of crises so that we realize we actually need to address the issue before us. And that's what he's saying. Getting God's wisdom, which ultimately changes our words, it begins with a high view of God. The second thing that we see is this: it also begins with a humbled view of self. The truth is, until we realize what we actually are deep down inside, until we're willing to come face to face with the reality of that indwelling sin that is in every single one of our hearts. Until we're willing to actually admit that and face that reality and realize we need help, we're not in a position to change, to grow, to mature. To see this area change in us. And so I go to Omans chapter 8 because in verses 5 through 8, he lays bare the heart of mankind. He says, they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. To be carnally minded is death The carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God. Neither indeed, don't miss this, can be. So that those that are in the flesh cannot please God. You know, if God just left me to myself If it wasn't for the gospel, if it wasn't for the new birth, if it wasn't for the presence of the Holy Spirit, if it wasn't for the convicting word of God. That gets into my heart and convinces me and convicts me of my sin on a regular basis. If it wasn't for that work, it would be impossible for me to please God. It would be impossible for me to live in conformity to the will of God. It takes salvation. It takes the new birth. The natural man, the Bible says, does not receive the things of the Spirit of God. They are foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. Apart from the gospel, and apart from salvation through Christ. We are bound by a fallen mind. We are dominated by our flesh fleshy passions We are powerless to overcome these factors by our own power. You cannot live the Christian life unless you actually are a Christian. You cannot have victory over sin and have dominating things that are weighing you down and really destroying you. You cannot have victory over these apart from the power of the gospel. But I have good news for you. The Bible tells us that when we trust Christ as our Savior, things change. The Bible says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature, and old things pass away, and all things become new. And the reality is we need to understand that though God is the good giver of wisdom And we are broken and bound by our flesh and our fallen minds. God has done everything necessary for us to have victory, to establish new patterns, to have a heart that is changed by the gospel. And to be a different kind of person in what we say and do. We need to have a realistic view of the process. In Romans 6, 8 through 13, he tells us about how we have victory over our fallen nature. He says, Now, if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him. Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more, death hath no more dominion over him. Ye for in that he died, he died unto sin once, but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. Likewise, reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin. But alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord, let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies, that ye should obey it in the lustreof, neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God There is so much we can say from this passage. We have phrases like knowing, words like reckon, let not sin reign in your mortal bodies. Yield your members as instruments of righteousness unto God, as those who are alive from the dead. But let me summarize this passage with a couple of simple statements. When you trust Christ, positionally, you are freed from sin. Doesn't mean you stop sinning. It doesn't mean your sin nature disappears. It simply means that the bondage that you have to that evil master sin who demands you do this and you do it, that dominion has been broken. Freed positionally from sin 's domination. Two, we're spiritually empowered. When I say we're spiritually empowered, we're empowered in two ways. In one sense, God gives us a new nature. And because we have a new nature, that nature longs for God and His Word. And so we have this internal battle between the new nature that wants to serve and please God And the flesh that's still fallen and deals with temptation and the struggle to sin. Literally, the Christian is in a position where he has a battle constantly between his flesh and his new nature. But you can have victory because of that new nature when formally you couldn't. But there's a second part to that. You have the Holy Spirit, who is also a source of desire and work. The Holy Spirit comes alongside of us. He strengthens us. He encourages us. He builds us up. He convicts us. He works in our heart to enable us to do of God's good pleasure. Spiritually empowered, personally responsible. Notice how he uses words like, likewise reckon. Don't yield. Why does he use phrases like that? Because you're responsible. Nobody can do this for you. You 've got to make the choice daily yourself. But positionally, you're freed. Spiritually, you're empowered. Personally, you're responsible. And you've got to be committed to a lifelong process of growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. It takes time. When a person trusts Christ as their Savior, there are some things that instantly change in them. Major things that instantly change in them. They're a new creature. The Holy Spirit indwells them. And there are certain things that they used to do that they just they stop them immediately. But there are other things that don't go away quickly. They don't go away easily. They nag them day after day after day till the day they die. These are areas of struggle and battle and difficulty. And the reality is that we must daily put on the Lord Jesus Christ and not make provision for the flesh to fulfill its lust. We have to daily put on the whole armor of God that we may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. We've got to daily put God's word in our heart so that we won't sin against Him This is a lifelong battle struggle. There's a reason that the Bible uses the terminology of the soldier in the fight. The boxer in the arena, the wrestler who is struggling with an opponent. There's a reason that he talks about it being running a race with patience. Enduring not as one who beats at the air. In other words, the scriptures tell us that the Christian life involves struggle and difficulty. But it's worth it. I want you to realize this morning, if as you sit here today, you say, My mouth is uncontrolled. What do I do? You gotta get back to the basics. You really do. God's giving you all the tools that you need to grow and to mature and to be the person he wants you to be. And so you have to pick up those tools and daily put them to practice. You need God to work in your heart. And I promise you he'll do it if you're willing to let him do it. I promise you he wants to do it. I promise you he's going to pursue you in it. I promise you he won't let you go. That he won't push you to the wayside. He cares about you. He loves you. He wants to see you grow in these areas. He wants to see us all grow together into Christ's likeness. You might say, well, Pastor, how do we apply these truths this morning? Let me give you a couple of simple thoughts in closing. The first is this, let's reflect on what our words say about the state of our hearts and minds. That might not be very comfortable. That might be kind of a brutal reality, but it's really important for us to stop and do some self-reflection. Two. Let's be willing to face the uncomfortable reality of what we may see. Sometimes we get involved in things over the course of years or decades or months or Weeks. And we repetitively do things over and over and over again and we never stop and say, what does this actually look like? What is actually going on here? We need to stop and we need to actually look brutally at the reality of what's going on. Three. Let's get up when we feel discouraged, realizing that God has provided the tools that we need to mature. The truth is that this message isn't meant to knock you down and leave you there. Not in the least. This message is meant to say, here's the truth, and here's the truth. The cure. And the truth is that God comes alongside of his children, we feel broken, and we feel miserable, and we feel like we can't do it. And what does he do? He strengthens us. And he comes alongside of us and he picks us up. I think of what the writer of Hebrews says, he says, strengthen the knees That are weak and strengthen the hands that are weighed down. He says, look unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the sit shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God, endure as seeing him who's invisible. The truth is that God wants to come alongside of us and he wants to encourage us and he wants us to strengthen us. Nobody in this room is sinless. Nobody in this room has got it all figured out. Nobody in this room has reached this point of absolute perfection. Nobody Fourth, let's take to heart our responsibility and purpose today to be committed to this lifelong process of daily dying to self and submitting to God and His Word. It's a process. You say, I made that commitment months ago. I made that commitment years ago, and here I am today. I've stumbled. I'm not where I'm supposed to be. I said I'd do it. What do I do now? Get back up. If you fall down on the race, get back up and keep running. If you fall under the weight of that load, that's okay. Get back up and try again. You know, I I remember talking to the students this week about committing to read the Bible on a daily basis. And I said, what happens if you make this commitment, you're going to read God's Word, and after a month you stop? And you stop for a couple of days and then that couple of days becomes a week, and that couple that week becomes a month, and that month becomes a month and a half or two months, and all of a sudden I feel terrible. What do I do? Give back up and pick back up where you left off. I want to encourage you in that way. And lastly, let's allow our hearts and minds to be renewed by the power of the Holy Spirit who indwells us. The fact is that God loves his children dearly. God knows our frame. He remembers that we're dust. And he doesn't give up on us. God wants us to use our words wisely for his glory. By his enabling grace, let's allow God to change our hearts so that what we say is conformed to his will. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for the opportunity to be in the Word this morning. I know that a message like this can be extremely convicting. Father, I pray that you'd help us not to pull away from the work that you're doing in us, but to respond very humbly. To respond with tremendous gratitude that you don't leave us and forsake us and turn away from us. But in fact you pursue us and you come alongside of us Father, strengthen and encourage every person that's listening to this message and those who may listen later on today and throughout the coming days. I pray that you would do an appropriate work in us through your word. We ask these things in Jesus name, Amen