And we're really looking forward to uh the opportunity to worship the Lord as the local church body. Um if you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we want to say a warm welcome to you. And uh when you came in, I hope that you received a visitor's welcome packet and in that there's a connection card. And what we'd like to ask you to do is if you could fill that out, that's a way that we're able to follow up with you And just learn how we can be a blessing and an encouragement to you. So if you'll take just a moment to do that, we'd appreciate that. And just put that in the little offering box in the back. And that'll be a way that we can connect with you. I also wanted to draw your attention to a good number of activities that are coming up. First of all, tonight there is a Teen Synxpiration And so uh teens, please uh note that on your calendars. Um, after the evening service, we'll have a teens inspiration, and my family is the one that is hosting that. Also after the morning service we have a teen parent meeting for the wilds. And when I say teens, I not just the parents, I want the teens to come as well. And we're going to go over a lot of important information. I know that This year most of our teens are going for the first time. And so there might be some things that uh you're unaware of, and we just want to make sure make sure that that you are prepared for our week of camp and we're looking forward to a great week of camp. Last year we weren't able to go because of all the COVID restrictions. So we're we're very very excited about that. Please make sure that after the morning worship service, we meet down here on the piano side. Also, I want to mention that this week is our week that we go to the Baltimore Rescue Mission. on Tuesday nights. So at 7 p. m. we have our ladies' service and then at 8 p. m. we have our men's service If you're planning to go with us, please reach out to me personally so that you don't get left when the van goes out. But we leave here around 6. 30. And it's a really good time of fellowship amongst ourselves. It's a great time to minister in the mission and just to preach the gospel and sing praise to the Lord. So please mark that on your calendars if you're planning to come let me know so that I can make sure that that uh you don't get left uh when we're heading out. Also want to mention that on the 6th 16th, we have our next College and Career Bible study, and that is at our house. So 7 p. m. College and Career folks, please mark that. on your calendars. We're looking forward to that. There's also an additional activity that uh we just found out about over the weekend. It's not in our bulletin yet because we We just found out about it. But on the 22nd , down in D. C. in the mall area, there's going to be a production of the hiding place. And when my wife and I were in college there was uh uh some of the folks that were uh studying speech drama, um some of those folks who were students when we were students um have been traveling for several years and they put on a production of The Hiding Place and it's the story of Corey Tinboom. It's uh it's an excellent production, they do a really good job, and uh they also weave a gospel presentation. into that and so um for our college and career folks we are going to take a van down there it is on a Thursday night which might be a challenge for some folks uh but if you're planning to go to that let us know so that we can work out the details. If you're not a college and career person, you can still come, okay? We're not trying to uh keep you from coming. Uh so if if anyone who is not a college and career uh person that would like to come let us know. We'll We'll get to the details for that activity. Also wanted to mention one more detail. We have three care packages in the back. One is for Chris, one is for Matt, and one is for Ham. And uh all three of them are either deployed or in military training right now. And so uh we just like to express to them that we're thinking about them, we're praying for them. them. Um we we love them and and are just uh praying that the Lord will really keep them safe and protect them uh with what they're doing. So If you want to put something out towards that, the ladies' table in the back where we tend to put our SOS gifts, that's where those uh three care package boxes are. And there are items on there that I don't know if I'd say they requested it. We probed to get information about what they might like. And uh so if you could get some of those items. I think that would be a real blessing to those men. If you could, let's take our Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 17. And our opening scripture reading is Genesis 17. And we'll begin in verse number one. Here's what the scriptures say. When Abram was ninety years old and nine, the Lord appeared to Abram. Abram and said unto him, I am the Almighty God. Walk before me and be thou perfect. And I will make my covenant between me and And Abraham, or excuse me, Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee Thou shalt be a father of many nations. Neither shall thy name be any more called Abram, but thy name shall be called Abraham. For a father of many nations have I made thee I will establish my covenant between me and And thee and thy seed after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee. And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land Wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. This morning, as we focus on Luke chapter 1 and the instructions that God gave through the prophet to Zecharias about his child that was going to be born. John the Baptist, we're going to focus on God's faithfulness. And even when we fail, God is unfailing in his faithfulness. And so let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to really have this. truth cemented in our hearts and how it appropriately applies to our lives. So let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you so much for the testimonies of Scripture. That demonstrate that you are a God of unfailing and unwavering commitment to follow through with your word. Father, I pray that this morning as we look at the truths of Scripture found in Luke chapter 1 and as we look at As we look at the storyline of your continued faithfulness to bring about what you promised in the gospel, I pray that we would internalize these truths, that we would be deeply enriched Impressed by your commitment to follow through with what you've promised. As we sing these praises, I pray that our hearts would be knit together and that we would express tremendous gratitude and praise to you. Father, we praise you as a God who is just and infinitely wise, a God of perfect knowledge, a God who we can trust in everything that you I pray that this morning as we think about the complexities and challenges of our personal lives and the world that we live in, that you would be our rock and our fortress and you would provide the desperately needed Pray for your blessing on this service, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Acre Baptist Church, both in prair person and joining us live stream. Good morning, welcome. Welcome to visitors that are in person and joining us on live stream as well. We're going to go ahead and start our song service out this morning by turning in our red book all the way back to page six. All the way back to page six. And we're going to sing three verses of I sing the mighty power of God. Please. Stand with me the first, second, and the third, all three verses. I sing the mighty power of God that made the mountains rise. That spread the flowings is abroad and build the lofty skies I sing the wisdom that ordained us under the moonshine for that Chris Command and all the stars of egg. I sing the goodness of the Lord that will be not remote He formed the creatures with his word and then pronounced them good. Lord, how thy wonders are displayed Where'er I turn my eye if I survey the ground I tread Or gaze upon the sky on the land, there's not a plan for darling. But make my border go and follow my letters go for the Thy order from thy throat, while all that borrows lie from me is ever in my care And everywhere that can be our God art preserved. Amen. And now I'm gonna call a very quick audible, and I hope I don't get in trouble for this, but I was reminded of something, a long-standing tradition. That we've had. Saw it in the bulletin. It is July. It is now time for Christmas in July. Turn to page 199. Page 199. I think the song fits with the theme. Going along with the rest of the songs, but hark the Herald Angel sings Art of Herald Angel sing Gory to the newborn thing Is honored at her dragon child. Joy from all ye nations rise, join the cry above the skies, with angelic cause proclaim Christ is born in Math of Ark, the Herald Angel Singh, glory to another born king Christ my highest heaven adored, Christ the everlasting Lord Play and I behold him come of praying of Well in flesh by God heads, Hell in God has dealty Please let man with men to dwell. Jesus are Emu well. Park the Herald Angel sing Glory to the newborn can sing unless. Hail the heaven, Prince of Peace, Hail the Son of righteousness. My dad life to all he brings , prison with me again his way While he lays his glory by, for that man no more may die Born to raise us on the birth, born to give the second birth on the Herald Angel Singh Glory to the new born day. Amen. Please be seated and thanks for playing along. Ah, that took the sound guy By surprise, I'm sure. But uh we'll turn to page ninety-nine. We'll get back into the rhythm here. Page ninety-nine. Nine, uh Shelter in the Time of Storm. First, second, and the fourth. The Lord our rock in him we hide a shelter in the time of storm. Your whatever will be tied, a shelter in the time of storm. Oh, Jesus is a rock in a weary land A weary land, a weary land. Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a shelter in the time of storm. A shade by name, yet it's by night, a shelter in the time of storm Here 's a large price, a shelter in the time of storm. Oh, Jesus is a rock in a weary land A weary land, a weary land. Oh, Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a shelter in the time. Watch me on the chorus now. Oh rock divided refuge here, a shelter in the time of storm. Thou are ever helper near a shelter in the time of storm. Oh, Jesus is a rock in a weary land A weary land, a weary land, oh Jesus Israel in a weary land, a shelter in the time of warm. Amen. Good. Proving everybody's away. Got you on Christmas in July and on the course there. Really thankful for the musicians. They helped me out a lot. Okay, we're going to have our second scripture reading. We go to Luke chapter 1, verses 18 through 25 for this reading Follow along with me as I read. And Zacharias said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife well stricken in years. And And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God, and am sent to speak unto thee, and to show these these glad tidings. And behold, Thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season. And the people waited for Zacharias and marveled that he tarried so long in the temple. And when he came out, he could not speak unto them. And they perceived that That he had seen a vision in the temple. For he beckoned unto them and remained speechless. And it came to pass that, as soon as the days of his ministration were accomplished. he departed to his own house. And after those days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and hid herself five months, saying, Thus hath the Lord dealt with me In the days wherein he looked on me to take away my reproach among men. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. We will continue. With the song service now. We're going to turn to page 445. Page 445. Back here someplace, real quick. And we can't remain seated on this one. We're going to have to stand on the promises. So join me, stand with me, standing on the promises Of Christ my King through eternal ages let his races ring. Glory in the highest, I will shout and sing. Standing on the promises of God standing. Standing on the promises of God, my Savior. Standing, standing. I'm standing on the promises of God on the third. Standing on the promises of Christ the Lord, bow to him eternally by love strong Lord. Overcoming daily with the Spirit Sword, standing on the promises of God Standing, standing, standing on the promises of God, my Savior, standing And I'm standing on the promises of God on the last Standing on the promises I cannot fall, listening every moment to the spirit's call. Testing in my Savior as my all in all, standing on the promises of God Standing, standing, standing on the promises of God, my Savior. Standing, standing. I'm standing on the promises of God. Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. And I hope you are standing on Those promises. Alright, for the next song, we're going to go strictly to the screen or and sing a song that is very familiar. To most of us, I believe. I run to Christ. We're going to sing all three verses. I run to Christ. I run to Christ when chased by fear and by Find a refuge. His voice, I hear his words and words I run to Christ when torn by grief and find abundant peace I too had tears, he gently he speaks, thus joy and sorrow meet. I run to Christ when born by life and find my sorry press. Come on to Me he calls through strife, but he gives way to rest. I run to Christ when vexed by hell. And find a mighty arm. A devil please the scriptures tell he roars but I run to Christ when stalk by sin and find a sure escape He liver me, I cry to him, temptation yields to break I run to Christ when plagued by shame and find my wanted I poor God draft, he pleased my case, my advocates, and print Amen. That's good singing. sing this morning. I'd like to ask our children that are in our junior church age to be dismissed to the back for junior church. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn together. Luke chapter one and the text that we're looking at is verses eighteen down to verse twenty-five. But I think in order for us to appreciate what we're going to look at this morning I think we're going to have to go a little bit further before verse 18. And so let's go ahead and let's pick up in verse number 11. So Luke chapter 1, verse 11, and we're going to read down to verse 25. Here's what the word of the Lord says. And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. When Zecharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zecharias, for thy prayer is heard. Thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son. Thou shalt call his name John. And thou shalt have joy and gladness, and many shall rejoice at his birth, for he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor Strong drink, and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb. The next statement's very interesting. He says, And many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God. He shall go before him in the power, spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, and to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. Now that was the word that God sent through the angel to Zecharias. And now I want to to see how Zecharias responds to what God has clearly stated, which by the way is taking us back to the last thing that is recorded. In the book of Malachi. So we're talking about going from the end of the Old Testament period through the intertestamental time period, and now God is speaking and he refers back to that. Here's how Zechariah responds. It says, and Zechariah said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife well stricken in years. And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel that stand in the presence of God, and am sent to speak unto thee and to show thee these glad tidings. And behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak until the day that these things shall be performed. Because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season. The people waited for Zecharias and marveled that he tarried so long in the the temple, and when he came out he could not speak unto them, and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple, for he beckoned unto them and remained speechless. It came to pass that as soon as the days of his ministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house. After those days his wife Elizabeth conceived And hid herself five months, saying, Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in the days wherein he looked on me to take away my reproach among the When we look at this passage of Scripture, what we're going to see is that we can and should trust God even when we are in doubtful situations. What you could say is that when God's ways appear doubtful, that does not mean that God has stepped off of his throne, that he doesn't see our circumstances. that he doesn't have compassion on us in those moments, or that God's promises and God's character are now set to the side and they don't apply to our specific situation Even though that's true, there are times, however, that we feel like a man like Zecharias did in this moment. In fact, the reason that this passage of Scripture is recorded for us is to show us not just the details regarding John the Baptist's birth, but to demonstrate that God is fully trustworthy. And God's ultimate purposes, what he has determined he's going to accomplish, and what he has promised that he's going to accomplish. Those things are not dependent on our strength or our weakness when it comes to how we perceive God's working in our lives. To put it in a very simple way, just because we waver in moments does not mean that God's plans are thwarted. God is able to work in spite of our weakness In spite of our struggles, in spite of our moments of doubt. And what we're going to see in this passage of Scripture is that when Zecharias hears The promise that God gives. Zecharias, a believing man, clearly he's a righteous man before God. He's an Old Testament believer. He's anticipating that the Messiah is going to come. He believes that there's going to be a front runner to the Messiah. As soon as those details that he understands Stands in his head, that he's anticipating in his heart, as soon as they become personal to him, guess what happens? He stumbles. He struggles. In fact, to put it another way, that's exactly what happened to Abraham when God promises, I'm going to make of you a great name. And when Abraham hears the promise, it says he believed the Lord. It was accounted unto him as righteousness. Yet, after that moment, as the years went by, there came point Points in that storyline where Abraham, the believer, the justified man, the one who anticipates that God will fulfill his word, his promise, that man in moments demonstrated Weakness. And you say, well, what can we learn here? Well, we learn something about human nature, and we also learn something about God's power. And God's strength and God's faithfulness. In fact, as we look at this passage of Scripture, what we're going to see is that God wants us to trust Him with the specific details of our lives, even when it appears that God's good purposes are going to be thwarted and we can't understand God's ways. It may be in this moment as you sit in this congregation that there are things that you deal with on a personal level that if you ask, if someone's to ask you, do you believe that God is in control You say, absolutely I believe it. Have you trusted in the finished work of Christ? You say, absolutely, I've done it. Do you believe that God can mature you and grow you and bring good out of all circumstances? You say, absolutely I believe that. But deep down inside in that moment, guess what? You feel weakness You feel doubts. You feel this sense of question. We see that exact kind of thing happening here with this man Zecharias. So this morning I want us to look at how we can be a people who trust God when his ways seem doubtful. Let's look down at the first truth we find in the text, and that is that godly people can waver when tested. Now I'm not saying that they should waver when tested. I'm saying they can waver when tested You take the greatest examples in the Bible of believers that we set up on a pedestal and we say, oh, to have the faith of a dance. Daniel, oh, to have the face of a Joseph, oh to have the face of a David. We look at these great heroes of the faith, and guess what we will find? They were of the same substance that you and I are made of They failed at times. There were times that though their general disposition toward God was one of confidence and one of trust and one of firm conviction in God's goodness. And in God's ways, there were moments when they were put to the test that they were shaken. We see examples of this in the Bible. This is an example of a godly man. Who was shaken in a moment. Notice what it says in verse 18. It says, Zechariah said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? For I am an old man and my wife well stricken in years. Now we mentioned this last week, or not last week, but the week before, that Zecharias was a faithful In fact, when we looked back, the way that he was described was a man who was righteous before God. So that means that he believed that God was going to send the Messiah. He was Trusting in the coming Savior. So when God looked at him, he was declared righteous, justified, on the basis of the coming work of Christ and his faith in the coming work of Christ. Christ. He was saved just like you and I are. By grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, yet he was looking forward to the coming of Christ. We look back at the coming of Christ. And what he has done for us. We saw that it goes beyond just the fact that he was a believer in the Old Testament sense, though. This man, Zecharias, was walking in all the commandments and ordinances The Bible says that he was a blameless man. If you looked at Zecharias 's life, you would say there was nothing in him, not saying he's a sinlessly perfect man, but when you look at him, you say he's consistent. He's faithful. He's the kind of person that has spiritual maturity and depth and sp and stability. This is the kind kind of person I'd like to become as I get older and older in my Christian walk. This is the kind of man that he was. The kind of man that you'd expect to be in a position of spiritual leadership. There was nothing that stuck to his reputation where you go, this is a serious flaw. No, he was a godly man. We also see that he was a man who had confidence despite the difficulties that he faced during his lifetime. We talked about this a couple of weeks ago, but the fact is that he lived in a time where there was a lot of corruption And we could say the political and religious establishment of his day. Let's remember that it was the Sanhedrin that paid Judas to betray Jesus. So this is a group of people that were not necessarily godly people. He was a godly man. There were others who were godly individuals, but a lot of these people just had a position. And they loved their power, and they didn't want their position to be shaken. They were hypocrites. This man was faithful in that kind of a context. He was also faithful in a context where The people would have looked at him and said, You have no children. This man and his wife could have become bitter as they got older. They could have been discouraged because of the circumstances. They could have given up on God's ways, but that's not what they did. They were faithful, consistent, Anticipating the Messiah, and they were trusting in God's good hand on their lives. You say, Why was this significant? It's Significant because Zecharias was a man like the men and women that are mentioned in the book of Hebrews. I think of what it says in Hebrews 11:13. It says, These all died in faith, not having received the promise, but having seen them afar off and were persuaded of them and Embrace them and confess that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. Now we do not know if Zecharias was physically alive when the Lord Jesus Christ went Went to the cross, died for his sins, and rose from the dead. My guess is probably he wasn't. He lived to see The birth of his Savior, just like Simeon and just like Anna. But all of those Old Testament saints who anticipated the Savior, they lived, they trusted, they died, they died. didn't see the fulfillment of promise. This is the kind of man that he was. Yet what's so very interesting is he's now living at a time when the anticipation Participation is now going to meet the realization of God's faithfulness to his promises. But if you're living through the realization of God's faithfulness to his promises, Promises, guess what that means? You are going to be tested. Lots of people say, hey, we're living in the life The rapture can happen anytime, and I believe that. The Lord Jesus Christ is going to return. He's going to take his church. And then the tribulation is going to take place, and then God's going to establish his kingdom. And we anticipate that wonderful day when we see the millennial reign of Christ and then eternity after that. Yet think of it this way. Every person living at the time of the rapture will be living in a very tumultuous time. If you're going to talk about what's going to take place during the tribulation Period, the Antichrist isn't just going to pop on the scene after ten minutes, folks. That individual is going to be establishing power and preeminence and the ability to control And manipulate in the days leading up to the rapture of the church. There's a reason that Paul says, in the last days, perilous times will come. So as we see the promise, meaning the realization of God fulfilling the promises, the people who live through the Those events are tested, and they may believe in their heads, but in a moment they're going to be tested to how strong they believe those activities. That's what happened to Zacharias. It's like when Abraham says, I believe God can make of me a great nation, and 20 years later he says, I still believe it, but I'm not sure how this is going to happen. That's the sense. These were conscientious people, but they doubted God in the little details of what was going to happen. We see this in verses 13 through 18. Zecharias understood his physical limits. He believed that God was sending the redeemer. In fact, when that when that angel would have quoted from the prophet Malachi and quoted from the prophet Isaiah, Zecharias knew those prophecies. He would have understood this angel Angel is telling me that my wife is going to have a child who is going to fulfill the last thing stated by the prophet Malachi several hundred years ago. made the mental connection, but in his mind he goes, can this really happen? He wavered. It didn't mean that he stopped trusting in God. God's promise. It didn't mean that he had come to the conclusion, I don't believe this anymore. It simply means that in the moment he experienced weakness, he was shaken. Have you ever been there? Have you ever been there? You look at the promises of God, you look at the commands of Scripture, you see what God says about his character and his ways, and you see See the arrangement of circumstances in your lives, and all of a sudden Romans chapter 8, 28, all things were together for good to them that love God, to them were the called according to his purpose. You look at that, you go, I know it in my Head, but I don't feel it right here, right now. That is where this man found himself. That moves us to a second truth. The scriptures are actually full of Many examples of people who went through the exact same kind of wavering. Now, the reason that I draw your attention to this is not to say Say, hey, when you waver it's okay, it doesn't matter. That's not what I'm saying. But what I am saying is sometimes we need to understand that we are frail people I think of what the psalmist says. God remembers our frame. He knows that we are dust. And in the context when he talks about About our frame that we're dust, he says, God is compassionate and God is merciful and God is kind and God is patient. Sometimes we need to be reminded that when we are feeling pressed, there's a God in heaven who loves us and understands our frame, and he wants to come alongside of us and strengthen us. And he wants us to pass the test even when we struggle. This is why the scriptures tell us that we do not have a high priest who can't be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was attempted in all points like we are, yet without sin. And he says, Come boldly before the throne of grace, that you may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. He says, remember that the Lord Jesus Christ, the one that gives you access to the Father, he is a God of abundant grace. He understands by experience the sufferings of living in a fallen world. world and he can sympathize with your struggle, he can strengthen you in your struggle, he can take you into the very courtroom of God, and he can pour grace and strength and mercy in your time of need so that you You can be strengthened to face those challenges and walk through those struggles. I'm reminded of the psalmist who talks about God's ways being in the sea. I think it's Psalm 78. And he talks about the fact that the nation of Israel, when they left Egypt, they get to the Red Sea. And guess what happens when they're encamped by the Red Sea? They can see coming in the distance the dust clouds and the glistening of the army of the Egyptians coming to do what? To capture them to kill them in the desert, to bring back those who they wanted into Egypt, to bring them back to enslavement. And what does God do in that moment? As they're fearful And as they're saying, it would have been better to have stayed in Egypt rather than to die here in the wilderness. God says, Let me make a way through the sea for you. And they walk through on dry ground. And the psalmist wrote That God, like a shepherd who cares for his sheep, led them tenderly as his flock. That is the way that God deals with us. The scriptures are full of examples. I'll give you an example of Romans chapter 4. Listen to what it says. Talking about about Abraham, he says, who against hope believed in hope that he might become the father of many nations according to that which was spoken So shall thy seed be, and being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead. When he was about an hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. He said Staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God and being fully persuaded that what he had promised, he was able also to perform. Therefore, it was imputed to him for righteousness. Now I want us to stop for a moment, and I want us to recognize that in Romans chapter 4, we are seeing God's viewpoint of Abraham's faith. Faith. He states that this was a man who was not weak in faith. He did not consider his own body. He staggered not at the promise through He was strong in faith. He was fully persuaded of the promise of God. And God imputed righteousness unto him on the basis of the coming word Of Christ through faith. Abraham believed God, it was counted unto him as righteousness. So when Abraham was confronted with all the potential doubts and the promise of God and the character of God You know what he did? He chose to believe it. He chose to believe that God would send the Savior. Yet I want you to pause for just a moment and consider a couple of other details. Do you think there were moments when Abraham's faith was shaken? Do you think his faith was ever tested? And And he began to waver in the moment. When God looked at this man, he talks about his strong, mature faith. Yet what we will see in the deep Details of Scripture was that though he had trusted in the promise of God, he had demonstrated faith in the promise of God, there were moments along the way that he got A little bit shaken. And that didn't that didn't change his position at all. It didn't change God's ability to perform what he promised. It did not in any way thwart God's plan, but what we see is the weakness of this man Abraham. The reason I bring this to your attention is because there's a difference between unbelief and faith. There's also a difference between unbelief and doubt. They say, Pastor, I don't understand what you're talking about. Let me explain to you what I'm talking about. We talk about the word unbelief. We're talking about a person who is Unwilling to trust in what God has affirmed in spite of the compelling case that the scriptures are providing. So for instance, when you take The gospel to a person, and you walk through the law and you talk about sin, the person hears that, and there's this compelling argument, and the Spirit of God is convicting them of sin. And of righteousness and of judgment. And as they're feeling the weight of conviction in their heart, they say, No, I don't want this. That's unbelief. A person And as the gospel is coming to them, they hear that God has promised that He has sent His Son, Jesus died for their sins, He rose from the dead, the right Righteousness of Christ can be imputed to them if they will believe on the Son. And in their moments of hearing these truths, the convicting work of God is working on them. And you know what they do? They say, I don't believe it, I don't need salvation. Say, why is that? Unbelief. It's rebellion. Or a person is in the same position And they say, I don't think God could save me. The sin is too great. The weight is too high. In unbelief, they say, No. Unbelief does not mean that a person didn't face the the the weight of conviction. It doesn't mean that. It doesn't mean that a a compelling case has not been presented. What it means is that as the case is presented, as the conviction presses on their soul, they say, no, I don't want this. I don't believe it. That's unbelief. When Abraham was presented with the promise of God, guess what? He didn't do that. He believed. He embraced. He trusted. And so that moves to the opposite of unbelief, and that's. Faith. Faith is a willingness to trust in this compelling case despite some unanswered questions. I want you to realize when we talk about faith in the gospel, there are certain aspects of the presentation Presentation of the gospel that are still going to be left unanswered. When you talk about the resurrection, did you see Christ with your own eyes? The answer is no. Did you see him hang on the cross, the answer is no. You have to choose to depend on the witness that was presented 2,000 years ago. But let me tell you something. There's an incredibly compelling case that we should believe in Christ. You have all these Old Testament prophets that promise, predict, here's who's coming. And God reveals this over and over and over and over again. And whenever there's a wavering and whenever there's a testing, God demonstrates his faithfulness over and over and over again. At every key moment in the old Testament story of God's plan of redemption coming to that moment when he sends a savior in the world, God demonstrates faithfulness. Compelling case Hey, five hundred eyewitnesses of the resurrection? When I think about the incredible conversion of the Apostle Paul When I think about those apostles that are hiding for their life because they're terrified, and then they're preaching at Pentecost, and Peter, the one who denied the Lord three times. That same Peter stands up at Pentecost and he says, the Jesus that was foretold in the Old Testament, you crucified him. Where'd that confidence, that conviction, that fearlessness come from? It was the conviction that these in fact Were true. Peter was unashamed to proclaim the gospel. Why? Because he understood that this was true. Folks, there is an incredibly complex But that does not mean that there aren't certain areas that you will not be able to wrap your mind around completely. It's true. And so what is faith? Faith is the willingness to trust. The compelling case, even when some questions are still unanswered. There are things about God that you and I will never fully understand, and that's okay. It's not Necessary to embrace the gospel. Our minds are finite, God is infinite, there are secret things that belong to God, and we will never fully grasp them. But then there's a third category, and this is the one that I think sometimes we fail to recognize. We understand unbelief. The gospel has presented rejection. We understand faith, the gospel is presented, trust. But what are doubts? Doubts are when the person who believes The person who embraces, the person who's been declared righteous, is tested in a moment and they are shaken. And that can happen to some of the strongest believers. Look at Job. There was none like him in all the earth, one who feared God and Yet there were moments in that testing that Job experienced where he basically says, God, I don't understand. I don't know that you're good here. I don't know that you're being righteous here. He quite He doubted. He wavered in the moment. But we really see this distinctly in the life of this man Abraham. Why do we have a story about Hagar? Because there was a moment when Abraham, the man who trusted, wavered. Why was Sarah laughing when the angels came And said, You're going to have a child. Because she wavered. And the fact is that when we talk about unbelief and faith, doubts are those temporary fears that come to us, even though we Have trusted. And I want to remind you that when a believer begins to waver, God keeps them secure. God preserves his people, even though there are times That they waver. Listen carefully to what the scripture says in First Peter chapter 1. He says that we are kept by the power of God through faith and to salvation, ready to be revealed. Folks, when a believer, someone who has trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ, someone who has been declared righteous by God, when that believer gets pressed in a moment Moment and they begin to falter, guess what God does? He strengthens them , He matures them, He comes alongside of them. But what is it that ultimately keeps the belief Never safe is the power of God. Think about what it says in John chapter 10, verse 28. He says, My Father has given them to me, and no man is able to I think about what Paul writes in Romans chapter 8, where he says this in verse 29, he says Whom he did foreknow he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. Moreover, whom he predestinated them he called, and those whom he called he justified, and whom he justified And I love the next statement. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who Can be against us. It says, He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? When God justifies a person, he most surely will bring about the completion of what he has given them. They are going to stand righteous in Jesus for all of eternity because they are kept by the power of God. And I love this next statement. Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's election? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather hath risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who maketh intercession. For us. Let me summarize it with three simple statements. Saved by grace, through faith, kept by the power of God. Saved by grace through Faith kept by the power of God. And we see this example of Zecharias who believed and was kept but wavered. His salvation was secure Because God keeps it. In Genesis chapter 15, we see that Abraham believed God. Yet in Genesis chapter 16, what do we see See, we see that he doubted God. He tells his wife, go ahead and please tell them that you are my sister so that they won't kill me. Why did Abraham do that? It's because even though he believed, he wavered. We come to Genesis chapter 17. What do we see? We see the same kind of thing. In fact, this is what we read today. God emphasized a re-emphasized Forces that he's going to follow through with his promise to give Abraham a son of promise through his wife Sarah. Believed God in the big picture. He lived faithfully in light of those truths. Yet there were moments when his faith was tested, and in a personal way, he struggled. I want to remind you of what the scripture says in James 5:17. Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are. He prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not of On that year by the space of three years and six months. Let me remind you of what was going on in that passage. This man Elijah prayed, God, don't send rain. And you say Why? Because Israel was a disobedient people. He said, God, get your people's attention. Then he prays again and he says, God, send the rain. And what does God do? He sends the rain. And what's the next thing that we see? We see this man Elijah, a man of great faith, saying, God kill me. There's nobody else in this land that serves you. Just take me Say, how did this man go from here to here? He's a man who has a flesh. And you and I are just like that. But I want to remind you of what is probably the most encouraging of all the truths we'll think about this morning, and that is this human weakness does not work. Promises. When God promises, and when God's character is on the line, guess what? Human weakness does not stop what God's going to do It doesn't matter how powerful certain people may get in our world today. We may look at the movements of history and go, is God going to really follow through with the promises? That he gave in his word, and the answer is, of course he is. We will not see someone rise to power and stop God from doing what he's going to do. We're not going to go through a season of doubts and struggles and difficulties, and God abandons us and doesn't continue the work that He started in us. God is faithful. It says in verses twenty-three to twenty-five of the text, it came and it came to pass that as soon as the days of his ministration were accomplished. He departed to his own house, and after those days his wife Elizabeth conceived and hid herself five months, saying, Thus the Lord hath dealt with me in the days wherein he looked on me. You say, why is this significant? When Zecharias heard, in his mind he said, How can this be? And God said, Let me give you the proof that this is going to happen. You won't be able to speak. The sign that's going to validate the promise given is that you won't be able to speak But at the end of it all, what happens? God did it anyway. God accomplished his purposes. God's faithfulness to his promises and his plans And when we read the Old Testament, we see Moses stumbled at times, yet what does God do? He delivers his people out of Egypt. We see that David falls and David is a miserable failure at certain junctures, key moments in his leadership as the King of Israel, but what does God do? He still sends the Messiah through the lineage of David. We say that the nation of Israel gets sent into the far country. They end up in Babylon as captives in Babylon. But what does God do? He brings his people back to the land that he has promised them Them. We see during the time of Nehemiah that the walls are broken down and destroyed, and there are enemies who don't want the rebuilding of the walls of Jerusalem, and they don't want the rebuilding of the temple. But what What happens? God uses this very powerful Persian ruler to pay for and to protect the people while they rebuild Jerusalem. Even the very temple that the Lord Jesus Christ walked through during his earthly ministry was built by Herod. The point is this. It doesn't matter who rises to power. It doesn't matter how complicated things appear to be. God is faithful. And God will do what he says he will do. And you and I need to hold fast to God's faithfulness in those moments where we waver. It's God's grace that accomplishes his good purposes. We should never doubt him, but when we do, he is faithful To accomplish his will in spite of our weakness. God demonstrates that he is sovereign and reminds us that we are not the center of the story. He is the center of the story. It makes us grateful that he actually allows us to be a part of what he's doing in the world. When you lead a person to Jesus When you are used by God to help a person who is faltering get back on track, don't you ever take credit for that. Don't ever allow that fact that God used you as a simple tool in a moment get into your head. You are a fork. You are a knife. Your a spoon that God uses to accomplish his purposes in the world. We are instruments. We get to be a part of God's work. And it's an incredibly glorious thing. But you know what it does? It reminds us that we probably get in the way more than we contribute. But that doesn't Does not change what God is going to do. Our wavering does have consequences. Zecharias is dead Zecharias was not able to speak until it was time to name his child And there are times that we waver, and guess what? There will be consequences for what we've done. But God will not, God will not set aside his purposes, and God will not God will not be thwarted in what he plans to do. God's plans will remain intact. I want to encourage you this morning with a very simple truth. Our God is trustworthy. If you've never trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, there is a compelling case in Scripture that tells you you're a sinner, you deserve God's judgment, Jesus died for your sins. He rose from the dead. His death and resurrection are the fulfillment of promises made for thousands of years. And that sacrifice, the gospel, was given so that you can be forgiven. If you will trust in what Jesus did for you on that cross, God will forgive your sins, declare you righteous, give you An eternal life that will never, never fade away. So I want to encourage you if you've never trusted the Lord Jesus Christ, embrace the gospel today. Don't leave this place without trusting in the Son. But on the other side, I want to. Bring this encouragement to us as believers. If you're wavering with doubt, with fear, with discouragement If you're feeling like Zecharias when the angel said, Your wife is going to have a child's, the same way that Sarah felt when God told her, you You are going to have a child in your old age. When we begin to have those little thoughts that creep in our mind of doubt, I want to remind you of something. God Is faithful. Don't doubt him. He wants to come alongside you and strengthen you. He understands your human weakness and he will lovingly continue to work in you to accomplish his purposes. And that is an incredible comfort for all of us. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to Take these truths and really cement them deeply in our hearts today. Our Father in heaven, I thank you so much for every person that is both physically here and also joined us on the live stream. You are truly a faithful God. We can rely on you, depend on you no matter the complication of circumstance. No matter how difficult things may appear in the world, we can trust you. We can rest in your faithfulness. Father, I pray that you'd help us this morning to walk out of this room, having been strengthened, encouraged, blessed by the way that you continue to work in spite of Zechariah. I pray that you'd help us to be strong in faith. Help us to be obedient. Help us to rely deeply upon you and to mature and to be Grow through these challenging circumstances. Father, I pray that we would grow in maturity and depth as you allow us to be tested according to your perfect will in our lives. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like you to bow your heads and close your eyes for just a moment before we go to our closing hymn. And I want to ask this question: is there a person here that This morning that would say, Pastor, I don't know for certain that I'm saved. I've never trusted the Lord Jesus as Savior. You talked about the gospel. And I personally am right now in the position of un Unbelief. I've never trusted in the Lord Jesus. Today I need to trust Christ. Is there anybody here that would quietly raise up your hand and say, Pastor, that's me? I'm not going to call you out, I'm not going to make you stand up. I just want to take a note of that so I can try to meet with you and take the Bible and show you, help you to understand what Christ has done for you and how you can trust anybody like that at all. Say, Pastor, that's me. I've never trusted Christ, that's what I need to do. My second question is there a person here to say, Pastor, I am a believer, but man, I have been tested lately. I needed to be Reminded that God is faithful, that his grace is available, and I needed to be comforted by the fact that even though I have wavered, God has not left me, and he continues to work in my life. Is there anybody that would raise your hand and say, Pastor, that's me? I needed to hear that today. I'm sure that there are many folks that in your heart you say, that's me. I so desperately need to hear that. Let's bow for prayer and ask the Lord to strengthen us through what we have learned this morning. Our Father in heaven, thank you so much for this text of scripture that gives us insight. And to human weakness, and contrast it with the faithfulness of a wonderful God who promises and is fully Trustworthy. I pray that you'd help us when we waver to turn back to you with confidence. Father, when you continue to work in spite of our failures, may we be very grateful. I pray for those individuals that this morning acknowledged I needed this, I'm struggling. I pray that you would strengthen and encourage them through this truth, it's a scripture, and help them to Continually remind themselves of these things so that their hearts will be strengthened. We ask that you'll bless our fellowship as we close. I pray that we would have sweet Christian fellowship and as we uh are able to Able to come back this evening, I pray that we would have a sweet time in your word, sharing testimonies of your faithfulness, singing praise to you, and being reminded of your wonderful ways in our lives. Okay, if you could let's turn together in a hymn books to hymn number 44. And the song that we're going to close with is To God be the glory. And the fact is that when we think about this passage in front of us, Zecharias isn't the one to be praised here. It's God. When Zecharias said, How can this be? God said, I'll show you. And we should be thankful that God continues to work in us even when we go through these moments of weakness. Let's stand together and let's sing verses one, two, and three together of to God be the glory. Let's really sing it out and praise to the Lord, please. To God be the glory, great things he has done So loved he the world that he gave us his son, who yielded his life and atonement for sin. And open the light gate that all may go in. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord. Let the earth hear his voice Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice. Oh, come to the Father through Jesus the Son and give him the glory great things he hath done on the second Oh, perfect redemption, the purchase of blood to every believer, the promise of God I list offender who truly believes that moment from Jesus a pardon received Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let me first hear his voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord. Let the people rejoice will come to the Father through Jesus the Son. And give him the glory. Great things he had done on the last. Great things he had taught us. Great things he had done And pray for rejoicing through Jesus Christ on dream Well we our wonder are transport when Jesus we speak. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear his voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord. Let the people rejoice. Welcome to the Father through Jesus the Son. Can get him the foregrade thing she has done. Wonderful, wonderful song. Uh wanna remind you teenagers uh who are going to the wilds, we have a a meeting with uh teens and parents after the service. Also tonight, we have uh sing inspiration so please make sure that you uh are able to come to that. I don't think I mentioned, but we do have a business meeting next week. That's our quarterly business meeting. So uh the agenda is posted and uh we'll make sure that we pass out the financials after the morning service so you can look over that in preparation for the meeting. Also, if you can come back tonight, we'd love to have you. We're going to continue our study. in the book of Ecclesiastes, and we're going to look at, as always, interesting topics in Ecclesiastes. Uh we're going to be talking about the failure of human government and how as long as we live In a fallen world, we are going to have problems at the top. So it's going to be an interesting uh passage for us to look at. And I want us to look at that in light of the fact that Christ's kingdom It's going to be established one day, a kingdom of righteousness for all of eternity. And we should be a people who long for God's righteous, eternal kingdom. And we live as strangers and pilgrims. In a fallen world, and uh we have a godly perspective in light of the challenges that we live through. So let's remember that. Uh if you can come back tonight, I I hope you'll be able to do that. We'll be looking at a very practical passage of scripture. Ralph, can you close us in prayer, please? And if you're visiting, it's good to have you. I hope you'll stop by and uh greet greet me and uh look forward to seeing you. Let's pray. Our gracious Lord and Heavenly Father, we do thank you for the time that we were able to gather around your word today. Lord, your word teaches us that if we keep our eyes on you, we can walk on water. And we pray that your spirit would go with us this week, keeping our eyes on you. Lord, let us go out of this place saying it was good to be in the Lord's house today. And give us opportunity throughout the week to share that. We give you all the honor and glory in Christ's name. Amen