Okay, well if you have your Bibles, I'd like to ask you to take them and let's all turn together to the 11th Psalm. We're in the 11th Psalm and we're looking today at verses 1 through 7. That's the entire psalm. And I don't know if you're familiar with that song that we just sang. I remember when I was um in high school going to Christian camp and one of the songs that I remember them singing when we were at camp was the song there. In fact I think it was one of the specials that they would do. And in fact, this is a beautiful, beautiful song, uh just expressing really the way that we go through the the Christian life and there are t some times that really we are just absolutely overwhelmed with circumstances. We are overwhelmed with the things that are going on in our lives, the things that we can't control, things that you know maybe we could have control, but we no longer can. And the truth is that there are times that we just feel deeply overwhelmed. And that song right there expresses how we can find peace and we can find comfort, we can find security in God. And the reality is that at a time like this, I think that that's the message we need to be reminded of. There is a lot of chaos, there is a lot of difficulty in the world around us, but there's a God who is Steady. He is consistent. He is a rock. He is a fortress. And really what we're going to see this morning as we look at the 11th Psalm is that we can trust God even when we look at society that's around us and say, what is going on? I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand this morning, but I want you to think this is a rhetorical question. How many of you would say in your mind, I look at this country, I look at our culture, and I say, what has happened to this land? What has happened to the land of liberty, the land of the free and the home of the brave? What has happened to a nation that used to have prayer and schools? A nation where people used to come together a place where you could at least watch a football game and you could actually root with people from totally different backgrounds and everything got set to the side and you forgot about all of the chaos and difficulties of life. Can't even do that today, can we? We have a society that is broken. We have a society that has a lot of troubly things going on. But I want you to realize that that's the reality we face We don't have to walk out of here without hope. In fact, when I say we don't have to walk out of here without hope, I believe we can walk out of this room today having been encouraged. and having been strengthened no matter what's going on outside of these walls. And really the way that we can come out of here with hope and encouragement is because of what we're going to read in the verses that are before us this morning. We're going to be reminded that there's a God in heaven who is righteous. And he's not just righteous in the sense that he is a righteous being, but he is actively righteous in what he does. He's actively righteous in how he actually manages this universe that he's created. And this morning we're going to be reminded of that today. So let's look down in our Bibles at these verses we find in the 11th Psalm. This is what the scriptures say, in the Lord, but I might How say ye to my soul, Flee as a bird to your mountain? For lo, the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow upon the strings, that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart. If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? Is that how you feel this morning? Is that how you feel? That's how the psalmist felt when he wrote these words. If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? And he says, the foundations are being destroyed. And I don't know what I can do. He goes on to say this, he says, the Lord is in his holy temple The Lord's throne is in heaven, his eyes behold, his eyelids try. The children of men, the Lord trieth the righteous, but the wicked in him that loveth violence, his soul hateth. Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire, brimstone, and horrible tempest. This shall be the portion of their cup. For the righteous Lord loveth righteousness. His countenance doth behold the upright. This morning, as we read these verses, the thing that we see expressed is both the difficult reality of living in a deteriorating society as well as the source of encouragement and strength that we can experience when we see the frustrations of that deterioration. You know, in my lifetime, I've seen a tremendous change in the culture that I call my own culture. But I'm a lot younger than many of you in this room. Some of you in this room can remember a very different culture when you're a child, when you're a teenager. when you are starting your family than the culture that you're looking at today. I want you to realize as we watch a society in decline, when we talk about the morality and the foundations of our society, There are a lot of frustrations that accompany that for God's people. There are a lot of fears that accompany that. There's a lot of times that we just flat out become angry and we say, God, why are you allowing this to take place? in my lifetime. Why couldn't you just let it go for another couple of generations and then let that take place? I think about The man that had a long, long, godly reign, Hezekiah. At the end of Hezekiah's life, he was going to die. And he pleaded with God, just give me some more time. Let me live a little longer. I have been faithful. I have done righteously in my lifetime. And you know what God did? God decided to give him extra time. He squandered that time. And at the end of that time, God says, here's what's going to happen to this nation. And you know what his response was to God? Well, at least it won't happen in my lifetime. Sometimes we feel that way, don't we? But once you realize something, no matter what's on the horizon, and by the way, we can be dim and gloom. The reality is we don't know if that's really what's going to take place. It could be that God sends a great awakening to our nation. It could be that churches are thriving 20 years from now. We have no idea what's going to take place. We can look at trajectory at the moment, but we serve a God who is sovereign and can do things that are quite remarkable and are quite beyond our ability to fully comprehend. We see that he did that in his own people, the nation of Israel. But I want you to realize no matter what's going on, we have a rock that we can go to. We have a source of encouragement, a source of strength, a source of hope, and that is God. And God wants us to learn to rest in his righteousness. We can do that. He wants us to do that. And this morning we're going to look at how we can actually do that. The first truth we're going to find in the passage before us is that we need to be realistic about society. In verses 1 through 3, notice the way that he expresses this. He says, In the Lord put I my trust. How say ye to my soul, flee as a bird to your mountain? For lo, the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow upon the string, that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart. If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? There are three facts that are laid out in these verses about the wicked in society I want you to realize that we talk about culture, we talk about society, we talk about nation, we need to recognize that we're always looking at a mixed group of people. Mixed in the sense that there are always in every society some people that God has who worship him and serve him and love him. I think about the nation of Israel in some of its darkest moments. And Elijah was there on the backside of the desert and he's complaining and he's saying, God, I'm the only person in this land that worships and serves you. And God says, That's not true, Elijah. There are many people, multitudes of people. They're quietly serving me. They're not in the majority, but you know what? They are doing what's right. They've never bowed the knee to Baal. They are faithful. They are doing what's right. I have my people even in the darkest moments. God has his people. No matter what goes on in our land, God has his people. He has people and churches just like this all over this land right now. who are meeting together, they are praying, they are worshiping, they are singing, they are reading the scriptures, they are submitting themselves to the Lordship of Christ. They are redeemed and they are looking for a city who has found who hath no foundation, whose builder and maker is God. And they're living for that moment. There are many, many people in this land today that are just like that. But there are also people in every society. Who hate God. They hate the thought of God. They hate his authority. They hate his laws. They hate what he calls righteousness. And what he calls good. They have twisted and they have perverted his ways. And in this passage, he's expressing that there are people in society who God calls wicked. And when those people begin to become influential and powerful, they can do terrible things in a society And he lays out three very simple facts about the wicked in any society. The first fact is this the wicked in society have disdain for those who trust God. In the very first verse, he says, In the Lord put I my trust. He says, I serve God. I care about what's right. I'm trusting him. Yet there are people who say, go and flee as a bird to your mountain. They say, We don't value you, we don't respect you. You're defenseless. The only thing you can do is run and hide because we want to destroy you. And so he basically says in this statement, flee as a bird is what they say. It's a statement of disdain. It's a taunt. It's a type of insult. I think of the story of David and Goliath. And David is going out to meet Goliath, and this is what Goliath said when he saw David. It says, when the Philistine looked upon and saw David, he disdained him, for he saw that he was a youth and ruddy and of a fair countenance. And the Philistine said to David, Am I a dog that you came to me with staves? And the Philistine, curse David by his gods. And the Philistines said to David, Come to me and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the air and to the beasts of the fields. Does not sound like Saul had that this man, Goliath, had any respects or any fear of David. In his mind, David was a defenseless child who could do absolutely nothing to defend himself against such a massive soldier. And what's interesting is David says, This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee. And he says later, and all the battles, the people recognize that there is a God in Israel And they shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into my hands. And so what you see in these verses is David, who is fearless. And he is bold and he says, you can't defy God and his armies. And you have Saul, or not, I keep saying Saul. You have Goliath who well Goliath Saul got like that too, you know. But you have Goliath, he's looking at David, he's saying, You can do nothing. Well the psalmist here expresses there are people that are saying, go fly to the mountains and hide. You're like a little bird who can't do anything. Total disdain. I hate to say this, but it's true. There are people in our culture right now who have absolute disdain For us sitting here. They absolutely do. There's a reason that in some states in our country that are in no more difficulties than we are when it comes to the pandemic we're experiencing. That people are being threatened if they come into a church building and worship. There's a reason for that. It's because there are people in power who have absolute disdain for the church of God. And of absolute disdain for God's people. And we need to recognize that in the midst of the encouragements, there is a reality that is laid out in the text. There are people like that. The second fact we see is that the wicked in society actively seek to harm those who trust in God You know, it's not just that there's this disdain, but there is not only that disdain, but there's a desire to crush God's people. To actually prove that they have no right to continue to do what they do. The way that he expresses it in these verses, verse 2 says, the wicked bend their bow. They make ready their arrow upon the string that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart. The wicked have no fear of God They don't regard his righteousness. They don't regard his people. They in arrogance say, I don't care who these people are. I don't care who they represent. I don't care who they're trusting. We want them crushed. It's not that they want to just allow people to peaceably do what they do. They want to actually eliminate those from society. I want you to realize there are people that think that way, even in our country. I'm not saying that's the majority. I'm not saying that's a lot of people in power. I'm saying that there are people that think that way, though There are certain cultures and certain societies that have seen over periods of their history where men and women who had the power to do this did it, and the Christian church suffered. John fifteen, he says it this way If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you If you were of the world, that world would love his own. But because you're not of the world, I've chosen you out of the world, therefore the world ha hateth you. Remember the word that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will persecute you And he just lays it out. The psalmist says it's not just a disdain, but there's an active desire to crush the godly. In fact three, the society is in a society in perpetual decline. There's nothing that we can do to permanently reverse the decline. This is a really interesting statement. He says, if the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? He's basically saying in every society there are certain fundamental principles that make that society strong, that help that society to thrive. Things like the home and the family, people's character, whether or not they're going to live and think and act righteously and justly. The reality is when the foundations of society are crumbling, you cannot reverse the tides. Nobody in this room has the power to reverse the tide. But I want to remind you of something before we get all demon gloom. God has left us here to be salt and light. Matthew 5. 13, he says, you're the salt of the earth. You know what salt does? It preserves. One of the reasons that God leaves his church in society as it deteriorates and as it struggles is because the church is there to preserve. He uses the term light in Matthew 5. 14. He says, Ye are the light of the world. A city that set on a hill cannot be hid. As things get darker and darker in a society, the light of the church becomes brighter and brighter and brighter. You know what's amazing we look at church history, we will see that there are times that societies declined immensely. And in those times, the church shined brighter than ever. And God used the church to reverse the tide for a Caesar. In fact, I want to give you some examples where God brought massive revivings to lands. In Psalm 85, verse 6 he says, Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice? This is the prayer that we should have to God. As we see the societal changes that are going on, as we experience frustrations and fears, we need to cry out to God and say, God, revive your work in this land. And I want to remind you, there are times that God does that. Ezekiel 11, he talks about how he's going to take a nation. The nation of Israel that was rebellious and broken and spiritually dead. A valley of dry bones is how he expresses it in Ezekiel. And in ver in chapter eleven, verse 19, he says, I will give them one heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take the stony heart of flesh and give them a heart of flesh. That they may walk in my statutes and keep my ordinances and do them. They shall be my people and I will be their gods. I want you to realize if God is going to do that with the nation of Israel one day, That it is well within his power to do it in any people group he chooses at any time he chooses. God is able to come to a land that's going through tremendous turmoil and darkness and brokenness and reach down in his grace and begin to revive his church again. He could stir up the hearts of his people. He can bring people under the convicting work of the Holy Spirit, where people repent and they trust Christ, where disciples are being made. And families are doing the work God's called them to do to raise up a generation in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. God can do that. He's done it throughout church history. There are many examples of darkness, and God works in those lands in amazing ways. I want you to think about the continent of Europe in the 1500s. We talk about Europe living through the dark ages. For hundreds of years, there was unbelievable spiritual darkness on the continent of Europe. You know, the gospel went out throughout the uttermost parts of the world during the first century, but there was a time when there was tremendous darkness in Europe. And in 1517, a very imperfect man Who didn't get everything right but understood one very important truth that justification is by faith alone in Christ It was not his desire to stir controversy in Europe. His desire was to get a conversation going within the establishment of the day. And so in Latin, he nails 95 theses to a door in Latin because he wants the elites to discuss what he said. And at that time, it was an incredible movement of God in Europe. You cannot imagine how the Protestant Reformation Changed, unbelievably changed the course of human history. And it was according to God's perfect timing. God allowed that the Word of God would be translated all throughout the world during that time period. That the gospel would be preached clearly again for many, many generations. Many of the blessings that you and I have enjoyed in this land are a result, a direct result of something that happened over 500 years ago in Europe, believe it or not. And it's not just we have been the blessing, receive the blessings of that. But the reality is all throughout the world God has stirred up churches and missionaries have been sent all over the world as a result of the preaching of the gospel that took place during the Protestant Reformation. And by the way, I'm saying an imperfect movement , yet God mightily used it. I think about the land that we live in, the United States of America. In the early to mid-1700s, there was a lot of decadence in our lands. You know, a lot of times we we think that in our history There was always a God-centeredness, but the reality is if you read the stories and the writings of men and women who lived in the early 1700s, you will find that they despaired because of the decadence that was taking place in the American colonies. And God in his tremendous kindness sent a tremendous awakening to the Americas in the 1730s and 40s. In fact, many historians will say That what separated America and the Reformation or the the what took place when we declared independence as a nation in the 1770s, what separated us from what took place in France Where there were guillotines in the streets was the Great Awakening. I want you to realize that though we can look at tremendo look at the circumstances of life with tremendous despair at this moment. There are generations who can speak to us today who saw the same kinds of things. Yet God moved in their lifetime. He did it. He did it in his grace. He did it in his kindness. He did it in his mercy. He stirred up the church. He brought many people to repentance and faith. Those nations and those cultures were literally preserved for generations because God moved in very key moments in their history. A lot of us might say, well, I think the Lord's coming in 2020. Well, there are people in 1730 that thought that. And here we are, almost 300 years later. Thinking the same way. We do not know when the Lord will come. It could be that He sends a mighty movement in our generation, and we should pray that He does I think about the 1850s, Hudson Taylor in China. Read the story of Hudson Taylor. One man, how God used him in that land. We think of China, we think of what it is today, but I want you to realize prior to World War I and II, the Christian church was very strong in China. Think about Adam Aram Judson in the eighteen twenties, how he went to India and then to Burma. Think of Jonathan Goporth who went to Korea in the eighteen eighties. Do you realize that more missionaries are being sent out of Korea today than the United States of America? That is my understanding. When I was in Ghana, I met Korean missionaries who were planting churches in Ghana. We think about the Welsh revivals in the early 1900s in the UK. The truth is that when God moved in these time periods God blessed not just those generations, but many generations to follow, but we're reminded of something. There's still a constant deterioration of society. God moves, God preserves, he revives his work, and society declines. And then God steps in again and he does his work and then society declines. And we see this cycle. Repeated over and over and over again. And so I want us to keep a balance in our minds that God can move and we should plead with Him to do so, and we should make sure we're in a position that He would use us. But we're also reminded of another fact. We personally, by ourselves, are powerless to change anything. It's the truth. We could talk about the power of our votes. And our votes are significant. But we by ourselves don't have the power to change anything. And you say, well, that's kind of depressing. If the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do? I want to remind you of another truth, though. We need to remember that God's still in control. The reason that we can talk about God reviving a society, the reason we can talk about the Protestant Reformation, the Great Awakening, tremendous missionary movements in church history, the reason we can talk about those things is because though individuals have no power to reverse the tide, there's a God in heaven who steps in in history at key moments and says, I'm going to preserve my people in those lands. I'm going to show mercy. I'm going to show grace. I'm going to show kindness. We are here today because we are still living on the fumes of past works of God in this nation. And so in verses four through six it says, The Lord is in his holy temple, the Lord's throne is in heaven, his eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men. The Lord trieth the righteous, but the wicked in him that loveth violence, his soul hateth. Upon the wicked he shall rain snares and fire and brimstone and horrible tempest. This shall be the portion of their cup. I want to move quickly through some of these details. The first thing he emphasizes is God's position, his authority. He's accessible. He says that he's in his holy temple. And when he talks about the temple, he's talking about the location where God meets with his people. But he also talks about how he is the supreme judge. The Lord's throne is in heaven. He sits on his throne. to rule and to reign as king, to establish justice, to demonstrate his authority. We see the position of God. In the midst of everything that we're going through, and however you're feeling at the moment, God's still on his throne. 100% He hasn't left it. The fact that he's not moving at the rate you would expect him to, or that you want him to, or that you're pleading with him to does not mean he stops. He's there. Think about his posture, his attitude towards people. In verse 4, it says he's watching, his eyes behold It says he's prepared to take action, his eyelids try. God not only is there, but he sees. And he's determined to take action. And the third thing he mentions is his providence, the way he governs from that position. He allows his children to be tested so they can be found approved. You might say, why does God allow us to suffer? And I can't give you all the answers for that. But I can tell you at least one very profound fact God allows us to suffer because he wants us to be found approved. He says that he, the Lord, trieth the righteous. And he's talking about what he did with Abraham. He's talking about godly people who went through very difficult times in life. And when they passed through those trials, God said, You've been found faithful. And God's testing us as his people in these days. He wants us to be found faithful. He's not testing us because he wants us to fail. He's not testing us because he wants us to not pass the test. He's testing us because he wants us to demonstrate that in fact we are growing and we are maturing and that we trust him. He wants us to be found approved. But there's another side to how God governs. And that's that God stands against the wicked. His wrath is building towards the wicked, and he will eventually pour out his swift and appropriate justice. He says, the wicked and him that loveth violence, his soul hateth. You might say, I thought that God was only a God of love. If you love what is right, you hate what is evil. If you love righteousness, you hate injustice. If God is looking at his people being persecuted by the wicked, do you think he's just going to look down and say, well, it's okay, I won't worry about it? As he looks down at compassion at his people who are suffering, he says, I will judge those who persecute my people. The same people that have no fear of God, that have disdain for God's people, the same people who are actively working to undermine God's work and to destroy what He's doing. God will swiftly judge them in his appropriate time. I think of the story of Sodom and Gomorrah You know what's amazing about that story? God allowed this man Lot to live with his family in that city. We could argue about whether or not that was a good or bad decision. I think there's a lot we could say about that. But God did allow there to be light and salt in the city. And God said, I'm going to go and I'm going to destroy the city. And this is what Abraham says. Would you do it if you would have just this many people in there? And he comes back, how about this many? And how about this many? He finally says there's just ten people in that city, will you spare it? And God says, Yes. I will do it for ten. But there's There weren't ten. The reality is God is very reluctant to judge people. But He has to do it because He's just And we see that laid out in this text. The third truth and the final, or the third we'll we'll mention uh third and fourth quickly is this We need to remember that God governs righteously. In verse 7, he says, The righteous Lord loveth righteousness, his countenance doth behold the upright. Three very simple statements that are so important. The first is that he is righteous. God does what's right, folks. If we had all the information and we could actually process all the information, we would have to conclude that what God did was right. The problem is we don't have all the information, and we don't have the ability to process all the information if we had all the information. So we trust God with what He says. He's called the righteous Lord, He's the just one. Verse 7 says that he loveth righteousness. God not only is righteous, but he loves righteousness. He loves justice. He loves what is right. When God created this world, he created it with a purpose. We're going to talk about this tonight. When God looks down at his creation and things function the way they're supposed to, it pleases him. When God looked at the creation and he said, it's very good. He enjoyed what he made. It brought him pleasure. It brought him delight. It brought him joy. When God looks down at what is righteous, it pleases him. When God's people walk in a holy way, it pleases the Lord. He enjoys it because it's the way it was supposed to be. And thirdly, he's kindly disposed to the righteous. In verse 7, it says, His countenance doth behold the upright. Basically, it's a way of saying God speaks face to face with a people that he loves. It's going to be a day we're going to stand before the Lord and we're going to see him as he is. Actually see the face of our Savior who died for our sins, who redeemed us unto himself And basically what the psalmist is expressing is while God knows what's going on, he is merciful, he is compassionate, he is kindly disposed towards those who are suffering. You might be sitting here this morning and you say, Pastor, I am beyond overwhelmed. I'm angry. I'm fearful. I don't even know how to express how I feel because it's so complicated. I want you to realize that God looks down at you with tremendous compassion right now. He really does. He cares about you. When you suffer reproach for his name, he cares about you He looks down with compassion. And you know what the psalmist does? He says, This is my God. This is his character. These are his ways. So the question we ask is this, how do we respond in the midst of these circumstances? Here's the final fact. We need to trust God because of who he is. The first thing that's stated in Psalm 11 and the last thing that's stated in Psalm 11 really is the heart and soul of the entire Psalm. He says this In the Lord put I my trust, for the righteous Lord loveth righteousness, his countenance doth behold the upright Now, the reason that I put that there is because I want you to realize everything stated in the middle is important. But the main point of the whole psalm is to say, I trust God because He's righteous. Because he loves what is right and he cares about me personally. And so I know I can trust him in the midst of these very difficult circumstances. I'm going to ask you this morning. Is that what you need? That's what I need. Is that what you need? Trusting God because He's righteous, He loves righteousness, and His countenance doth behold the upright. Are you troubled by what you see in America today? Maybe it's time to just turn off social media for a little while. Let the head clear, because all of the stuff that's going on in our world today, it's in fact it's very troubling. We don't really have the capacity to process every bad circumstance in everybody's life and it's put on my Facebook feed. I don't have the pot the the capability to process all that. I don't know that God designed us to carry such loads. We can be very troubled. And I want to encourage you to recognize that this passage tells us That God is a rock and a fortress. He is a defense to his people. He's righteous. He loves what's righteous. And he loves the righteous. That means if you're his child, he deeply loves you. He's compassionate towards you. You might be afraid about what's going to happen come November. And beyond. But I want to encourage you, it's in God's hands. We need to take heart to what the psalmist tells us. I'm going to read it again. In the Lord put I my trust, for the righteous Lord loveth righteousness. His countenance doth behold the upright. Let's ask God to help us to learn to rest in his providential care. Let's bow together. Father in heaven, I believe that you put this text before us today because we desperately need to be reminded of the facts that are here. It's true that there's a lot to be troubled about today, but it's also true that there's more to be encouraged by. You are in control. You do love us. You do defend us. Father, we're reminded that in some of the darkest moments in human history, you moved more than at any other time. In the history of the Christian church. We are reminded that you most certainly can do that now. And so we plead with you to do that. Will you not revive your work again in this land? Revive your people. Father, send a powerful movement of your spirit in our midst that people would be converted That Christians would be strengthened and emboldened in what is right, that we would be salt and light in our communities. Father, help us To be used of you to preserve this society. Father, establish again the foundations May we see righteousness in our land. May we see your people being used mightily in this generation. Father, help us to trust you, recognizing that you are righteous. That you love what is righteous, and in fact, you love your people dearly. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you have a hymn book, I'd like to ask you to turn to hymn 299 for those of us that uh don't. I guess that's most of us. We'll look up at the screen and I want us to sing what is a really powerful ancient hymn, and I say ancient hymn. It was actually written during that time period of the Great Awakening. It was w written by one of the Wesley brother brothers. And so I'd like us to stand together. We'll sing Arise, My Soul, Arise, Him two nine nine. We will sing the first and the last verses together. I do want to remind you If you need to talk to me about something, you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. I want to be an encouragement and a blessing to you if I can be. I know that a lot of people are under pressure and a lot of people are very discouraged. And I want to pray for you, encourage you. I can't fix the world we're in. Obviously I just stated that. Neither can you. But we can turn to the one who's it who's got it in his hand It is his worlds. So let's sing together this wonderful hymn, hymn two nine nine, Arise my soul rise.