And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 Peter chapter 3. 1 Peter chapter 3 and the text before us is verses 8 to 14. First Peter chapter three, verses eight to fourteen. Here's what the scriptures say. Finally Be all of one mind, having compassion one of another. Love as brethren. Be pitiful. Be courteous. Not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing, but contrary-wise blessing. Knowing that ye were hereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing. For he that will love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak no guile Let him eschew evil and do good, let him seek peace and ensue it. For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, his ears are open unto their prayers, but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. And who is he that will harm you, if ye be followers of that which is good? But, and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye, and be not afraid. I'd like to ask us to bear our hearts together in prayer, to ask the Lord to bless our time together as we study his word. And also just to uplift to the Lord some of the burdens that are being carried even in our room as we sit here this morning. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, we come into your presence and we recognize the tremendous privilege that we have today to call ourselves Christians. That we stand in your presence, forgiven, declared righteous, cleansed, and it's all because of the work of Jesus We thank you for his cross that paid the penalty for our sins. We thank you for the empty tomb where he triumphed over death and demonstrated his power and his might and that you truly had accepted. His sacrifice on our behalf. Father, we are so grateful that we serve a risen Savior and we worship him today as our Savior and our Lord. Father, we think about each person in our midst today. Father, every person in this room is very important to you. You care about their burdens. You care about their needs. You care about the things that they carry into this room even as they sit here today. And Father, you love them dearly, and I'm so grateful that we can come into your presence and we can petition your grace. And we recognize that you understand what it's like to be tempted in all points. And you desire to pour grace and strength into our lives. Father, I pray that today you would bear the burdens that people carry in our midst. Those who have lost loved ones. those who are carrying health issues, those who are dealing with interpersonal conflicts, those who have fears and challenges that Are either unstated or have been shared with others. You know them all and you care about them. And so we ask you to work in the lives of each person here today. Father, we thank you for this very vital aspect of our worship, the ministry of the Word of God. We pray that the Holy Spirit might take the word as it's expanded And he might penetrate into our souls and do the appropriate work that each of us needs. Father, encourage us through your word, strengthen us through your word, teach us through your word Prompt us to worship and praise you through your word. Convict us through your word. I pray that you would do a mighty work in us and then through us. Help me as I communicate the text to do it in a very simple in a very consistent way with the intent of the passage. And I pray that you'd do a work in us. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. I want you to just pretend for a moment that you're 18 years old. Some of you don't have to pretend you are 18. Some of you you really have to pretend because you've got to go back a long time. And some of you, you can't wait till you're 18. You're 18 years old. You grew up in a family where your parents loved the Lord. They took you to church faithfully. You were pretty sheltered from the kinds of things that are out there in the world. And you were thankful for that And now you're going to school for the first time. In fact, maybe you're homeschooled and you're now auditing a class over at uh over in the in the community. You're auditing class. And you get into that class and you sit down and you don't know anybody and they don't know you. But after you sit down in that class, the teacher sits down and he kind of looks across the room and he's he kind of appears to be sizing people up No teacher would ever do that with a bunch of 18-year-olds, would they? They seem to be sizing everybody up. And that teacher looks at you and says, Are you a Christian? Yes! Gonna have fun with you this year. In this class, my aim is to destroy your faith. And I'm going to make your life miserable. You say that never happened to an 18 -year-old in the classroom. Folks, it happens, okay? And it may not be somebody in a classroom It might be somebody in a workplace. It might be somebody who's even within their family. But the reality is the opportunities for Christians to be put in places like that, there are very many opportunities like that. The passage that's in front of us is really meant to help people in those kinds of situations. After you're sitting there in that class, all of a sudden everybody seems to be looking at you. Everybody seems to now be sizing up you. All of a sudden you have all these emotions and all these things you'd like to say, but you don't know if you should say so. You have lots and lots of things to think about. Like dropping the class. How should you respond in a situation like that? Or in a situation that's similar to that? Well, this passage in front of us tells us exactly How we are to respond when we as Christians are put in uncomfortable situations. Places where people recognize that we're Christians, they want to undermine our faith, they want to mock us, they want to do things. that can ultimately cause us tremendous sorrow and grief. How do we respond in the midst of these kinds of circumstances and those that are parallel to it? Well, here is the purpose of the passage in front of us. The purpose of this section is to explain to Christians how to conduct themselves in their interpersonal relationships Now, I would say that when we talk about this passage, there would be certain contexts that perhaps what we're going to talk about today does not specifically apply. But we're talking about interpersonal situations. We're talking about situations where a Christian is being persecuted, being attacked because they're Christian. Because their ways that they're living, it bec could could be because of what they believe. It could be because of simple distinctions. They're not trying to make a a point. They're not trying to draw attention to these things. But as a Christian, there's a distinction. There's a difference between them and the world around them. This passage is telling them how to respond in these kinds of situations. The reality is that God wants us to react to others in a way that is governed by trust in his providence. We're going to talk about this concept of God's providence, but when we talk about providence, we're saying How does God, who made everything, who moves everything to the purposes that he desires, how does he govern or how does he rule? How does he manage the world that we live in and the situations that we face? By trusting in God's providence. We will respond correctly in these kinds of situations. So that is the intent of the passage in front of us. And my question is, how do we do it? Well, let's look at the passage and let's break it down piece by piece, moment by moment, and let's understand what God wants us to do out of this text. The first truth that we find is found in verse number eight. And it's just four simple words Finally, be ye all. Those are the four words that I want to draw our attention to that illustrate a very simple truth. We have to resist the urge to respond in the flesh when we are in these kinds of difficult circumstances. Finally, be all of you a certain way. And then he's going to break it down for us so that we can see it. I want to ask this question before we get into this truth. How do we naturally respond when we are put in very uncomfortable and difficult circumstances? There are two passages I want to draw your attention to. The first is in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 14. This is what the scripture says. The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. They're foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them because they're spiritually discerned. What is this passage basically saying? It's saying people by nature don't follow God's ways. People by nature don't understand God's ways. In other words, there has to be a point in time where that person becomes a new creature in Christ and old things pass away and all things become new. They receive a new nature, the Holy Spirit indwells them, and all of a sudden, the way that they thought about things and the way that they looked at situations The way that they responded, it changes because there's a new disposition within that person. Very, very important. Naturally, we don't respond correctly to God's instruction and God's authority The second passage is in Ephesians 2, verses 1 to 3. It says that in times past ye walked according to the course of this world. Maybe a simple way to put it is this. There is a general way that people who don't know God live. Way that they think, a way that they act. And you, before you knew the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, you followed that general path. He says, this is how you used to be. He says, among whom also you had your conversation. It's the way that you lived in times past in the lust of the flesh. That means that generally speaking, you were guided or governed by your fleshly desires. In other words, when you had a situation, the most natural way for you to be to respond would be in a fleshly manner. He says, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. Two simple principles illustrated in these passages. One, people are by nature resistant to God's authority and instruction. You say I don't believe that. Oh, you should believe that. The reality is when you open up the Bible and you go into a place where everybody there doesn't know the Lord as their Savior They don't embrace the authority of Christ, they don't , embrace the authority of the Scripture, read to them a passage like this one and ask them what they think about it. You will find out really quick that people naturally are resistant to God's authority and instruction. I have absolutely no question in my mind that that's the case. Two, people are naturally guided by self-focused relations or reactions. In other words, you have to teach people to think about others first. They don't naturally think that way. In other words, I had to teach my children to share, not to steal, not to pick the biggest pizza pizza when everybody else is sitting at the table Why is that? Because by nature, from the time we're little kids, we have this natural inclination to be guided by self-focused reaction. And that's what the passage is teaching. So if it wasn't for God's authority, if it wasn't for a new nature, if you're untouched by God's work in your life, and you're in that situation where you are the focus of derision in the class You're going to react in a self-focused manner. You are going to be resistant to what God would say would be the right way to handle that situation. And even as a Christian, we still can follow into this position. So I want to look at a second point. What is a grace response? In fact, this text is going to call us to respond in a grace filled manner. And he's going to lay it out in a very simple way. Let me look at it. Five qualities that he talks about. And then a twofold response, all found in this concept of a grace-filled response. Finally be. He's coming to the conclusion of the section. So all of chapter 3 we've been talking about how to relate to people in various circumstances that we find ourselves. Very practical situations. When we're relating to somebody who has authority over us, when we're relating to our spouse, when we're relating to our kids, when we're relating to people within the church context, how do we respond? Here's the summation of it all. Finally, B. And then he breaks down five qualities that should characterize us. The first quality is this. The quality of unity. He says, be of one mind. One mind. Anybody have one mind with your wife or husband all the time? Some people just looked up. Of course not. We thought we did when we were dating, we got married, and we found out that saying I do all of a sudden like makes us not have the same mind anymore. Why is that? It's because it's a new relationship and there's all kinds of dimensions that you don't have to deal with in your dating. Nobody is fully like-minded with anybody In other words, to have one mind means that there are times that you have to be willing to compromise your preferences. Compromise preferences. There are times that for the sake of unity, you say, well, I would like, I'm willing to lapse. You have to be willing to do that. You know, if you're working with people and you have to come to a decision, you're discussing the matter, you may not fully believe that that's what you want to do. And nobody in the room fully wants to do it exactly that way. But because of consensus, we work through it. And we all say we can fully support this. Though it wasn't initially what I wanted. Like-mindedness. It means compromising preference for the sake of unity. It means we keep the big picture in front of us instead of our own self-interest. In other words, what I would like to do, I begin realizing, you know, within the big scope of things. My desire is very self-focused and it's missed the big picture, so I'm going to pull back and I'm going to get behind this issue. All of one mind. As Christians, the big picture is what does God say? What brings glory to Him? We need to be people who are willing to compromise preference for the sake of unity. We're willing to set aside our self-interest for the sake of the big picture. That really helps interpersonal relationships, does it not? Number two, having compassion one toward another Simple word to use is be sympathetic. The fact is that the people around us who most struggle with us and we most struggle with them sometimes. There are a lot of different factors that that really play into why we have those differences. And as we sit down and as we start thinking about those factors that cause that contention, we should be sympathetic. Willing to think about their situation. It's very, very important. Three, he says, love as brethren In fact, the word that's used there is the same word that we get our city, Philadelphia, from the city of brotherly love. The idea is that there should be a familial affection for other people. And so even when we have people that we have conflicts with, there's something about them that we should say, you know what, I have compassion towards them. I have sympathy towards them. I'm willing to actually see the big picture, even if it kind of undermines a little bit my own self-interest. I'm willing to compromise my preference For the sake of unity. Love his brethren. Have this affection as someone who's your family member. Fourth, be pitiful. By the way, that word pitiful has a very different understanding in our current vocabulary. It means tender-hearted. It means that there's like this compassionate feeling toward that individual. Tenderhearted, pitiful. And lastly, he says, be courteous. The word courteous means to be humble The idea is that you're willing to defer your perceived rights, your expectations, your preferences for the sake of unity with that person. Let me tell you that if people would be guided by these principles, there would be a lot more unity in families than there are are today. I don't mean that in our families here we have these major problems, but I'm just saying, as a general rule, if people would be guided by these very simple principles What's being laid out in this text, you are to be of one mind, having compassion, loving as brother, being tenderhearted, being courteous. If those qualities would actually govern how we relate to one another, it would eliminate all kinds of contentions that people. He then goes on beyond that, and he talks about how we are to be courteous. He says you're to be courteous in this way, not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing. I'll put it in a very simple way. Don't escalate the conflict by counterpunching in an interpersonal situation. You know what I'm talking about? You counter you you counter punch in a boxing match, all right? If you're on a wrestling mat and you're in the middle of a conflict where you're trying to take your opponent down and you're trying to pin him you're in a tournament, that's when you go for the counter. Not when you're trying to have a good marriage. Not when you're trying to get along with your brother or your sister. Not when you're trying to relate properly to people within the church context. And ironically, of all these things, when you're in that situation where you're in the room and you're the center of the focus because that individual wants to mock you as a Christian, that's not the time to counterpunch. He talks about two ways to respond. I'm going to mention them. Not rendering evil for real evil or railing for railing. The first one. Don't counterpunch. Second. On the contrary, blessing. That word blessing could have one of really two ideas One of those ideas is this. Instead of speaking evil of them, which would be the most natural thing to do in a situation like that, find something good to say. Now most of us would say, you know what? The fact that I didn't say something nasty back is good enough. That diffuses the situation, right? But it's not what the text tells us to do. It says, don't render evil for evil, don't give railing for railing. On the contrary, bless that person. In other words, instead of saying something nasty back, instead of counterpunching back. You say something that's very edifying, something that's very uplifting, something that's very positive, and a lot of people would say, there's no way I could do that Do you understand how diffusing that is? How much that kind of like removes the contentions? It's very important. In the text he says, instead of counterpunching, bless There's a second possibility of what he means by bless. And in reality, you really could have both ideas in mind. The idea is that you're blessing in the sense that you're going into God's presence And as you bring this person before the throne of grace, you ask God to bless them. When the Bible talks about praying for our enemies, If we're praying for God to crush your enemies, God to make their lives miserable, God to judge them in the most harsh and unusual of manners, it's very easy for people to pray that way. Lots of people pray that way. But that's not what the text is telling us to do. God bless them. Someone might sit here and go, I'd never want God to bless my enemy. Because if God blesses my enemy, then they keep being my enemy. What does the text say? What does the scripture teach? How does God say that we're to respond in these ways? We're basically saying, God, show that person grace. Undeserved favor. Undeserved kindness. Every person in this room wants God to deal with them in grace. And the truth be known, God deals with all of us in grace over And over and over again. But when somebody has wronged us and we perceive that they have offended us and we are upset with them, we don't want God to deal with them in grace. We want God to crush them at the moment. And folks, this passage is telling us that that's not how we are to respond in these interpersonal spats and disputes. So the question is why? Why is it that God calls us not to the natural response of our flesh, the self-interest of our flesh, the desire for instant justice? What does God call us to? He calls us to grace response. Why? Here's the reason. When he gives two. First Knowing that thereunto you're called, that you should inherit a blessing. You know, whenever you're talking to a young person, they like to use the term, I believe that God is calling me to, and they tell you, something very positive, something very good, something very rosy. Have you ever heard someone say, I believe that God has called me to be salt and light in this difficult classroom? Where I am being laughed at and scorned and mocked, and God wants me. To be filled with grace and humility and compassion. God has called me to be soul and light in that room. Have you ever heard that before? But that's exactly what the text is saying. God has called you in those circumstances at that time for that season to endure difficulty so that you can have a powerful impact for the Lord Jesus Christ. Some might say, well, he's just calling you to respond the right way. Of course he's calling you to respond the right way. But how did you end up in that circumstance? It was the providence of God. How'd you end up with that teacher? How'd you end up in that classroom at that time? Well, I made the decisions. You made the decisions. But God didn't stop you. He puts you there at that time for that purpose. You are called to respond correctly so that God can use you in that circumstance. He says, you are called. And that is the reason why you respond as you do. Because you have a very specific purpose that God has appointed for you at that time. And then he says, so that you might inherit a blessing. In other words, there are things that God would like to give you that have tremendous value and eternal significance. And they're specifically connected to how you respond in the circumstances that you find yourself in right now or that you will find yourself in at that time. You are called to that time and that place so that you can respond well and God can bless you because of it. There's a specific connection. And our willingness to embrace these challenges is very, very important. Let me give you a passage that talks a little bit about this. Go to Matthew chapter 5. This is a very popular passage. We all know the passage. I remember when I was in junior high or high school, memorizing this passage of scripture. And as I memorized the passage, I never really thought deeply about it. But when I look at this passage in light of this text in front of us, Ephesians or 1 Peter chapter 3, I realize something. What Peter is saying is what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 5. It says, Blessed are the meek. What is a meek person? It's a person who, rather than fighting back, lets God fight on their behalf. The meek are the ones that inherit the earth. Now, you know, throughout human history, people don't believe that. Do you think that Alexander the Great was a meek man? While he was crushing empires and he was dominating the worlds? No? You think Julius Caesar was a meek man as he was crushing all those people groups around the Mediterranean worlds? No, he wasn't. Look at all of the great leaders of human history. When I say great, I mean it not great in their character, but I mean in their influence and their power and their might. Were they meek people? No. Yet the meek are the ones that will inherit the earth That's what the text says. It goes contrary to popular thinking. It goes contrary to the natural way of handling things in the world. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. They shall be filled. Most people aren't hungry and thirsting after righteousness. You know what they're hungry and thirsting for? Something that will give them power and influence, a way to take advantage of the people around them, so they can get what they want in the world. A very different ethic. He says, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Most people, when they have the opportunity to uh To crush, they do it. They've been waiting for that opportunity. You know, picture David, and he's there in that cave, and Saul has walked into the cave. And Saul is seeking to kill David's wife. And all of the men around him say, God has given you a great day here. We don't have to run anymore. You can kill Saul, and we're done with this. And David says, I can't touch The Lord's anointed. God will take care of him in his time. That's a powerful story. And the reality is instead of David crushing Saul, He's merciful. And in the end, guess what? God does put David where he wants him. In the end, God does deal with Saul. But it could have happened a lot quicker had David taken the matter into his own hands. Yet Jesus says we need to be merciful. And we're blessed if we're merciful. He says, Blessed are the peacemakers. Do you know how much you have to work to make peace with people? Think about some of the disputes in the world today. There's a lot of time and energy being burned up between governments trying to make agreements that probably will be broken as soon as they're signed. Making peace. You know how difficult it is to make peace? How much time and energy you have to burn listening to somebody's feelings and how they perceive something, and you know that's not how it really was. And be willing to pull back your own interests and rein in your emotions. Peacemaking is a very tough thing to do. Yet the scripture says, Blessed are the peacemakers, they'll be called the children of God. In other words, when you see a person who's willing to make peace, you see a person who's governed by principles other than the natural man. And someone's conclusion is that person must be a child of God. Because most people don't think and act that way. Peacemakers. He says, blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad. Great is your reward in heaven. Folks, what Peter is saying in 1 Peter 3 is what Jesus taught him in Matthew 5. And this is the ethic that should guide us and govern us as we relate to one another in our interpersonal issues. We can use the illustration of the student in the classroom. We can use the illustration of the man working in the office or the lady working in the office. We can use the illustration of the person meeting with family at Christmas or Thanksgiving, and they're the only Christian in the room. All these situations apply. Truth number two. We must do this because we rest in God's providence. Look down in verse number 12. This is very important. He says, For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous. His ears are open unto their prayers, but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. There are two reasons that are given in this passage for why we should do what is commanded. The first reason is this, because God wants to bless you. Now, folks, I do not believe that God works in this way. You follow this set of rules and you follow this mathematical equation and everything, boom, ends up here. I don't believe God works that way God deals with us in a lot of grace. God deals with us in a lot of kindness. God blesses us many times and we don't deserve it. But there is a principle that we see in the Bible, and that's this. When you do right, God blesses that. And when you don't do right, there are consequences that make things complex, that make things difficult. And Proverbs says that the way of the transgressor is hard The idea is when I throw up restraints that God has for me, and I just do whatever I want to do, there's natural consequence for those things. The fact is, God wants to bless his people. And one of the ways that God chooses to bless is when he sees his people do right and it pleases him. Notice what it says in verse 10. For, that's the reason behind why we do what we do. For he that will love life and see good days, let him, and he says refrain. He says, let him eschew evil. Let him seek peace and ensue it. The idea is very simple. The reason is because God wants to bless you. So if you want that blessing, you've got to do these things. Refrain your tongue from evil. Eschew evil. Speak peace. What do those phrases mean? Refrain your tongue from evil. Stop using your mouth for destructive purposes. Very very simple. You say, well, I'm just in saying what I'm saying. They said this? Well, they can expect it back. That's not a grace response. Refrain your lips from speaking guile. The idea is using deceit to abuse justice. Lots and lots of people do this. The counterpunch. The counterpunch is an abuse of justice by presenting something that's not true. We as Christians should never do this Eshu evil means turn away from what is evil. Do good, simply called to do not just not just to turn away from evil, but to do what is good to others. Seek peace, initiate peacemaking, and sue. It means pursue peacemaking. In other words, when there's a difficulty between you and another person, you should be the first one that's willing to move forward and try to resolve the dispute. Folks, the person that is more filled with grace in their heart will always take the first step. That's the way that it works. You have two people that are all about themselves and they're all buried into their bunker and they're dominated by their flesh, they will never resolve their conflict. Because it takes grace to step forward and say, let's get this right. It does. He says you've got to seek, initiate peace. You've got to ensue or pursue making peace. In other words, you don't just say, I did my part and I'm done with it I can cross that off the list. If anybody asks me about it, I can always tell them, well, I did this. So I'm good. That's not where the text says. Pursue it There's a second reason. It's that God is just. The verse 12 he says, for, there's that word again. Here's the reason. Because the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous. His ears are open unto their prayers, but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. He talks about what God sees. He talks about what God hears, and he talks about the direction God is looking, which indicates action to do something. His eyes are over the righteous. In other words, God is looking out for his people. You know, when you feel like everybody is against you and nobody is for you and God doesn't care, that's not true. God is watching you. He's there. His eyes are over the righteous. He takes care of his people. His ears are open unto their prayer. The idea is that God listens when his people pray You think about that story of Elijah. He's running for his life, and he is convinced that there's nobody in Israel that cares about God and his ways. And he laments it, and God says. Elijah, do you not realize how many people in this country right now have never bowed the knee to Baal? There's a lot of And the reason that you don't know is because they can't do it openly. But there are lots of people that I see them. And the truth is that God listens to his people. Pray. And as they lift up their request, he's there to hear. And he says, the face of the Lord's against them that do evil. The idea is that God turns his attention to defend his people. You know, you're sitting at your desk. I'm sitting at my desk. I'm studying, I'm reading, I'm working, and all of a sudden I hear bang and I hear crying. You know what I do? I just keep on working. working. No, I don't do that. Hopefully not. I turn around. And I look and say, what's going on? And I listen. And then I decide I'm going to take some action here. Who hit who here? Why did you do it? We're going to resolve this issue. In other words, God is watching and God is listening and he is going to move and he's going to work. And the fact is that when we find ourselves in these situations, God is not aloof. He is just And God is good and God wants to bless. And these are the reasons that we are to respond in this way. I finally come to this last simple truth. We need to understand how God governs our circumstances. For our good and his glory. I want to state a couple of things that I think will be very important. One, God's providence shapes the ultimate product produced by our sufferings. Folks, God will never let you suffer without some purpose. He just won't. He actually is governing What you go through, because he wants to produce something good in you. God's providence is motivated ultimately by his love The fact that God hasn't stopped your circumstance isn't because he is hard and cold and unloving. It's because there's something greater in his purposes. That you have to pass through this in order for him to accomplish it. His motive is his love. God's providence is managed by his wisdom and his power. In other words, God knows all the details. God knows not just what's happening and what's going to happen, but what could have happened. What didn't happen. What would have happened if God has a full awareness of all of those things. And so how God chooses to govern our circumstances is guided by his infinite wisdom. And it's guided by his power. God 's providence governs the nature of our suffering, in other words, the things that we deal with. The timing of our suffering when we deal with them. The duration of our suffering, how long we deal with them, the instruments through which the suffering comes. The teacher in the room. Whether that person realizes it or not, they're a tool in God's hands. It would shock them to realize that. But it's true. There are two in God's hands. When God wants to stop it, he can do it. But God has a purpose in using them as he does The instruments through which our encouragements flow. When you go through difficulty, God will inevitably put people in your life and situations around you to strengthen you and uphold you as you go through those times. And it's God's providence that guides who those instruments are that He uses. And the timing of your vindication. You know, we want God to move now. We want God to deal harshly now. But He Don't do that. It's his own timetable. It's according to his own wisdom. It's according to his own ways. And there's one last thing I'll mention. It's he also determines the weight of our eternal reward Let me read to you from the book of Romans, because I think that this is a wonderful capstone to this text and these concepts. Romans chapter 8, verse 16. He says that the Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. If children, then heirs, heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ. Basically, he's saying that God works in the hearts of his children to give them a confidence that they belong to him. Now that's not something that we can fully describe. It's something that God does in the hearts of his people. And he says, if so be that we suffer with him , We may also be glorified together. I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Well, basically, what he's saying is the suffering of the Christian is meant to produce something that's glorious that is far greater than the weight of the pain that they feel as they go through suffering. That's what he's saying. He says the earnest expectation of the creation or the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. In other words, as we suffer, we don't suffer alone. Not just people suffer, all creation suffers. All of creation is under the curse of sin. And so as we suffer, all of creation groans waiting for that day. Verse 25. If we hope for that we see not, we do with patience wait for it. The Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. In other words, when I'm in pain and I'm suffering and I don't even know how to pray, the Spirit of God intercedes on my behalf. That's an amazing concept. He then goes on to say this: We know that all things work together for good to them that love God. To them who are the called according to his purpose. That's a really interesting statement. Called According to his purpose. Isn't that very similar to what he said? Wherein here until you've been called. The reality is that when we suffer, God has called us for a season to go through Through that. He's called us for a season for a purpose. He's called us for a season, and he will sustain us and strengthen us through it. And he says, whom he knew, for knew he predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. One of God's great purposes is he's taking us and he's molding us into the image of Christ. All throughout our lives, from the day that we trust Christ to the day he calls us into glory, all the circumstances of life The interpersonal difficulties, the physical difficulties, the hard times, whatever they be, they serve purposes in God's wisdom to conform us to the image of Christ. Folks, I want to encourage you with this simple fact. Trust our sovereign God by interacting appropriately. In these kinds of times. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, we recognize that there's a lot we don't know and a lot we don't understand, but what we do know is this. You are sovereign and you rule over all. You govern every circumstance of life, and you have purposes in the reason why Father, you want to shape us into the image of Christ. There are blessings that you desire to pour out on us when we meet you face to face, yet you call us for seasons to walk through hardship. Whether it be to suffer persecution for the sake of righteousness or some other situation, your hand is there to strengthen us and to walk through it with us. Pray that you would strengthen your people this morning through the ministry. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen