Let's go ahead and start out with a word of prayer, and then we will get started. So let's bow for prayer. Father, you're so gracious to us, and we're so thankful for the opportunity to fellowship together with one another. And I pray that as the Word of God is open tonight, you would speak to our hearts and help us to have a tender spirit as we think about the truths that will be laid before us. Father, as we think about the missionary who will be uh presented uh this evening and we think about their update and the challenges that they encounter and the blessings, I pray that as we think about these things together as a church and lift up. up this family in prayer that you would give us a greater burden for those who serve overseas and just um gratitude that we get to work with And I just pray that you would bless this time. May you be exalted, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening everyone. We're going to take our handles and turn to page 25 or follow along on the screen. Please stand with me. Page twenty-five, Praise the Lord who reigns above Rain for the reign of his forty laws. Praise the Holy Ghost of Bloom in all his greatness shows Praise him for his noble beats. Praise him for his matchless power. All good pro seat that mothem not Jesus ran gladward, be glad this rejoice, and claim his righteousness, sir. With every voice , bring everybody every heart. I love music bringing up They move and live, let every creature see Glory to their maker giving homage to Praise your everlasting name Heaven on earth adored, praise the Lord in every breath with all things, praise the Lord. All right We're going to turn to page 57 now. Page 57. Worship the Lord. Sing to the Savior a song of praise. Come let us worship the Lord Trust in his might, walk in his light. Come let us worship, worship the Lord. Great are his wonders and grand his light. Come let us worship the Lord. Heaven's problem, Jesus shall reign. Come, let us worship, worship the Lord, let us worship the Lord, worship the Lord. Come, let us worship the L Lift up your voice, sing and rejoice. Come, let us worship. Worship the Lord, Son of Jehovah, yet son of man, conquering lion yet, suffering lamb, worship. Worship, come let us worship the Lord forever. Worship, worship, come let us worship the Lord Sing to the God of eternity , all let us worship the Lord. Come let us worship, worship the Lord. Sing to the victor of Calvary. Come let us worship the Lord. Honor the sun, Jesus has won. Come, let us worship, worship the Lord. Let us worship the Lord. Worship the Lord. Come, let us worship the Lord. Lift up your ball , rejoice, come with us, worship, worship the Lord Sabaj , the son of man come worship, worship. Come let us worship alone , worship, worship, come let us worship alone. Please be seated. And you know one good thing about the allergy season is that I can hit some of those lower notes a whole lot better. Oh man. Page one hundred and sixty-one in your hymn? Page one hundred and sixty-one. What a friend we have in series. What a friend we have in Jesus, our sin and greatly bear. What the privilege you carry God in front Oh God is really off the world Oh Oh, because we do not give three things to God in prison Have with trials and dictations anywhere. We believe should never be discussed to the Lord it pray. Can we find a prince of painful Who will all our sorrow share? Jesus are every week. Are we weak and heavy pray? Take it to the Lord in prayer. Take it to the Lord in prayer. Amen. Time Okay, so normally uh Brother Braxton does our missions moment, but I'm gonna do this one tonight because It's a missionary that I had some interaction back in the One sixty one blue book or red book? Red, okay. I just wanted to make sure. Uh young man. Yes, you. One? Oh, okay. One in the red book. That was uh you in the back. 595. 595. That sounds very familiar. And I need a lady. How about the young lady? The youngest one. Ninety one in the blue book. Okay, let me see about that. I just want to check real quick. I think that's a good one to go into. Teach me your way. Ah, okay. Alright, let's go to page, oh hold on. Now I can't read my writing Because it's too small. Page 161 in the red book. And sorry, kids, I'm getting old and I'm my brain's filling up. And I might not be able to remember all your names right off. So to speed things along, what a friend we have in Jesus Help me out, Blair. What a friend we have in Jesus, all our sins and griefs to bear. What a ribbon is body prayer. Oh, what is we open for today? Oh, what is not really we did? Oh, because we do not carry everything that God is bring. Okay, page one One in the Red Book, Page One Rejoice the Lord in King, your Lord in me adore. Rejoice in fact and sing and triumph. Nevermore Lift up your heart, lift up your body suck in my great joy. Okay, page five, how do you like that? Page 595? Oh, it's not what I thought it was. Okay. But real close. My country says the B When the blood will run right from every All right, now we'll go to the blue book. Page 91. Teach me your way, Lord. Page 91. I believe we're done. Okay. Oh no, we do have special The space in the ways would pull me down. The Savior guides my ways Steps are mentioned by his words. I want to stand on higher ground To know his voice, the sweetest sound , the turning up New strength I find on high run the word alone. And point my way in Christ the Lord I am taking. I am now let me alone I am now I want to stand on hologram You know his voice the sweetest sound No turning back , going path, and on. No turning back , going path, and not Lord, lift me up to higher ground. Lord, lift me up to higher ground No, he is light in the sweet. I want you to mind Thank you for that. No his voice. We have his voice, his very words, pure and righteous words, are right here before us, though we could read, meditate, adore, and spend time and thought on And we have the privilege of spending most of our day on this Lord's Day to hear, to study, to discuss, to sing about the very Word of God and what a sweet sound it is. Well, we're picking up our study in 1 Samuel 24, as we've been studying through 1 Samuel on Sunday evenings. 1 Samuel 24. I will start with verse 1, and I'm just going to read a couple of verses throughout this chapter, just to kind of get us a good feel for the chapter as a whole as we covered this evening. So 1 Samuel 24, starting with verse 1. And it came to pass when Saul returned from following the Philistines. that it was told him saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Angeti. Then Saul took three thousand chosen men. out of all Israel, and went to seek David as his men upon the rocks and the wild goats. And he came to the sheep goats by the way where was a cave. And Saul went in to cover his feet, and David and his men remained in the sides of the cave. And the men of David said unto him, Behold! The day which the Lord said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do him as it seemed good unto thee. Then David arose. And cut off his head. No, no, no, no. No. And David arose and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privately. Skip down to verse 10. Behold, this day, thine eyes have seen how that the Lord hath delivered thee today into mine hand in the cave. And some bade me kill thee. But mine I spared thee. And I said, I will not put forth mine hand against my Lord. For He is the Lord's anointed. Skip down to verse 15. And the Lord therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee. And see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand. And it came to pass, and David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said , Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and wept. And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I. For thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil. And thou hast showed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me. For as much as when the Lord hath delivered me into thine hand, thou killedest me not. For if a man find his enemy Will ye let him go well away? Wherefore the Lord reward good for that thou hast done unto me. this day. Let us pray. Father, we thank you so much for this text of Scripture and for 1 Samuel chapter 24. Would the Spirit of God use the Word of God? to conform us, to mold us, to help us to be who you desire for us to be. And as we look at this text of scripture, Just like ourselves, David is put in a situation where he could be tempted to take things into his own hands to accomplish his own will to make things, at least at the time, easier for himself. Father, would we learn to trust in you, to rest in who you are, and the fact that you are a good and great judge? If we would just wait, be patient, and trust in you for the appropriate timing. We thank you and praise you for all this in Christ's name. Amen. You know, revenge can be very, very sweet. Uh I grew up uh wrestling quite a bit in my life, you know, when I was younger. And you know, you first start out, you get beat a lot. And there was this he was like my arch enemy. I we wrestled each other all the time, felt like almost every weekend. I just could not beat him. He was just beating me all the time, every every time. He was from Hoquiam and uh I think it was into my second year finally that we were wrestling we were the same age same weight all the time And he was known for this great left-handed head and arm. And I just fell prey to it too often. To get to the point where uh well, I'm not gonna explain it all, but it's usually people right-handed, so you go right-handed head and arm, he did a left one Well, I'm wrestling him in this tournament. Sure enough, I succumbed to the left-handed head and arm. It frustrated me. I tried practicing and trying to counter it, but he was just really good. He'd been doing it for a while. But when he threw me his left-handed hand, I didn't want to give up because the difference was I was ahead in points and he caught me at the end of the second round right away. He threw it right away. All I had to do was not get pinned. I was ahead, even though he had thrown me, he got the points, I was still leading. I was I was pumped. But when you're bridging, that's when you're like on your back, bridging up on your head and your heels I forget what it was, like a minute, 30 seconds, with someone who's desperately trying to pin you that's never lost to you? That's a long minute and 30 seconds wherever it was. It felt forever But what happened was I was able to hang in there, and though it was not pretty, I beat him for the first time. It was like very sweet revenge And, you know, we shake hands, the ref raises my hand, I'm like, Yeah, I was so excited, my neck was beat, uh my body was exhausted But I had tasted sweet victory for the first time after getting beat over and over and over about this guy. Revenge can be so s sweet. It was so sweet. Once I signed the vouch sheet, go over to my dad, we just cried. We just cried. Out of exhaustion, out of excitement, combination thereof. But it was great. Revenge can be sweet. But here what we see in 1 Samuel chapter 24 is we can get put in situations where we have opportunity to take revenge and oh it can seem sweet for the time. And it could be wonderful to get someone back. But yet what we're going to see from David is he had every opportunity to take things into his own hands, but he learned to trust in God's timing. and his judgment. And really just to allow God to take care of the circumstances and the results as we trust. in who he is and his timing. So we read much of the chapter. I just want to look again briefly at the first couple verses here. And it came to pass, 1 Samuel 24 verse 1, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines That , it was told him, saying, Behold, David was in the wilderness of Mangeti. Then took, then Saul took three thousand chosen men of all Israel and went to seek David. And his men upon the rocks of the wild goats. So King Saul returns, he's following the Philistines, trying to rid the area of the Philistines. He comes back. You think you'd want to rest, you know, relax for a little while, but he hears that David , or hears at David's location, and so he picks chosen men, three thousand to go chase down David. Now Saul had done this many, many times. He's going to gather these men to try and chase down David because he's jealous of him. Saul is wanting his own way, and as we've seen throughout the study, Saul is a very uh jealous, very proud, selfish individual. And he is really getting insecure with David being around. He does not really like David to the point where now it's becoming obvious. But before we look at what takes place shortly after, I just want to go back to see this is becoming a pattern as Saul is seeking David's life We're going to see some previous pursuits. Because we kind of skipped some chapters in our study. I just want to hit portions of it to lead us up to this point to realize how easy it would have been for David. As we read, he didn't take Saul's life. But it would have been very easy for him to do that. That taste of revenge and just that quit running for my life. This is my own king trying to take my life. And how he could have very easily done that. So I want to go back and just give us a little little couple snippets in the chapters previous as we look at previous verses. We're going to first look at 1 Samuel 22. Starting verse 12. He says, And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitab. And he answered, Here am I, my lord. And Saul said unto him, Why have you conspired against me? Thou and the son of Jesse, that thou didst give him bread and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise up against me to lie in wait as it is this day. Then Elimelech answered the king and said, And who is so faithful among thy servants as David, which is the king's son-in-law? And goeth at thy bidding, and is honorable in thine house. Here's what's taking place. Previously, Saul's been pursuing David. And now he's on this war path of if you help David, because David is my enemy, how is he his enemy? He's a threat to his throne. He's a man after God's own heart. I don't like this guy. He's everything that Saul should have been, but is not. So here David is fleeing, he's running. This guy is helping David And he is upsetting Saul because he gave him, and when we look at this, he said, why did you help this guy, my enemy? And he's like, well, everyone knows the Saul. Look at this description of how others view David. This is kind of a telling story when you see Saul's view of David versus how the rest of people view David. So he says, what do you mean try to help him against you as your enemy? He says, who's most faithful? servants in verse 14 as David your most faithful trusted servant has got to be David you remember since Goliath and know that he he is doing great He's your son-in-law, you let him marry your daughter? He does whatever you ask him to do at your bidding. He says And he's very honorable in thine house. He behaves himself wisely. This is an honorable man. And now you're saying he's your enemy? What has happened? Of course I gave him bread. And a sword. And it happened to be Goliath's sword. I mean, if you're going to give Goliath's sword to anyone, wouldn't it be David? But this is upsetting Saul because Saul is so angry at David, and he's trying to chase him down. And then it continues. He says, did I then in verse 15 of chapter 22, did I then begin to inquire of God for him? Be it far from me, let not the king impute anything unto his servant, nor at all the house of my father, for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more. I didn't know what's going on. I just thought David was your right hand man I thought if you needed a job done, you would send David. I just thought you were on he was on your errand for you. I didn't know he was your enemy. Why would I not help him? And the king said, Thou shalt surely die. Oh, that's kind of rough. Elimelech, thou and thy father's house. Saul's getting quite serious with his vengeance. And with seeking Saul's life. And the king said unto the footman that stood about him, Turn and slay the priests of the Lord, because Their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled and did not show it to me You're lying to me. You didn't tell me where David was. You're helping him. Now he's telling his footmen, King Saul is telling his footman, to kill these priests of the Lord. Here's what's interesting. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of the Lord. This is what they're saying. So this is the footman. They have instructions from the king, kill these men. These men are looking at their king, who they take orders, whom they serve, the one they're supposed to defend, and the one that they're supposed to if he gives an order, he's like the commander-in-chief. He gives an order, we should follow. They're looking at King Saul and be like, um, you want us to kill the priests? Did I help David survive? He's like, yes. And here I think it's kind of a little telling in the story. These guys are like, I don't want to kill God's preachers. I don't want to I mean can you gather 85 men today? 85 preachers. Let's have a little preacher boy conference. We'll get them together. And then someone says, no, I just want you to kill them all. Well who knows where the country's going. I don't know what's gonna happen. But not a lot of people think, oh yeah, pick me. I want to kill uh the preachers. They're the guys that are tearing this country apart, you know, and they're you know th they're they're not any good That is what King Saul is asking these men to do it. And they were brave enough to say, listen, I don't want to be doing that. That's just that should have been another yet subtle thing. We had an individual saying, what do you mean he's your enemy? We have these footmen saying, You want us to kill the priests? Saul is so consumed with his agenda, his selfishness, and his own insecurities that he is willing to go through any measure to try and get at David or kill anyone that's helping him. So then he turns to a man who knows he'll do it in verse 18. And the king said to Doag, turn thou and fall upon the priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned and fell upon the priest and slew that day four score and five persons that did wear the linen Ephod. You know, you always have one in a group that's going to want to seek power, popularity, to look good in front of someone in power so they can get something from them That's kind of what's taking place here. So we found a guy. Oh, you kill him. All right. Yeah, whatever you say, because he wants to look good in front of the king. The other guys at least have some kind of conscience about them. I don't feel comfortable killing these guys. But he found one who did the job. Let's look at some other previous pursuits. 1 Samuel 23 And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they do rob the threshing floors. Therefore David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, go and smite the Philistines and save Heila. This should have been the king's job. Someone is threatening people. your people from your enemy. David hears about it. And here's what's interesting. David hears about it and he asks, Lord, should I go help them? Because if I go help them, That's going to give away my location. King Saul has been pursuing me. He's going to try and pursue me. But should I go help God's people? God says. Yes, go do it. And it continues, skip some verses, and go to verse seven of chapter twenty-three. And it was Tolsaul and David that was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into mine hand, for he is shut in by entering into the town. To have gates and bars. He hears David is in the sound. He says, oh, that's a great location. Instead of, oh, that was so kind of David to go do what I should be doing. Rescuing my own people from the enemy. That's a great job. Good job, David. He sees an opportunity. Yes, he's trapped. Now I can get him. So he's gonna gather it and he's gonna go there and try and take out David. When they asked what he should have been doing anyways, he was so preoccupied with himself. That he was willing to do anything a getting to the point to take David out. Anything that would threaten him, his authority And you can tell when people get in authority and they're very insecure, they're going to blame, they're going to go through a lot of things. They'll run over other people to keep what they have. They'll lie. They will use power and popularity of any means possible to get what they want. Are they in their position because they love the people or Just love to serve, or just trying to do what's right. King Saul may have been there at the beginning, but he's certainly not there now. David is a threat. And now David is doing something that King Saul should have been doing. So call so what's Saul do in verse 8? He says, And Saul called all the people together to war and to go down to Kila to besiege David and his men. And David knew that Saul secretly practiced mischief against him. I can't believe it. Secretly practiced. It's getting to the point where I don't know how much of a secret it was. It's kind of like the white elephant in the room, I guess. Um but David knew that Saul secretly practiced Mr. against him, and he said to Abathar the priest, Bring me hither the Ephod. And he said, David O Lord God of Israel, thy servant has certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah to destroy the city for my sake. Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into the hand? What's happening here is, is King Saul willing to come and besiege the city to kill others just to get to David And then David wants to know as he's seeking the Lord: should I flee? Should I stay here? Are these people that I just helped rescue from the Philistines, are they going to turn me over to King Saul to spare themselves? And God's answer is um yes they will. They're gonna turn you over to them and be, oh thanks. I just rescued them, I just say they went out of my way, putting my men and my life at risk. To save them from the enemy, they find out that the king is coming, and then they're going to turn me over to the guy that wants to kill me. But here's what's interesting. David does this the whole time. He's inquiring of the Lord. It didn't make a lot of sense. But he was trusting in God and his timing. And he did what at the time, I want to help God's people, but it won't be good for me, but it would be good for everyone else. That's the struggle that David's in. And yet King Saul is bent on killing this guy, even if I have to kill out a whole city, I'm gonna do it. How wicked is that? You're willing to kill an innocent people for your own priorities? For your own insecurity, for your own selfishness? Yes, that's what we're dealing with. That's exactly what we're dealing with. And he can teach them, Will Saul come down, thy servant? Hath heard? O Lord God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And the Lord said, He will come down. Then said David, Will the men of Hilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And the Lord said, They will deliver thee up. So I got ahead of myself, but there is the text. They will turn me over. So that's Saul's previous pursuit for David's life. Now I'm going to go back to our text and put us back in the cave. So once again, in the beginning of chapter 24, Saul is yet continuing his pursuit to find David. He finds out where he's in again. He's in Ngeti. Okay , he's in this area. Let's go get him. He chooses out three thousand men to take out David. I mean just the thought of that, you're choosing out three like great men to go kill one of your best generals. I mean it just continues to get bad here, and it's been bad this whole time. But here's what's very interesting. When we look at verse 3, there's an interesting phrase here. I just can't ignore it, but we'll deal with it just briefly And it came to the sheepcoats, by the way, where was a cave. And Saul went in to cover his feet. And David and his men remained in the sides of the cave. Here's what's taking place. David's been running around trying to hide from Saul. He'd find out where he is. He's going to the area. So King Saul goes into a cave. Wasn't expecting to see anyone there. Why do you go into this cave? To cover his feet I'm going to give you two suggestions, possibilities of what it means to cover speed. One is we see in Ruth. Ruth was told to uncover Boaz 's feet. What was he doing when she uncovered his feet? He was sleeping. Okay. So it's possible that in the midst of all this chasing down Saul and the Philistines, or Saul chasing down David and the Philistines, he gets tired of chasing this general, this David guy. He gets a little tired, he wants the rest. He goes in the cave, nice cool cave, take his little blanket and get in get a nice little nap while his men keep guard and look for this heathen, horrible enemy David. So it's possible he goes to lay down and rest, just like just like Ruth and Boaz there when she uncovered his feet. That's possible. Another possibility is when it says he uncovered his feet, is he had to answer nature's call for number two Whichever it is, I'm not you can I don't know if you want to use your imagination too much. But either one are possibilities, I'm not gonna call either one. But to me the point is it doesn't matter in the big picture because we'll just say he was very vulnerable either way However you look at it. Now why is this all of a sudden or why am I bringing this up? Because you have all this previous pursuit of Saul going out of his way. He's willing to kill, he's willing to destroy, besiege cities, take out priests He's willing to do all these things to kill David. Now here's David in a cave hiding with at least some of his men. And here's this man either taking a nap or doing something else Either way, David has an opportunity here. Here's the man that's been repeatedly trying to take my mind, and we didn't cover the javelins that have been thrown at him and other things, we're just hitting highlights. Here is this man laying right there, or potentially sitting. And so he sees them here. And you know what happens? David's men are like, hey, hey, there it is. There he is. Damon. Get in, man. This is your opportunity. He's been thinking of, don't you care for your life If you take him out now, you could quit running. You could be the king. Wouldn't that be great? And we would serve you and help you and then rid this guy, this crazy king, that's seeking your life That would have been easy. That would have been great to opportunity to get revenge. To seek someone that's been seeking your life repeatedly, over-aggressively, and here he is very vulnerable. And you could take them out In fact, the men are encouraging them to do so. So let's look at this. David spares Saul's life, verses 4 through 15. So in verses 4 and verse 10, David's men are encouraging David to take his life. And I just want to ask you the question here, when is it right? to do wrong. And would it have been wrong for David to take Saul's life? I mean, after all, he is trying to kill David. And if I kill him first, the game's over, I win. But here's what's interesting. Men are encouraging him to take him out. He had every opportunity to do so. But why does David not do that? Well, let's just look at verses 4 and 10 very quickly. He says. Look at the end of verse 4. Well, no, let's read it. And the men of David said to him, Behold, the day which the Lord has said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thine hand, thou mayest do to him as it seemeth good unto thee. Then David arose to cough the skirt of Saul's robe privately. So what's happening is the men are probably thinking, oh David's gonna do it. David's probably gonna go kill him. But as David approaches, maybe he was thinking, I'm gonna take him. It's possible. I'm sure that the thought crossed his mind. But instead, he just cuts off a part of Saul's throat. So apparently he wasn't he didn't have all his clothes on at the time So he does this. But then look in verse 5. And it came to pass afterward that David's heart smote him, because he cut off Saul's skirt. You know, it could be easy to take vengeance, and here he had every opportunity, and instead he just cuts it off and the Lord smote him. What he realized here, even though it's a small thing If we can take care of sin when it is yet small, it's easier to take care of. But I think what David understood, being a man after God 's heart, is Even though he didn't take his life, which I I'm assuming it probably crossed his mind, his men were definitely encouraged if he had the opportunity, instead he just cuts off a part of his skirt. But he felt convicted. His heart own heart smote him. Because that was probably a very nice piece of uh you know coat or whatever for the the the The thing that the king was wearing there. Whatever they called it there. His skirt. He cuts a part of it off. And David though, it was a small thing. It's kind of like when you're faced with a situation in life, and if you lie a little bit the first time, you might feel guilty. If you try and cheat someone or cheat a little bit of money, it's just a little bit. And then you might steal a little bit, take something that's not yours. And if you just start small, it might not be so bad. What happens is Over time the small becomes larger, and it becomes easier to lie or to steal And what happens here, I think this is kind of where David is, even though in the big picture, this is a small thing. I'm reading this, I'm thinking, so what? You cut a little piece of his garment off. You could have killed him, but you didn't. But David felt I it was still wrong. Probably because the intent that he had. You're destroying the king's property, which he probably didn't want to do. But that just reminds us, as David did here, when sin is small, especially if you're a parent, it can be cute when your kid. Little toddler puts his little feet up on the table and you know they're up there and you see his little piggies and kind of wiggling them at the dinner table. That can be cute and that can be innocent. But when they're 15, 16, they're flopping their dirty feet on the table, you're thinking, that's not as cute as it used to be. What when 's the last time you still have those dirty socks on? What? Is that still so I know it's kind of a silly illustration, but it started out little, it was cute. I'm saying be careful if toddlers do something that's cute. Just be careful. Because they're not toddlers for very long But the same is true with sin. If we take care of it when it's small, are we sensitive to the Spirit of God to obey in the small things of life? And I think pastors when people do this Sermon on the Mount, that's why we're not supposed to hate someone. That that starts within, and before you murder someone and actually physically do it, you're probably thinking about it. And the motive is already there. It starts as a small, just even a thought That's probably where David was here. But he was convicted over it. And then he may have realized, let's look at some passages here about vengeance. In Romans 12, 19, it says, Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith David. No, saith the Lord. It is written, vengeance is my I'll face, saith the Lord. Give place to wrath. Means, you know what? Sometimes we need to let God handle the situation. You do right. And trust in God and let his timing and his judgment take care of the situation. I think maybe that's what David was thinking. You know what? It is not my opp it is my opportunity here, but it's not my place to kill my king. It's just not right for me to kill the king. And you gotta remember, maybe it's also thinking too, David's like, I've been anointed to be a king. Do I want people seeking my life Or am I going to appreciate the position of authority? He's been wronged multiple times. His life had been threatened by King Saul multiple times. And here he can easily do it. But David must have at least understood, it is not my place to take the life of my king. He has called him my master, and he has called him the anointed. Look at Romans 14, 16, 17. It says, Let not then your good be evil spoken of. Even if you try and do something good, but it could be not looked upon by others as good. For the kingdom of God is not meat or drink, but righteousness, peace, and joy, and in the Holy Ghost. So the lunch of good be equal spoken of. In youth ministry, I've had opportunity, the opportunity presented itself. for a a teen girl to be an activity and I could very easily take her home. Is it a good thing that she can get home and save the parents the ride and take longer and get yes, that would be a good thing But if you saw me alone with a female teenager driving home and someone drives by, oh, there goes Pastor Josh, and who is that? Oh, that looks like so-and-so from the youth group. By ourselves? Does that look good? It does not. Am I doing a good thing? Yes, but it wasn't wisely done. So if that ever situation ever happened, I'm like, well, I can't do that. I've had to do that before. It's like, but my wife will take you. That's so much better. It's a good thing, but it could come across looking evil. We have to be careful. Leviticus 19, 18, one last one with this. Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. I am the Lord. Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear a grudge. People live in the past. And some people live in a situation where if they were David, I don't know if I could have done what David did. That would be really tough, honestly. I think that'd be very, very difficult. To avenge and to take yourself. Some people are just longing and waiting. If I just give the opportunity, I will take it back and I will do everything they did to me and more and make them regret that they even thought about doing that to me. And that's how we can be. We just cannot wait to jump at the opportunity. Here it's given to David. It's right there in front of him. The opportunity, and people are like, that is of God God has placed Saul in there so you could take his life. And David is like, yeah, I see that. And that's very tempting. But I don't think God put him in there. He probably did that to try me to see what I would do. And by the end, we'll see it did affect Saul at least temporarily. So we need to keep looking. So his own heart smote him. And he says in verse 6 and verse 10, How can I kill my master, the Lord's anointed? And then he says in verse 7, he says, stay the servants. I will not let you do it either. Basically, hey, they are telling me to do it. I almost get the impression that the servants are saying, David, if you don't kill him, I will. And David was like, no, no, we're not doing this. And this is the exact opposite. If you turn and look at 1 Samuel 22. 18, we already kind of read it and referred to it. What did Saul do with his servants wouldn't kill someone he desperately wanted to kill. He just went to the next guy. You'll eventually find someone that wants to do it. Here, it's completely different. This whole situation is entirely different. Saul is telling and demanding guys to take innocent life and the guys are like no we don't want to do that. But what's he do? He turns to someone else. I want what I want and I want it now, so don't like you do the killing. Okay, I'll do it, no problem Saul is being or uh David is being begged by his men. You do it. He's like, I'm not doing it. I'll do it. He says, we're not doing it. We're not going to take the king's life. He's our king. We're not taking his life. The contrast is massive. It's huge. And who had every right, humanly speaking, to do what David didn't take Saul's life? It would have been King David. And his men seemed to even want they wanted it done. But he says, how can I do this? And ultimately, when we look at this, we see an emphasis over the next couple verses in verses 12 through 15 that the Lord is thy judge. Let's just look at some of these quickly. I read some of them. But it says, the Lord judge between me and thee, and the Lord avenged me of thee, but mine hand shall not be upon thee. Hey. If God is judged, he can judge my motive, he can judge your motive. That's an incredible thought right there. Because David knows God can take care of it. If I trust in him and I trust in God's judgment, he is a righteous Just his timing will be right. I don't have to take things into my own hands and take your life. He's saying God can do that. In his timing. The Lord judge between me and thee in verse 12. And the Lord avenged me of thee. The Lord can take care of me. And Saul, he'll take care of you too. He can judge between us. But my hand shall not be upon thee. And he continues on another verses. He says Look at verse 14. After whom is the king of Israel come out? After whom thou dost pursue? After a dead dog? After a flea? He's like, what are you as the king running around chasing someone like me for anyway? What in the world are you doing is chasing me? I am one of you. I've helped kill the enemy Then we look at some passages about God being judged. Look earlier in 1 Samuel in chapter 2, this has been many months since we covered this. But this is Zahanah's prayer in 1 Samuel 2 about God being a judge. It says, The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. Out of heaven shall there thunder be upon them, and the Lord shall judge the ends of the earth, and he shall give strength unto his king, exalt the horn of his anointed. Hannah is here just praying, God, you are a righteous judge, and you can do as you please, and we need to trust in you and your timing. And just obey now. If we trust in you and obey. Then we're gonna look at a couple of Psalms of David. I think these are quite significant when you think of everything David's been through. And then we read these Psalms that David was used of God the pen. In Psalm 7A says, the Lord shall judge the people. Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness. according to mine integrity that is in me, O let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish the just, for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reigns I think David was greatly tried here. I know I would have been. I don't know if I could have done what David did, honestly. That would have been really, really tough. But David says, you are the judge. He pens this psalm according to judge me. And I know that I can, according to my righteousness, according to my integrity, you do what you think is right with me That's incredible. When you think of God who knows the heart and does know your motives of why you do what you don't you think he could properly discipline or properly judge the situation for good or bad? I think so. I think this is what David understood. Let's look at another Psalm of David. In Psalm 35, 24: Judge me, O Lord my God, according to thy righteousness, and let them not rejoice over me. Once again, David is used to write this psalm to judge me, oh my God. You judge me and know my thoughts, know my intentions. I was tempted, Lord, you know, and if we take that to this, you know I was tempted to take Saul I did cut it off and got into turning around and using that to help at least Saul realize, at least for a time, what was going on. So very quickly We'll just look at the last couple of verses here where David swears to spare Saul's seed. This is so gracious of David. But if we look at 16 through 22 , We'll just see that let's look at verse 17 for the sake of time. And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I. They just had some dialogue. David is up, and he's talking to Saul down below to get the picture of here's David up there, I picture it in my mind's eye, he's holding this piece of the skirt and he's talking to them and David's like, wait a minute, you're my s that that's that's David. That's my son. What are you I'm looking for? I was gonna kill you. What are you doing with part of my skirt? Oh yeah, that that I have right here? Yeah, I could have killed you. Isn't this whole thing is so ironic. He had every opportunity, he didn't do it. And then the very thing you came to do, I could have done and chose not to. That's why at this point in time, after some dialogue, I could just see King Saul looking up at David. Not looking up physically because probably of uh the land there, okay. The location of the area. And he said, Thou art more righteous than I, for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I reward field. I was out here to kill you And there was a situation where you could have easily killed me and you didn't. That is righteous, David. That is incredible. I think Saul is saying, I I just would have killed you. I came here to kill you. And thou showed this day, verse 18, that thou hast dealt well with me, for as much as when the Lord hath delivered me into thine hand, thou killest me not. God allowed a situation For you to take my life. I was trying to pursue you, and you didn't do it. So here, at least at this brief moment, this is starting to sink into Saul. This guy is more righteous than I. I cannot believe he did that. So much so that by verse 19 he says, For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? If you see your enemy and you have the opportunity to take them and you don't, that guy is crazy. But here's what I think is interesting when we think about this verse really quick. The question is Do you think David really saw Saul as his enemy? I don't think so. I know he didn't. Saul didn't like David, but I don't think David's looking at the situation. If I could just kill him first. Then this game is over. I think Givesing, that's my father in law. That is the father of my wife That is my king. I don't think David is looking at it as my enemy, but from Saul's perspective, his perspective is you are the enemy. He had left the enemy to try and kill you. I have killed other people to come and to take your life. He says, this doesn't make any sense, David. Because who in the right mind, if you have your enemy, you're battling, you're fighting, you're taking other people's lives, and then you have the opportunity to get it all over with and take out the leader, and you don't That's incredible. That's what Saul is saying from his perspective. He says, I'm I'm your enemy and you take my life. But I think the key is David, I don't think saw Saul as his enemy. Let's quickly uh wrap this up here. Last last couple verses. And now behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king. Here for these brief moments, at least King Saul is realizing, David, you're going to be a king and you're going to be a good, righteous one. If you can do this and spare my life and I'm trying to take yours, that is incredibly righteous. And he says that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thine hand. Swear now, therefore. Now he's thinking about the future. King Saul is now shifting from himself, and he's actually thinking about someone else for a moment. He says, Swear now therefore unto me by the Lord that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me. And that thou will not destroy my name out of my father's house. Would you please spare my children as you've spared me? I know you're a righteous man. I know you can do it. I'm asking you. This is quite Contrary to what you think would happen. I don't think King Saul was going that day, grabbing those 3,000 chosen men to go kill David and think by the end, I'm going to be apologizing to David. And asking him to spare my seed. I don't think that's how his day started. But the Lord saw fit to do different and to work it out through the heart of David and his intention of Saul, you're not my enemy. I will not kill you. You're my king. I wish had Saul had that attitude, he would have been a much better king. Wouldn't David have even had to have been king had Saul been doing the what he should have to serve God. I mean we won't know, obviously, but what we do know is that's not how it worked out. So sometimes difficulties of trials come away, and God can use someone else to do righteously, to be kind and gracious to you to help you realize, you know what, God God, you are a great God. And that's just incredible what you did. And God can use you doing right to help affect others to want to do right too. At least in these moments, Saul was like, this is incredible. David, what you did was amazing. All because David trusted in God's timing and God's judgment And was willing to, you know what, I don't take things in my own hands. God, you can handle the situation. Because who would do what David and Lord David did at the end? And verse twenty two. And David swear unto Saul, and Saul went home, but David and his men got them up unto the hold. And we know if you read the rest of the story, which we'll get to eventually, David kept kept to his word, and uh especially with Davathan's children. He upheld them and honored them, and he did that. But would we, even give an opportunity for oh sweet revenge and something we can take into our own hands. And the situation seems perfect. It even seems like God put our hand. It could be a test of can you do what's right? In a time that this is very difficult and you're tempted to do something that you should not do, will you continue to do what's right? Will you trust in God enough? Will you place the judgment of that person into God's hands and help you to do what's right in that situation to obey God? God. Father, we do thank you and praise you for this passage of Scripture for 1 Samuel 24. It is truly incredible when we think about the fact that David was a man like us. His life was threatened. He was running for it. And yet give me opportunity at a very vulnerable time for King Saul. He trusted in you. His heart was smitten. And even King Saul realized that God is going to use this guy. He's a righteous guy. He could have taken me didn't. Would we do the same? We are so tempted to take life, to take situations into our own hands and to force our own judgment upon an issue. Father, would you help us? To be patient, to trust in you, to rest in your judgment, to leave the results up to you as we do our best to obey your word each and every day, each and every hour and every decision that we make. Can we trust you, especially when the time is difficult and challenging? Would you be with us as your people to obey your word and for do this for the honor and glory of your son and our Savior who says And we pray. Amen. Yeah, what a practical reminder this evening that when we have opportunity to take matters into our own hands. And I I love the way that you showed Saul. He's looking at David and he's like, God has delivered him. into my hands. And then the guys are like, God delivered him into your hands. He said, I can't do it. But you know what it really makes me think of? Makes me think of Christ on the cross, the Son of David. And as he's on that cross, you know what he says, Father forgive them. They don't know what they're doing. That's amazing thing to think about. So the uh the bar is very high. If we're going to think and act like our savior. And so let's do that. Let's go ahead and pull out our hymn books for our closing hymn, please. And that is number 38, how great thou art. We'll just sing the first and last verses together. Please let's stand. And let's sing this wonderful hymn as we close out our day and think about the week ahead of us. Hymn 38, How Great Thou Art. First and the last verse. I see a stars, I hear the falling but Oh my Savior God , how we were Mid Christone, with God. Then take me more short my dog And I can run in my shirt and everything God with a lot and think I know I think you're gonna be okay now I 'll came upon My Lord, my Savior God to me. How great thou art, how great thou Well, it's been good to be gathered together as a body this uh day and hope that you uh just really enjoyed being in the Lord's house. You were challenged spiritually and encouraged. Uh please remember to pray for the lenders this week as they're gonna be to be taking Julia to college and uh pray for her as she gets settled and starts a new season of life and pray for mom and dad as they're gonna be sad to see this little girl to say bye bye. So uh pray for them that they'll be traveling this week and uh we'll be praying for you Julia as you're uh at school pray to have a really really good good semester. Well, I'd like to ask if uh Brother Charlie Archibald if you close us in prayer tonight and uh if you're busy with us, glad that you could come tonight. And hope that uh you'll come by and greet us. So try. Heavenly Father, just thank you for wanting us to gather together together this evening. Thank you for for the love that you show to us each day. Just thank you for um the fellowship that we've had, the um the the word presented and the um just the example that we have of David in scriptures and Just thank you for providing that to us and just pray you be with us in our coming week that we can um Be bold witnesses for you that we can serve others and glorify you in Jesus' name. Amen.