Okay, well if you could take your Bibles, please, and turn with me to the book of James. James chapter 1, and we are looking at verses 1 through 4 together this morning. James chapter 1, and we're looking at verses 1 through 4 together. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading the passage, and then we will dig into what is a very practical and a very important passage for us to understand. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greetings. My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have for perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. Now, if you're following our Facebook feeds on each morning, we have started a study through the book of James. And we've been doing a Daily in the Word podcast. I hope that that is an encouragement to you. And as I was working through the beginning of the book of James, I thought, you know, we've just finished the book of 1 Peter, a very, very practical book. And really, after beginning to look at the book of James, I thought, I think that this would be an excellent place. for us to begin our continuation in our Sunday morning series. So this is going to be the first of several messages through the book of James. And as we work our way through the book of James, we're going to be following a lot of the same content that we're seeing in our morning reflections, but obviously we're going to be going deeper into those things. Instead of a very surface quick movement through those various passages, we're going to try to dwell on some of the details and try to dig into those details and understand them. And so the passage before us this morning is a very important one. Let me begin with a summary statement of this opening to the book of James. James wanted Christians who were facing difficult trials to joyfully trust God's hand of providence as he would shape them through the difficult seasons that they were living through. Let me say that again. James wanted these Christians who were facing difficult trials to joyfully trust God's hand of providence as he would shape them through the difficult seasons that they were living through. To ver put it in very simple terms, God wants me and God wants you and God wants every single person that listens to this message God wants us to joyfully trust his hand as he guides us to the trials of our faith. And the reality is this morning we're going to be reminded of several very important truths. That will press our souls to do exactly what the text of Scripture tells us to do. Before we dig into this passage, let me ask you a question. As you sit there in your home today, do you feel the pressure? of not being able to go about your daily normal routines. Now we've been trying to work our way through the church and calling people and seeing how they're doing and talking to them. And I would say for the most part, most of you that I've been able to speak with seem very upbeat and encouraged. But here's the reality. We all, on some level, are facing pressures that are unusual that we've not faced. Maybe ever in our livetimes, and we hope we don't for a long time again. The truth is we're having to do work in our basements. and in rooms with all the activities of the day. Kids who normally are in school now are well they're being homeschooled or they're well they're just being kept from killing each other. You know what I'm talking about? A lot of damage control between kids. We're relating to one another a lot more closely than normal. A lot more interpersonal interaction. And we're not able to get out and do a lot of the things that we enjoy doing. If you love baseball, you haven't been able to watch the O'S this year, have you? If you love basketball, you haven't been able to watch basketball, have you? You weren't able to watch March Madness. Are we even going to get to watch college football in the fall? We have all these things we say. Our lives have been disruptive. And then the one place But we can come and we can rest our souls and we can be encouraged and strengthened the church. Well, we're joining through a live stream. The truth is our lives have been disrupted. The truth is that we are living and unsettling on certain days, and we are feeling intense pressures. You know, you have a doctor's appointment, all of a sudden you can't do that because, well, that's an elective procedure. We have to deal with these more severe possible situations. You end up in at the doctor's, you end up in the hospital, and all of a sudden your friends and family can't see. We live in troubling moments These are difficult days, but I want you to realize something. You can, and God says you must, rejoice in him. In his hands, even when we walk through these difficult seasons. How can we do that? Well, let's begin looking at the first of four truths that we'll find in the text before us. The first truth is this. We must be mentally prepared to face difficulties even though we're Christians. There are some people that when they become a Christian, they believe somehow that, you know what, the moment I trust Christ, I feel that burden of my sin removed from me, and I I feel this wonderful peace And this joy like I've never felt before, and it's going to stay like that the rest of my life. I'm not going to face difficulties anymore. I'm not going to face temptations anymore. God's going to bless me, and I'm going to go through a rich life experience. Well, I want you to know something. As much as I wish I could tell you that was the case, I can't. The fact is that even though we are God's children, even though God loves us deeply, he cares about our souls. God allows us to face trials of our faith. It's not because God's evil. It's not because God isn't in control. It's not because God is trying to cause us to stumble or to sin. God allows us because it's part of our growing process. And what we need to realize from this text is that we have to be mentally prepared for the fact that we live in a fallen world We are fallen creatures. The people around us are fallen. We will experience trials of our faith. And we see this in verses 1 and 2. Notice how James puts it. He says, I'm a servant of God And of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I'm writing to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. After he gives that very simple greeting, which I'm going to notice just one or two details from, he then makes this statement, his opening to the book. My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into diverse temptations. What is James saying in this verse Well, let's begin with two ways that he is revealing this concept of we have to be prepared for difficulties just by the greeting. The first way is this, the way he introduces them. He says, I'm a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now that word servant is a little bit softer than maybe the full sense of what James is saying. He used the Greek term that they use for a bond servant or a slave. This is a person who has no rights. The truth is that we love our freedom. One of the things that's very troubling about the moment that we live in today, for many, many people, is we say, we live in the United States of America. We have a bill of rights, we have a constitution, we have the right to lots of different things, and we are having our rights removed from us. Does that make you feel unsettled? Does that make you feel a little uncertain that the government can say you can't go here and you've got to wear a mask and you can't have services and all those things? Does that unsettle you? We're a people that love our freedom. Yet James says, I'm a slave. I'm a bond servant. I have no rights. I belong to Jesus the Master, and whatever he says goes. Wherever he puts me, whatever he allows me through, whatever he wants me to do, I am going to be faithful. I have no rights but what he gives me. That's how he opens the letter. And then he says, You're the twelve tribes who are scattered abroad. The idea is that these were Jewish exiles. They were cast all throughout the Roman Empire. And the reason is likely because of pressure that they faced in Jerusalem. For the sake of the gospel. You know, it's interesting, when we go to the book of Acts, we see that God told the Jerusalem church that they needed to go to Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria. The uttermost parts of the world. And instead of them saying, okay, we're going to go to the uttermost parts of the world, they stayed in Jerusalem. And you know what God did? He allowed them to face intents Oppression by the religious leaders in Jerusalem. In fact, the Apostle Paul before his conversion was one of those people that brought that tremendous pressure on the Jerusalem church. And all of a sudden they were spread all throughout the Roman Empire. They were exiles. They were people without a country. People without roots. People without an established place where they could find encouragement. and strength and community. These were people who felt very isolated. And the truth is the one place that these twelve tribes scattered abroad W the one place they could find some community was in the local church. But we see by the way that he refers to himself And the way that he refers to them, trouble is a part of the experience that James has and that they have. A second way that we see this is in the exhortation that he gives. Notice it again. He says, My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into diverse temptations. Let's notice a couple of the details of the exhortation that James gives. The first detail is very important. He says, my brethren. He's writing to Christians. And I want to just begin with this very simple fact. If you're not a believer, if you've not trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, where there's been repentance toward God. Place your faith in the finished work of Christ, calling on the Lord to save you from your sins, depending on the finished work of Jesus. This message really cannot be properly applied. You say, why is that? Because everything that he's going to say about the encouragement of how we pass through difficulty and what God's doing, it doesn't apply to the non-believer. In other words, if I'm not in Christ, I'm not a new creature. And if I'm not a new creature, he's not sanctifying me and attoring me and growing me in the image of Christ. He's calling me to repentance and faith. In other words, for this passage to apply, you have to be a child of God. Very important detail. Don't miss that. A second detail that's very important. He told them that they needed to think carefully in the midst of their difficulties. So through that thinking, they could have a settled, joyful disposition. Now pause for a moment and ask yourself this question. When you're under pressure and you think a lot about it, what is the normal result of all that thinking? Is it peace? Settleness, joy, or is it anxiety, fear, and inability to move through that situation? Notice what he says He says, count it all joy. In other words, James is saying, when you're suffering and your faith is being tried, stop Think, think reasonably, guide your thoughts to the truth of Scripture. Don't let your emotions move you and talk to you, but let what you know to be true, what is factually accurate, let that communicate to your soul. Count it all joy. And we're going to talk about in just a moment how it is that you can sit down in the midst of trials and stop and think and instead of being moved and driven by your emotions, you can say, you know what? God has a purpose in this God is doing something in this. I can trust his hand and I can be joyful in the product that God is producing in me. You can do that. He's telling us to do that. There's a third detail that's very important. And this third detail is that he reminds them that it's not a matter of if, but it's when. Folks, he didn't say if you fall or you might fall or I hope you don't, but you never know. He says when That indicates that James knows that this is a part of life. As much as I want to insulate my children from all of the pain and all the suffering that I've ever experienced in life and that I know is out there and the stories that I've heard and the interactions that I've had with people, I want to preserve them from all of those terrible things I have no power to do that. I don't have the power to protect myself from all the potential evils that are out there. The truth is that I have to trust in God's God's hand of providence. God's goodness, His mercy, His grace, His kindness. The truth is we are going to face challenges. It's a part of living in a fallen world. And James is communicating that in the way he writes to these Christians. There's a fourth detail that is extremely important as well. And that is this detail. He says these details, these difficult circumstances really are not of your own doing. Notice the phrase, when ye fall. Now, typically when you and I think of falling in the sense of being tested and tried. We think of falling into sin and how we're doing something that we kind of set a pattern in front of us. We took steps and those steps led to a very bad decision. And I will say this Having been a pastor, having interacted with lots and lots of people, and having examined my own life, I will say that many, in fact most, of the very bad decisions we make are the result of a long line. Of poor decisions. We laid the tracks for the decision that we made. That is very common, okay? When I fall and I sin, generally there's a long line of bad decisions that led up to that moment. But what's very interesting is the word that he uses here is not focusing on that sense. He's focusing on the sense, this is something you did not bring upon yourself. In other words, when David sinned with Bathsheba, he sinned because he laid the foundation for that action. But when Job is sitting on this heap of ashes and he's crying and he's saying, God, what's happening to me? Job did nothing, nothing, to end up in that place. When Joseph was sold as a slave in Egypt, when he was falsely accused by Potiphar's wife, when he was forgotten in the prison, Joseph did nothing. To end up in that place. In other words, it's not that Joseph made all these bad decisions, and after making all those bad decisions, now he's in prison, he got what had what he had coming for him. There's a reason I bring this out. There are times in our lives that the troubles we face are not of our own doing. You know, when it is of our own doing, we ought to be willing to admit it. Because admitting it is a big part of helping us get resolution. That's what repentance is. That's what confession is. It's saying the reason I'm here is because I did this and this and this and this. But there are times that that's not why we're dealing with trouble. In fact, it's interesting, the word that's used, there are two passages that I'll draw your attention to where the word fall is used. In Luke chapter 10, verse 30, Jesus uses it when he's telling the story. of the Good Samaritan. And as Jesus is telling the story of the Good Samaritan, he basically says this, there was a certain man, he's traveling from Jerusalem to Jericho. And as he's traveling from Jerusalem to Jericho on the way, there were certain thieves who met him, and he fell, it says, among thieves. Now the question is this. Was the guy flaunting all of his wealth from the story? Was he saying, Bring it on, I want you to try to rob me? No, he wasn't bringing it upon himself. He's just doing his own thing. He's minding his business. He's walking down the road, and these people went after him. They took him down. They beat him severely and they stole from him. In other words, it really wasn't his fault. It was the fall of those who went after him. Another example of this is in Acts 27. We hear the story of Paul's shipwreck. And as he's telling the story, Luke is recording the story of how Paul was on a ship that ended up shipwrecked, it says this, and they fell into a place where the two seas met, and the ship ran aground, and it stuck fast. And the violence of the waves ripped the ship apart. And so he's basically saying this. They're just out there sailing like they're supposed to, and all of a sudden a terrible storm arises and it shreds their boat to pieces. This is an example of someone who is targeted unfairly and someone who ends up in a terrible natural disaster. And I will tell you that sometimes the trials of our faith are not the result of very bad decisions we made, but they're the results of God allowing us to go through difficulty. I'll summarize this statement this way. We all will face difficult seasons of life, and in those seasons, we need to think critically about what we're facing. We need to choose to rejoice in light of what we know to be true in the midst of the trial. At Ephesians chapter 6, verse 13, Paul commands us to take on the whole armor of God so that we may be able to withstand in the evil day. Folks, the evil day comes. The evil day is something we need to be prepared for. We need to put on the whole armor of God because when we face the test and the trial, we need to have the tools available to go through it. A second truth we see is this. We can rejoice because of what we know about God's ultimate purposes. And verse number three puts it like this. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. In other words, he says we are to rejoice in a very specific body of facts. Knowing this. Knowing what? Well, we're not rejoicing in the nature of the trial. Oh, I like going through COVID-19. Oh, yeah, that's great. No, that's not what it's saying. Oh, I like it when I lose my job. That's not what it's saying. Oh, I like it when I get sick and I'm suffering. I'm going through difficulties. That's not what James is suggesting. He's not saying that we rejoice in the pain. The truth is that there's a reason it's called a trial of our faith. It's because it's painful. It hurts. The pain is real. It affects our emotions. It affects our bodies. We go through turmoil and trouble of mind and we feel this agony of soul. He's not saying rejoice in the nature of the trial, rejoice in the pain that you feel. He's not suggesting that evil is actually good. It's not like, oh, if you're a Christian and bad things are happening to you, that evil actually somehow becomes good. That's not what he's saying. Evil is evil The question is, what is he saying we're to rejoice of? It's this. We're to rejoice in the ultimate product that God is shaping in us through the trying of our faith. In other words, I'm not happy that I'm in pain. I'm not happy in the nature of the difficulty that I'm encountering. I'm not happy in how long it's taking. But I am thankful, and I'm grateful, and I'm rejoicing in the fact that God who is good and God who is sovereign can even take the difficulties that I'm encountering and He can somehow bring good out of it. And that is what I rejoice in. This very simple truth that God is ultimately shaping something in me that is good. Verse 4: The trying of your faith produces patience. Let patience have her perfect work. God is developing me and He's developing you into a spiritually matured person and it's through the nature of the test that we encounter. And by the way, what James is saying here is stated in lots of other portions of God's Word. In Romans chapter 8, verse 28 and 29, he says, we know that all things Work together for good to them who love God, to them were the called according to his purpose, whom he did for know he predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 10 says that we are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. Let me give you this illustration. When we first came back to the States, we took the teenagers on an activity that was really actually very interesting. It was fun. It was down in Virginia, and when we went to it, it was a Lego convention. A Lego convention where they built these massive cities. That was really neat. They built robots out of Legos. They built all these kind of contraptions and we just walked around and these teams of well full-grown adults who were making cool stuff out of Legos, we walked around and we saw all the neat things that they were making. One of the things that really intrigued me was a display that was basically taking some very famous classic portrait paintings and it was recreating them out of Legos. For instance, there was one that was like the Mona Lisa. There was another it was the Last Supper. There was one that was kind of like it was a Picasso, it was one of those you know kind of strange paintings But basically what it was is these teams got together and with Legos they recreated this picture You know what's really interesting about it though? When you were really close and you looked at it and you looked at every single individual little piece, you didn't see the Mona Lisa. You didn't see the Last Supper. You didn't see Picasso. You said, what is that mess? But when you stepped back, The further you stepped back, the clearer it became. Where you weren't looking at every single individual detail, but you were seeing how they all fit together to form this amazing picture. And folks, that's how God works in our lives. When we're looking at that one moment in time, it's not pretty. It's not easy. It's painful. It's frustrating. It's a trial of our faith. Yet if we had the ability to step back and see it from God's vantage point, we would see that it's one piece And a picture of Christ's likeness in us. God is shaping us through the trying of our faith. In other words, the reason that we can rejoice in these difficult seasons is ultimately rooted in understanding the value of the final product God is shaping in us. Through what is often difficult and very troubling. It's not that what we're going through is good and easy, it's that God's using it for good, and it's a very valuable good. We then come to a third truth that is so very important. We must submit to God's hand of providence in the midst of the process. If we will be properly shaped by it. There are two very important details that I want you to notice in what James says in this passage. The first detail is this. We must respond properly to God's ultimately resting in his character. He says, but let. Now that word let means this. I am submitting myself to God in the process. In other words, I'm not fighting him I'm not resisting him. I'm not complaining at him. I'm saying, okay, God, I'm trusting you. It's not easy. Let's see if we can shorten this a little bit. I'm praying for grace. I'm praying for wisdom. I'm praying for strength. But I'm trusting you Let patience have her perfect work. There's a second detail that stands out to me, and that's this. This is a season. It's not just a moment in time. You know, I wish that the tests of life were like the tests we take in elementary school. Here's ten questions True or false. And when you're done, you turn it in, and five minutes later you get your grade, and then it's over. It isn't like that. Tests take time. Tests are more like the growing of your garden. In other words, you plant the seeds and a little bit out of time those those seeds begin to break through the soil. And as they break through that soil, they start to mature a little bit. And every day you go out and you see a little bit more change, a little bit more change, and eventually it gets to the place where it produces those flowers. But it still hasn't produced a fruit yet. And then those flowers, they produce little fruits. And those little fruits start growing and growing and growing. And pretty soon that plant grows to maturity. And you look at this thing and you say, okay, it's going to take me three months to get a tomato. What in the world? It's going to take me ninety-five days to get a watermelon. Well, it might take more like 110. What's the point? The point is tests, trials take a season. We have to be willing to go through this process day in and day out as God works through it in our lives. Think about the physical therapist. You have a surgery, you get in an accident, and you lose the ability to use your hand. You you use lose the ability to walk. And they say, well you need to go to physical therapy. You say, well what's that all about? Well if you want to walk again, if you want to be able to use your hand again, you're going to have to go through this process of four months of physical therapy. And you say, Well, what's that Well, you're going to go and meet this person who's nice but mean. And they're going to make you do stuff. They're going to make you do exercises. They're going to bend your hand. They're going to bend your leg. They're going to make you go To the process. They're going to say up This hurts a little bit, but I'm gonna have to push a little harder. You're gonna have to do one more. And they do it over and over and over again. All of a sudden, you begin to walk again. Begin to use that hand again. This is the way that God works. Think about that coach. He looks at that team at the beginning of the season and goes, we got our work cut out for us. And so what does he do? He trains. He pushes, he teaches, he drills over and over and over and over again. And then by the end of the season you see a team that's totally different than it was early in the season. We think about that personal trainer who says, you can lose that 20 pounds. You can build that 15 pounds of lean muscle. You can run that marathon. But you gotta trust me to go through the process. And so you're meeting me at 6. 30, and we're gonna work for two hours. We're going to work for 30 minutes. Whatever. They put you on a regiment week in and week out, day after day, and you go through the process. That's what God's doing in our lives. Patience is called a fruit of the Spirit because God produces that fruit in us through the trials of our faith. In fact, this is what Jesus says in John 15. He says, I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. Every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruits. Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, and except it abide in the vine, no more can ye accept ye abide in me. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit Without me you can do nothing. Folks, that's how we become patient. That's how we develop godly love. That's how we become meek. That's how we have a strength in faith. That's how we become peacemakers. That's how we develop wisdom. God does it in us for the process. We come to the fourth and final truth that we'll look at this morning. And the truth is this: the final product that God is shaping us is a fully matured Christian. Verse 4 he says this, that you may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. God desires and has purpose to shape us into the image of Christ, and he's willing to bring us through whatever circumstances are necessary for God to stamp his image in us. God knows what you need to go through to get the wisdom He wants you to have. God knows what I need to go through so that I will develop the patience that God wants me to have. God knows what we need to pass through so that we will love in a godly, matured manner. God knows what we need to pass through so that we develop the character of meekness and gentleness and temperance and patience. God knows what we need, and he allows us to go through it for a purpose. In 2 Timothy chapter 3, 16, we see that God gave us his word. Why? So that the man of God may be perfect. In 2 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 18, we see that God gave us his Spirit, so that as we behold as in a glass the glory of the Lord will be changed into the same image From glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. 1 Thessalonians 5. 23, we see that God gives us a wonderful promise. Listen to what he says. The God of peace sanctify you holy, and I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then he makes a very interesting statement. Faithful Is he that calleth you, who also will do it. In other words, what he's saying is this, I've given you my word I've given you my spirit. I'm going to conform you to the image of Christ. Not just I hope to. I'm going to try to. I will. There's a difference. There's a difference between God saying, I hope, I'm trying, I will. God promises that He will bring every one of His children to spiritual maturity. You might be sitting here this morning and you say, you know what? I don't feel like I will ever be at spiritual maturity. I look at the way I think. I look at the things that I do, the things that I've done, the things that I'm afraid I'm going to do, but I haven't done them yet. I think about the terrible things that weigh down my soul. My heart is so burdened, I feel like there's no way on earth that God could make me like Christ. And I want you to know something. God can, God will Let me give you a final illustration of the way that God works in the lives of his children. And we find this in Jeremiah 18, verses 2 to 6. The reason that we go to this passage is because God uses the nation of Israel as a picture of the kind of God he is. He reminds us of his character. He reminds us of his patience. He reminds us of his wisdom. He reminds us of his power. He reminds us of his mercy. He reminds us of his grace And when we see how God dealt with that people, he says, That's how I deal with you. In Jeremiah chapter 18, verse 2, this is what God told Jeremiah. He said, go down to the potter's house, and there I will cause thee to hear the word of the Lord. That's interesting. God could have just told Jeremiah, I have something to tell you, but he didn't want to do that. He wanted to speak to Jeremiah as Jeremiah was witnessing something in progress. In other words, God wanted him to not just hear a voice and have facts. He wanted him to have a picture. He wanted him to have an illustration. He wanted him to be able to visualize The truth that he was about to teach him. And he wanted you and me to see it too. And this is what he says. He went down to the potter's house, and behold, he wrought a work on the wheels. And the vessel that was made of clay was marred in the hands of the potter. Now pause for a moment You see this man? His hands are filthy, they're slimy, they're wet. He's got this piece of mud, clay, in his hands, and as he's working on it, there's imperfection in it. It's Not shaped properly. In fact, he was beginning to shape something, and now it's got some kind of issue in it. The question is this What would you do if you had been working on this piece of clay and then you find this terrible thing with it? Well, some of us, if it hadn't been the first one we've been working on, would have gotten angry and thrown it on the ground and smash it with our foot and say, I'm done dealing with this pottery stuff. That's not what the guy did. It says that the vessel of clay was marred, so he made it again a vessel as seemed good to the potter to make. In other words, instead of him taking that lump of clay and saying, I'm done with it, I don't want to deal with this anymore, I'm just going to give the day up and I'm going to go something else to do. He says, I'm going to take that piece of clay. I'm going to smash it down. I'm going to get the wheel going again. And I'm going to start shaping it again. Now there's the same piece of clay, the marred clay. He's working on it again. And then he goes on and he says, This. Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, O house of Israel, cannot I do with you as this clay, this potter? Behold, as the clay is in the hands of the potter, so are ye in my hands. Now there might be somebody listening going, well, that's Israel. I'm a person, that's a nation. Has your God changed? Do you think that God's patience and love and mercy and grace that He expects extended to a nation that was so stubborn and so rebellious that ultimately crucified his son. You think he's changed? No. In other words, that's how God deals with you. That's how God deals with me. And you know what the trials of our faith are? It's the potter pressing that clay so he can reshape it. And so right now, as you're going through difficulties, that's what God's doing in your life. Please trust him in the midst of what he's doing. I want to summarize this with a couple of simple truths that I hope will stick in your soul this morning. The first is this no matter the measure that we take to protect ourselves, we will fall into seasons of difficulty. Where God allows our faith to be tested. If you're not there now, there will be a day that you're there I'm not saying that to scare you. I'm not saying that to trouble you in any way. I'm saying that to say, hey, be ready. Be prepared. Two, these seasons will be painful, and we're not called to rejoice in the pain or the misery. I hope you never come alongside of a person who's suffering and say, you need to just thank God that you're in pain right now. You need to be thanking God because, you know, that pain's nothing in light of eternity. Folks, we need to come alongside people when they're in pain and suffering and going through difficulty, and we need to be encouragers. We need to be uplifting and exhorting. Strengthening those people. The passage isn't teaching us that pain is good, or that evil is good, or that pain doesn't matter. It's saying the process Is what we gotta focus on. What God is making the end result, that's what we rejoice in. The wisdom of God, who can take good out of those difficulties, that's what we rejoice in. 3. These seasons are a necessary part of our growth into Christ's likeness. Therefore, when we go through them, we must think critically about what God is creating through them. Rather than the intensity or the duration of the process. In other words, when we suffer, we need to think and we need to focus our thinking. We have to talk to ourselves. We have to take truth and we have to press it into our souls and meditate on the facts that we know about God's. We have to go back to the potter's house and say, That's what you're doing, God. I don't feel it right now. I don't see it right now, but that's what you're doing. We have to step back from the picture and not just look at the one moment in time or that season. We have to see the big picture. God says, think about this. 4. We must be willing to trust God's hand if in character as he guides us through these seasons if we will grow the way he desires us to grow. Notice he says it's a trial of your faith. That's really important. In other words, the ultimate thing that is going to be tested when we go through these challenges, it's our trust in God. Because it's in the midst of those trials, we say, Are you good? Are you in control? Do you love me? Do you really want to strengthen me? We question the character of God We've questioned the purposes of God. It's a trial of our faith, because faith is ultimately what we believe about God. And lastly, I say this: the value of the finished product gives us a reason to rejoice in spite of the temporary pains we're experiencing. In other words, I'm not just looking at the moment, but I'm looking down the road at what God is making. Let me mention one more that I forgot. We have a sure confidence. That even though we may stumble through the process, he's faithful to complete the work in us. It could be that today, you look back over your past week and you say, boy, I blew it a lot. I think God has given up on me. I think God is done with me. I don't think He cares about me the way that the Word of God says. And you begin thinking these things. I don't think God is ever going to get me to that point of spiritual maturity. And I want you to realize something. You believe a lie about God. And you believe a lie about what he does. And you believe a lie about his character. God promises that He will complete the work in us that He has set out to complete in us. Just as He didn't give up on the nation of Israel tonight, we're going to talk about the kingdom of God. God's thousand year reign. You know what that's going to remind us of? The same nation that was a lump of clay marred in the hands of the potter, the same nation that stood and said, Crucify him and his blood be on us and our children is the same nation. That's going to enter his righteous kingdom. How is that? Because God didn't give up on those people. I want to remind you that God is good and he accomplishes what he says he'll accomplish. God wants us to joyfully trust his hand as he guides us through the trying of our faith. May we do that today. You might be joining us today and you say, Pastor, you mentioned earlier about being a Christian, and I'll tell you what, I am not one. I don't have the hope that you talk about. I don't have confidence that I'm saved. I feel miserable and separated from God, and there's nothing that I can do. And I say, let me tell you something. There is nothing you can do, but there's something He did for you. God sent His Son to die for your sins, to rise from the dead. You can be safe from your sins through the work of Jesus. If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, I hope today you'll do that. If you say, I'm not sure how to do that, I hope today you'll reach out, send me an email. So we can talk about how you can trust Christ. I'll take the Bible and I'll explain to you verse by verse what God has done for you and how you are to respond to those things and what God says he will do when you trust in his son. Please reach out by email, phone, text, whatever, if you're uncertain of your salvation and you need to talk to somebody. Let's be all together for a word of prayer, and I pray that God will use these things to strengthen us as Our Father in heaven, we are so grateful that today we have been under the ministry of the Word. Help us to trust you. Help us to not doubt your goodness and your power and your love and your patience and your grace. I pray that we would be reminded of that lump of clay in the hands of the potter and be reminded that just like the potter reformed that piece of clay into a good purposed instrument. God, you do that with us too. May we trust you in this process called our lives. We ask that you'll bless your people, strengthen them in the midst of uncertain and troubling days. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Same amen