Take your Bibles, please, and turn to Philippians chapter 3. Philippians chapter 3, and we will be looking at verses 15 to verse 19. Philippians 3 verse 15 to 19. Give you just a second to get there. Philippians 3, verses 15 to 19. I'll begin reading. Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded. And if in any thing ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Nevertheless, whereunto we have also attained, let us walk by the same rule. Let us mind the same things Brethren, be followers together of me, and mark them which walk so, as he hath rust an ensample. For many walk of whom I've told you often, and now tell you even weeping that they are enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is their shame, who mind earthly things. This is a very interesting passage of Scripture, and I want to go ahead and give you a little summary of the reason that Paul writes this section. Because Paul is concerned about the spiritual well-being of these Christians. He reminds them about the tremendous conflicts that exist between the ways of the world and the mature Christian life. He does this so that they will be encouraged, sobered, and seek out godly examples to follow. You know, one of the things that I think that we learn about little kids is little kids like to find people that become their heroes. Anybody, did you have a hero when you were a little kid? I remember one of my first heroes when I was a little kid was Davy Crockett. And I think the reason I liked Davy Crockett is because my parents grew up watching Davy Crockett when they were little kids, and then, you know, they introduced that to to us and then, you know, I wanted to And I remember one time there's a picture of me. I was probably younger than Joel, somewhere between Nathaniel and Joel's age, and I'm standing there with my musket. And I got my Kinskin cap, and I've got my, well, supposedly buckskin outfit, and I was Davy Crockett, and I was making gunpowder one day and smashed my thumb. and lost my thumbnail in the process. Well, you know, little kids have people that they idolize. You know, as they got a little bit older, it went from being Davy Crockett to, I don't know, Nolan Ryan. Anybody remember Nolan Ryan? You know, some of the younger guys, they have no clue who Nolan Ryan was. The truth is Nolan Ryan was pitching when my dad was my age. And he continued for a really long time. The truth is they're people that we we idolize. We look up to them. We want to be like them. When Paul talks about us as Christians marking people as examples, He's not suggesting that we idolize other Christians. He's not suggesting that we get in our minds that there are people out there in the Christian life who are without flaw. who have some supernatural power and maturity and ability. When he says mark them and follow them as examples He's suggesting that that following as an example also keeps in mind that that person is flawed and also recognizes that that person has limitations. You know, one of the things that Paul said in the section before is he says, I've not already attained. I've not really gotten to full maturity yet. Yet in this passage of Scripture he says, mark those who are perfect. And that word perfect has the idea of mature. Sound. They have reached full strength. So when we use that term in the New Testament, don't think of like a sinless individual, a person without weaknesses or limitations. We're talking about a mature person. So basically what Paul is saying is this, I've not fully arrived, but I am spiritually mature. And because I'm spiritually mature, though I'm flawed, and you're going to find weaknesses in me, you need to follow my example. You need to follow me as I follow Christ. That really is what we're going to look at at tonight. We're going to look at two contrasting ways to live life. One way is a way that Paul says, mark these individuals and follow their example. The good that you see in them, the strength that you see in them, the way that they're faithful, the way that they don't quit. The way that they persevere in obedience to God, follow their example, but don't forget they're still flawed. They haven't reached full maturity. Even I myself haven't, he says Why does God give us a passage like this? It's because he wants to encourage us and he wants to sober us. He wants us to follow godly examples. I want to encourage you, Christian, look out for people that you know that are truly godly people. That you say that's a man or that's a woman who has maturity and they have stability. Don't forget they're flawed. But learn from their strengths. Learn from where they have done very well. This is what's great about church history When we study church history, we learn some wonderful stories about amazing people, but we also find their limitations. Paul's basically saying, learn from the best of those who are faithful. How can we do this properly? Well, let's look at a couple of different thoughts tonight. First of all, I want to begin with this section. We need to understand what is being stated in the text. Before we look at those little sections of the text, I want to go to Proverbs chapter 4. You don't have to turn there, I'm just going to read it. But I want you to notice what Solomon says to his son in Proverbs chapter 4. He says, Hear, my son, and receive my sayings, and the years of thy life shall be many. I've taught thee in the ways of wisdom. I've led thee in right paths. When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straight, and when thou runnest thou shalt not stumble. Take fast hold of instruction. Let her not go. Keep her, and she is thy life. He then says this, Enter not into the path of the wicked. Go not in the ways of evil men. Avoid it. Pass not by it. Turn from it. Pass away. They sleep not except they've done mischief. Their sleep is taken away unless they cause some to fall. They eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence. He gives this, we could say, explanation of what those people are like in the way that they live. When they lay down on their bed, they're plotting mischief. When they're sitting in the corner, they're thinking of things that they can do. Whether we realize it or not, there are people in this world, lots of them, this is how they live their life. Thinking about how they can get ahead. Thinking about how they can get around the system. Thinking about how to plot evil. He says, don't go near those folks. Stay out of their path, stay out of their way. And then he gives the contrast. But the path of the just or the righteous is as the shining light. That shineth more and more under the perfect day. And the way of the wicked is as darkness, and they know not at what they stumble. The thing that really catches my attention when I read this section. is that he says, the way of the righteous is like a shining light, and the more they walk down that path, the brighter the light gets. Their ability to see clearly, their ability to understand the world around them becomes more and more strengthened by walking in a righteous path. On the other side, you have folks that stumble in the darkness. They don't know what they're doing. That is the contrast between the way of the righteous and the way of the wicked And that is a great description in the Old Testament of what Paul is going to lay out here for us in Philippians chapter 3. What is God's way? Let me give you a couple of simple markers that he mentions in this passage. And I want you to understand that these are the kinds of people that you should be looking to learn from. These are the kinds of people that we should desire to become. The first thing we see in verse 15 is that God's way is a mature way. It's not a childish way. It's not a simple, naive way. It's a way that has maturity and strength. and depth and wisdom. In verse 15 he says this let us therefore as many be perfect, be thus minded. And I mentioned that that word perfect has the idea of complete. and mature and of full age. Whenever we see Paul use this term, and it's the Greek word telios, he's using it in the sense of maturity. God 's ways are the ways of the mature, not the immature. God's ways are the ways of the wise, not the simple, not the naive. Christians are not people who bury their heads in the sand. And ignore everything around them. Christians are the kinds of people that can process what's going on in their lives. And they have the wisdom to deal with those things. They know how to make sense of those things. Maturity. A second word or a second statement is this: the way of God is a humble way. Verse 15 says this, if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Have you ever been sitting alone in a room? Maybe you're studying your Bible and you're reflecting and you ask the question, am I right with God? Is there sin in my life that's keeping me from God? Is there something going on in my heart that I'm not aware of that is a limitation and a hindrance to me being what God wants me to be? You ever thought that way? I have good news for you. If you don't know that time is God's friend to use in your life, He's eventually going to show you where you have a problem. And let me give this very simple statement to you. All of us. All of us have problems. God doesn't deal with us because we're sinlessly perfect, He deals with us in grace. Every person in this room, no matter how long you've been a Christian, you have areas where you are blind to your failures and your faults and your weaknesses. All of us. I am, and so are you. And if God was to deal with us in only being in perfect situations, he wouldn't deal with any of us. All of us would be a separated from God. And so you know what God does? He works in your life to bring to the surface those areas of He takes those blinders off, and you know it's through confrontation with situations and people. You know, we think we're very patient. We don't realize this, but we haven't really grown in that area very much. So you know what God does? He takes us through a set of circumstances. We think that we really trust God and we have strong faith. And you know what he does? He takes us through circumstances. And he draws up to the surface those areas where we don't trust God enough. We think we're very merciful. And you know what he does? He brings a person into our path who is very difficult. And what God does is he says, where you have limitations, I'm going to address those things. But when Paul makes the statement If we are otherwise minded, God will reveal even this unto us. He's basically saying this. When you walk in God's ways, he's going to expose things to you. And if you want to stay in his ways, you have to respond to that correctly. You have to listen to what he's saying. You have to make those changes. You have to let him remove those things from your life. You have to let him stretch you and build you and strengthen you. The way of God's way, God's ways are humble ways because we are constantly being forced to change. Until the day we die, we are going to be constantly changing One of the things that really gets my attention as a pastor is when I'm working with folks who are getting to be in very poor health. When we get to our prayer list, we're going to mention quite a few names. There are several people in our church going through really significant situations. And one of the things that has really caught my attention. Is that those situations are more circumstances that God uses to mature that Christian? That infirmity is part of their maturing process. You can be 85 years old or 90 years old, and there are still blind spots in your life There are still circumstances that God's going to bring you through, and that's how He's going to change you and mold you and make you what He wants you to be. We come to a third fact, and that's this. It's a noteworthy way. Verse 17 says this, brethren, be followers together of me. And mark them which walk so as ye have us for an example. Now there's another passage of Scripture that says, mark those who cause divisions. We like to talk about verses like that. Well, here's where we mark the opposite. Mark those who are good examples. When you see somebody that is mature and sound and stable, guess what? That's the person you should take note of I remember when I was in in uh in seminary, I was taking Hebrew, and I wasn't doing as well as I would have liked. In fact, uh I really pulled my grade out of the gutter right before Christmas break. It was really not not so good. And I remember one day I came to my teacher and I I said, um, sir, my grade's really bad. My dad's a Hebrew professor. I didn't I don't know that I want to talk to him too much about my grade. And I was like, I was thinking about having my roommate help me uh you know tutor me a little bit in Hebrew. I remember he looked at me and he's like, Hey Joel, your roommate ain't gonna help you any He says, Let me make another suggestion. He's like, Do you see the girls in the back there? He's like, They're the best students in the class They know what they're doing. Either ask them for help or the guys that are learning from them. I said, okay, I'll I'll take your word for that. And I don't remember how I actually got the help. I didn't really actually get a tutor, but just was a little more diligent. But the point was that I had marked the wrong person to work with. And if I had gone and gotten tutoring from that individual Well, I would have been getting a D with them in the class. The truth is that we need to recognize qualities that are mature and sound. You know, sometimes in the Christian faith, in churches, we idolize, or we kind of we uplift certain qualities that actually really aren't godly qualities. Sometimes the things that we try to instill in our young people are not those godly qualities. And so what he's basically saying is we need to recognize who the people are that are spiritually mature, the humble ones. The strong ones. The ones that maybe don't speak up as much, but they have incredible wisdom. And those are the people we need to notice, and those are the ones we need to learn from. He then goes on to another, and that's this. The ways of the Lord are a premeditated way. Now there is a thinking in the world that Christians are non-thinkers. Christians are people who bury their head in the sand. They ignore reality. They don't understand science and math and the modern way and they don't understand that the world is improving and getting better and they're not keeping up with the times and it's an old archaic way of thinking. Let me tell you something. Whether you realize it or not, the Christian way is the thinking way. Notice what he says in several places in this section. If any man Thinks he be otherwise minded. May he be thus minded. Let us walk by the same rule. Let us mind the same things. He mentions the thinking multiple times in this passage. The reason he does that is because the Christian is the thinking man. The Christian is not the one walking in the darkness, stumbling around, not understanding what's really out there. He's actually the one who can make sense of the world that he lives in. He's the one that has the ability to perceive and see. He's walking down a path that becomes brighter as he walks down it after many, many years. It's amazing how you can talk to a person who has rejected God, rejected the Bible, and they look at the world around them and they cannot make sense of it at all. Yet they're very intelligent. And you can have a Christian who just a simple person, but because they have a biblical worldview, they can make sense of what's around them. The Christian's way, the godly way, is a way that thinks and acts based on what he knows is true and what he knows is right. Not what he feels, not what he hopes is going to happen, not what he wishes would happen. He acts based on what he knows is true. And he understands based on what he knows is true, the premeditated way. I then want to go to the second way, and that's this: the way of the natural man. We all are by nature this way, and if it wasn't for the grace of God saving our soul and the Holy Spirit coming to indwell us, And us becoming new creatures in Christ and the Word of God beginning to saturate into our mind and remove wrong thinking and replace it with godly thinking. If it wasn't for this, We'd be just like this. And many, many Christians actually do continue to think and act just like the world around them. There are several qualities I want to mention that Paul mentions in the text. The first is this the natural man's way is the popular way. Verse 18 says this, many walk, of whom I have told you often. Now he's about to give a description of a group of people that they need to be wary of. That they need to make sure that they're not like that. So mark these individuals, be like them. They're the example. But then there's this other group. I've told you many, many times about them. Be careful, be cautious. Many people walk in this way. Why does he say that? Because that's the most popular way. In Matthew seven, Jesus says, Enter at the straight gate. Wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there are that go in thereout. The truth is that the majority of the people that we encounter, hopefully not in the church, but certainly in our communities, are people who are not walking in God's ways They don't have a biblical worldview. They don't understand biblical discernment at all. And so we need to understand that. A second statement that he makes, it's very interesting, is that the natural man's way is very disturbing to Paul's soul. Verse 18, he says, This: I tell you, even weeping. As Paul thinks about this particular group of individuals, his heart is heavy. He's not saying this in anger, he's saying this in brokenness. He's saying this with a heart that is moved because he sees the depths of how deceived these people are and how much damage they're doing to themselves. And how much damage they do to other people. This is a disturbing way to the Apostle Paul. He then makes a third statement, and this one's very important. It's a destructive way. He says that these individuals are enemies of the cross. And there are a lot of different ways that a person can be an enemy of the cross. There are people who claim the name of Christ that because of the way they live their lives, the way they conduct themselves, because of the things that they say, they are acting as enemies of the cross as well. But you say, how does a person be an enemy of the cross? Well, one way is open antagonism. You realize that when Paul was imprisoned, there were people gloating, going, ha ha, this is great. Paul is in prison. We're really happy about that. There are people that were like that. They were actually antagonistic towards his message. And what's ironic about it is Paul says those people were even preaching the gospel. And he says, I rejoice that the gospel is preached. Not in her attitude, but I do rejoice that Christ is preached. He's going to address an issue later on between these two ladies in the church who are in contention with one another. And those two ladies, because of their contention, were causing the gospel to be undermined in their city. In their community. When Paul thinks about someone being an enemy of the cross many times, probably what came into his mind is what he was before his salvation. He hated Christ, he hated the gospel, he hated the Christian message, and he wasn't just content to hate it and stew about it, he was really active about it. He went to Damascus with the authority to take people in Damascus. He made sure that Stephen was martyred there in Jerusalem. I don't know this for a fact, but I would not be surprised if the Apostle Paul Stood along the side and watched Christ teach as an antagonist many, many times. They were the same age, grew up in the same city He was likely a part of the Sanhedrin. Not one of the oldest ones. Not one of the men with the most authority. But Paul was really respected. And the truth is that when Paul thinks of someone being an enemy of the cross, he thought of his own life, in his own heart, and his own actions. There are people like that. There could be a day when this church is viciously attacked by enemies of the cross. It could very well happen. We pray that God preserves and protects our church, but the truth is we have no guarantee that this nation is going to continue to be as free and benevolent as it is today. There are folks that are examples of creating a sense of security. You know, when one person comes out in arrogance and another person's thinking it on the side, guess what that does? It embodies When a person is involved in a let me tell you one of the reasons I believe that our culture is becoming so sexually disturbed When I look at the transgender stuff, when I look at how rampant the homosexual movement is, I know a lot of young men, believe it or not, who I went to college and even high school. school with who are openly not only openly homosexuals but are married people I went to high school with people that I actually knew them somewhat well And you ask yourself, well, man, a lot has changed in 20 years in this country. Like that used to be against the law, right? Yeah. And now we have people claiming to be Christians who are not just struggling, but openly flauding and identifying themselves in a lifestyle that God says is abominable. How in the world have we gotten to a place like that? I I really do think that folks become emboldened in their arrogance against God. God when other people around them are doing the same things. There are things that you would never do alone, but when you get in the right crowd, you'll do them. It's amazing. And that's what we're seeing in our culture. We are seeing a crowd mentality on a lot of significant issues And the truth is, this issue of being an enemy of the cross could be open antagonism, or it can be emboldening people around you to be involved in things that are contrary to God's laws. But then I think of a third, and that's hypocrisy. You know, when we as God's people speak truth but live contrary to the truths we speak, we cause tremendous damage. Image to the cause of Christ. There's many a young person that will say, I left the faith. Not that they had embraced it, but I left Christianity because of my youth pastor. And they tell you a story. Because of this person, what they did to me, because of my dad, because of my mom, because of my uncle. Oh, he was a preacher, and this is what he really was. And I knew all about that. The truth is that when we are hypocrites, we cause unbelievable damage to the cause of Christ. We then come to another. It's a very dangerous way. He says in verse 19, he says, Whose end is destruction? When he talks about destruction, there are a lot of different ways that we could Analyze that statement. The truth is that when we live contrary to God's laws, it's self-destructive. That's one of the things that really grasped my heart when we were going through Romans chapter 1. And you look at all the different statements. about those who have abandoned a knowledge of God and have created their own little idol and have worshiped the creature instead of the creator. Their lives are self-destructive. If God removes his restraint, they harm themselves by the things that they're involved in. They hurt their soul, they hurt their body, they hurt the people around them. They they disturb the relationship Around them. The fact is that when we walk in the natural man's way, it is a destructive way to live. And ultimately, we're building a case for our own judgment day. We then come to another statement in verse 19. It's an enslaved way. He says this in verse 19: whose God is their belly? This is a really interesting statement. And I think there are really two ways that we could understand the statement that God is their belly. You know what's interesting? There are a lot of people that say, I don't want to be a Christian because I know being a Christian is a little bit too restricted for me. me. I want to express myself. I want to be who I am. I want to do what I want to do. I don't want anybody to tell me you can't and you must. I don't want that at all. I want to self-express myself. You know what's amazing? When people express themselves, all they do is demonstrate they're slaves to their own belly. Slaves. They can't stop. When we talk about our belly, we're talking about our appetites, the things that we indulge in. This is a person that cannot say no. They love it until they want to stop, and then they realize they can't. The Christian is free to serve God. Free to walk in a way that is pleasing to God and not contrary to the way that God created them, the way of the world. It's dominated by the flesh. You know, in the Jewish mindset, the belly also was the center of emotion. And you know what's interesting? A Christian who's a godly Christian, who's a mature Christian, he lives based upon his head. The way he thinks guides what he does. And a person who's an immature Christian doesn't make decisions based on what they're thinking, they base decisions based on how they're feeling. Do you understand the difference? I'm so driven by my emotion that I had to do this. I couldn't stop. I couldn't help but say this. I couldn't help but have this attitude and this heart The Christian who's mature is not dominated by his belly. He's not dominated by his appetites. He's not dominated by his emotions. He's dominated by right thinking. And this is very important. If a person's not a believer, guess what? Their emotions control everything they do. They're not thinkers, they're feelers. And our emotions can be really twisted. We then come to this next statement: whose glory is their shame To put it in a simple way, they're confused. What they think is good, what they celebrate is an offense to God. The things that they delight in, the things that they joy in, the things that they want to do, the things that they say, this is what is good, and this is what is great, this is what is progress. God says, this is folly. This is wickedness. This is harmful. When I think about that statement, I think about what the text says in Romans chapter 1. Where it says, professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. They exchanged the truth of God For a lie. The world is confused. They're confused. We then come to the last statement, and that's the They mind earthly things. The way that they live is empty. By the way, God gave us this world, and it's a good world, and He loves the creation. We should take care of it. Should enjoy it. This is something that we need to think correctly about. But this is not the end. This is not all that there is The fact is that if all we're living for is what is physical and what is temporal, we're living in a very empty and valueless kind of a way. And the way of the world is that way. As Solomon says, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. If you don't fear God and keep his commandments, what you're living for is worthless. So I come to the last thought, and that's this. We've got to be practical in applying the text. Let me give you a couple of simple thoughts that I think Can be a help to you as we think about this passage. First of all is this. We need to understand that the ways of the world and the ways of the mature Christian are in constant, irreconcilable conflict. Constant, irreconcilable. If your worldview is dominated by your flesh, and this person is dominated by the Spirit of God, they will be in conflict constantly. There's no middle ground between those two worldviews. Two, we need to understand that the most common position in the world around us Will not be God's ways. You know it's funny, everybody when they're a teenager wants to be a rebel, right? One of the greatest rebellions you could be is to be a godly Christian. You ever thought about that? You know, everybody's talking about freedom and rebellion and the hippie movement, you know? And what's funny is the Christian is the real rebel, isn't he? He's rejecting the ways of the world. He's rejecting the common thinking. He's embracing something that's very different. 3. We should not be ashamed to walk in godliness, even if it's difficult, at times lonely. You know, one of the reasons that he's saying, mark those who are an example. is because people who have grown in maturity, they've walked alone at times in their life. They have been mocked before. for. They have suffered for the cause of Christ. They've gone through tremendous difficulty. They've learned lessons. There are things that they can bring to you that you don't even realize are there, and because of maturity, they can put those things in front of you. The fact is that it will be lonely at times to be a Christian. This is why we need the local church. Because it can be lonely in our workplace, it can be lonely in our community. But this is a place where we find sweet fellowship and communion, and we're able to unite together with biblical thinking. We need to realize that a walk in godliness is a way of maturing, of maturity, strength, humility, freedom, contemplation, and discipline Folks, that's what we need in our lives. We need to grow. We need to let God change us. And lastly, this we need to purpose by God's grace to think and live in a way that presses us into Spiritual maturity. Oh, sorry, there's one more. We need to look for godly people with consistency and spiritual maturity so we can learn their ways and follow their consistent example. I preface that statement. We are all flawed. There's no fully matured individual on this side of glory. But we can learn a lot from each other. We can learn a lot from those who've gone before us. And so I really want to encourage you to be that kind of a Christian. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer as we reflect on this very important text. Father, we think about the passage that lays out two ways to live. One way is a very godly way, it's a mature and solid way. The other is a way that is shaky. It's blind. It's dominated by the flesh and the emotions. I pray that you'd help us as your people to pick examples of godly people that we can pattern our lives. We will learn from their strengths. We'll be encouraged by their faithfulness and their strength and stability. Help us to be those kinds of people as we We get older in the faith. Help us to have that kind of stability and maturity. Pray you'd bless this congregation with many folks who can disciple younger men and women in the faith. And help us to be people who are quick to learn. We ask these things in Christ's name, Amen