I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you're joining us, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn with me to First John chapter 3. We are in 1 John chapter 3. And we're looking at verses 9 through 15. This is the second part of the lesson that we did last week. 1 John chapter 3, verses 9 through 15. Let's read Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin because he's born of God. And this the children of Of God are manifested in the children of the devil. Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither is he that loveth not his brother. For this is the message that you've heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. as Cain who was of the wicked one and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him, because his own works were evil and his brothers were righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates Hate you. We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren, and he love and he that loveth not his brother abideth in death. Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. And we come to this passage. I want to remind you of the summary statement that we put out last time, and here it is. The following section was written to help Christians live in a distinctly Christian manner and then to make sense of certain hardships that they would face at the hands of the world. Now let's remember that when we talk about uh the Christian life, we need to recognize that the Christian is in a constant battle, a battle between God's kingdom and the kingdom of Satan. And sometimes we as God's people get caught in between those two. Kingdoms that are in conflict. And they're not just kingdoms in conflict, but they're actually families in conflict. Well, yesterday we talked about the first part of this passage, kind of dealing with the nature of the Christian life. life. And so we understood that because we are new creatures in Christ and old things have passed away and all things have become new, we recognize that there is a distinctly different way that we will walk because of our new nature in Christ. Now today we're going to look at the second part of that. Making sense of the vicious attack And you know what's interesting? We've lived in a very peaceful nation. Now, I know that there's a a lot of difficulty going on in our nation today. But when we talk about the church as a whole and when we take our time period and we we relate it to the rest of history, we'll realize that the Christian church in the United States has been Able to experience a lot of ease, a lot of religious liberty. We really haven't faced very much, if any, persecution in our nation. But we need to realize that that's an anomaly in in human history. In fact, it's really even an anomaly today in the world that we live in. There are many cultures around the world where Christians face intense persecution. And suffering. And so let's not be lulled into complacency to think that in the United States we could never face those same kinds of things. Let's talk for a few minutes about how this passage draws out this issue. of how Christians face persecution, in fact, sometimes vicious and intense persecution from those around them that have not embraced the gospel. Well the first thing we're going to talk about is that as time goes by our pattern of life becomes more distinct. In other words, if I'm a Christian, the fact that I am a Christian is going to begin to manifest itself more and more as I grow as a Christian. And on the other side, if I'm not a believer, but maybe I'm a part of the church in the sense that I visit, I attend. I may even procla proclaim that I understand the gospel, but in fact I've not yet trusted Christ as my Savior. That also is going to be revealed Over time. Here's how he puts it in verse 10. In this, the children of God are manifested, and the children of the devil. In other words, he's saying, as time goes on. who you really are inside begins to reveal itself. A second thing that we that we see in this passage is that as our pattern of life, uh as we as your pattern of life becomes more distinct As a Christian, so does the potential for persecution from the world around you. In verse fourteen he says, We know that we've passed from death into life because we love the brethren. And he says Well, that indicates that there are people who are not Christians who are going to not love the brethren. In other words, they're going to ask actually hate. They're gonna actually have intense animosity towards other Christians and if or towards Christians. And in fact as we get later on in this discussion, we're gonna talk about some passages That really draw that to light. We see a third principle or truth in this passage. And this is really going to kind of bring it home. Cain and Abel are the first examples in the Bible of what we look at as Now what's interesting about Cain and Abel is that Cain and Abel were not just uh well let's put it this way, Cain and Abel were physical brothers. So they were part of this same family, but they were not a part of the same spiritual family, and they weren't a part of the same kingdom, if you want to put it that way. Notice how he puts it in verse 12 and 13. He says, Not ask Cain, who was of the wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil. And his brothers were righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. Now that's very strong language. He's basically saying when we see the story of Cain and Abel, we're going to see that that Cain killed his brother. And he says, why did he kill his brother? The reason he killed his brother is not because his brother was an evil person or because his brother was malicious towards He killed his brother because he had an evil heart and his brother lived in a righteous way. And so we know the story that that Abel brings a sacrifice that is acceptable to God. He brings it in a way that's acceptable to God. And Cain brings a sacrifice that's not accepted by God, and it's got a lot to do with the way that he came to God. And the truth is, God knew it was in the heart of Cain, and God knew it was in the heart of Abel. Abel's sacrifice is accepted, and his is not, Cain becomes angry. In other words, the reason that Cain was angry at his brother was because of his brother's righteous living, not because of his brother's evil living. This is the very first example we have in the Bible of someone who had hatred and animosity towards another individual, and they're both brothers, but they're a part of different kingdoms. Basically what John is saying is this, look, if that happened within the first family on this planet, then how much more so could it happen between people Who are not blood relatives. They're not brothers in the same sense that Cain and Abel were brothers. We then come to a third part to this that I wanted to talk about this morning. And I want us to kind of make practical sense of the truths that are in front of us. Why is it that the Christian becomes more distinct yet at the same time he can get Well the first thing I want to say is this the Christian life is both compelling and attractive. In fact, the Bible talks a lot about this. We see we see that when a person is a genuine Christian Christian and the Holy Spirit is dominating that person, that he begins to produce humility in that person. He begins to produce patience, a willingness to forgive. Give, a willingness to live in harmony with other people, hard work that is compelled by desiring to glorify God and what we do. Selflessness. These are qualities that the world recognizes as attractive qualities. We believe that humility and patience The willingness to forgive and get along with people, working hard, selflessness. We believe these are good qualities. And so when people in the world look at a Christian who is truly living the Christian life the way that should, then they're going to be attracted to those qualities and say, I want those qualities. Those are the ideals that we believe that people should have And when the Bible talks about the Christian being salt and light, he's indicating the fact that the Christian's life is distinct And it's good, it's compelling, it's attractive. In fact, in Matthew 5, 16, Jesus says, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is the word. He says a city that's set on a hill can't be hid. In the same way, we are as light cannot be hid as well. And so people are going to be compelled not just by what we say, but by the way But in 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 11 and 12, he's going to talk about the distinctiveness, how good and beautiful and compelling the Christian life is, and at the same time, how the Christian life Life is something that is very is potentially inflammatory for people that are not Christians. Here's how he puts it in 1 Peter chapter 2. He says, Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims. Abstain from fleshly lusts which were against your soul, having your conversation honest amongst the Gentiles, that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation So what is Peter saying in the text here? He's saying, listen, the way that you live is different than the world around you. You are to abstain from fleshly lusts which were against your soul. And as you live in the world and as people interact with you , It's very compelling. He says, let that way of life be distinct so that they will glorify God in the visitation. In other words, when they stand before For God someday, it will have been your life that will have drawn them to the gospel. God, And the reason that they can glorify God on that final day is because you were light, and when the gospel witness came, it came came with power because your life was a shining example of how you should live. But on the other on the other side he says they speak against you as evildoers So we see the distinctiveness of the Christian life, we see the compelling nature of the Christian life, we see the power of the Christian life, and we see that the Christian life is also something that is very repulsive to some people. They don't want God 's gospel. They don't want those righteous qualities through the power of the cross. They want those qualities through man's own effort. In fact, the truth is that the same life that's compelling and attractive can be potentially inflammatory and offensive to people. Think about some of these passages that talk about this. In Acts chapter 14, when Paul was meeting with the Ephesian elders, he made this statement. He says, it says he exhorted them to continue. In the faith, and that they much that they through much tribulation must enter the kingdom of God. He encouraged them and built them up, but at the same time time he warned them, you're gonna face intense trouble from the world around you. First Corinthians 118, Paul writes that the preaching of the Cross is to them that perish foolishness, but to us who are saved, it is the power of God. Greeks foolishness. He says in First Corinthians two fourteen that the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, their foolishness to him, neither can he understand them because their spiritual discerned. The truth is that when man looks at the gospel and man looks at the Christian life, there is a sense in which the world around us believes it's Folly. It's foolishness. And on some level, it can even be viewed as very offensive. And so I want to remind you that there are brothers and sisters in Christ all around the world who today are facing intense persecution. And you know, we should be praying for those churches and those individuals, people who are facing the terrible consequences in this world of living just a simple, distinctly Christian life. Churches that are being attacked, burned down, people who are being killed for the faith. We also need to, on the other side, realize that our own culture is not immune to This potential. We need to realize that all of the anger and the frustration that we see in our culture today, the things that people are doing to one another because they're angry, could very easily be focused on Christianity. In the coming years. And so we need to pray that God will continue to allow us to live in a land that is peaceful, a land that is stable, a land where we have religious freedoms. And the The reason that we pray that is not just to be selfish and say, I want freedom and I want liberty, but we pray it so that we can lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness, that we might be able to live out the Christian life in front of God. people so that we are salt and light that they can see and that it can actually draw them to Christ. That we can proclaim the gospel with freedom. Freedom and with power and clarity. And so when we think about the passage in front of us, we need to be reminded that we as God's people can Do and in certain parts of the world today are facing persecution because the world hates the Christian gospel and the church. So let me give you just one simple practice Practical thought that kind of summarizes everything that we have here this morning. God wants you and He wants me to live a distinctly godly life. But we need to realize that living that Christian life distinctly may very well cost us dearly. And so I want to encourage you to be willing to live out the Christian faith in a way That may cost you. I'm not encouraging you to be arrogant or difficult or frustrating for people around you. In fact, the Bible teaches us to be very gentle and peaceable. And loving people. Not to be a people that are fighting for our rights and not to be a people who are nasty and aggressive. We're supposed to be gentle and peaceable people. Loving. But When we proclaim the gospel, we need to realize that the distinctiveness of that gospel and the and the fact that that gospel is extremely exclusive, where Jesus is the only way, the truth, and the life, and no one comes to the Father except through him. That message that calls people to repentance and faith in Christ is a message that can be very stupid. thinging to the world around us. And we need to be committed to be faithful in spite of what it may actually cost us. I hope that this will be a challenge to you this morning. If it has has, please just take a moment to share that in in the comment section. Perhaps share this video. And it's been good to see each of you this morning. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, we are reminded today That the Christian life is a beautiful, compelling life, one that you use to draw people to the gospel, where they can be confronted with their sin and in repentance they can turn At the same time, we're reminded that that same Christian life that's so compelling can be extremely offensive. To those who reject the gospel. I pray that you would help us to be a courageous people, a humble people, a very diligent people who walk in righteousness. Encourage each person who has watched this video this morning. morning. May you challenge them through it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, it's been good to see you today, and I look forward to seeing you the next time. I won't be recording on Saturday and Sunday, but then we'll pick Back up on Monday. So if maybe you've missed some other videos, go back and maybe watch those. But I look forward to seeing you guys on Monday and many of you on Sunday as well at church. Have a wonderful and blessed day. Bye now.