Well, good morning, and I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn with me to James chapter 1. James chapter 1, and we are looking at verses 9 through 12 this morning. James chapter 1 verses 9 through 12. And tonight we have a special sermon that we'll be looking at from the book of 1 Thessalonians And uh normally I would continue with our Revelation uh series. We only have two more sermons, but I thought that tonight would be a very special time this afternoon, four o'clock, would be a special time. for us to look at what I think is a wonderful passage of Scripture. I think it's very appropriate, very pertinent to the time in which we live and a lot of the things that we are experiencing. as we are separated as a church and not able to corporately meet as we normally do. So I hope that tonight, if you're not able to join us in a drive-in setting that you'll be able to join us on our live stream because we will have the service live streamed and we will be looking at a very important passage in 1 Thessalonians. James chapter 1, we're looking at verses 9 through 12 together. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading in verse 9. Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted. but the rich in that he is made low. Because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth. And the grace of the fashion of it perisheth. So also shall the rich man fade away in his ways. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Now I want to remind you as we look into this passage that we are dealing with a section of the book of James that's encouraging us to get wisdom. In fact, it's important that we remember that just the other time we were looking at this text, that we were reminded if we lack wisdom, we need to ask God, who giveth to all men liberally, he's generous. And he abraid us not. God doesn't belittle us. And we have a promise. God will give us this wisdom if we seek it. He then warns us though that if we ask for this wisdom, we need to come to God in a certain way. We need to come in faith Nothing wavering. Because the person who wavers is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Later on, he says that a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. And so basically what James reminds us is that when we come to God for wisdom, we have to first of all recognize We need his wisdom. Secondly, we have to recognize that we not only need his wisdom, but his wisdom is superior to the wisdom of this world. In other words, we're 100% fully committed to embracing his wisdom. We don't doubt his wisdom. We aren't trying to take God's wisdom and this world's wisdom and blend the two together. If we try to take God's wisdom and man's wisdom and we blend them together, we're going to have a mess, a syncretistic mess that will not give us stability. We're going to vacillate between two worldviews that are in opposition to one another, and we will be driven by our circumstance. We'll be up and down. We won't have stability. We'll be like something that's out on the sea being blown by the wind and the waves are just beating that ship mercilessly. That's how our lives will be if we're not committed fully to God's wisdom. If we're trying to take God's wisdom and man's wisdom, blend them together, we're going to be unstable. So then we move from that discussion dealing with wisdom to an example, actually two examples, of godly wisdom. That's really what we're looking at this morning. In fact, the purpose of the passage in front of us is to develop the concept of godly wisdom through two examples of circumstances that people encounter in this life. Circumstances that need to be viewed in the light of eternity, in the light of God's wisdom, in light of a biblical worldview. James wants us to understand that God's wisdom is not just some concept that we study in a classroom. It's practical. It's real life. So he gives us these two illustrations. The reason that he's given us these two illustrations is because ultimately God wants us to recognize in these two illustrations we need an eternal perspective. We need godly wisdom. We need our worldview to be shaped by Him alone, not a blend of these two competing positions. So how can we this morning do exactly what God wants? To have a biblical worldview, to have a life that's governed by an eternal perspective, a life that's not vacillating between worldly wisdom and godly wisdom, but is fully committed to godly wisdom. How can we do that this morning? Well, let's begin with the first truth that we find in the scripture before us. The truth is this. James gave a parable to make us think. James gave a parable to make us think. Look down in your Bibles at verses 9 to 10. He says it like this Let the brother of low degree rejoice. And that he's exalted. And the rich, in that he is made low Let me read that again. Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted, and the rich in that he is made low. Now when you read those words, I want to ask you this question. Does that make sense to you? Does it make sense to you that a man or a woman who is in a position of low degree, that means that they're in a weak position in society? They're under pressure, they 're struggling, they're dealing with challenges. A person of low degree is exalted. Does that make sense to you? And that a person who is rich and powerful and influential and who is known is brought low, that's a good thing. Does that make sense to you? Well, from a quick reading of those verses, it doesn't really make a lot of sense. And really that's the sense of a proverb. A proverb is a wise statement. That is presented in a way that makes you think before you understand. In fact, a lot of God's wisdom is written in his word in the form of parables. When we go to the book of Proverbs, we have 31 chapters of Proverbs. Many of those Proverbs are spoken in a proverbial manner. In a way that it's almost like a parable. You don't quite understand it when you first read it. Some of them are clear to the immediate reading, but not all are. Some are almost like riddles. You have to sit down and think and reason and meditate, and you may even have to ask a wiser person who understands that proverb to explain it to you, or you won't get it. In fact, a lot of the ways that Jesus taught in the Gospels were in parables or in Proverbs. A lot of times he'd make a statement and he'd listen to the statement and go, that doesn't make sense. Jesus made a statement like this: I am the bread of life. I am the bread of life. You go, bread? He says, Your fathers ate manna in the wilderness and they died. He says, if you don't eat my flesh and drink my blood, you have no part of me. And you read that and you go, whoa , that makes me uncomfortable. What is he saying? Jesus says, if your hand offends you, cut it off. If your eye offends you, pluck it out. And you hear these statements and you go. Is Jesus telling me to literally cut my hand off? Pull my eye out? Is he telling me to literally eat human flesh? And the answer is, of course not. That's not what Jesus is communicating. He is speaking in a proverbial manner. He's using a statement to get your attention, to make you think and ask, what do you mean by your flesh? You mean like physical body here, or do you mean something else? He says, well, I'm talking about something spiritual here. You mean I literally need to cut off my hand? No, let me explain to you what I mean by that. I'm trying to communicate to you how serious sin is. You can't let it continue on as it is. You have to deal with it at its source, and you have to deal with it decisively. In other words, a lot of what Jesus says, a lot of what we read about in the Bible is stated in a way that's meant to make you think before you get the point. And it's written like that for a purpose. It's meant to make you think, so the illustration becomes clear. And when the illustration becomes clear, all of a sudden it becomes permanent. The context emphasizes in this passage two kinds of wisdom that are in opposition and they're vying for our attention. And this proverb before us, like most biblical proverbs, is a short statement meant to make us pause and think before we fully understand. We will not understand these truths being communicated unless we carefully reflect. Perhaps we may even need to go to some other passages of Scripture to really understand the point. But once we understand what Jesus or what James is saying in this text, what he's ultimately communicating in these two Proverbs. They become an illustration that will stick with us, and they will stick with us for a long period of time. Let me draw your attention to the contents of these two verses. There are two kinds of people that we that should rejoice in the way that God has dealt with them. One person is called a brother of low degree. He says, Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he's exalted. He's saying that the person who is of low degree has actually been elevated by God. Now he may be referring to the fact that his lowly position is actually, in God's view, a higher position, or he may be referring to the fact that he's in a low position But God deals kindly with him at a point in time and reminds him he loves him, he cares about him, he is his child. Remember, he says he's the brother of low degree. He's a Christian. The second person is referred to as the rich. And it's in contrast to the person who is a brother of low degree. He says, but the rich in that he's made low. Someone says, well a rich person's not made low. They've been elevated. They have power. They have influence. They can do whatever they want. They're able to excel in society. They're seen. They're visible. We would see them in the better position. But God says, that's actually not true. So how are these statements factually accurate? We have to understand them in the light of Scripture. We have to understand these statements in the light of a biblical worldview. Godly wisdom, not worldly wisdom. Worldly wisdom says if you're poor, you're in a low state. If you're rich, you're in a high state. God says if you're poor, you're in an exalted position. And if you're rich, you should be thankful when God brings you low. Those are two fundamentally different, conflicting views of circumstance. And God wants us to have the biblical view of circumstance. Why does he give the parable? We move to truth number two, and that is that the proverb associated with the lowly brother reminds us that God loves us and God loves his children who suffer in this life. The fact that this person is called a brother means that God has dealt with him in grace. That means that this person has been humbled. under the law and recognize that he's a sinner and that as a sinner he has no way that he can reach into God's presence. He cannot come to God on his own merits and his own righteousness by his own deeds. He comes to God through the righteousness of Christ. He has been humbled. He is repentant. He is trusted in the finished work of Christ. He has been dealt with by God's grace. That is an exalted thing. But he does not look like he's an exalted person. He's stumbling. When James uses these words, he is likely thinking of the very audience he's writing to as people who are being tested. Who he said that the trying of your faith produces patience, and you need to let patience have her perfect work so that you may be fully matured, lacking in nothing. He's saying, You are the brother of low degree, you're exalted, though you don't realize it. But you know, there are times that God has to remind us of what is actually true about us. There are times that perception becomes so strong to us that we think it's reality. I mean, let's take an example of this virus that we're dealing with. People a few weeks ago, because of all of the constant endless reporting that they've hearing hearing in the news are terrified and unwilling to leave their home. You can tell them to leave their home. But all of a sudden, because governors and other states are allowing certain things, all of a sudden people who are terrified are embolden to say, you know, there's nothing to worry about anymore. Now let me ask you a question. Has reality changed? The fear in the beginning and the boldness now? Has the reality really changed in any way? The answer is not really. In fact, it might be safe to say that the balance might be neither position really. The fact is that perception becomes so strong to us sometimes that we are fearful about things we don't need to be fearful of. And we are bold in the presence of things that we should be fearful of. And it's all about perception. Our perception and reality may not be the same. And the truth is that as a Christian who goes through suffering, persecution, trials, as I feel the weight and the pressure of all the things that are building in my life, I become fearful, I become weary, I become discouraged, and I look up and I say, God, do you care? Do you know? Do you love? Are you merciful? Are you kind? Are you coming alongside of me? Perception may not equal reality for me at that moment. You know what I need to do? I need to be reminded that reality is God does love me. He does care about me. He is sovereign. He has dealt with me in grace in a matchless way. He has saved my soul. He has given me a steadfast position in Christ. He has put me in a place that no matter what I face as a Christian, there's a redemptive element to it. God can use it for good and to accomplish purposes that are far greater than I understand at the moment. And James has reminded us of those truths. But then sometimes in those lowly places, we need to be reminded God does care. Let me give you an example. In Psalm 86, verse 17, the psalmist writes, Show me a token for good. That they which hate me may say it and say, and be ashamed, because thou, O Lord, hast hope in me and comfort in me. What is the point? The psalmist says, God, I know you're there, but I don't feel that way. My feelings and my head are not in the same place. And I need something tangible that I can see, that I can touch, that visibly reminds me, you care, you love, and not only reminds me of, but also reminds those who persecute me And are against me and are oppressing me. They say, you know, God does care about that person. God, please give me something to remind me of reality. Folks, we need that, don't we? He's expressing in a moment of suffering, intense suffering nonetheless, that he needs God to remind him he cares. I think of Job in Job 42. 10. It says that the Lord turned the captivity of Job when he prayed for his friends. And also the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. So the Lord blessed the latter end of Job before then his beginning But as Job was on the dunghill and as his friends were saying, God wouldn't deal with you this way if you weren't doing this and this and this and this, and Job says, I'm innocent, I haven't done those things And God is silent, and he lets them speak, and he lets Job speak, and he waits till the right time to step in and say, Who made this world? Look at this in creation. Look at that. Do you understand that? Do you have the power to do this and this and this? Who are you to speak? And then God begins to deal kindly with Job. All of a sudden, Job is reminded that in spite of my terrible position in life right now, God still loves me. And he cares about me. And God reminded him of that. I think of Genesis 39, 21, the story of Joseph. Joseph is in prison. Joseph's life was a series of major harsh setbacks. One after another. And when Joseph is in the prison, it says, but The Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. That means that as Joseph is in prison, suffering for something he didn't do, it was absolutely unjust Absolutely outside of his control. God reminded him, I'm with you. I love you. I care about you. Perception needed to change. So he understood his reality. A suffering Christian needs God's tangible reminders that he's good. That he's present, that he cares, that he strengthens. The suffering Christian understands the futility and the emptiness of this world, and when God blesses him, these blessings are like a cup of water to a thirsty soul. This proverb is meant to say, listen, you're a Christian. Your suffering does not change the fact that you've been exalted by God And really, it is your low position that may have made you in a better place to receive humbly these gracious acts from God. That may have actually made you more perceptive to the realities of how God works in a good way in the lives of people. We come to a third truth. The proverb associated with the rich emphasizes how important it is for God to humble those Who have abundance because they need to be reminded of their mortality and their inability to control their circumstances. When you have everything that you need You don't go to God. You don't feel that you need Him. You're very prone to use your own means and your own mechanisms to influence circumstances, to do what you want to do. You're used to answering your problems with money and power and position. And the fact is that when a person is in a strong position, they need God to humble them or they will not recognize his presence. He says the rich man's beauty is a temporary beauty, verse 10. Because as the flower of the grass He shall pass away. The rich and the powerful, the strong need to be reminded that your riches and your power and your strength are no different than the flowers of the grass that pass away. When I pick a flower, in fact I love this season, we went from a freeze last weekend to literally 90 degrees yesterday or the day before. How in the world do we go from frost To the middle of summer. Only in Maryland. Only in Maryland. But you know what we realize? We realize that as these beautiful flowers begin to bloom, the roses in front of my house, they're blooming. They're beautiful. I cut that thing way back in the winter and now it's coming back and it's Vibrant and strong these beautiful roses. I'm excited. I love it. But you pick that rose. You examine its beauty. The moment you pick it and admire it, it's already beginning to wilt. And that's how all the beauty of this world is. That's how all the strength of this world is. That's how all the power of this world is. The moment you step back and say, look at what I've done. Look at what I've become. Look at what I've created. Look at what people see in me. The moment you step back and look at it, it's beginning to deteriorate right before your face. The rich man's strength is only temporary. In verse 11, he says that the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it withereth the gr grass, and the flower thereof falleth. And the grace of the fashion of it perisheth, so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways. Last summer I was so excited I was going to have a lush green lawn. Some of you are already laughing, saying, well, July checkmate, no green grass. That's exactly what happened. We had all this rain in May and all this rain in June, and then July came, didn't rain once. August came, didn't rain once September came. Might have rained once. October came. Maybe twice. Let me tell you, from June, the green grass that was so lush and so So attractive became a lot of brown spots. Why is that? Because the grass is at the mercy of the sun in the middle of the summer. And basically the scriptures tell us that a rich man's strength is just like that. You have that strength and that vitality, but like the grass. Like the flower in a field, when the sun begins to bake on that grass and bake on those flowers, they begin to wilt. And dry up and shrivel. And every single one of us, no matter how strong or how wealthy, or how powerful, will one day reach the breaking point. One day, the strength will begin to deteriorate, and the power will begin to decline, and we will be in a position where we are fully dependent on the little children that we held in our hands so many decades before. If we live to be old, we will lose our strength, we will lose our vitality, and one day we will meet our Maker. You know, sometimes we need to be reminded of that very harsh reality. We need to be reminded that life is short and our beauty and strength are temporary. There's an eternity we must be ready to face This eternity in the righteousness of Christ, not with our money, not with our position, not with how people perceived us, in the righteousness of Christ. That's all that we can stand in before Him. I want to mention a couple of people that were some of the most powerful men of their time. But they were humbled by God. First man, his name is Manasseh in 2 Chronicles chapter 33 verse 1 it says this Manasseh was 12 years old when he began to reign. By the way, wouldn't it be a little terrifying if we had a 12-year-old in the White House? I don't mean a 12-year-old in the White House. I mean a 12-year-old governing in the White House. Could that scare you? Well that's the way it was in Israel. Twelve years old, Manasseh becomes the king. He began to reign, and he reigned fifty and five years. There are very few people in this world who will do the same thing for 55 years. Very few. Very few people that will have the same position of power and prominence for 55 years. This man did. But it says, he did that which is evil in the sight of the Lord, like unto the abominations of the heathen, whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Judah to err, and to do worse than the heathen whom the Lord had destroyed before the children of Israel, and the Lord spake unto Manasseh and to his people, but they would not hearken He was a strong man. He was powerful. And when God said, you need to humble yourself, he said, I don't care. I'm going to do what I want to do. I don't care, God. It says, Wherefore the Lord brought upon them the captivity, the captains of the hosts of the kings of Assyria, which took Manasseh among the thorns and bound him with fetters and carried him to Babylon. And when he was in affliction, he besought the Lord his God, humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers, and prayed unto him and was entreated of him, and heard his supplication And brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the Lord he was God. Think about this for a moment. This powerful man who was arrogant, who rested in his position and his riches and his power, was humbled by God, and it was the greatest thing that ever happened to that man. It's good when God gets our attention. It's good when perception is brought back to reality. Nebuchadnezzar, Daniel chapter 4, verse 29, it says, at the end of twelve months, he, Nebuchadnezzar, walked in the palace of the kingdom of Babylon. And the king spoke and said, Is not this great Babylon that I built for the house of the kingdom by the might of my power and for the honor of my majesty? While the word was in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven saying, O king, Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken, the kingdom is departed from thee. Until thou know that the Most High ruleth in the kingdoms of men. He giveth it to whomever he wills And at the end of the days I Nebuchadnezzar lifted up my eyes unto heaven, my understanding returned unto me, and I blessed the Most High, and I praised and honored him that liveth forever. Whose dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. He doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth, none can stay his hand or say to him, What doest thou? Nebuchadnezzar, a powerful man, looked at everything and he said, What have I made? And God says, I'm going to humble you. While you examine everything that your hands have created, I'm going to remind you that you're just dust. God can do those things. And you know what? It's actually a good thing when He does. It's a good thing when God takes our perception that is so wrong, He brings it back. Folks, when the passage says it's good for the rich man to be humbled, that's what he means. We come to a fourth and final truth that we'll mention this morning. And here it is: godly wisdom realizes that endurance under the trials of life will result in eternal blessings. At God's good hand. In verse 12 he puts it like this: Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. James reminds these Christians that you are in the low position. You are struggling. You're under pressure. You don't have the power to do what you want to do. You're under the hand of someone who's oppressive. Doesn't even care about God. But I want to remind you that if you endure temptation, you're blessed. God sees. God rewards. And by the way, you will endure only if you truly love Him. The test of the poor man was his position. That position was tough, but as God exalts him By bringing the gospel to him and helping him to see his need of repentance and faith in Christ, he's exalted as God reminds him at moments in his life where his perception and reality are not the same. And he draws him back to realize God is good and he loves me and he cares. He says, this man is blessed. The test of the rich man was in his response to the loss of his good position in life. God was reminding him life is fleeting. Your strength and beauty are passing away. They're empty. When the rich man is humbled and he says, God, I believe. He's humbled in repentance. He trusts what God has provided for him in Christ. He all of a sudden sees things as he should, because that's how they are. This man. Is blessed. And when the Christian endures temptation, he endures because he loves his Savior. This man is blessed in what he does. I want to share with you some final thoughts that I think are very practical as we think about these verses. The first thought is this: God's wisdom is available to any of us. But we must develop a heart to seek it, with a confidence in his character, and a patient, reflective approach to Scripture. We have to be willing to interpret our circumstances through the lens of his word. And I ask the question, are you willing? Do you want it? Are you convinced that his wisdom is superior to this world's wisdom too? No matter our position in life, we will face tests. And the nature of those tests will be guided by God's wisdom and for our own good. And I ask you a question: as you bear under the load of the tests of God right now. Are you patient? Are you patient? Do you realize that God's wisdom is guiding in these circumstances for your good and for mine? Three. God's tests are neither arbitrary nor forgotten. Folks, God is not whimsical in what he allows God is not whimsical in how far he lets something go. He's not whimsical in the moment he says, enough's enough. This will not go further. He's not whimsical in that. God's not arbitrary in how he manages and governs in our lives. He's very measured. He's very precise. He knows what he's doing. We've got to trust him. He doesn't forget. When a believer endures testing, God remembers God sees. God rewards. Fourth, if we respond well under these pressures, God will eternally reward us for our faithfulness. Now that statement is not meant to be misunderstood to say we get saved by doing good. That's not what I'm saying. We are saved on the basis of the work of Christ on his cross. His death for us, his resurrection, his righteousness. We do not come to God on any part by what we do. But God will evaluate our service to him someday. God will give to us greater privilege and blessing and responsibility when we stand complete in our eternal state, if we've been faithful. And on the other side, we will miss out on certain blessings and responsibilities if we have been demonstrated to be unfaithful. I lastly mention if we're constantly growing in an intimate knowledge of God, that will produce in us a passionate love for Him. And it is that love for God that ultimately will help us to endure hardship. I ask you this morning: do you have an eternal perspective? Have you allowed God to take the way that you think and to shape it by the scriptures? My prayer is that God would do that work in us today and the days to come. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, we are so grateful that we have had the privilege today to open up our Bibles and to study the scriptures as one body. Yes, we're not together physically. But we are united on this live stream. We are under the ministry of the Spirit. We are under the ministry of the Scriptures. And I ask that you would help us today to respond in the most appropriate way possible. I pray that if one person who is listening to this live stream has not yet humbled themselves before God, in repentance, trusting in the finished work of Christ, that they would recognize that there is nothing they can give you, there is nothing they can do for you. They have but to trust in what you've done for them And I pray that today they would turn to you in humble repentance and trust in the finished work of Christ. May your word this day not return void, but accomplish that for which you've intended it to accomplish. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen