Let's take our Bibles and turn to 1 John chapter 2. 1 John chapter 2. And uh we've had a very definite theme this morning in our service, have we not? Christ is coming back. And we don't know the day, we don't know the hour, but that really is the focus of the text that we will look at. And so what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to read the text again. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to really work in our hearts through this passage, and then let's dig into some very important truths. that we find in this passage. First John chapter two, verse eighteen. Little children, it is the last time, and as ye have heard that Antichrist shall come, even now are there many Antichrists. Whereby we know that it is the last time. They went out from us, but they were not of us For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. But they went out that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to help us to understand this passage. Father, we thank you for the sweet time of singing hymns to you. We thank you for that wonderful hymn we just heard. Abide with me. And Father, we're living in the last days, and this text reminds us of that. And so I pray that you'd help us to be humble people who recognize the very dangerous days in which we live, who recognize that you can return at any time. Help us to be watchful people. Help us to be sober-minded people. And help us to be people who look forward with Great anticipation to you coming and taking us to be with you and then coming to establish your eternal kingdom. Father, as we open up our Bibles, help us to understand the significance and the weight of these truths. And we ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. In 1 John chapter 2, I always like to kind of take that section and sit down and say what is kind of the main theme or the main point of the passage. So here's our theme. John wants these believers to understand that the mentality or the thinking that will dominate the final days before the return of Christ Are already present in the world. And has even affected their local church so that they will think clearly about truth. John wants this congregation to understand that there is a mentality, there is a thinking that is going to be the dominant. In fact, not going to be, it is At their time, it was the dominant thinking. But John wanted them to understand it wasn't just going to be dominant in the world around them. But it was actually going to be in part in their local church. My question is, do you think anything positive has changed in nearly 2,000 years of church history? I would say probably not. If anything, it's probably gotten to be a little bit worse, maybe a little bit more dominant. So when John writes these words That is what's going on in his mind. And that's what he's trying to communicate to these Christians. He's doing that because God wants us to be able to discern the times in which we live. God wants you Christians sitting here this morning to have correct thinking about this generation, this time period, this age. in which we live. And so a passage like this one is really going to help us to be able to sharpen our focus And sharpen our thinking so that we look at this world and this age correctly. How can we discern the times in which we live? Well, there are a couple of truths we're going to look at this morning, so I'd like you to just go ahead and start with me in verse number 18, and we'll see the first truth that we're going to find this morning, and that is that we need to understand we are living. In the last days. Look down in your Bible at verse number 18. John says, little children, it is the last time. It is the last time. Notice how he refers to them. He says, little children. Now you might say, how is this different than the discussion we had a couple of weeks ago? Where it talks about little children, young men, and fathers. We saw that in that passage, John was emphasizing the fact there were different levels of maturity in the church. Well, you know what's interesting in this particular verse he actually uses a different term than the one that he used in the past. Now, in our English we translate it child, little child, and The two words are essentially synonyms, but it's actually a different word. It's interesting because John is not referring to just the young Christians in the church, but he's actually referring to the entire group with this term little children. The best way, I think, to describe it is John is looking at the entire church, the young Christians, the maturing Christians, the seasoned Christians. He's looking at them all as his kids. That's what he's doing. And he's looking at them with a grandfatherly or an elderly fatherly kind of affection. So when he uses that term little children, he's speaking to them in the most affectionate term possible. He actually uses this little phrase nine times in the book. He refers to the church in that way. And it's because John has an affectionate appeal for these Christians. He then uses the phrase, it is the last time. And that phrase, the last time, is not used anywhere else in the New Testament. It has the idea of we're living in the last time period, if you will. He doesn't tell us it's 24 hours. He doesn't tell us it's A week, or it's a month, or it's a year. He's just saying there is a period of time that we can define as the last times Let me give you a similar statement in our New Testament. If you go in your Bible to John 6, verse 40, you will see what Jesus says in John 6. 40. He says, This is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life. And I will raise him up at the last The phrase that is there is very similar, though not the exact word, but it's very similar to the phrase that we find in 1 John. And don't forget that God was using the same individual, the same apostle, to record those two books. He talks about a day. A day when the just will be raised to life. We find another statement throughout the Bibles, our Bibles, that's also very common, and that's the phrase, the last days. If you will, this is the time from the ascension of Christ into heaven, and this is a time whereby the Church of God is anticipating that Christ can come back at any time. This is basically dealing with the rapture of the church. We have no idea when that's going to take place. The tribulation period. We know what it's going to go on during that time, but we don't know the timing of the beginning of that period of time. We know that Christ is going to come at his second coming, and we know about some of the events that are going to precede that time when Christ comes at his second coming. We know a lot about the reign of Christ for a thousand years. But again, we have no idea on a time frame This is the year, this is the hour, this is the time. We cannot say that because we have no idea. We just know it can happen at any moment. So when the Bible talks about the last days, the Bible is referring to that time period where God is going to begin the closing act on human history, if you will. The rapture of the church. The tribulation of the world during that time period, the second coming of Christ, the establishment of his kingdom, and then the eternal state, the last days. I want you to see some passages. Where this is used. Go with me in your Bibles to Daniel chapter 12. In Daniel chapter 12, verses 1 to 3. In fact, Several chapters at this period of the book of Daniel talk about, we could say, eschatology or end times. We can't get into all that. In fact, it was funny this this week I was sitting in my office and uh Margaret Few was in here doing some cleaning And um she's like, you know, how long are you gonna be in the office I wanna come in and do some vacuuming? I was like, I have no idea how long I'll be in here. And she's like, Well what are you doing? I was like, Well, I'm trying to take all the stuff that I wanna say this weekend and put it down to what can be said. So what I'm trying to say there is that this is a topic that can be expanded immensely. In fact, what I was working on had to be cut down a lot so that it was palatable for our service this morning. But let's begin in Daniel chapter 12. Daniel prophesies something called the day of the Lord. And when he talks about the day of the Lord, you will see from the verse. That he's not talking about one day as in a 24-hour time period, but a period of time, a series of events that will happen during what he calls the day of the Lord. Daniel 12, verse 1. At that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince withstandeth for the children of thy people, and there shall be a time of trouble, such as has never been since there was a nation. Even to that time. And at that time thy people shall be delivered, everyone that shall be found written in the book, and many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake. Some to everlasting life, and some to everlasting contempt. They that shall be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament. They shall turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever. And if we look at the chapter preceding that, he gives all kinds of details about what's going to happen during the period called the day of the Lord, anticipating what he describes in chapter 12, verses 1 to 3. In Acts chapter 2, when Peter is preaching at Pentecost, listen to what he says in verse 16. If you remember the event as people are hearing the gospel and embracing the gospel, There was a phenomena that went on at Pentecost. And basically what was happening is people from all different parts of the Roman Empire who spoke lots of different languages were listening to the apostles preach. And they were hearing it in their native tongue, their native language. And they were confused and they didn't understand what was going on. And essentially they were experiencing, witnessing firsthand The gift of tongues, as the apostles preached the gospel of the kingdom, and people heard it in languages that were familiar to them, but not to the apostles. We could go into a lot of things on that one, but I want you to notice what Peter says in verse 16 This is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel. It shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh And your sons and daughters shall prophesy, your young men shall seek visions, and your old men shall dream dreams. And he says in the verses preceding, he says, This is what is going on. We are living, in Peter's perspective, in the last days. Peter was anticipating that Christ was going to come back And he was going to establish his kingdom, and that those who are God's people were going to participate in that kingdom. That is what Paul was expecting. That is what Peter was expecting. That is what the apostles were expecting. And so from that time period to where we stand today is defined as the last days, if you will. The reason is because there's nothing left for God to do to come and take his children to be with him. He can come at any minute. John warns us multiple times in the book of Revelation to be ready for the return of Christ. In Revelation 3, it says this: Behold, I come quickly, hold that fast which thou hast. that no man take thy crown. Revelation 22, 7 says, Behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book. Revelation 22, 12, Behold, I come quickly. My reward is with me, to give every man according to his works shall he be. In other words, those Christians were expecting Christ to come back. He says, be ready. I don't tell you the day. I don't tell you the hour. I just say, be ready. And the same is true for us today. God can come at any time. We need to be ready. for his coming. In first Thessalonians five, Paul makes this statement Of the times and the seasons, brethren, you have no need that I write unto you. You yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord shall come as a thief. in the night. I know what it's like to have a thief come in my house at night. Thankfully we didn't meet when he came into the house One of us would have gotten hurt really bad, probably. Maybe both of us would have gotten hurt really bad. I have no idea. I'm just glad it didn't happen. But the whole point is this: a thief waits for the time when you're not ready. And then he comes. That's how they do it. And so what does he say? When Christ comes, people are not going to be ready. They won't be anticipating it. They'll be sleeping. I want to ask you, Christian, when Christ comes, will he come to you like a thief in the night? Will you be ready for his return? Are you living with anticipation for the day that Christ will say, it's time Come to be with me. In Matthew 24, Jesus says, On that day and hour knoweth no man, not even the angels of heaven. But my father only. As in the days of Noah, so shall be the coming of the Son of Man, as in the days that there were before the flood, when they are eating and drinking and marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark. And knew not until the flood came and took them all away, so shall be the coming of the Son of Man. We need to be ready for the return of Christ We come to a second truth, and that is this. We need to understand the spirit If you will, the attitude, the prevailing thought that will dominate our age, which is against Christ. Look down in verse 18. He says, Ye have heard that Antichrist shall come. He mentions an individual who is going to come. And then he says this. Even now are there many Antichrists whereby we know it is the last times. I want us to stop and think about what he's saying. There's a person that you know is going to come. We're going to talk about that for just a little bit. Kind of wet your appetite, right? But that person, if you will, has the same mentality of a lot of people living today, he says. Huh, interesting. And when you see that attitude and that heart and those values and those actions, realize something. It tells you about the day that you live in. You're living in the last days. He says, Antichrist shall come. Notice what he says. He's referring to a real person who's going to rise to prominence politically. He'll be able to dominate the nations, as it were And they will be em they will they will be embraced by the Jewish people, and he will be viewed by them as their Messiah till he turns against them. I want you to imagine a person that's We could say really charismatic. We've had people throughout the last fifty to a hundred years that have risen to power in nations, and sometimes we look back at them in history, we go, how in the world did that guy get so much power. How is it that the entire nation of very civilized people could just without even thinking about the implications of what they were doing Follow this very powerful, this very charismatic individual. I mean look at look at Germany in World War II. How in the world did have Hitler rise to power in Germany? It's a phenomenon to think about. Look at some of the the leaders that were in the Soviet Union How did those people rise to power? Well, let's even look at our own current situation in the United States. It's amazing how much power and how much political power individuals can get And you ask the question, how does it happen? These people are very strong. These people are very charismatic These people make great promises. The people that they're governing are going through hard times, and they look at that individual and say, he's going to deliver us. This is the Savior, if you will. And all of a sudden people just check out and they follow this person. They don't consider the implications. Of what that person is doing in their leadership. They blindly follow to their own destruction. It has happened countless times in human history, but this individual will be the greatest of all of them. He's not just going to rule a nation, he's going to rule the nations. And the world is going to follow this person, and they're going to believe that he's the greatest leader that's ever lived. He is antichrist. In 2 Thessalonians 2, he says, We beseech you, brethren, by the coming of the Lord. and by our gathering together unto him, that you not be soon shaken in mind or be troubled, neither by spirit or by word. Let no man deceive you He says this, by any means, for the the day shall come, except there is a call a falling away first, and that man of sin shall be revealed. The son of perdition who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped. so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. Paul is describing this person. When we read the book of Revelation, John will describe this person. Daniel described this person. Not to be creepy or anything, but he might be living right now. He might be living in our nation. He might be living in a European nation. He might be living somewhere in the Middle East. I don't know. I'm not here to predict anybody is the Antichrist, okay? But I'm gonna tell you this. At a moment in time that would shock the world, that person can rise to prominence. It can happen very quickly. And when John writes this, he says, you know that Antichrist is coming. Paul says, don't be soon shaken. That person is going to come. When John writes in Revelation, he says, that person is going to come. Folks, we are living in the last days. The man could be living today. He might be just a little child for all we know. He may be in world politics in some obscure place, and we don't know yet. But Antichrist is coming. But John is not so much concerned with Antichrist coming as he is with the Antichrist's Plural, that are moving around. Listen to what he says. He says there are many antichrists And that's how you know it's the last days. The character of this person. Is prevalent in many persons. In 2 Timothy chapter 3, Paul writes, This know that in the last days perilous times shall come 2 Peter 3 says, know this first, there shall come in the last day scoffers walking after their own loss. Jude 118. How that they told you that there will be mockers in the last days who shall walk after their own ungodly lusts. 2 Peter 2 verse 1 There were false prophets among you, the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you, who will privily bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that brought them. And bring upon themselves swift destruction, and many shall follow their pernicious ways, by whom the re way of truth shall be evil spoken of. Listen to the next phrase. Through covetousness. Shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you? Realize that a lot of Christianity in the world today is exactly what Peter is describing here. This is my experience living in Ghana. Christianity is booming, if you will, in Ghana. Christianity is booming, if you will, in a lot of the Latin American countries. Christianity is booming in other parts of the world, some of the Asian countries. But what you will discover is that many of the prominent figures in these movements, if you will, of Christianity are not Christian in the biblical sense. The gospel that they preach is not a gospel of grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. They don't preach holiness. They don't preach righteousness. They preach health and wealth and take it and maim it and claim it and all those kinds of things. They make merchandise of those who follow them. Turn on TBN and watch it. And listen carefully to some of the things that are being proclaimed. on these channels. Some of the most popular, well-known personalities in Christianity today, they fail the test of biblical orthodoxy. They absolutely do. And so what does John say? He says there are many Antichrists. There are many people whose message is a false gospel. Whose message is not biblical doctrine. Many people who have that same lust for power And that same lust for money and that same lack of respect for the truth that Antichrist will have. And they're all around us. This is how we know it's the last days. Christian, we need to understand that when we look at the times in which we live, when we listen to the preaching and teaching of our generation, we need to compare it to the scriptures. We then come to a final or to a third truth, and that's this. We need to recognize that this spirit is constantly assaulting the Church of God. I want you to notice what he says in verse 19. They went out from us. Did you catch that? They went out from us, but they were not of us. Now, when John makes a statement like that You have to imagine that he's thinking of specific faces when he makes that statement. He wants them to understand Hey, do you remember that guy? He got saved at the same time that you did. He got baptized at the same time you did. He used to sit, not that they had Sunday school, but he used to sit under the teaching ministry in the church with you He rose up through this church and began to get into a place of leadership, and then all of a sudden he began to start teaching different things. He began to teach things that were contrary to the message that we gave to you, the apostles. He began to give to you a message that sounded a lot different than the message that we had originally given. And you know what that guy did? Eventually, he went and started his own little group. He went and started his own little group, and lots of people are following him. You know him. You can see his face. You know his name. When he says they went out from us, but they were not of us, they're people he's thinking about This battle, if you will, is not just something that happens outside the church. It can actually happen within the church. And eventually it exposes itself in time. I want to give you kind of an illustration of this in my time in Ghana. One of the things that was a real blessing about being a church planter in Ghana is that We were kind of like the only church like us in our city. Now there were other churches that were somewhat similar, but we were very distinct and different. So we didn't have a lot of people that Came to our church from another church and people left our church and went to another church. It just didn't happen. In our time in Ghana, we had two people who were members leave the church. Only two. But the reasons they left are exactly what John is talking about here. Exactly. I think of the first individual. I remember when he made a profession of faith. I was there with him. I remember baptizing this individual. We had a very close relationship. I remember sitting down and doing discipleship with this individual. We invested a lot of time, and there was a lot of love poured into this individual and his family. But there was a point in time where we began to notice That something didn't seem right. It didn't happen immediately, okay? It just took a little bit of time. But as time went on, we began to realize that when certain things were preached, Certain things were taught, there was a different kind of attitude and a different kind of response to what was going on. And it all came to a head when one day It was an explosion, if you will. And it was really tough for our family. I don't want to get into all the details, but the reality is that individual walked away from our church ultimately Because of what was really in the heart. There was a different doctrine in the heart. He wanted a different kind of Christianity. Christianity, if you will. I I don't mean like a different flavor of biblical kind of Christianity. I know there's lots of different churches in this community that preach Christ. They believe in discipleship. We've got our differences, but they're not unorthodox at all He wanted a different Christianity, if you will. We had another individual. Same situation. I remember baptizing him. I remember him sitting in our classes. That we were doing with our Bible Institute. And we began to realize, oh, there's a little chat group with all these kind of little conversations going on about theological matters. And as we started kind of peeling back the veneer and finding out what was going on, we began to realize that there was some serious false doctrine that this individual had embraced. And not just embraced, but was really distributing this false doctrine amongst our church members and being aggressive and going after people and saying, hey, what do you think about this? What do you think about that? And I remember calling that young man and sitting down with him and going through these things with him. I just remember the The hardness, the unwillingness to embrace truth. Remember how hard it was to see that, and then to see him essentially walk away. That's what he's talking about. You know the truth is that there'll be people who make a profession of faith. They get baptized and you think, this guy has a great future. This lady has a great future. They seem very passionate, very perspective. persistent about studying the Bible and presenting the Bible. But then one day you begin to realize something. There's something not quite right about the doctrines they're embracing and the doctrines that they're teaching. And that's what happened in this context. These people were not preaching the same Christ that John was preaching. They were not preaching the same gospel message that John and the apostles were preaching. And that was one of the main reasons that this book was written. To address those things that were going on behind the scenes under the surface, we need to recognize that this spirit of Antichrist, if you will, is something that's not just prevalent in our age, but it's assaulting the church. We need to really plead that the Lord would help us as a church to be a pure congregation. That we hold fast to sound doctrine, that we hold fast to the gospel, that we hold fast to biblical orthodoxy. That God will preserve our congregation from what He is talking about here, and that God will give us the wisdom and the backbone to deal with issues when those can potentially arise. In 2 John 1, verse 7, listen to what John writes to a dear lady who loves being a blessing to traveling preachers, if you will. John writes, many deceivers are entered into the world who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist. Look to yourself that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. Whosoever transgresseth and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ He hath both the Father and the Son. If there come any unto you and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house. Neither bid him God's speed, for he that abideth, or he that biddeth him God's speed is partaker of his evil deeds Now we can read a passage like this and we can kind of interpret it like this. Okay, some guys come come to our house who are, you know, JW or Mormon. And they come and stand on at your door and they knock on the door and they say, Hey, can we uh come and have a conversation with you about the Bible? And you say, I'm not going to let him walk into my house. That's actually not really what he's talking about. This lady is a dear lady who welcomes people into her home. If you will, it was like she had a prophet's chamber. Okay, we have a prophet's chamber here at the church. And so when somebody was traveling and preaching the word of God, she would open up her home and let them stay in her home and she would feed them and she would encourage them and she would fellowship with them and she'd even help them meet people pu potentially. She showed tremendous hospitality. And John says, you don't realize this, ma'am. Your hospitality is a good thing, but you're getting abused. You are welcoming into your home. You are helping people who are spewing false doctrine. He says, don't do it. Don't even let them in your home. Don't wish them Godspeed, or you will lose your reward It's an amazing passage. Why would this woman be so open to allowing people into her home? It's because some of them might have been people she knew. That really makes it very difficult to be to be totally honest. She knew those people. She loved those people. She'd sat with those people. And John says, don't even let them stay at your house. Because what they're doing is against the gospel. We come to a fourth truth, and that is this: Time will eventually separate those who know the Lord from those who do not. Look down in verse 19. They went out from us, but they were not of us. If they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. But they went out that they might be made manifest. That they were not all of us. Three important statements that he makes. They went out from us, but they were not of us. If they'd been with us, they would have continued with us. But they went out that they might be manifest that they were not of us. Do you see what John is saying? These people were once in our midst. They appeared to be godly, discerning people who loved to teach and to preach the gospel. But as time went on, we began to realize something. They had embraced some different teachings. They'd embraced a different Jesus. They'd embraced a different gospel. They'd embraced, if we could say, Roman philosophy and Greek philosophy and they're preaching and teaching those things. And that's why they left. If they were of us, they would have stayed. Because we're preaching the truth. The reason they went out is because we won't tolerate that. He says they went out that they might be made manifest, that they were not of us. Time will tell what you really have. In James 3, 8. 11 it says this, Doth a fountain send forth the same place, sweet, water, and bitter? Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries, either a fig, a vine figs? So now can a fountain both yield salt water and fresh? Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works. With meekness and wisdom. If you have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not and lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. Basically, what James is saying is that everything can look good on the outside, but what's inside comes out. You plant a seed in the ground, it's just there. Those two plants might look the exact same, but once they go through their season, eventually you realize what you got. And he said, folks, in our congregation, there are people who are not truly Christians. If John would say that to them, is it possible it can happen here too? He has of course it can. Not only is it possible, but we need to guard against that. We have to preach doctrine in the church Because you know what preaching doctrine does? It actually exposes when someone says, I don't want that when I do. It helps us to know what is true, to know what is right. It helps us to guard the integrity of, we could say, the beliefs of the church. I remember raising chicks when I was in Ghana. We loved raising chickens because I liked lots and lots of eggs in the house. Well, we eventually had some die one at a time, and some didn't die of natural causes. I harvested them, we'll put it that way, okay? So eventually we got to the place I guess that's a natural cause too. Alright. Eventually we got to the place where we had no more chickens. So I went down there to the market. You know, I'm I didn't grow up in the country. I didn't raise chickens. Except for what I did in Ghana, okay? And I went down and met this little old lady who was selling chickens. Like little, little hens. I mean the size like you can hold it in your hand, okay? And I said, I want eight Laying hens. She said, okay, you come on Tuesday next week and I'll have them. And I came on Tuesday. She wasn't there. And there was another guy. Oh, you come next week on Thursday. So I came on Thursday. Well after doing this a couple of times, eventually I met this boy. who was kind of taking care of him for her. I said, can you give me my ling hangs? He said, oh, no problem. So he pulls out this, you know, box crawling with chicks And he just pulls eight out and gives them to me. I said, are they all laying hands? He's like, oh yeah, no problem. They're all laying hands. I said, are you sure? I said, absolutely. Good. Let's just say after about a month and a half, I started realizing I didn't have eight laying hens. I actually had two and I had six roosters. Well, that was not a good situation for the the the the chicken coop, okay? And uh we had to do some process of elimination, you might say, a little out of time. Have some nice Sunday dinners. Just making a simple point though. What you have, you don't know right away. But eventually, you'll know. I learned it with the chicks. You learn it with your garden. We learn it in the church. You know, a very important part of church life is what we believe, self-governance. We believe in congregational polity as a Baptist church But let me tell you something. Congregational polity is a disaster if you let anybody join the church. Somebody doesn't know the Lord, they don't have a clear profession of faith. Guess what? They're going to be involved in the decision-making of the church. That's disastrous. If we don't hold to the purity of the church in our membership, it's disastrous. So as a Baptist church, we believe in self-governance and congregational polity, but we have to be a church that only accepts saved members. We have to be a church that actually has a constitution that says, here's what we believe. Can you ascribe to this belief system? We have to make sure that we keep the record clean, if you will. And if a member of our church begins to walk in a disorderly way, we've got to go and talk to them. We've got to help them make it right. And it may come to a point of the parting of the ways, if you will. This is the kind of stuff that is in the context of 1 John chapter 2. They went out from us, but they were not of us. It can happen in our church. It can happen in any church. And the way that we guard against that is we preach and teach the truth. We've got to preach and teach the truth. We have to address issues. It's a part of healthy biblical church life. I'm going to draw this to a concluding thought or two. We need to live our lives with a sense of prudence, anticipating the coming of Christ. I want to ask you, Christian, do you have that anticipation? Are you sober-minded? Are you awake? Are you alert? Christ can come at any time. Are you living as if he could come today? We need to live with a wariness of this world system. In the verses preceding this, John says, do not love the world or the things that are in the world. And now he gives us a very practical example of how loving the world can destroy the church of God. We need to be wary of this world system, not just the system outside the church. But what can potentially happen within? We need to purpose to maintain the integrity of the Church of God by preserving the distinctive elements that make this a biblically functioning local church. My job is to preach sound doctrine, and our job is to hold fast to sound doctrine as a congregation. And lastly, we need to be patient with people and let time reveal what's really inside. You know, there are times that we have a person who makes a profession of faith, and you look at them and go, uh And you know what happens ten years later? You say I was totally wrong about this person. They love the Lord. They're growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. And I'm so glad that time demonstrated that that person loves and walks with God. You have another person, they just seem on fire for God, and they're so excited and they're so passionate and they're so zealous. Two, three years later you realize something. Where'd they go? What happened? Or wow, we know where they went, and that's really dangerous what they're involved in now. The truth is, folks, we have to be patient. We have to be wary. We have to be prudent. We have to be anticipating. May God help us as a congregation to be that kind of a church. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Our Father in heaven, we think about this text. There's some really weighty and sobering truths and so many rabbit trails we could go down. But I think the main pass the main purpose of this text is so simple. Don't love the world, the world outside the church, and the world inside. Father, help us to be people who are ready for your return. Help us to be people who are holding fast to truth. Help us to be people who give time so that where people really are manifests itself and we know what we're dealing with. Help us not to be too fast to rest to judgments on any one person. I pray that as a congregation you will preserve gospel-centeredness, biblical soundness I pray that this would be a biblically preaching and functioning local church till the day you return. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.