Okay, well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our service. We're looking forward to just getting into the Word of God together. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will get started tonight. Father, I thank you for the Lord's day, a day of rest, a day of physical refreshment and spiritual refocus, and I pray that that's exactly what we would experience today. As we open up the Word of God again tonight, I pray that you minister to our hearts. As we have fellowship together and share testimonies, I pray that you would take the things that are shared and use them to uplift and encourage your people. And we ask for your blessing in all this time in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening. Thanks for joining us to worship with us here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number 527. Revive us again. 527, we'll sing all four verses. Want to hear you kids on that chorus We praise thee, O God, for the Son of thy love, for Jesus. Adults, are we disappointed? Are we disappointed adults? Yeah, I'm very very I know those kids. I know we caught you off guard. Here we go. You're ready now. Verse 2, here we go. We pray thee, O God , for the spirit of mine, who was your night, high. I the glory, my glory, I will glory and grace. Faccionate Alright, please be seated. We'll we'll take it, I guess. We'll take it. 526. In my heart there rings a melody. 526. We'll sing all three verses. It was said my God we could have. I love the price who died all country From when he was my still way to my They were why wearing the money , they bring the money , wearing the money. And back to hymn number 520. Redeemed how I love to proclaim. We need the my love if we need my love. We need perhaps present this by a Wee we believe in you I know about the blind when we both and only I think God, I think all I have a week in my country. Crazy I present one we might be friends, where my name and why I make glory. Oh wicked, we God, my favorite forever. We got we and running God. We are we are now even we Right in seven verse three Come thou fast of every blessing Verse three. Oh , great. Here's my heart making the law. Right. Four eighty two. Let's sing at verse three You we hear the works of God. You and hear the works of God I say. What we will like everyone I went on the mountain underneath us well. That I Alright, we got time for a couple more. Let's see. Yes, sir. Three twenty-five. Three twenty-five. All right. Uh Judah. Five eighty seven, verse three. Five eighty seven, verse three. Wait, didn't we already see that one? Yes there, go ahead. Ninety three. So blue book blue book? In the blue book. All right. Three twenty five. So Three twenty-five. Softly and tenderly. So longly I said. Alright, I need three in the blue. Bow the knee. Let's stand We'll sing both verses. What the prevalence you promised to the present to link. I will learn to love everyone for our meal In this high when their voice is broken. And only brings you to me, Yet me here, where I bring me the Lord, where I love me and I 'm the need. Great singing, please be cute. Okay, well if you have your Bibles, let's all take them together tonight. Let's turn back to Psalm 38. This is where we were this morning. And I know that typically we have We're working our way through Old Testament passages in 1 Samuel. And we're going to take a little break from that just for tonight because here in Psalm 38, there's a. There's something that comes up in the text that I really think we need to address. And that is the way that David starts out the psalm. And what what I'd like to do tonight is I'd like us to look at this topic of the chastening of God. Understanding how we should respond when God has dealt with us with a difficult hand. I think this is something that's important for us to understand as Christians. We need to understand What is going on in the text in front of us, the way that David is processing what he's experiencing. And we need to understand that if we're God's child, he's going to chasten us. That's a part of how we mature and how we grow. And I think we need to understand exactly what that is, because as Christians, sometimes we are very one-dimensional in how we understand this topic of God's chastening. Psalm 38, we'll begin in verse number one. We won't read the entire Psalm because of the length of it. I'll remind you a little bit about what we talked about this morning, and then we will dig into this topic tonight. It says, O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. For thine arrow stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. For mine iniquities are gone over mine head. As an heavy burden, they're too heavy for me. My wounds stink and are corrupt. because of my foolishness. I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all Now I want to remind you again what we talked about this morning. We looked at this text and we kind of gave the following summary statement. The following psalm illustrates how sin And painful circumstances disrupt our souls and leave us broken without any hope outside of God's compassionate hand. Tonight, what I'd like us to notice from God's Word is that we need to respond properly to Him when our souls are wearied and under His hand of chastening. Now, this morning we looked at the flow of this psalm, and I want to remind you again what we saw. We saw in verse number one David's prayer of emotional brokenness, and this is actually kind of what I'm going to focus on. A good bit tonight. Notice the way that he speaks. He says, O Lord, rebuke me not, and the next statement is important, in thy wrath. Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. Now, when we read those verses, that is exactly how David opens up Psalm 6. And I think I dealt with this Psalm in 2021. I mean we're working our way through the Psalms and we're going one Psalm a month, so it's quite a long time ago, and we're in Psalm 38. But this is several years ago. We dealt with Psalm 6. And in the sixth Psalm, we talked a lot about chastisement and how we are to respond to that. Well, this is a parallel psalm. The content is slightly different. In fact, Psalm 6 is a lot more positive as you move your way through the Psalm than Psalm 38. And I would have to say that the reason for that is because The moment of low uh brokenness that David is experiencing in Psalm thirty-eight as he writes these words is something that extended a lot longer than in Psalm six. And so when we find ourselves in these places, they're not all equal. We don't Uh stayed in this place for a day or two or a week or two or a month or two. The seasons are different in every single situation. But we saw that David's prayer was one of emotional brokenness. There is no joy There is no hope, there is no confidence in the first statement that he makes. Please do not rebuke me in your wrath or chasten me in your hot displeasure. And then in verses 2 to 8 he laments. He says, Thine arrow stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. And so David is talking about how he feels under the weight of his guilt. how his conscience is plaguing him in this moment. And every single one of us, we know what this is like. We know what it's like to sin against God. And we know in our hearts this is wrong, it bothers us. Maybe it's something we've done repeatedly, and as we feel the weight of that, we just feel complete misery, and we feel as if we can't get up. That's exactly how David is writing these words, how he feels at the moment he's writing it. And then in verse number nine, we see this feeble glance toward God. And we we mentioned this morning that there was a slight improvement in David's perspective. He says, Lord All my desire is before thee. My groaning is not hid from thee. So David has gone from seeing God as the one who is angry with him to the one who hears him. To the one who sees what he's experiencing. He's not necessarily saying that you're compassionate towards me. He's simply saying, I know that you know what I'm experiencing. But we see this slight improvement. And then he laments again in verses 10 to 14. He says, My heart panteth, my strength faileth me, as for the light of mine eyes, it also is gone from me. Again, he cries out and he says, God, I feel like I can't get back up. I can't stand. But then in verse 15, we see again an improvement. This faint remembrance of God, and the O Lord, do I hope. Now that word hope in the Bible is different than the way that we think of the term hope when we deal with one another. Like if somebody is asking you a question and it's something you really want to do, you say, I hope I get to do that. Now, when you say that, what you're saying is your desire is that you would get to do that. And you you think it's possible that you'll get to do that, but you can't control all of your circumstances. So you use the word hope. But when the Bible uses the term hope in relation to God, that is different. Because hope, when relating to God, is a statement of confidence that is based on the promises of God. And so that hope is a steadfast assurance. So long as God has said he's going to do this, my hope is that he will follow through with his word, because he is a God who does not lie. He's a God who speaks what is true. He's a God who fulfills his word. He's a God who follows through with his promises. So when he says, oh Lord, do I hope Thou wilt hear me. He doesn't say, I hope you will hear me. He says, you will hear me. So you see the confidence there. It is faint, but it is building. And then in verses 16 through 20 he says, Hear me lest otherwise they should rejoice over me when my foot slip it, they magnify themselves against me. He laments again. He talks about his enemies. He talks about those who are talking about him behind his back. He feels the weight of the misery of this situation. This is a tangled-up mess, and David is just telling God, this is how I feel. But then the last thing we see was though he was faint, he was strengthened with a confidence in God's salvation. He says, forsake me not, O Lord my God, be not far from me, make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. He knows God is his salvation. And so he says, please move quickly. Now, that's what we talked about this morning. Tonight, I want us to move from that to this next point. There's also another piece. I actually almost forgot this, but I do want to mention this as well. Secondly, we considered the reality of God's people experiencing intense brokenness for seasons of life. It doesn't matter how how how close you walk to the Lord It doesn't matter how strong you are as an individual. I'm talking about physical strength. I'm talking about emotional strength. It doesn't matter how much theological information you have packed into your brain, how much people have invested in you. We're all made of the same stuff. We're all going to experience these kinds of situations. Scripture is very transparent about it. And so David laments in such a way that says, my misery and my sin are connected. He says in verse 3, There's no soundness in my flesh, mine iniquities are gone over mine head as a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me. So in David's mind, the reason he was suffering was connected to sin. Now we live in a time where people have redefined sin to their own detriment. But the fact is that when we choose to violate God's laws, whether we think it's right or wrong or not, whatever we think about it, it's irrelevant. Because the simple fact is these are laws that are established by the Creator who ordered all things It's like a person who says, I don't believe in gravity, I don't believe it's a thing. I just ignore it, it doesn't exist. Well you can Take such a viewpoint if you would like, but the moment you decide to test your theory, you're going to discover that what you think about it is irrelevant. It is a hard and fast law that God has created in the universe. And what people don't recognize is that when we talk about the physical world, the the the the chemical domain, we talk about those kinds of things, physics and chemistry and science. We understand there are hard and fast laws out there. But somehow we think in the moral how much does it matter? It's not true. The fact is you are a moral creature. You're not an animal. You're not a machine. You're not a computer. You're an image-bearer. You have a conscience. And when you choose to violate God's law, you will pay for it because it is contrary to his design. It's contrary to the nature that we have as humans. So this evening I want to answer this question. How should we respond to God when we've experienced this chasing hand? I think it's safe to say that when David was writing this psalm, If you could have sat there beside him and said, hey David, what are you writing there? You look like you're really in trouble in your heart. You look like you're way down. He'd say, I'm overwhelmed. What's the problem? I've sinned and God's dealing with me. That's what he'd tell you. I've sinned and God's dealing with me And so, how do we respond to God when we are in such a situation? Because we've all sinned and God has had to do with us at times in our lives. First question I want to answer this evening is: what is chastening? What is chastening? Now, there are several helpful passages of scripture that we could turn to, and I want to examine just a couple of them. The first one is the most prominent, the most We could say expansive of all the passages that talk about God's chastening hand in the New Testament. And that is Hebrews chapter 12, verses 5-14. Notice what the writer of Hebrews states. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord. Nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. Now this is this is a lie that has been bought into by our culture. That when you love someone, you never tell them no. When you love someone, you don't restrain their passions. When you love someone, you don't rebuke them. When you love someone, you just give them what they want. That's a lie. It's not true. You may in your heart have the kindest of desires for that individual, but when a person never learns to restrain themselves, When a person never learns that there's consequence, when a person never learns how to push through challenges and difficulties, you as a parent are harming your child. And God is the greatest example of a father does not allow his children, does not allow his children to just do whatever they want without restraint. And the reason that he does this is because he loves us. And it's what's very interesting is he begins by saying, do not despise The chasing of the Lord. In other words, when you see that God has dealt with you in a way that is restraining the path that you're on, that is difficult. That he has allowed circumstances into your life that are heavy and challenging. That he's allowed you to experience the consequences of your sin. Don't turn to him and say, you're wrong, you're evil. You don't have the right to do that. He says, don't despise the chastening of the Lord. But the next word is very important. And don't faint. Don't faint when you're abused of him. Don't despise him, and don't faint when God chastens you. He then goes on to say this, for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. There is a need for consequence when we do wrong. It's just the truth. When our children are young, we need to teach them this is right, this is wrong, and when you do wrong, there's consequence. Why do we do that? Because there are laws that govern God's world. And there is a creator that they're going to stand accountable to someday. And if they do not understand consequence, then they're going to have huge problems in life. And they won't understand their need for a redeemer because one of the things we have to understand in order to be saved is I need to be saved. If I'm going to stand before a holy and righteous God and I'm being punished for my sin. There really are consequences for sin. So he says, whom the Lord loveth, he chasteth, he scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. He says, if you endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. What son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? Now this next statement is fascinating. He says, We are fathers of our flesh which corrected us. We gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits than live? When your dad taught you this is right and wrong and you had to sit in front of him and he had to rebuke you at times and he had to bring consequences into your life, you had a respect for him. And that's a good saying. Because he's your authority. He's not just your buddy who hangs out with you, he's your authority. He says we understand on the human side this concept of authority and structure. We have fathers who have corrected us and we gave them reverence. How much more God? That's what he says. He says, verily for a few days they chastened us after their own pleasure. But he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness. This is fascinating. You know why a lot of people discipline their kids? Because they have bad tempers? It's true. Because they're tired of being embarrassed when they go into the grocery store. That's why they discipline their children. Because they don't want to deal with the burden of bad behavior. Most people discipline their children for the wrong reasons. Is this the truth? Not you know a desire to not be embarrassed. I mean I don't want to be embarrassed by my kids in the store, okay? Or at church because they're acting wild or something like that. I don't want that, and you don't either. But that's not why we discipline our children. We should discipline our children because we love them. We should discipline our children because we care about their souls. We should discipline our children because we think one day that child is going to be a husband. or a father, a wife, a mother. One day they're going to get a job and they're going to be the most miserable person to work with if they're not taught right now. They're going to be the most miserable person to be married to if they're not taught right right now. They're not going to be married very long because they're going to always be fighting with their spouse. They could be a miserable parent. We love our children and so we discipline them. That's why we should discipline our children. Not because they frustrate us and not because we're angry with behavior. That's not why parents should discipline their children And by the way, when you do it in anger, it will shape how you do it. There's no question about it. When we discipline our children, we should be in complete control. We shouldn't be doing it in anger because we're furious. We should do it with a fear of God and a love for them. He goes on to say this, no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. Hold on a second. You mean that when God disciplines me out of love, it's grievous? Yes. He says, but afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Now, we could say a whole lot more than I already said tonight about that text of Scripture, but the most prominent thing in that scripture is that number one God disciplines us because he loves us. And number two, he does it because he wants us to be holy. That's the simplest thing. If you are not experiencing the chastening hand of God, you're not a Christian. It's that simple. You say, well, I thought I only get chastened when I'm out of line. Well, you've never been out of line as a Christian? Well, actually, that's not the only time we experience chastening. Because the next passage of Scripture I want to draw your attention to is Ephesians chapter 6. This one is a fascinating text. And this is specifically geared toward a father working with their children. Fathers are commanded to train their children after God's pattern. Now listen carefully to what it says in Ephesians chapter 6 verse 4. He says, fathers. Provoking out your children to wrath. Now what that's telling you is that there's a way to discipline that's wrong And the way that you discipline that's wrong is going to produce not humility and a love for God and a love for parent It's going to actually produce rebellion. There is a form of training our children that will actually incite rebellion because we're going about it the wrong way. He says, fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath, but rather bring them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. Now, that word nurture, believe it or not, is the exact same Greek term that is used in Hebrews chapter 12 for chastening. Now, when we think of chasing, we always think of getting some kind of difficult discipline. But when he talks about it in the sense of verse number four of chapter six, It's translated nurture. In other words, this is more than just getting consequence for sinful action. This is involving a lot more. And in fact The Greek term is a term that encompasses every aspect of the training process. So we could say that this concept of chastening is one of teaching. It's one of discipline, correction. It's one of having to rebuke. It's one of coming alongside and strengthening and helping a person work through an issue. It's got several different aspects to it. And so when we are training our children and disciplining our children and they've done wrong, we sit them down, we talk to them about what they've done. We explain to them why it was wrong. We give them consequence, and then we help them to actually be restored to us or to however they've wronged, and then ultimately to God. This is what he means by nurturing. There's a full picture that is here. 2 Timothy 3, verse 16. When he talks about Scripture, he says it's given by inspiration of God and it's profitable for doctrine, that is teaching. Reproof, that is having to confront us when we've done wrong. Correction, that is helping us to get things right. And the next statement is for instruction in righteousness. That is the same Greek term that is translated nurture in Ephesians 6. 4 and chastening in Hebrews chapter 6. Do you see how this is a very broad, broad term? And that does help us to understand why when we talk about God's chastening hand, this is something that is done by God's love, not by his wrath. It's important for us to understand this. So, chastening is not just the simple natural consequences of sin. A lot of David's misery that we talk about here in Psalm 38 that he's writing about These are not a result of God's judgment. These are a direct result of bad choices. I mean, when the Bible says If you sow, you're going to reap. He's not saying if you sow, God's going to punish you. He's saying, you sow this way, you reap this way. That's the way life works. Okay? You make this choice about how you raise your kids, you make this choice about who you marry, you make this choice about the moral ch decisions that you make, you make this choice about how you conduct yourself at work and where you work and all those different kinds of things. There's a downstream consequence of fact for the choices we make. So when we experience heartache because we disobeyed God, it's not God saying, ha, I gotcha. It's God saying, so I told you not to do that. I mean when you tell a kid don't stick your hand on the oven because it's hot and they go, whatever, pshh, did you burn them? No. You didn't want them to get burned. They didn't listen to what you had to say. And I think that there's a sense in which a lot of the sins that we experience are the consequences of our sin. are like us saying, God, I know you said don't touch the stove, but I'm going to do it anyway. See what happens. And he says, all right, you'll learn. I told you don't do it. The internal anguish is the result of a troubled conscience, not God actively making him miserable. In verse 6, when he says, I'm troubled and bowed down, I go mourning all the day. Verse 8, when he says I'm feeble and sore broken. I'm roaring because of the this quietness of my heart. Verse 10, when he says, My heart and my strength fail, it's not God saying, I'm making you weak and I'm making you miserable and I'm crushing you. That's David's conscience being awakened because he knows what's right and he knows what's wrong. Even if God stepped back and just let David experience it without his interference at all, that is how he would feel. So chastening is not the misery that comes from my sin. That's a direct result of sinful choices having sinful consequences. It's not the internal misery that affects us physically, and sometimes sinful choices result in physical consequences as well. In verse 3 says, there's no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, because of the rest in my there's no rest in my bones, my loins are filled with a loose disease. I mean if I'm a bitter person, I carry anger against people all the time. And I end up having physical problems as a result of this bitterness and this anger that I will refuse to address. Like that wasn't God judging me. That's what happens when you're an angry person. That's what happens when you're a bitter person. You're killing yourself. Miserable people push others away from them and make life uncomfortable for everyone they encounter. Verse number 11, my lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sword, my kinsmen stand afar off. It's not like God said, Hey, don't go and spend time with David. He's not in a good place right now. He didn't do that. They said, Whew, I don't want to spend time with David. He he's a mess. And they withdrew from him. That's not God punishing him. That's not chastening. That's called the result of bad choices. Second question. How do we tend to respond to God's chastening hand? Oh, let me give you what chastening is, sorry. You might want to know that. Okay, the point that he's making is sinful decisions are destructive. They are contrary to God's ways. They create internal misery because we 're morally aware. They make life unnecessarily complicated. They can become enslaving, which further creates this sense of total helplessness. So what is chastening? Chase sitting is the personal loving process that our Heavenly Father uses to teach us what is right to correct us when we are wrong, disciplining us when we are stubborn, and stretching us when we need to take steps of growth into Christ's likeness. It's all of those pieces. And so the second question that I jumped ahead to is how do we tend to respond to God's chastening hand? Well, how did David respond? Look down at what he says in verse number one. O Lord, rebuke me not in thy what? In thy wrath. Neither chasten me in thy hot what? Displeasure. I have a question. Is that how God chastens his children? The answer is no. So why is David thinking this? It's because his view of God's wrong. And guess what? We do the same thing. We do the same thing. You ever had something bad happen in your life, and your immediate reaction was, what did I do that made him happy? Angry. Anybody ever been like that? I'm not asking to raise your hand, just you know, think with me here. Anybody ever done that? Anybody ever had a pastor encourage you to think that way? I hate to say that, but yeah. The fact is that the wrath of God was poured out on Christ. And there is no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. And when God deals with us in the firmest way possible, it is not his wrath, but his love. Tough love, don't get me wrong, but it's his love. It's interesting. In these verses, he understands what God is doing. He says Rebuke me not. Why does he say that? Well, because he knows God's confronted him. He says, neither chasten me. Why is he saying that? Well, because he knows that God's dealing with him. He understands what God's doing. The question is, does he understand why? The answer is he doesn't Now, as he works as we work our way through this Psalm, and by the time we get to Psalm 40, we're going to see that David's perspective is very different. He's thinking clearly and correctly about God and how he relates to God, but that's not how he's thinking at the beginning of 38. And so we see that he fails to understand because he says, don't do it in your wrath. And don't do it in your hot displeasure. Your burning anger against me. And you know what? Sometimes we're just like David. I think we're there a lot. When God has dealt firmly with us, or when we're experiencing the consequences of our sin, that is called sowing and reaping. We immediately think, why are you dealing with me in your anger? And God says, where'd you get that from? Not from the scriptures. But from a misguided view of God. We fail to understand why he's doing it. We fail to understand that it is love for his children, not wrath against an enemy, that motivates God's firm hand of correction. I mean, interesting when we think about it, before we were Christians, the Bible says that we were under his wrath. We were by nature children of wrath. But God commended his love toward us. So while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. When we were at enmity with God, his enemies raging against him, and his just wrath is hanging over our heads. He's still extending love. It's a pretty amazing thing to consider. So if our sin has been dealt with at the cross and we're redeemed people and we're his children, and he says him the Lord loves, he chastens. Then why in the world does our mind go to that place so many times? It's because we fail to see him correctly. Question number three, how should we respond to God's chastening hand? I'm going to take this straight out of the text. The first thing is this. Pour out your heart transparently to him and remind yourself that he cares. In verse number nine, He says, Lord, all my desire is before thee. My groaning is not hid from thee. Think about 1 John 1. 9. It says, if we confess our sins, He's faithful and He's just to forgive us our sins, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. Now, why does he say that? He says that because we as God's people, and we've sinned against a holy and righteous God, And our fellowship has been broken. Not our position has been somehow lost. Our position is secured. But the communion that we have with God is broken in that moment. What are we supposed to do? Lay it out to him. Does God sit back and go, I can't believe you said you did that? Folks, he knows our thoughts. He knows everything about us. When I tell God this is how I feel in my heart, it's not like I caught him by surprise. He knows this. You ever had a situation where your child did something and knew exactly what it was? And uh they didn't know if you knew exactly what it was. But you call them and you sit them down and you say, I need to talk to you about something, and you just see it. It's like you know, they start getting real nervous. You ask them some questions, general questions, that are going to open the door to what's going on. Okay? Now, when your child tells you what they did, do you explode at them? You might, but you shouldn't Well, if you already know, it's not like them saying to you, here's what I did, it's like this new revelation you didn't understand. Actually, when they admit it, you go, okay, now we're getting somewhere. Because now we can address this. That's what he's saying. Tell God what you've done. Lay it out before him Let him know how you feel. I mean, he knows it already. The second thing, remind yourself that he is not, he has not abandoned you. And that he hears your cries. In verse 15 it says, In thee, O Lord, do I hope. Thou wilt hear, O Lord my God. Going back to that 1 John 1. 9, it says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful, and he is just to forgive, and to cleanse us from what? All. All unrighteousness. You're not going to confess something to God and goes, ooh, that one that one kind of crossed the line there. I'm not trying to diminish our sin in any way. But he's not going to look and go, Well, that one is too much. Faithful and just to forgive and to cleanse from all unrighteousness. The cross dealt with every sin. Not some of them, not most of them, not the really bad ones or the not-so-bad ones. It dealt with all of them. Thirdly, remind yourself that he is your salvation. Verse 22, it says, make haste to help me, O Lord, my Salvation. I kind of alluded to this this morning, but the more you look in, the more miserable you will get. The more you look up. The more comfort. you All these people that say look at your emotions and tell me how you feel, you think that's really going to help people Nope. Sure won't. But when you say look at Jesus and what he did, do you realize that that sin that is so plaguing your soul has been nailed to his cross and has been dealt with? And he has forgiven you and cleansed you and given you new life in Christ, and you're his child, and he accepts you in the beloved. That helps people because that is true. That deals with sin. It's removed. There's cleansing. There's fellowship Remind yourself of him being the Savior. Fourthly, be patient as he brings healing and comfort to your wearied soul. Just because you know what the Bible says doesn't mean you feel like he's forgiven you the moment you say forgive. It's true. You may have to come back a couple of times. Many times. And we see this in Psalm 40, verses 1 and 2. He says, I waited. Patiently for the Lord, he inclined unto me, he heard my cry, he brought me up out of an horrible pit Out of the miry clay, he set my feet on a rock and established my goings. And we said this this morning. When he says I waited patiently for the Lord, what's he talking about? He's talking about Psalm 38 in Psalm 39. Because as you go from Psalm 38 to Psalm 39, there's never this complete resolution of the issue. I mean you see growth in his thinking. You see that he's beginning to become a little bit stronger, and his perspective is becoming a little more clear and a little more what it needs to be. But the resolution isn't until Psalm 40. What does that tell you? It takes time. It takes time for you to work through these issues. It takes time for you to accept in your heart what he says is true. Shouldn't. We should accept it immediately. But our souls are weary. We're prone to doubts, questions. Fifthly, realize that he can restore the brokenness and put a new song in a renewed heart. This is an amazing truth that I don't want you to miss tonight. Verses 3 to 5 it says, and not only did he lift me up from this terrible pit. But he put a new song in my heart. He even praised to our God. Now what this is saying Is that when we have sinned and we are in misery and we feel this isolation from God and all the things that David talked about in Psalm 38 and 39, he says, in spite of all of that When I come to Psalm 40, I can say, He has restored me. Not just restored me to he accepts me. And I understand this and I'm enjoying this, but I can sing again, I can praise him again. My heart is healthy and my life is vibrant. I didn't know this before, but I know it now. You're saying that after all of that misery and all of that brokenness and all that sorrow, you can get to this place. The answer is yes So I want to get there. Well, do what the Bible says. Follow what the scriptures are teaching. God can do this in your life. He can put you in this place. He can put that song in your mouth and praise to our God. Blessed is the man who makes the Lord his trust. Respecteth not the proud. Many, O Lord, my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done. Thy thoughts which are to usward, they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered What is David saying? He's saying, my heart is is rested. And my view of God is clarified. I'm in a totally different place. Same man. Didn't change what he did at all, but it changed how he viewed God. And the simple truth tonight is when we experience the chasing hand of God, that's how we need to respond to Him. We need to pour out to him our hearts transparently about what we've done. We need to remind ourselves he's not abandoned us. He hears our cry. We need to remind ourselves that he is our salvation. We need to be patient as he brings healing and comfort to our wearied souls. And we need to realize that he can restore the brokenness and put a new song in our hearts. And so I close with this final thought. May the Lord help us to understand this truth. May we see what he's doing, why he's doing it, humbly turn to him. When we're wearied from the sinful, the painful consequences of our sin. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Our Father, we thank you for the Word of God. We recognize that the way that you deal with us as your children is in love. The hardships that we go through, the times you tell us no , The pain, the suffering that we sometimes experience that you you allow, these are the tools you use to make us who you want us to be. Who make us like our Savior Jesus Christ. And Father, when we find ourselves in the place that David did, I pray that we will turn to you and we will follow the pattern of this psalm as David turned to you. We would do the same. Maybe somebody in our midst needs to hear this today. Maybe someone on the live stream needed to hear this today. Father, would you use it for your glory's sake in our lives in Christ's name? Amen. Please let's pull out our hymn books as we sing our closing hymn. And I say this often and I mean it. If you find yourself in a place where you need to reach out, please do it. Don't hesitate. Maybe you don't know the Lord as your Savior. Well, come and talk to me. Take the Bible, show you how you can be saved, show you what Jesus did. I mean I talked about this tonight, but it wasn't a gospel presentation. Turn to Christ. Trust Him as your Savior. Maybe you find yourself in a dark place and you need someone to coach you. Hey, you know what? If you're an athlete, you need a coach. If you're a child, you need a parent. If you need to get in shape, you might need a trainer. If you have some kind of injury that debilitates you, you may need a therapist who's going to teach you how to walk again. You may need somebody to come alongside of you. So please don't hesitate to reach out if you need to do that. 511, only a sinner. Let's stand together. We'll sing each of these verses. Before we close in prayer, 511, only a sinner. Have I gotten but what I receive? Grace has so Yes, yes, I have believed for seek the head I live, I only asked her, say I only Sinners say my praise. Oh me, sinners , defy , deadly God before me. Oh me a sinner stay drive once I can froze my heart causing my stand from God Jesus has found me as in my head, I 'm only a sinner. Say my head, only a sinner , save my. All means dinner, dead by grace , dead by joy , God means a glory, and all means in the world. Suffer sinner is hard over. For the leg , for my face, I hope me a singer, stay by grace, call me a single, stay by grace. No Stay by death , I know we 'll be a sinner, stay by Well hopefully you can join us uh on Wednesday as we uh continue working our way through the Sermon on the Mount. We're in the Lord's Prayer right now, so uh we have covered two parts of the Lord's Prayer. We're moving our way through that. So hope you'll join us for that. And obviously our kids have their classes. Truth Trackers is coming to the end And then we're going to start Anchor Adventure Club in the summer. So just know that that's going on. I'd like to ask Brother Tony Florio. Can you please come and close us in prayer? And it's great to see everyone here tonight. Are you going to Heavenly Father, we are so grateful for today. Lord, we we love you. Lord, we want to be with you And Father, we are great we are grateful that for your grace, knowing Lord, that your love is always sufficient. I do thank you for the day. I pray now that as we go home, that you guide and direct us and bring us back next week. In Christ's name I ask it. Amen.