Well good morning, like to welcome you to another edition of our anchored in the word, morning reflection. And uh this week, since I uh did not preach on Sunday We're going to be doing an entire week of bonus episodes and we're going to be dealing with a topic that uh is very important. I'm I'm working through this particular topic on Wednesday nights I know it's dealing with the family, but uh one of the important parts of raising our children in a godly way is that we understand how to prepare them for life, and this issue that we're going to talk about this week is a foundational element to people living a life that is rich and it is full and internally they're at rest in their soul. And so if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and let's all turn together to Romans chapter 2. And what we're talking about this week is the issue of the conscience, how we can understand our conscience. And I kind of want to set it up with an introductory thought uh that kind of links yesterday or yesterday last week um on Friday our bonus episode it links that episode to what we will be doing the rest of the week. And so let me go ahead and read these verses together and then we will dig into some introductory thoughts. Here's what it says It says there is no respect of persons with God, for as many as have sinned without law shall perish without law, and as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, These having not the law are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the means through which they are accusing or else excusing one another. In that day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel. Now this passage of Scripture makes a very uh intriguing statement. He says that they do show the work of the law written in their hearts. And then he says their conscience bearing witness, their thoughts, the means while accusing or else excusing one another. That particular statement is is foundational to the topic that we're going to address throughout this week. And that's the topic of conscience. We're going to answer the question, what is the conscience? But today I want us to just notice why this is such an important topic for us to address. Now last week on Friday we went to Psalm 38. And what we looked at in Psalm 38 was that this issue of the conscience is important because if a person does not understand their conscience or they're living in a way that's inconsistent with their conscience, then by virtue of that principle within them, they're going to be very uh uh troubled internally, they're gonna struggle inside. Um they're gonna be looking for ways to either uh balm their conscience or somehow uh make them feel better about themselves And if they're not doing that the right way, if they're not approaching this issue from a biblical standpoint, then they're really not going to be healthy internally. They might learn how to cope with a troubled conscience, but they're not going to have a conscience that's healthy. And so one of the reasons that we're dealing with this topic is because you cannot escape the fact that you are created in the image of God, you are a moral creature, and you have a moral sense. So that was kind of the discussion on Friday morning when we talked about uh Psalm 38. But I want us to go a little bit further, and I want us to notice how often In the scriptures, this topic comes off. This is a major theme. You know, for instance, if you're reading through the pastoral epistles, that's 1, 2 Timothy, and Titus. Paul very often uses the term conscience, and he uses it when he talks about the way that he's doing ministry, when he talks about the way that people should respond to his ministry. He uses the term a lot. It's a heavy thing. Or for instance, in Acts chapter 15, the story of the Jerusalem Council, and this is repeated multiple times in the book of Acts. The heart of that, of the theme of Acts chapter 15 in the Jerusalem Council, is that there was a difference between the way the Jews and the Gentiles were approaching an issue of conscience. And so Again, conscience was a major theme in the book of Acts. And then we move to the book of Romans. And it's amazing how many times in the book of Romans the Apostle Paul Refers to the conscience. He refers to the conscience in Romans one, he refers to it in Romans chapter two. He refers to it in some other places And then it is the predominant theme of chapters 13, 14, and 15. So out of all the books in the New Testament that we would say are, you know, they're theologically heavy books, The book of Romans addresses this in several chapters, and he touches on it throughout the book. Another example is in 1 Corinthians. 1 Corinthians talks about the conscience a lot. And that is the primary theme of 1 Corinthians chapter 8. So I want us to notice that. This is something that's talked about a lot in Scripture Vast majority of the Psalms are in some way touching on this issue of the conscience. And so it's a weighty topic. It's one that we need to address. Let me also give you a couple of of practical examples of how the New Testament uh passages talk about the conscience, just so that we can sort of feel the weight of it. In Romans chapter 9, verse 1, this is what Paul writes. He says, I say the truth in Christ. I lie not, my conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost Well what's the apostle Paul doing? Well he's saying as I write these things to you, I am trying to convince you that what I'm saying is true. And so when I say it, I'm telling you that I in good conscience say the things that I'm saying to you. Well what's the point? Well he's appealing to the fact that that people know that sometimes what a person says is not consistent with what they actually believe. And so when a person says something that's not consistent with what they what they believe believe where they do something that's not consistent with what they believe, well then they do it or they say it with a conflicted conscience. He says, I'm not doing that in this situation. I'm telling you with a an absolutely settled mind that this is the truth. Or another example, Romans chapter 13, versus verse number 5. He says, he says, we must needs be subjects not only for wrath, but also for conscience sake. Fascinating statement. Well in Romans chapter 13 he's talking about why we should should submit to governmental authority authorities. And he says, well one of the reasons that we submit to governmental authorities is because if we don't, we're going to get in trouble with the law. We're going to end up facing some very terrible consequences as a result of ignoring the laws of the society that we live in. But he said that's not the only reason that we submit to governmental authorities. We submit to governmental authorities for conscience sake. And you say, well, what does the conscience have to do with this issue of government? Well, the argument that the Apostle Paul makes is that government is a divine institution. God's the one who created authority structures. He created authority structures in the home. He created authority structures in society. And so a person recognizes intuitively that if they're a part of a household Well, there are people that are over them in that household, and they have a responsibility to obey them because there's an authority structure. That's that's internal, that's within the conscience. A person understands that Or within a nation, they understand not just that, well, I'm afraid that the government's going to punish me, but there is a sense in which when a person violates the law, they don't feel right in their soul about it because they know intuitively that Government is a divine institution. God created government. He established it. And he explains what the purpose of that was in Romans 13. And so when a person violates the law, they also violate their conscience many times. So he makes that argument. Another example, and this one is I think also very fascinating, is 1 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 7. He says How be it, there is not in every man that knowledge, for some with conscience of the idol unto this hour eat it, as a thing offered unto an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled Now you might say, what in the world is going on in this particular scripture? Well, in this passage, what Paul is doing is he's talking about how a person's background affects their conscience. And so he says there are some people that if they grew up in a in a in a household that worshipped idols, well, even though they've become a Christian and they understand that idolatry is not only wrong, but an idol is not a true God. And so when a person is worshipping an idol or praying to an idol, they're praying to a block of wood, they're praying to a stone, a piece of metal It has no power, it has no authority. And so this person, though in their head they know this is just a piece of wood, it has no authority, it has no power, because of their background Their conscience is bothered because they've lived so long in this oppressive idolatrous system. It affects them They have a weak conscience. But then you have other people in the church that they recognize immediately. An idol is nothing. It's just a piece of wood. It's just a piece of stone. So if somebody takes a piece of meat and they pray over it to an idol? Well, the truth is that that's just a piece of meat. So what's the problem with eating the piece of meat? That's essentially what he's saying. So he's getting into this discussion about whether or not a person should eat meat that's been offered to an idol and how to handle those issues of conscience, which we're actually going to get into Lord Wooling later in this week. But his point is your conscience is something that is shaped in part By the way that you live formally, even as an unbeliever, there are certain things that you do not have the ability to do freely with a free conscience, even though you know in principle it's okay, it's acceptable. You still struggle with it because of your past background. And this is actually a very important principle for us to kind of dig into as we talk about the conscience. So you might say, well, Joel, what's the point of all this? Well, here is what I'd like to kind of conclude with this morning. I'd like to conclude with with two simple thoughts. The first one is, since last week we looked at Psalm 38 And the fact that you cannot escape this principle of the conscience, then it's important for us to prioritize understanding it and prioritizing how to relate properly to our conscience. That's the first side. We're creating the image of God, we have a mind, we have a moral sense, and so we need to know how to respond properly to our conscience. And then secondly We're going to look into this issue and prioritize it because the Bible addresses it a lot. The more that God speaks about a topic, the more we should recognize the weight of it and the value of it. And the fact is it's something we have to wrestle with. It's something that we have to understand. If God spent a lot of time communicating on an issue, we need to spend a lot of time digging into the issue. So my challenge to you this week is very simple Let's ask the Lord to help us to understand what the Scripture says about this very important topic of the conscience And then as we understand what the Bible says, let's ask Him to help us to appropriately and wisely and practically apply the truths that we've learned about our conscience Because ultimately what does God want? He wants us to be people that have a sound mind and a biblical conscience that actually enjoy the sweetness of our relationship to God purchased through the redemptive work of Christ. I hope that that gives you something to think about this morning. I hope that we have a wonderful week of study. Share these videos, especially this week, because they're going to be very practical and I think very, very helpful for us in our walk with the Lord. Hope you have a great rest of your Monday morning and Lord willing tomorrow we will continue in this study. Have a great day. Bye now