So open your Bibles, please, if you would, to 1 Samuel 18. And this is a part of a study that I have been doing with the rescue mission a character study on Saul. I felt that it was good to share this tonight as well. It's an interesting study. But before we go ahead and look at that, let's go ahead and bow the Lord in a word of prayer. Father, we thank you so much for gathering us here together tonight. Though uh there are few physically present, we know that uh there are many hearts that are united, whether through the live stream or in In spirit and prayer that uh we may be your your church tonight seeking your word. I pray that your Holy Spirit would have free reign in what we study, that it would honor you and would help us to grow into the image. of your son. Be with those who are not feeling well tonight. Um think of many families and individuals who are under the weather. I pray you would touch their bodies and comfort them. And Help them to feel a special special hand of grace from you as they uh go through this this illness that they're struggling with. I also pray for uh families that are on the roads traveling. Uh think of Pastor And his family as well as others, pray you give them safety and uh bring them back to us uh soon and we'll be able to have fellowship then. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen Alright, 1 Samuel 18. Now, we're very familiar with 1 Samuel 17, which is David and Goliath, but to kind of fill in the context here, we uh we w in our study through the character study of s uh Saul, we have been looking at how Saul started out as a very promising individual. He was someone who God had chosen to fit Israel's bill for a king. And initially Saul had a lot of promise. Saul was the man for the job. He looked the part, he acted the part, he had the heart for the part. But over time, he allowed pride, he allowed uh his own desire to get before obedience to the Lord. And eventually we see him becoming a tragic figure in the pages of Scripture. And we see a huge part of that beginning here in First Samuel 18. This is where we begin Seeing Saul antagonize David for what David was doing, how he was succeeding, how the Lord was blessing. David. And what we end up finding is really a heart filled with sinful jealousy, a heart that's filled with envy. You know, there's a there's a story about jealousy uh that I I came across, and that's one of two shopkeepers. There are two shopkeepers that were right across the street from each other each other and every time one shopkeeper would receive a customer He would look at the other shopkeeper and smile. He would smirk. And back and forth they went. Anytime that one shopkeeper stole a customer customer from the other, they felt pride, while the other felt jealousy And eventually a rich king came to one of the shopkeepers and said, Listen, I got a proposition for you. I'm going to give you anything you ask for. If you ask for money, if you ask for wealth, if you ask for fame, if you ask for your children's fame, I will give it to you. But I'm going to give the shopkeeper across the street double of whatever you ask. And so the shopkeeper thinks for a moment and says, I want you to blind me in one eye. That is really the heart of jealousy and it's destructive and harmful And that's what we're going to be looking at here tonight in 1 Samuel chapter 18. Start by reading there with me in verse 6. It says, and it came to pass as they came when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that women came out of all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet King Saul with tabrets, with joy, and with instruments of music. And the women answered one another as they played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands. And Saul was very wroth, and the saying displeased him. And he said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed but thousands, and what can he have more but the kingdom? And Saul I David that day and forward. We're going to continue looking at the rest of the passage, but what we're going to end up finding out is that God wants us to take control of jealousy in our life. And we can do so by examining this passage and allowing it to help us understand and overcome jealousy. Now when we come to Scripture and we come to studying what jealousy is, We need to understand that jealousy is not always a sinful emotion. We understand that our God is a jealous God. We read throughout the Old Testament when Israel chose to pursue idols, when it chose they chose sin, the pleasures of wickedness over obedience and the joy of the Lord. Then God was jealous for them. Why? Because he deserved their attention. He deserved their worship. He deserved their affection. But for us, it's a little different. When we recognize that we don't deserve anything, that anything that we have, anything that's good in this world, is a result of God's grace in our lives, whether as believers are unbelievers, then we recognize that jealousy really has no place in our own hearts. We don't deserve a thing. So that is why we need to take control of jealousy. And in order to do that, we need to first of all understand what sinful jealousy or what envy involves. And we started reading there in verse six. Let's continue reading in verse ten. Says he, and it came to pass on the morrow that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house, and David played with his hand as at other times, and there was a javelin in Saul's hand. And Saul cast the javelin, for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David avoided it out of his presence twice. And Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with him and was departed from Saul. Therefore Saul removed him from him and made him his captain over a thousand, and he went out and came in before the people. And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways, and the Lord was with him. Wherefore, when Saul saw that he had behaved himself wisely, he was afraid of him. But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out and came in before them. Now we're going to continue reading after that, but first we need to understand that jealousy is, of course, a very complex emotion, and it plays out in many ways But if we're going to understand what sinful jealousy, what envy entails, we need to understand that it first involves desiring from others what we think we deserve. And that's going back to our understanding that jealousy is not always a sinful emotion. Our God deserves every bit that we can give Him. So when he says he's as jealous God, he has right to be so. But we we deserve Yet Saul, when we look at this passage, when he hears the women ascribing to David tens of thousands, whereas he's getting just thousands. We see a man who technically has been king and leader of the military in Israel for almost two decades by this point. We see a man who's had great military success, a man who has conquered his enemies, a man who has had victories. And while neglecting his many flaws and fallacies and mistakes and sin, in his mind he's thinking, why am I getting less accolades, less attention than this kid. This 18, 19-year-old kid who I had appointed to be general over my armies You know, why is he getting all the accolades? Why is he getting the aplan? The fact is, neither of them really deserved any of that. But Saul was so overwhelmed with his jealousy that his focus was negatively geared. toward David, so much so that it even affected his personal relationship with God. This is where jealousy really takes root and becomes a a a bitter sin in our lives because the bottom line is we deserve nothing but the consequences for our own sinfulness. All the good that mankind possesses is a result of God's common grace. And all the blessings we experience as believers come through Jesus for what he accomplished through his death, through his burial, and his resurrection. When we think we deserve anything, we really deceive ourselves by casting this pride over everything that we perceive. And by humbling ourselves as we're commanded to do, we recognize that all these good things come for God, from God, and we can rejoice in Him above all else. Whether we have successes or whether we see others' successes, we can give God the glory. But not only does sinful jealousy involve desiring from others what we think we deserve, we see, as Saul very clearly tries to do, It involves seeking others' detriment. It involves seeking others' detriment. Notice verses 10 through 11. It says, and it came to pass on the marrow that the evil spirit came from God upon Saul, and David played with his hand as at other times. There's a javelin in Saul's hand. What did he do? He cast that javelin not once, but twice to smite David against the wall. And can you imagine? Here's David who's Major role at this point for Saul has been to help him cope with this evil spirit. I mean, this isn't the first time that Saul's had to deal with this. And in the past, David has been the one to help him. And yet, here he comes with that jealous fury, casting that javelin at him to destroy him physically Now that's not detrimental to an individual, I don't know what else is. But it's not just physical detriment that Saul's vicious and hateful jealousy uh sought to do. But he tried to get David killed by sending him out to fight the Philistines. Notice in verse 17 It says, and Saul said to David, Behold, my elder daughter Merab, her will I give thee to wife, only be thou valiant for me, and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul said, Let not mine hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him And then said David responded, Who am I? And what is my life or my father's family in Israel that I should be I should be son-in-law to the king? But it came to pass at the time When Merab's Saul's daughter should have been given to David, she was given to Edrail the Mehaalothite, to wife. Words. And Michal Saul's daughter loved David, and they so told Saul, and the thing pleased him. And Saul said, I will give him her, that he may she may be a snare to him, and the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law in the one of the twain. And Saul commanded his servants Saying, Commune with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore, be the king's son-in-law. And Saul's servant spake these words in the ears of David, and David said, Seemeth it good, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a a king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a four man lightly esteemed. And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spake David, and Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king desireth not a dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. There it is again. And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law, and the days were not expired. And then the last few verses tell us how David slew those Philistines, not just the number that Saul requested, but twice the number. And in essence going up against what Saul intended to do initially by trying to get him killed in battle. But did you catch another way that Saul tried to destroy David? Tried to do something to his detriment. He tried to give him, or he did give him, his second daughter. Now, why was that to his judgment? Well later we find that Saul's second daughter, Michal, was in fact an idol worshiper. She was contentious. She was a deceitful woman. She was really a problem for David. And so when Saul failed to kill him outright, when Saul failed to manipulate the circumstances to get David killed. He said, all right, I'm going to destroy him personally, emotionally, socially, by giving him his ungodly daughter. Basically, Saul's jealousy drove him to do anything he could to David's detriment. And when we hold on to sinful jealousy, when we allow envy to take root in our lives, our actions, whether it's toward an individual or a group of individuals or an organization, whatever it is. All those actions end up becoming detrimental toward that person or seeking to be detrimental to that person. We see that two out of the three didn't work out for us all. But we may try to manipulate people 's perception of individuals. We may try to hurt others in the workplace. We may try to hurt or to to allow our actions to be negative toward those individuals. Why? Because we're jealous, we're envious, and we want them to be lower than us. If we find ourselves negative toward other people, toward individuals, then it would be wise to examine ourselves To determine if we are harboring sinful jealousy. And the fact is, sinful jealousy, it involves it involves that that that uh It involves that that desiring from others what we think we deserve. It involves seeking others' detriment. But probably at the root of jealousy, at the root of envy, is the final thing that we see here in this passage. And going back here to a couple verses, we see that it involves fear and suspicion. When we look at what Saul did when he started eyeing David, notice there it says in In verse in verse 12. It says, and Saul was afraid of David, because the Lord was with him. And then it says again in verse 15. Wherefore when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him. I can't help but wonder if if David's relationship to the Lord caused Saul to have that fear. that that jealous fear. Because what it did was really it was a reminder to Saul how he what he had lost. He had lost that intimate relationship with God. He had lost God's blessing, if you will, on his kingship. The fact is, that fear and suspicion that Saul harbored against David Wasn't really rooted in reality. It was more focused on, you know, what David had and what he did not. Those are what Saul th that is what Saul Saul's jealousy was was driven by. It was driven by fear and suspicion. And really when we find ourselves jealous of others, we could fear any number of things. But some of the things that we tend to fear the most, we see others that we're jealous of. And it may be very well that we're jealous of someone who is perhaps Further along in their spiritual walk. They may be further along in their career. Whatever it may be, it can be something as as petty as discovering our own shortcomings. We may fear having to change ourselves in order to be more for the Lord or for our workplace or wherever we need to grow and to mature. Saul didn't do that. Saul didn't recognize his shortcomings. He didn't recognize his flaws. And so that fear and the suspicion perpetuated and went and went. And that jealousy toward David drove him. Further and further away from the Lord. We need to examine ourselves and see if we're harboring any of these things. And it may very well be a result of envy and sinful jealousy in our lives. So then we need to go on in this passage by actually going back to the beginning, and we need to see that not only in order for us to control jealousy, we need to understand what it is, but we need to overcome it. If we're going to take control of it, we need to overcome it. Look in verses 1 through 5 here of chapter 18. And it came to pass when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that's David, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And Saul took him that day and would let him go no more home to his father's house. And then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him and gave it to David and his garments, even to his sword and to his bow and to his girdle. And David went Out whithersoever Saul sent him and behaved himself wisely, and Saul said to him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants. We want an example of overcoming jealousy. I think we need to take some time to note here what Jonathan did when David came on the scene. Now when we see how Jonathan and David came together to create one of the most beautiful friendships in Scripture, we tend to lose sight of the fact that Jonathan is actually about 15, 20 years older than David. In fact, Jonathan has been in many military campaigns at this point. He was the heir apparent to the throne. He was a general. He had every reason, probably even more reason than King Saul to be jealous of David. And yet what did he do? Well, jealousy, I don't know if it was ever a thought that occurred to him. But we can see that jealousy wasn't a part of this because Jonathan loved David. And if we're going to overcome jealousy, if we're going to overcome envy, we need to choose to love others. It needs to be a preemptive decision. It's clear that this love and camaraderie is really rare even in Scripture. And yet we find it here between Jonathan and Saul. And we see Saul choosing to make a covenant with David. And I don't know what what the covenant was about, what it what it entailed. But you know that What it says there means that they love he loved David. He cared for him. He wanted him to succeed. And that didn't just happen. That wasn't just something that welled up inside of him. It was something that he had to actively choose to do. It wasn't something he just said. He made it a point. That's what we need to do. If we're going to overcome jealousy, we need to make the decision proactively right now. I am going to love others. But it doesn't just end there. Because what we see Jonathan doing in order to carry out that love We see him lifting up David above himself, even. You see that in verses four through five. Jonathan literally gave him the shirt off his back. Literally gave him his side arms. And that wasn't just uh, you know, hey man, this I hope you're cool with this. This is this is some of my stuff. No, this was the Prince of Israel. Giving his personal effects to a common shepherd boy. Someone who just out of the blue became a general in the armies of Israel. And he said, look, I'm going to give you these items. These are status symbols. And they represent the bond that we have. I don't see you as a rival. I don't see you as an enemy. I see you as my brother and as my friend. And I love you. That is the attitude we need to carry if we're going to overcome jealousy. Because the fact is when we become jealous of others, our natural tendency is to pring that person down. We want them beneath us so that we can lift ourselves up, so we can justify the animosity that we show toward that person. But when we choose to love an individual, we choose to lift up those other people. Then it's not about us. In fact, it's not even about them. It's about the God who blesses all people. So if we're going to overcome sinful jealousy, we need to proactively choose to love people. And that's going to involve lifting others up above ourselves. God wants us to take control of jealousy in our lives. As we've examined here in 1 Samuel 18, we can see that it's possible. Yes, Saul failed. But Jonathan succeeded. And by examining these two examples, we can understand what jealousy is, what it entails. And we can see how we can overcome it rather than be overwhelmed by it. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come before you as imperfect people with often very jealous hearts. And sometimes it's hard to see it when we're focused on many other things, but when we look at Potentially even sinners who seem to be doing so much better than ourselves, whether it's financially or positionally or uh in in status or socially, it can be easy to look at them with hearts filled with envy with simple jealousy. But Lord, rather than carry out that wicked sin in our hearts toward those people, toward those organizations, whatever it may be. Help us to choose love. Help us to choose to lift up others for your glory's sake. Because the fact is, Lord, everything that is good that we possess on this earth. comes from your gracious hands. We ask this all in Christ's precious and holy name. Amen.