Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we are continuing to look at this topic called the conscience and helping us understand our conscience properly. And uh yesterday we dealt with some introductory information, and today what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to dig into uh Romans chapter 1 and Romans chapter 2. And I'd like us to look at those verses so that we can understand what it has to say about the conscience, which it says a lot about the conscience. So Uh let's turn together to Romans chapter two. We're going to read verses eleven through sixteen together, and then we will take some time to talk about this topic and uh to look at what these verses have to say about it. Here's what it says. There is no respect of persons with God, for as many as have sinned without law shall also perish without law. As many as has sinned in the law shall be judged by the law. Not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law are just before God. And when the Gentiles, which know not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law are a law unto themselves. which showed the work of the law written in their hearts. Their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the mean while accusing or else excusing one another in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel. Now, yesterday when we were talking about the beginning of the conscience, I meant to give you a summary statement for this topic, and I think I forgot, I can't remember now, but I'd like to give it to you because I think it's important for us understanding what the conscience is all about. All people Whether they are religious or irreligious, whether they are Christian or non-Christian, whether they are we could say Morally upright people in in in the way that the world would look at them, or people that are morally not upright. All people have a moral sense. And that moral sense is something that they cannot ignore. without serious consequences. And what we call that moral sense is the conscience. So notice what these verses uh have to say about this issue of the conscience. And before we actually dig into those details, let me say this. Our conscience is that part of us, because we are created in the image of God That has an awareness of what is morally right and what is morally wrong. It's that sense of us that when we have violated that sense of right and wrong Uh we don't feel good inside. We feel very conflicted. Sometimes we are anxious. Sometimes we're fearful. Sometimes we just feel Awful inside and the reason for that is because we are created in God's image and we have this moral sense Doesn't matter whether you've ever walked in a church or not. You have a moral sense. And we're going to see that in Romans 1 and 2 So let's look together at what it says in verses 19 to 21, and I want to draw your attention to a couple of the statements that are very significant. It says in verse 19 of chapter 1 That which may be known of God is manifest in them. God hath showed it unto them. The invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen being understood by the things which are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Now there are three statements that I want to draw your attention to. The first is the statement it is manifest in them. That means it is clearly evident. It's something that they cannot escape. It's something that's right in front of their faces And so when when Paul makes an argument about all people being under God's wrath and judgment and all people being guilty, What he's saying is ultimately it's because there's enough information for us to know about God that we reject that we are culpable. That's that's his argument. He then says God hath showed it unto him. And the question is, well, how did God show it to them? I mean, obviously, he's not talking about scripture in this particular context. He's talking about creation. He's talking about what we call general revelation. And the reason that we can say that God has shown it to them is because God has created us with the ability to process information and to look at the world that we live in and to make some conclusions, as in There's a creator, and we can know some things about the creator. We can know that if there's a creator, then we are obligated to him because we are creatures within his creation. And so the idea is that we're guilty, we're morally culpable. Our conscience bears witness of the truth. That's what he's saying. The third statement is taking it to a whole new level. It says that these things are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. even his eternal power in Godhead so that they are without excuse. So anyone that would say, well, you know, there's some people in the world that they've never come in contact with the Bible, they've never they've never read the Ten Commandments, they don't have access to God's moral law, so they're not guilty because they they don't know these things. And Paul's argument is that's not true. His argument is if you're standing in a world that's created by this creator And you are created in his image, that means you have moral sense. And that means you can look at what's there, and you can come to certain implications And by resisting those implications, you are guilty. You are morally culpable. What is Paul ultimately talking about? He's talking about the conscience. He's saying that everybody is without excuse because they sin against their conscience. He then takes it even a step further in Romans chapter 2, and that's the section that we just read. Listen to what it says in verses 14 and 15. He says, when the nature or when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law. These having not the law are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the meanswhile accusing or else excusing. Now what Paul's basically doing in chapter 2 is he's he's taking chapter 1 a step further, and he's saying, let me explain to you in very simple terms why people are without excuse. He says it's because they have a conscience. And that conscience is something that they violate all the time. And he said, even if a person was never told, don't steal and don't lie and don't murder, you would know intuitively that those things were wrong because you have a moral sense. Now your culture may tell you, well It's wrong to lie in some circumstances, but not in others, or it's okay to to do this or that in violation of God's word, and you may eventually get to a point where you're able to excuse your conscience because of the family that you grew up in, the culture that you're living in, uh or because we just do what we want to do long enough. But but the idea is that there are certain things that We don't do them by nature or we feel guilty doing them because we have a conscience. So let me draw you back to these statements so that you can see them clearly. He says, these having not the law, meaning the Old Testament law, the Ten Commandments, the Law of Moses, those things, they are a law unto themselves. He's saying that even though they've never read, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not covet They know those things are wrong because they have a conscience, that's what he's saying. He says they show the work of the law written in their hearts This statement is fascinating. Part of what makes you an image bearer is the fact that you're created with this sensibility, that the fact that you know this is right and this is wrong. And and I know it's true that when you're dealing with a child, a child doesn't fully understand that they develop in that. But but the fact is that we have a sense of right and wrong. Our sense of right and wrong may not be right. But the sense is there. And then the third statement is fascinating. He says that their conscience, bearing witness and their thoughts, the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another. And we kind of see that the conscience has kind of this dual aspect to it. There's a sense in which when you do things that you believe to be morally right, you start feeling like, well, I'm a pretty good person. And when you do things that are morally wrong, or that you believe to be morally wrong, then you feel condemned. And so what's amazing about the conscience of an unbeliever Is that at the heart of the conscience of an unbeliever is the sense that I can earn God's favor. And so they actually want that. That that's really the source of every religious system outside of the Christian faith. It is a system that's trying to earn the favor of God. You say, why do people have this this impulse, this desire to prove that they're good, it's because they have a conscience. They have an awareness of what is morally right and wrong. So the Apostle Paul is basically saying it doesn't matter your background, religious, irreligious, Jew, Gentile Morally upright in the eyes of the world or morally uh disreputable in the eyes of the world, you have a moral sense. The third thing I want to point your attention to , Is that even though our hearts have been corrupted by the fall, we still have this moral sense Now this moral sense is flawed on some level, okay? It's almost like a person who has a compass. And that compass points to due north. But if you were to bring in another magnet and you were kind of to bring it close enough to to that to that um that compass, then what would end up happening is instead of it pointing to you north the the the the compass would start pointing to north on the magnet that you drew near it. And so it would still point north and south. But the north and the south would be off because of the interference of the magnet. And so the same kind of thing is true with our own conscience. You could have a person Who has a has a has a worldview that is completely twisted and turned upside down. It's completely contrary to the Bible, but they have a worldview that has moral sense. And so you could have a person that believes that something is right and they're passionate about it, and God says it's wrong. So the fact that we reject God's commands doesn't mean that we lose this moral sensibility. You say, well, how do we make sense of that? Well the way that we make sense of that is what Paul says in Romans 1. 18-29. Let me read to you a couple of these statements because they they help us to appreciate this. He says that people hold the truth in unrighteousness. And when they reject it, they become vain in their imaginations and their foolish hearts are darkened. And then they change the truth of God. into an image made like a corruptible man. They change the truth of God into a lie. They do not like to retain God in their knowledge, and then God gives them over to a reprobate mind. What is a reprobate mind? A reprobate mind isn't a mind that doesn't believe that there's right and wrong anymore. It's a mind that believes what is wrong is right and what is right is wrong. So when a person gets to this place where they've resisted the natural bent of their conscience that that does have a moral sense, and when they look at the creation, they recognize that You know, if there's a creator that I'm answerable to, and they reject that, the ultimate result is that their conscience becomes either desensitized or their conscience becomes misdirected, and that's ultimately what happens. So when we talk about this issue of the conscience, even a person who has rejected the gospel and rejected the truth and has rejected natural revelation, they still maintain that moral sense. And these are important details for us to understand because what it tells us is that our conscience is not an infallible guide. Our conscience is going to tell us there's right and wrong, but it's not necessarily going to point right all the time and point wrong all the time because our conscience can be suppressed, our conscience can be abused, our conscience can be misdirected, and so we need to have a conscience that is biblically formed. And even a person who's a Christian can have a conscience that is off of due north because of their culture, because of their background, because of their resistance to God's word because of their lack of growth into Christ's likeness. There's lots and lots of different factors that can come into play here. Very, very important. So the conscience is a very important issue. It is an issue of we know there's right and wrong. We have a moral sensibility because we're image bearers. So you may say, well, Joel, what's the takeaway from this? Well let me give you a couple of Really, I hope simple and practical thoughts to close out. The first is this, we all have a moral sense that cannot be escaped. We're going to have to deal with this. The world has to deal with their conscience. The Christian has to deal with their conscience. The healthy Christian has to deal with their conscience. The weak Christian has to deal with their conscience the atheist has to deal with their conscience Every person has to deal with this moral sense. You can't escape it. You can suppress it. You can abuse it, but you cannot escape that reality. The second thing is that this sense can be abused, so we have to be careful about what we allow to shape it. It's extremely important. As a Christian, We should be driven to the Word of God so that we rightly divide it and it shapes our conscience to be thoroughly biblical and sound. The third point is that culture can be deviant and still have a moral sense. There is no question that the culture that we are living in has uh a large portion of deviance to it. And those who have deviant behaviors and a deviant worldview that is is completely contrary to the Word of God, they still They still hold a moral sense. It's just that their moral sense has been abused and their moral sense has been turned upside down because of their resistance to the truth, the scriptures. Number four. The problem is that their sense has been turned upside down because they've rejected truth Very, very important. And lastly, I'll say this. We are all ultimately guilty because we sin against our conscience. And even if a person has never come in contact with the Word of God They're still morally culpable to God because they have a moral sense. So, what should this compel us to do? This should compel us to be people who are passionate about giving the gospel. that are passionate about draw passionate about drawing people to see and understand and embrace the truth. I don't know about you, but this is a this is a pretty rich topic. There's a lot to digest here. There's a lot for us to think about, but more importantly, there's a lot for us to act on. And so I hope that as we continue this study throughout the week, that you will learn a lot, that you will feed on this, and that ultimately the Lord will use this to help you to have a biblically grounded conscience. Have a great rest of your morning and Lord willing, we will continue our study tomorrow. Bye now