Let's all turn together to Luke chapter 17. Luke chapter 17 and the passage that we're dealing with this morning is in fact A little bit longer than what we typically deal with on a Sunday morning. And I will say there is a lot of complexity to the topics that we're going to address this morning. And so my desire is to simply take the text that is a little bit longer than usual and the concepts that are quite complicated. And I'd like us to really zero in on the heart of what Jesus is trying to teach here and how we can practically apply it as we are here this morning. So Luke chapter 17 and let's begin reading in verse 20. It says, and when he was demanded of the Pharisees when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation. Neither shall they say, Lo here or lo there, for behold, the kingdom of God is within you. He said unto the disciples, The day will come when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man. Ye shall not see it And they shall say unto you, see here or see there, go not after them nor follow them. For as the lightning that light lighth out of one part under the sky unto the heaven, shineth unto the other part under heaven, so shall also the Son of Man be in his day. But first must he suffer many things and be rejected of this generation. And as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it also be in the days of the Son of Man. They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage until the day that Noah entered into that ark. And the flood came and destroyed them all. Likewise also, as it was in the days of Lot, they did eat and they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded. But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of Man is revealed. In that day he which shall be upon the house top, and his stuff in the house, let him not come down to take it away. He that is in the field, let him likewise not return back. Remember Lot's wife Whosoever shall seek his life shall lose it. Whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it. I tell you, in that night there shall be two men in one dead, one shall be taken, another shall be left. Two women shall be grinding together, one shall be taken, the other left. Two men shall be in the field, one shall be taken, the other left. And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord? He said unto them, Wherever the body is, thither will the eagles be gathered together. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to understand what Jesus is communicating in this passage. Our Father, as we open up the Word of God this morning, I pray that you'd help us to understand the conversation that Jesus is having and the teaching that He is giving about the coming of the Lord. Father, help us to recognize that we need to live our lives with an anticipation of the imminent return of Christ. And Father, I pray that as we think about what that means, we will understand the practical implications as we live our lives today. Father, speak to hearts. Help us to understand your word and help us to not just hear it, but help us to take action upon it. Help us to be doers of the word, not hearers only. deceiving our own selves. So we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts that I hope will help set the stage. for the passage that's in front of us. The first thing I'm going to mention, as I already did, is that this is a fairly complex interpretive section of Luke. In fact, it might be one of the most complicated passages that we deal with in the book of Luke. Not only is it complicated, but it's actually dealt with in several other gospels. For instance, in Matthew 24, verses 23 to 39, this passage is dealt with. In Mark chapter 13, verses 15 through 21. this teaching is dealt with. And then again later in Luke 21, verses 5 through 38, which is a very lengthy passage of Scripture, the kinds of things that we're reading about here are the things that Jesus is talking about. And there are several important concepts that I think we should be at least a little bit conversant with as we think about the passage in front of us. I'm not going to give an extended teaching on each of these points. I'm simply going to state them, give you a really general, we could say, summary statement of what they are. But understand that this is a very important text in the topic of eschatology. So the first of the concepts that I'm going to mention is a concept called the last days. When the Bible talks about the last days, it's talking about a period of time from the ascension of Christ until the rapture of the church. This is when God's people are commanded to live with an anticipation of Christ's imminent return. And so when we talk about the last days, we're talking about what we're living through today. Okay, this would be considered the last days. And we see passages like 2 Timothy 3. 1 where Paul writes In the last days, perilous times shall come. Or again in Luke chapter 12, verse 40, he says, Be ready therefore also, for the Son of Man cometh at an hour when ye think not. A second concept that we need to be familiar with is the concept called the day of the Lord. And if you're reading through the Old Testament, there are going to be many, many places in the minor prophets especially, but also in the major prophets. where you will see the statement, the day of the Lord. Now the day of the Lord is not so much focused on a moment as much as a period of time where God is doing a work in the world in preparation for the coming of Christ and the establishment of Christ's millennial kingdom. So during this period, Christ will be revealed as the rightful sovereign over his creation and will establish his millennial kingdom. If you read through the book of Revelation, once you finish the section dealing with the letters to the seven churches, the rest of the book would really fall under that category, save the last part when we're talking about the eternal state. The rest of the book would really be talking about what we call the day of the Lord. And when we're reading through the minor prophets, we have a lot of teaching on the day of the Lord. 1 Peter 1. 13 says the following. He says, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope unto the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. That's talking about this period of time called the day of the Lord. And so when it comes to how we as Christians should think about this period, we could summarize it by saying this. Gird up the loins of your mind. Be ready and serving. Be sober and rest in your future salvation. That's what he means by hope unto the end. He's talking about the final part of our salvation that we've not yet experienced. And then in 2 Peter chapter 3 verse 10 he says that the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. In the which, talking about some of the things that will happen during this period, the heavens will pass away with a great noise, the elements will melt with fervent heat, and the earth also and the works that are therein will shall be burned up. That sounds pretty terrifying, does it not? But he says, be ready. This day, this period is absolutely certainly going to take place. And there's a third concept that I want to mention. And that's what we call the rapture of the church. The idea that God will rescue his people, the church, from the wrath that is to come during the day of the Lord. And so when we talk about this concept of the rapture of the church, there are two passages that are very important for us to be aware of. The first one is in 1 Corinthians 15, 51. Where he says, Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, referring to our death, but we all shall be changed. This is not the kids in the nursery. He's talking about the fact that not everyone is going to physically die, they're going to actually experience a different kind of glorification He says, In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we, meaning the people who have not died, when this takes place, these will also be changed. That's what we call the rapture. In 1 Thessalonians 4. 14 he says That we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. So we've talked about a couple of concepts. One is the last days. One would be the day of the Lord. One would be the rapture of the church. And the fourth would be what we call the second coming of Christ. The second coming of Christ is going to take place during that period called the Day of the Lord, right before Christ establishes his earthly kingdom. Christ will come and vindicate his people who are still living. During this period of the day of the Lord, there are many people who are going to come to faith in Christ. Because of the preaching of the gospel. The book of Revelation talks about this. Literally talks about 144,000 Jewish men who will go all throughout the world and they'll preach the gospel of the kingdom. And so this is going to be a fascinating time of history, but also a very difficult time in history. And there are several events that are going to take place during this period that are going to help people to know. The Lord is coming soon. And so there's actually a difference between what we could say is the day of the Lord coming as a thief in the night. And the second of coming of Christ, which the Bible talks about lots of signs that are going to take place during that time. And Revelation 19 This is what the scriptures say. After these things, meaning the things that are going to happen during the tribulation, I heard a great voice of much people in heaven saying, hallelujah. salvation and glory and honor and power unto the Lord our God. For true and righteous are his judgments. Later on it says, In righteousness he doth make war and judge, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron. And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Now we could spend a lot of time talking about Revelation 19. I just want you to be aware of the concept that Christ is coming again. And then the fifth thing I'm going to mention is the millennial reign of Christ. The idea that Christ will literally reign with his saints for a thousand years is promised in both the Old and New Testaments and reaffirmed in the book of Revelation. And I want you to listen very carefully to the way that this text is worded in Revelation chapter 20, verse 4. John writes, and I saw thrones. And they that sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them. And I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus. And for the word of God, which had not worshipped the beasts, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads or in his his mark on their hand, and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. Amazing thing to consider. The rest of the dead live not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he. that hath part in the first resurrection, on such the second death, hath no power. And they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years. Now, there's a reason that I that I start the sermon dealing with all these concepts. The reason is I want you to understand this is no simple matter to work through. If you want to have a good understanding of this topic of eschatology, you're going to have to work through massive chunks of scripture. You're going to have to work through major prophets. You're going to have to work through minor prophets. You're going to have to work through the teachings of Christ on this issue in the Gospels. You're going to have to work your way through the epistles as we talk about things that were written about the rapture and the day of the Lord and the second coming of Christ. And then you're going to have to work your way through the book of Revelation. The purpose of this sermon is not to do all those things. It's simply to help you to understand that when Jesus said all the things that he's saying here, that is the backdrop of the statements that he is making. The question is, what was Christ's chief concern for these people? Was it for them to understand the rapture? The second coming of Christ, the millennial kingdom, the day of the Lord, the last days. The answer is no. His purpose was for them to be ready for the revelation of Jesus Christ. And the problem with these people is that rather than being ready for the coming of the Lord, they were ignoring the Lord standing right in front of them. And that is the sense of what we are looking at here this morning. Christ's chief concern is to warn the people, be ready for the return of Christ. Because you are obviously not responding well to what is right in front of your face right now. So I'd summarize the text this way. Christ's answers, the Pharisees revealed, Christ's answer to the Pharisees revealed their flawed assumptions about the coming kingdom of God and exhorted everyone to be ready for the second coming. As we look at this passage of scripture, we're going to see that we need desperately to live with an anticipation of his imminent return. And so let's go ahead and jump into the text together this morning. The first part of this message is going to kind of be an overview of the the content of what Jesus is saying. There are three major components to Christ's teaching in this conversation that he's having with the Pharisees, but also with his disciples. Here are the major components. The first is a loaded question. He starts in verse 20. Luke records He, Jesus, was demanded of the Pharisees when the kingdom of God should come. Now, the Pharisees are expecting Jesus to give them a timetable. They're expecting Jesus to give them signs that are going to help them to know, when I see this, I will know this is about to happen. And so when I see this, I can be ready. Or if I look at my calendar, I'll know I have this much time to do whatever I want. And at the end of that time, then I've got to take things very seriously. This is a loaded question. They're expecting him to give them dates. They're expecting him to give them a series of events. But that is not what Jesus does. The second thing we see is that Christ's answer is very different than what they were anticipating. In verse 20, it says, He answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation. That's a really interesting statement. That statement is basically him turning around their question saying, your question is beginning with the wrong premise You're assuming something about the coming of the kingdom of God that is wrong. You're expecting to see signs and timetables, but I tell you, that's not how it's going to take place. And so there are a couple of parts to how he answers. The first part is him saying simply, stop wasting your time looking for the kingdom with the wrong expectations. They were looking for signs when no signs would be were to be expected. For instance, in 1 Thessalonians 5. 2, he says, yourselves know perfectly, the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. How does a thief come into your house at night? Does he say, hey, let me tell you that on Friday night at 10. 30, I'm breaking into your house? If a thief told you that, guess what? You'd be ready. They wouldn't get what they were coming for, right? Or they wouldn't announce their arrival when they pulled into your driveway. How does a thief come into your house? Quietly, unsuspectingly. They watch your every move and they know your movements and your patterns and they know when you're going to be home and not going to be home. And when you're ready and when you're not ready, and they're gonna come at the most opportune time because they wanna catch you off guard You say that the kingdom of God is going to come like that, the day of the Lord? The answer is yes, it's going to catch people off guard They're not going to be ready. That's why Jesus is saying what he's saying. He's saying, be ready. The kingdom of God comes at a time when you do not know. Secondly, they were rejecting the verification that was already right in front of them concerning Jesus. In Luke 11, 29, he says, this is an evil generation. They seek a sign, and there shall no sign be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet. So shall also the Son of Man be to this generation. Now what is Jesus saying? For for for if you were to look at it as a generalization, most of the people that lived during the time of Christ That heard him teach, that watched his miracles, that interacted with him. Most of the people did not see what they wanted to see. Therefore they rejected him on the basis of not getting what they wanted to see. And so what Jesus is basically saying is the only sign that you're really going to be given is a resurrection. And when Jesus dies and he rises from the dead, then you will know he's Messiah. You should have embraced him. By the way, there's a reason. That when Peter preaches at Pentecost after the resurrection and after the ascension, thousands of people place their faith in Christ. when he says, you crucified the Lord of glory, and he's alive today, just as David predicted in the Psalms. The second part to this is important. He says, do not follow the poor example of past generations. In verses 26 through 37, he talks about the people who lived in Noah's day as he was building the ark for 120 years. And verse 26 he says, as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it also be in the days of the Son of Man. What happened? As Noah is building that boat, people said, You're wasting your time, old man. You're wasting your time, old man. There's no such thing as rain. We're not going to see a flood. We're just going to laugh at you until you're done with this. But guess what happened on the day that the boat was finished? Noah goes into the boat with his family. God shuts the door, and the rest is history. He says that's exactly how the day of the Lord is going to come. Or he gives another example, the people who are living in Sodom and Gomorrah, these were two very prosperous cities. Very affluent. There's a reason that Lot wanted to go and live in Sodom. He wanted to live in Sodom because it was a place filled with money and industry and power and tremendous wickedness. And so what does God do? He warns Lot, you need to leave the city. And when Lot goes to his family and he says, God's going to destroy the city, they laughed at him. They said, whatever. There's a reason that Lot's wife looked back. Because she had family in that city. Her life was in that city. And when she looked back, it was her way of saying, I'm still, I'm still there. And so what does he say in verse 28 to 30? As it was in the days of Lot, even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of Man is revealed. Remember Lot's wife. And then he gives a third statement. People living when Christ returns, they're not going to be ready. Verse 33, he says, Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it. The third part of this is a warning. Verse 25. He says, but first must he suffer many things. and be rejected of this generation. The warning is that Christ is going to be crucified. So when we flip when we look at this entire passage of Scripture, I would say that kind of gives you a summary of what Jesus is talking about. The second thing I want us to do is I want us to look at a couple of truths that I think are very clearly being taught and illustrated in the text in front of us. The first truth is this. The questions that we ask reveal the health of our mindset. You ever thought about that? You want to know what somebody's thinking? Consider the questions that they ask. You want to know what somebody's assuming? Consider the questions that they ask. You ever been asked the loaded loaded question and you felt like, hey, that's fat that's not a fair question. I can't answer that question because it started with a premise. That isn't true, and I feel like I've got to fight the premise before I answer the question. That's what Jesus is doing here. The question that was asked revealed something about the way that these people were thinking. First century Jews had an unprecedented opportunity. I want you to think about this for a minute. You have all of the Old Testament, and when people went to the synagogue and they sat in the synagogue, And the rabbis would open up the word of God. They would roll open that scroll and they would read the scriptures. They read about prophecies concerning the Lord Jesus Christ. They read about them over and over and over again. You know the story of Christ when he goes in and he opens up the scroll, he finds the place in the prophet Isaiah where it talks about him, and he says, Today this scripture is fulfilled in your ears. The truth is that every single person going to synagogue week in and week out should have understood who the Messiah was going to be, should have understood what he was coming to do, and they should have embraced him the very moment they saw him. This next Tuesday in our ABBI class, we're going to be moving into the doctrine of Christology. And the very first part of this teaching on Christology is we're going to look at what the Old Testament says about Jesus. the Messiah. So we're going to spend an entire two hours, I guess, about that just talking about all of these massive numbers of scripture that talk about who Jesus is What he was gonna do, all of that is there. There were Old Testament believers, we have the records of them here in the Gospels. People like Simeon and people like Anna and people like Zechariah, they understood who the Messiah is and what he would do. Yet these people who had unprecedented opportunity, all the scriptures, seeing the Lord Jesus, hearing his teaching, seeing his miracles, what did they do? They walked away. Verse 21, he says, neither shall they say, Lo here or lo there, behold, the kingdom of God is within you. It's kind of an interesting statement. And there's argument about what it actually means. But what I think he's saying is this. He's talking to the Pharisees. You want to know where the kingdom of God is? You're looking at somebody right now. Who is the one who opens the door for people to come in? Right in front of your very eyes is the Messiah. And you can't see it. That's what he's saying. These people were ignoring what was right in front of them. I go back to what we talked about last week Think about how they responded to the miracles that were recorded for us in the book of Luke. For instance, in Luke 11, Christ shows compassion toward this man who's demon-possessed. And what do the religious leaders do? They accuse him of doing a miracle by the power of Satan. That's crazy. Here's the Messiah. Here's a man who is healed. He shows his power over the kingdom of darkness, and all they can say is, oh, you did that by the power of Satan. Or we go a couple chapters later, Luke 13. He has compassion on this woman who's been infirm for 18 years on the Sabbath day. And what do the religious leaders do? They accuse him of violating the law. They say you've broken our commandments. And he's like, I don't care about your commandments. I'm the Lord of the Sabbath. You know what he's saying? I created the world and everything in it. The Sabbath is my idea. I am the one who can tell you what is right and wrong on the Sabbath day. But they didn't see it. Luke chapter 14 is compassion on a man. Who had this terrible swelling of his legs on the Sabbath day again? And what did the religious leaders do? Again, they accused him. Again, he says, I'm the Lord of the Sabbath. I have the right to heal. On the Sabbath day. Luke 17, the passage we looked at last week. He has compassion on ten lepers. How many of them came and said thank you? Only one. Only one. He healed ten. Only one believed and was made whole And he was a Samaritan. Why do you think the text makes the point of reminding us of the fact that one was made whole, one was a Samaritan? Because that was the way people responded to Christ. And then in Luke 18, he compassionately heals a blind beggar while people are saying, don't trouble the master. Stay away from him. Leave him alone. What does this show you? This is just a little snapshot of all these interactions that show you here are people that had so much information and they couldn't see it. Second thing I'll mention is they were distracted by misguided assumptions about their future. In verse 20, Jesus says: the kingdom of God cometh not with observation. In Mark 13, 31 he says, On that day and that hour knoweth no man, not even the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father. Take ye heed, watch and pray, ye know not at what time it is. Acts 1. 7 he says it's not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power First Thessalonians 5 1, of the times and seasons, brethren, you have no need that I write unto you, for you yourselves know perfectly the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. What is Jesus saying? The same thing all those other places say. The day of the Lord will come without warning. And it will catch people off guard. You know, when people live through massive movements in history, they don't realize what's going on until after the fact. We really do not appreciate the times we're living in right now, like people, if the Lord doesn't return before this happens, who will look back and dig into all the facts of what's taken place in the last five years, ten years. And they write about all of the conversations and all of the emails and all of the letters and all the things that were hidden and all the things that were put out and all the different things that went on during this time period. Historians will dig into the data. They'll dig into all this information, and they will appreciate right now more than you will. Why? Because you can't see where things are going until you're there. And that's the way the day of the Lord will be. The second truth we find in the text is that God's answers are sufficient. In verses 22 to 24, notice what he says. He said unto the disciples, the days will come when you shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man. and you shall not see it. Now he's basically telling them that there's going to be a day that I'm going to be gone and you're not going to get to interact with me like you are right now. And you will wish that it was different. But in fact it won't be. He says, they shall say unto you, see here, see there, go not after them, nor follow them. He said, people are going to tell you this is the Messiah. Don't believe them. Don't believe them. Many false Christs. The word is Antichrists, talked about in 1 John He says, as the lightning that lighteth out of one part under heaven shineth unto the other parts under heaven, so shall also the Son of Man be in that day. I grew up in Florida. And let me tell you, I've seen some really serious thunderstorms. I've seen some wild, crazy thunderstorms. And think about a thunderstorm as you're sitting out there, hopefully not outside, hopefully, you know, you're sitting in your living room and it's it's quiet and it starts raining and it's getting really windy and all of a sudden you hear this bang and there's light everywhere. You ever been in a situation like that? Or it's really great when you do it at night. And you're sitting out there and the sky is is is dark and all of a sudden you just see this light bolt just like flies this way and it flies that way and then you hear this crash. It's really neat. He said, that's what the coming of the Son of Man is going to be like. It's going to catch people off guard. They're not going to be ready. And it's going to happen quickly. Well, you see, this isn't what Jesus Jesus isn't answering their question the way they anticipated. He's not giving them all these details. He didn't say, hey, let me let me explain to you the book of Revelation that will be written about 50 or 60 years from now. And let me tell you about all the things that are there. He doesn't do that. He doesn't go, hey, let's go back to the prophet Isaiah. Let's go to Zechariah. Let's talk about all these details. That's not what he does. He gives them some very simple instruction, and that's enough for them to do the right thing. First thing he says in verse 23, be discerning in the time you're living in. They will say to you, see here or see there, go not after them or follow them. Don't get tricked into following some false message. 2. Realize that massive changes will come out of nowhere. Verse 24, as the lightning that lighteth out of the one part under heaven shineth unto the other part of heaven, so shall also the Son of Man be in his day. His answers were not going to satisfy all their curiosities. In fact, his answers don't satisfy all your and my curiosities If you could sit down with Jesus, you say, okay, okay, Jesus, I appreciate what you just said, but I got a lot of questions. So here we go. And you just start firing him off. He's like, not necessary. Not necessary. I could give you this much information, but no more information. You're like, hold on, hold on, hold on. I need more. And he says, you don't need more. You say, I do, because I'm asking. Sorry, I'm giving the answers that you need. But I feel, he said, doesn't matter how you feel. I'm giving you what you need to know to do right. His answers are enough. And by the way, this little principle that we're seeing in the text right here, it's actually all over Scripture. There are lots and lots of concepts in the Bible that God gives you this much information, and there's no question there's a whole lot more that's out there. But he says, I'm not giving that to you. You say it's not fair, it's not right. That's how it is. Simple, right? Deuteronomy 29, 29. Listen to this text He says, the secret things belong to the Lord our God, but those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. That's an amazing statement. God is literally saying in that text, there are a lot of things that I don't reveal. What I have revealed is yours, and it's enough for you to honor me. That's really good stuff, isn't it? You say that makes life a little bit simpler. It means I've got to walk by faith. Yes, that's true. We've got enough to figure out what is written, let alone to fight about what is not. 2 Timothy 3:16, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. And later on he says, So that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. You know what that means? Scriptures are sufficient, folks. 2 Peter 1. 3, his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue. And I really like this little passage. In fact, what I'm going to read to you reminds me of my wrestling coach, because he used to quote this passage. 2 Corinthians 8. 12, he says, if There first be a willing mind. It is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not. You know what these passages tell us? What God gave you is enough to worry about. So worry about it, do it, and what he doesn't reveal, you don't have to worry about it. Isn't that a comforting thing to think about? I think a lot of times Christians like to argue about stuff that the Bible just doesn't address it. Not only does the Bible not address it, but the Bible addresses it but doesn't say as much as we want it to say. Or sometimes what it does give us is complicated enough if we have a hard time figuring it all out. And you know what? We should be satisfied with what God gave us because that's enough to obey Him. Don't just hear the word, do it. Third truth. History repeats itself for those who fail to learn from the past. We know that this is true, but the text of Scripture actually really emphasizes this. He gives two examples, and I'm going to mention a couple of others that are not in the text, but are also The same thing repeated. He talks about Noah, verses 26 and 27. As it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the Son of Man. They did eat, they did drink, they married wives, they were given in marriage until the day that Noah entered into the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all Now don't drill into this too much and go, what does he mean by they were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying. He's simply saying they just live their lives like everybody else The last thing on their mind was, when that door shuts, it's over. Last thing on their minds. But it was true. We have the example of Lot in 28 and 29. Likewise also was it in the days of Lot. They did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded. But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. Nobody in that city thought, oh, well, today's going to be the last day we see on this planet. But it was. Alright, think about the children of Israel before they went into captivity in Judah. Listen to Ezekiel 14. It says, though Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it. As I live, saith the Lord God, they shall deliver neither son nor daughter. They shall but deliver their own souls by their righteousness. Yet behold, therein Shall be left a remnant that shall be brought forth, and ye shall know that I have not done without cause all that I have done in it, saith the Lord God. Then we look at first century Judaism, the destruction of the temple in 8070, Acts 2, the promises unto us and to our children, and to all that are far off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call And with many other words, he did testify and exhort, saying, save yourself from this untoward generation. What is the point of this? Every example There was an opportunity for a limited time. And those who responded to that opportunity experienced God's grace. And those who ignored that experienced God's judgment. In 2 Peter 2, verse 9, it says, The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. And to reserve the unjust to the day of judgment to be punished. We see words of warning, grace, and judgment. And here's the problem: people do not learn from the past. They do not look at the story of Noah and say, you know what? Maybe I think like some of the people did at that time. They don't look at the story of La and Sodom and Gomorrah and say, maybe I think like the people of that time. Or they don't look at the story of the nation of Israel who had who had prophet after prophet after prophet after prophet and say, hey, maybe I'm acting like those people did at that time. They think that they're different. They think that they're immune. They think that somehow God isn't going to deal with them in the same kind of way. And I tell you, the way you learn from history is you say, if God did it once, And you did a second time and a third time, and there's example after example after example. Maybe I should not follow that example. That's why the preaching of the gospel is so very important. Because the gospel is the warning and the extension of grace, and if you reject it, there's judgment. Truth number four: there will be a generation who lives through these events Now, what's interesting about this is that Jesus does not tell them who that will be. He says in verse 31, in that day Now, I believe that the church is going to be raptured out, and we're not going to live through the tribulation period. That's what I believe that the scripture teaches. But that doesn't mean that there won't be people who live through that moment in history. It doesn't mean there are going to be people who live through that time. In verse 31, he says, in that day, these things will take place. Secondly, we see that every generation needs to have healthy priorities, especially that one. You realize there are going to be people who live through that moment and they're going to have the opportunity to pick up a Bible and read it and go, you know what? I'm living through what this book is talking about. Maybe in the course of their life they never came in contact with the Bible. Of course, they probably won't pick up a physical book. They'll probably look at it online or something like that. I have no idea But they're going to read a passage like this, so you'll be like, that's what Jesus was talking about. I'm seeing it. I'm living through it. This text will be pertinent to those people. When he says, remember Lot's wife, whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it, whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it, that's going to be directly applicable to a group of people living through what we're talking about right here. There will be grace for those who heed the warning and judgment for those who don't. He says, the one shall be taken and the other shall be left. By the way, he mentions it several times. What's his point? There's warning, there's grace, there's judgment. And so the question we should ask ourselves is, well, how do you apply a passage of scripture like this? How do you take what Jesus is saying to these people and internalize it in just And obey it. I want to be an obedient ear. I want to hear the word and then do the word. What do I do? First thing I want to say is this. We need to ask ourselves some very important questions. The first one is this. What questions are you asking? You say, uh I'm asking a question about the questions I'm asking. Yeah. What questions are you asking? What do those questions say about your assumptions? This really is mind-boggling to think about, but you know, there are certain things that we discuss in our culture that we consider to be normal conversations. Normal questions, normal viewpoints. If you were to go to another portion of the world and you were to bring those same questions, people would laugh at you. They would say, what are you talking about? That's the craziest thing I ever heard in my life. What kind of a person would ask a question like that? That makes zero sense. You could take some of the questions that we ask ourselves in our culture today, or some of the premises that people hold on to in our culture today. And you take them back 500 years ago and you ask those questions and you make those statements to people living in another culture, another time, and they would look at you like, what are you talking about? That is so bizarre. That is so strange. That is so weird. Hey, you know what? The questions we ask and the things that we hold say something about what's going on inside of us. And so that's why I start with me to ask ourselves some questions about what we're asking and why we're asking, what we assume. Third, are we willing to accept both what God has revealed and what he has left unstated? I I remember when I was in uh seminary, sitting at a dining room table with uh with a bunch of other guys that were in class, and we used to argue about all kinds of stuff that God never really directly addressed. What a total waste of time, right? I mean like maybe we should have spent a little more time thinking about what he clearly stated and what we're not doing, right? We need to think about this a little bit more carefully. There are things that God has been so clear in his word about, and you know what we'll do? We'll get so fixated on something that is totally unnecessary, it's a question that does not even matter. We'll get so focused on that that what's right in front of us that should be so obvious to us, we ignore it. We ignore it. That's exactly what these people were doing. Tell us the sign of these things. And he's like, Do you not know who you're talking to? Who you're rejecting? Who's about to die? Be crucified, rise from the dead, and then ascend into heaven? Do you know who you're talking to? No, they don't get it. Are we missing the most obvious things because we're distracted by unnecessary things? I think that one question might be enough to focus in on for the rest of the day, right? Are we learning from history by heeding God's warnings and learning from others' failures? We read the Bible too much thinking about other people. All of us do. I do this. We read the Bible and we want to think about what it says for our spouse, what it says for our kids. What it says for our brother or our sister, what it says for somebody we go to church with, what it says for somebody that we work with, our boss, somebody that we have to deal with in a work environment. We read the Bible for other people, but it was written for us. It was written for us to read. It was written for us to interpret. It was written for us to internalize. It was written for us Obei Are we living with anticipation of his imminent return? A lot of Christians do not think twice about the fact that there is a generation that is going to be caught up together to be with the Lord. And when that day comes, you won't know the day and you won't know the hour, but you need to be ready for that day. And there are people that we're living with right now who may very well live through the very things that are being talked about in these verses. We rub shoulders with these people and we don't know it. But this will matter to them in a very specific way. Secondly, we need to be purposely focused on what we have been given. We've got to get into the scriptures. We've got to let the scriptures shape how we think. We've got to digest the scriptures. We can't get preoccupied with hypotheticals. We need to do right with what we know is clear. We need to live practically with the confident anticipation of his return. And we need to rejoice in his mercy that will deliver us from the wrath to come. As we read through this passage of scripture, as we think about what's been put in front of us, I hope that that's where we land. May the Lord help us to do that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Before we close in prayer, I just want to ask a simple question. Is there anyone here that would say, Pastor, I read those things? Kind of scary to be honest with you. I don't know that I'm ready to meet the Lord. I don't know for sure that I'm a Christian and I've placed my faith in Christ and I would really appreciate talking to someone. I'm not gonna call you out, I'm not gonna ask you to stand up or come forward. I'm just gonna make a note that you'd like to speak with me, and I'll make a point to do that. Is there anyone that would just quietly raise up your hand so I could see that and say, Pastor, I need to talk to you about this issue. Anyone at all? Anyone at all? You might say, I'm not going to raise my hand, but I need to talk to you. All right, come talk to me. Send me an email I I want to be a help to you. I want to encourage you in the Lord. I want to answer the questions from the Bible so that you can know for certain when you die you're going to heaven. You're ready to meet the Lord. You're not like these other people who are warned, rejected, and experience God's judgment. If that's you, please don't hesitate to reach out. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the word. This is a challenging text. There's a lot to digest. But I pray that we would walk away with these very simple truths. Help us to focus in on what you've given us and help it to shape our lives in every single way. Help us to be faithful people who are ready for your return on the day that it happens I pray that you'll strengthen us throughout the rest of the day. Help us to get the rest we need. Help us to be spiritually encouraged as we go into this next week. Guide us and direct us and strengthen us. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.