Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and uh looking forward to the passage we're looking at this morning. If you have a Bible, let's turn together Romans chapter 8, and we're gonna look at Verses 1 through 9 together. And what we're going to do today is we're going to talk about how the conscience is affected by conversion, the new birth. So if you could, let's look together. It says the following. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made us free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, condemns sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, and they that are after the spirit the things of the spirit. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Because the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the spirit of God dwelleth in you. Now if any man have not the spirit of Christ, he is none of his. Now we've been talking about the conscience, trying to uh understand this issue of the conscience, and what I'd like to do this this morning is I'd like us to dig into a little bit more detail into how the conscience actually works. And then from that I'd like us to notice how our conscience is affected by salvation, the new birth. or conversion, regeneration. And so I want to break it down this way. When we talk about the conscience, we're talking about that part of us that has moral sense. And so when we talk about our conscience, we could say that our mind has an impact on our conscience, our emotions have an impact on our conscience, and then what we would say is our affections or uh the the deep seat of our heart has an effect on our conscience. And so let's take those one at a time. First of all, the mind. Our mind affirms certain actions to be morally acceptable or morally unacceptable. And so we we know that something is morally wrong, primarily because God's word says it's wrong, but there's also a sense in which We know because of what it feels like to have someone do this to us, like telling a lie, stealing, uh treating us without respect, pride, those kinds of things. When we see the effect that it has on us in our minds, we sit down and we process this and we say, okay, that's wrong. I don't like it when people do that. So our mind is either going to affirm this is right or affirm this is wrong. Then we talk about our emotions. Our emotions ultimately follow the lead of our thinking. And our emotions can also drive our thinking as well. But in most situations, what you think is going to affect how you feel. And so if a person feels that something is wrong. It's probably connected back to the fact that they've affirmed something to be either acceptable or unacceptable. And then when we talk about our affections, we're talking about what motivates us, what drives us, our will to do something or to not do something. And that's really where we get into Romans chapter 1. Notice what it says again It says, the law of the Spirit of Life, verse number two, hath made us free from the law of sin and death. He says that what the law was not able to do, and that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemns sin in the flesh. that or for the purpose that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us. And this next statement is very important. Who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Now, in these verses, what we're seeing is a contrast between the state of a person who is in the flesh and a person who's in the spirit. He's talking about a person who's an unredeemed person, they're not yet a believer, they're in their natural pre-conversion state, and a person who has been born again, regenerated. They have new life in Christ. He compares those two situations so that we can understand what ultimately happens is within the heart of a person, within the conscience of a person, there is a very distinct fundamental change that takes place. And we need to understand that because what it does is it gives us insight into how the conscience actually works. So first of all, let's talk about the natural state. Our affections in our natural state, before we place our faith in Christ, before we become new creatures in Christ, in our natural state, our affections are dominated by our fallen nature. We see that in both verse 5 and verse 7. Here's what it says. They that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. They that are after the spirit, they mind the things of the spirit. Do you see the contrast? Minding the things of the flesh versus minding the things of the spirit. Or in verse 7 he says that the carnal mind is enity against God. It is not subject to the law of God. And the next statement is very significant. Neither indeed can be, so that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. What are those verses telling us? Well, they're telling us that before a person becomes a Christian, they are a slave to their lustful passions. And then in the same passage of Scripture, the same chapter He makes the argument that when a person becomes a new creature in Christ, they die to the old and they're alive to the new, and now they're in a position where they can walk in newness of life. They have that ability And so that is something that's made available to them through the work of the Spirit and regeneration. And so as a as a in our natural state before our salvation, we're dominated by our flesh And the new creature has affections that flow out of two possible sources. One is the old fallen nature, and the other is the indwelling spirit And I want you to see how it's stated throughout these verses. For instance, in verse 1, he says this, they which are in Christ Jesus Walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. He's talking about the character of a person who's a new creature in Christ. They have this new disposition that presses them. Or in verse 1 he says, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. He makes the distinction again. Verse number 2, he says. The law of the Spirit of life in Christ hath made us free from the law of sin and death. And he uses that word law like it is a principle that governs a person's affections, governs their heart. And so this person that's not a Christian has a conscience That is going to be conflicted because they are dominated in their heart by the flesh. The person who is a believer, a new creature in Christ, he has a new source through which he can be pressed in his affections to serve God. Verses three and four, he says, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin condemned sin in the flesh, that, or for this purpose, the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us. This next statement is very important. Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. And so he's talking about this distinction. He's saying that when a person becomes a new creature in Christ, though they are now free from the law's condemnation, They're pressed internally by this new nature, by the indwelling work of the Spirit. They are pressed in their affections to walk according to God's expectations. That's really what he's saying. Or in verses 6 and 7 he says, to be carnally minded is death, to be spiritually minded is life in peace. Verse 9, you're not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. You might say, well, Joel, what's really the whole point of this whole discussion? Well, here's the point. When we talk about the conscience, that's the part of you that reasons, that's the part of you that feels, that's the part of you that has an affection or a will, a desire to do something or not to do something. And when a person is in their pre-conversion state, they are the natural man walking according to their flesh They're walking in a way that's contrary to their conscience. They are bothered in their conscience, and ultimately they're going to have to wrestle with that. Whereas a person that is a new creature in Christ has this awakening work of the spirit. That is shaping and molding and pressing their heart in the direction that God would have them to walk. And so let me summarize it this way: everybody has a moral sense. We all have a conscience. And if we walk in conformity to that moral sense, we experience internal peace. On the other side, when we walk in conflict contradictory to that moral sense, well that's then we experience internal peace. Pain, misery, frustration, anguish, we could describe it lots of different ways. And so when a person becomes a new creature in Christ, they place their faith in the finished work of Christ. That person now has the Holy Spirit's presence inside of them, a new principle at work in them. And what he does is he works in the heart of that person pressing the truths of Scripture upon their heart. And as he presses the truths of Scripture on their heart, you know what he does? He begins to direct their mind to think in a biblical way In a way that's conformed to the mind of Christ. And as that person's thinking is conformed to the mind of Christ, you know what's ultimately happening? What's ultimately happening is that their conscience is being shaped by the Bible. They now have the potential to have a healthy conscience. And then in addition to that awakened uh position that they have because of uh their conscience being awakened is that they have the presence of the Holy Spirit who drives the truth home. and helps us to understand the weight and the significance of those things. And what he does is he motivates us to walk in conformity to what we know is right. as opposed to what we uh know to be wrong. And so what happens is the Holy Spirit's presence has the effect of of causing us not only to think biblically but to press us to walk consistent with what we know to be true. And this is how the believer can experience internal peace. He experiences internal peace because not only is his his conscience being shaped by the Bible But the Holy Spirit's pressing him to obey what he sees. And that's what we want to be as Christians. We want to be people with a healthy conscience who are walking consistent with that conscience and walking consistent with God's expectations. And so what we see is that our affections will flow from really one of two sources, either from our flesh or from the Spirit's work. And so you say, well, what's the takeaway? Here's the takeaway. The takeaway is that the only way that you can have a healthy conscience is if you are a new creature in Christ, because it is through the Spirit's work in you that you can come to a position where your mind is being shaped by Scripture. The truths of Scripture are not only shaping your mind, but they're driving your emotions, and you have the presence of the Holy Spirit at work on you a new creature in Christ who is pressing you to walk consistent with what you know to be true. And so while the believer is not saved, By doing good and keeping the commandments, while the believer is free from condemnation 100%, while there's nothing that can snatch us out of the Father's hand. At the same time We are motivated by the internal work of the Spirit to do what is right. Not because it's how we get saved or how we stay saved. It's because we genuinely desire to do what's right. It's the evidence of the Spirit's work in us. Well, as you think about these truths, I hope that they'll be an encouragement to you. It'll help you. You might say, well, well, Joel, I I don't feel this work the way that it needs to be. How do I actually approach this? Well what I'd encourage you to do is get in the word. The way that the Spirit of God shapes your thinking and and and develops your affections and presses them in the right direction. It's ultimately through the Spirit's work through the Word. And so get in the Word today. Well, as we think about these things, I hope that they will challenge us and give us something to think about throughout the rest of the day. Thank you for your time. I hope that if this has been an encouragement to you, you'll take a few minutes to share it with someone else or maybe send some feedback. And Lord willing tomorrow we're going to continue in this same uh vein of thinking ask the question is our conscience an infallible guide and if it's not why not and uh if it's not then how are we supposed to relate to that so that might give you a little bit of a preview of where we're going with that But I hope that these these talks on the conscience have been an encouragement to you. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again. Bye now.