Well, I want to welcome you to our service tonight. And uh we had a lot going on this afternoon. If you drift back to the fellowship hall, it looks like a jungle back there. And uh it's gonna be really loud tomorrow. But um, we're excited about Vacation Bible School this week. Also our teen rally, so teens, we don't want to leave you guys out. A lot of kids that have registered and we've had some today as well. So keep us in prayer and we're looking forward to that. So let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we'll get our service started tonight Father, we thank you again for the opportunity to gather. And as the Word of God is preached tonight, I pray that you will speak to our hearts. As we sing praise to you, I pray that we would think about the implications of these truths. Thank you for those who have come a great distance to be with us, and those who are registering the children and are going to bring them to Vacation Bible School. I pray that as we have all these sessions each each day that you would really bless that, that the Word of God would be preached and taught with clarity. We would see young people trust Christ. We would see families that are connected to the church, who need to grow and walk with you. I just pray it would be a great week, and we look forward to it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, good evening. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number 518. Oh, it is wonderful to be a Chris Hymn will stand. We'll sing all three verses of hymn number five hundred eighteen. Life has purpose now it never had before. There we stay. For a joy and meet the chance where his life Setting my boundary life in Christ my Lord demise Awake one to be a Christian Oh, it's wonderful to be a star. Oh, it's wonderful to happy since we wonderful to remain justice forever and sun. I can go to went with you all He can hold me and if only after that I can 't promise I By mercy, very grace for every day. Oh, it is wonderful to make a break done. Oh, it's wonderful to make us a lot. Only was the golden great screen, just and life forever and five And the rope of heaven's glory spelled me. When I live with my story, I know that I want to be to be one. All this wonderful world in me and done Oh it's wonderful to me rest in that for yeah Great singing, please be seated as we turn to hymn number five hundred twenty-seven Revive us again. Sing out this evening. I know it's hot, but we can sing a little better tonight. We praise thee, oh God , for the Son of thy love, for Jesus God and it's not God of Hallelujah. I know glory, my glory, we are all right now, we pray. Father but I 'm not a man Amen. I knew y'all would get there. I knew you'd get there. 529. There shall be showers of blessing. 529 will sing all four versus There shall be showers of blessing. This is the promise of love. Except we see it with him , bring the baby , spray the team, so we 're going to be. Doing fast flags and Great singing this evening. Oh, it is Christmas in July, I'll allow it. All right. Very close. 229. Oh come, oh come, Emmanuel. Oh come all come in my Well the rest Fact twenty six twenty six Praise to the Lord the Almighty. Praise the Lord. Secondly without me , yeah, you 're not going to come on. All right, more 47. Surely goodness and mercy No, no, no. Step over to our blue book. One forty into the blue book. Chosen as his showa. Let's play for a points. Alright, then let's stand before we have the sermon. Page number two in the blue book. Let's all stand and we'll sing number two. I don't know what's wrong with all. I don't know this one at all. Number two, pick two pick number two. Who was it? It was you? Alright. I will work on this one. Ask me again in a couple of weeks. Alright? We'll do number thirty-one instead. Number thirty one in the blue book. The first and the last. Christopher was returned by a story by war. I 'm going to raise a wing I told me what I 'm done I know to say Great, can you please proceed? I love you, and I try to do it. Oh my god , Julie , Julie, my Same I tell you for your future, and I will fight for your own things. Oh my god Take joy my king , take what you know Let it be so ignorant. Let it be used. Uh this evening was I wanted to have uh Brent Gillis preach and I asked Brent to come down with his family uh to be a part of our vacation bible school this week. And uh you know typically when we have vacation bible school it's an entirely in-house thing. Um we have uh gospel uh time each each night and usually I do the gospel teaching and my wife does the younger group. And uh with the teen rally, um a lot of times we split it up between the staff guys that are preaching. And I thought, you know what, I'd really like to have Brother Brent come. and uh be involved in that, especially the teen rally. So Brent will be doing all of the preaching in the teen rally this week, but he will also be doing the gospel time for the children and I know his wife will be doing the gospel time for the smallest children. And so I'm really excited about that. Brent travels regularly. He preaches in camps. In fact, the camp where uh the Linders were this week, Servants Heart Camp, he was preaching, not the week not your family camp that you were at, but the family camp before that and uh the youth camp before that. And so So he's very used to preaching and teaching to young people and really appreciate his ministry. So I asked him to come and preach tonight. kind of kick that off. And also I wanted to mention this. If you would like to participate in the love offering we're going to give to the Gellis family this week. I just want to mention that you can participate by designating that love offering this evening in the little box there in the back. And so I know he's not going to be preaching to our church congregation like we normally would if we were having um a spring revival meeting or something like that, but he will actually be preaching more. Technically this week than he would be in a typical week of meetings that we have because he's going to be doing the teens and the kids and a couple of times in the kids. But I just very thankful for that. And I will say this too. I'm thankful that I have him doing that because we've had a lot of stuff in the last couple of couple of weeks. that um we have a funeral that's coming up. I had a funeral that I did on Saturday and I'm just thankful for the Lord bringing them here at this time to really take some of that load off. and allow us to uh just hear him preach the word. So brother, come on up and preach the word tonight. Two passages tonight We're going to turn to 2 Timothy 1. And if you have a bulletin or paper, put something in 2 Timothy 1 as well as Acts chapter 16. So 2 Timothy 1 and Acts 16. And this is great to be back here at Anchor. It's exciting to see what God's still doing here. And Pastor has been here now for close to six years. Deanna, is it close to six years? Six years. Right at six years. Hard to believe. But it's great to see what God's doing here. And uh it's always enjoyed it. Fellowship with your pastor and his wife. And obviously we're friends who have known each other for decades now, but it's great to see what God's doing here. Here we are at VBS. I know many of you this is normal. You are into it. Some of you this may be your first time. And it's going to be our first time, obviously, at Anchor for VBS, but obviously not our first time working with kids. So pray for us. If you're involved, you know we need prayer. We can go, we can have it organized completely, but if God doesn't work in hearts and lives, then this is vain. It's just a bunch of paper that goes in the trash at the end of the week But we need God to work. And I would ask that if you're not involved in VBS, if you're not connected here, even if you are connected here, please pray. But if you're not involved, please take some time each day and pray for VBS. Pray that the gospel will be clear and that the evil one will not snatch the seed away before the kids leave this week. We want the Word of God to be prevalent. And preeminent, and that's our goal, that's our heartbeat, that's our prayer, that's our desire. And so I'm praying for that as well. Here we are in the book of Acts, chapter 16, and 2 Timothy, chapter 1. Now some of you might know exactly where we're going with this, but I want tonight be an encouragement to parents. And I realize that the number of parents in this room is actually smaller than the number of others. And some of you aren't parents yet. Some of you say, Brent, that was years ago for me, so this doesn't apply to me. No, no, no. Just just wait. You'll see that the word of God has power and truth for all of us. There's several young people in this room who, before you know it, you will be a parent. And it seems like it's oh no, I got decades, so I'm p a parent. But you know, you blink, and those of you who know it, you blink and all of a sudden you have kids and you blink again, your kids are in teenagers and they tell me you blink again that you're married and your grandparents. So tonight we want to look at God's word and be I want to be a help me and encourage me Be a challenge and give you what the Word of God says. Look in Acts chapter 16, verse number one. Then came he in the speaking of the Apostle Paul. Then came he to Derby and Lystra, and behold a certain disciple was there named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman which was a Jewess, and believed But his father was a Greek. Which was well reported of by the brethren that were at Lystra and Iconium. Him would Paul have to go forth with him and took and circumcised him because of the Jews which were in those quarters, for they knew all that his father was a Greek. And if you keep your finger there in Acts 16, look with me in 2 Timothy chapter 1. Paul begins and he opens and he says, hey, it's great. Glad to talk with you. Grace, mercy, and peace. Verse 2. I've got a great desire to see you, and I know you're mindful of my tears. I'm filled with joy. And listen to verse 5. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also. Tonight, the Word of God has great encouragement for every single one of us. You stop and you think about Timothy, and instantly our minds go to the young man who traveled with the Apostle Paul. And as a dad, I desire that my children would be like Timothy in that regard. Could I get an amen there from parents? You want your kids to be like Timothy, right? Yeah. So if you're not familiar with the Bible story, you hear about this young man Timothy, and you must think instantly, oh man, he must have been trained in a Bible college. He must have had a stable upbringing. He must have had all the niceties of the In fact, he didn't. In fact, as you examine the text and you stop and think about it and put it back in the context of not our Western mind, but in the Eastern world where Timothy grew up, you find that Timothy's upbringing was anything but ideal. Timothy's upbringing was actually challenging. In fact, we're going to see tonight there was a huge conflict. The Bible says, as we just read there, that Lois, the grandmother, was saved first. We don't know when. It doesn't say when. Perhaps it was on an earlier missionary journey. Perhaps it was from believers who went out after Pentecost. Perhaps Lois was a Jew who was down in Jerusalem at Pentecost. We're not told. Well then Eunice trusts trust Christ. And then Eunice is now raising this Timothy. But we see the conflict, and we see verse 1 of chapter 16 in Acts. Then came he to Derby and Lister, behold, a certain disciple is there named Timotheus. The son of a certain woman, which is a Jewish, and believed, but his father was a Greek. Timothy's father here is called a Greek and not a believer. In fact, we're only told about the faith of the mother and the grandmother. And in fact, we're not told about the background, so we could speculate, but either way you look at it, the text indicates that Timothy's father was not a believer, or that perhaps Timothy's parents were not married or were no longer married. We're not told. You examine the situation, you look and you see, and we'll see further evidence of this in these verses. It's not a great situation. And it's possible, quite possible, that Lois is now raising and Eunice is raising this young son by herself. We don't know the story. Perhaps it's a mixed marriage. Perhaps Timothy's father is definitely not on board. Perhaps he's aloof. Perhaps he's a businessman traveling. We're not told. But it's obviously a mixed spiritual message, even if the home had two parents in it. And so here you have this young man who's growing up in a situation, and we also know that if you're familiar with the Jewish scriptures, that this is sin. Deuteronomy 7 clearly says, Neither shall thou make marriages with him thy daughter, thou shalt not give unto thy his son, nor his daughter shalt thou take unto thy son. And Paul in 2 Corinthians makes it clear that we're not to be unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness, what communion hath light with darkness? And Lois and Eunice, as we just read in 2 Timothy, both knew the Scripture. They're both Jewish women. They know the Scripture. They had learned it from an early age, perhaps. They knew that they weren't supposed to do this. And here's the situation. And even the sin. Eunice is now connected in some way, shape, or form, or was connected to this Greek man. And there's the product, Timothy. And Timothy is this young man, he's growing up in the situation, there's sin, there's even shame. Now, obviously it's not clearly delineated in this text, but look back with me in Acts 16. You find that he was well reported of in verse 2 by the brethren that were at Lysra and Iconium. Him would Paul have to go forth with him and took and circumcised him. Because of the Jews which are in those quarters, for they knew all that his father was a Greek. So there's some shame. And obviously I'm not going to get technical and detailed here with what's happening here, but Timothy was on the outside looking in. The Jewish community, when it left Judy, when it left the homeland, when it left the promised land, always established synagogues. This was the age of the synagogue. Yesterday my family and I went to the Museum of the Bible. And we saw on one of the floors, third floor floor, whatever it was, we saw, I think it was third floor, we saw the representation of the synagogue. Fascinating to sit there and then you know this is based on archaeological evidence, what the sizes typically was and what they did and how many people could fit in there, and some guy was in there talking. Explaining, it was fascinating to see. And you could almost picture perhaps Jesus standing and reading the scroll and talking about this day as this word fulfilled in your ears. But if you stop and think about that, that was the part and parcel of the Jewish world, almost like a parochial school is today, or even some Christian schools are for some people. I realize that in our culture today, in our Western world, many Christian families have shifted to homeschool, and I've seen the big shift, especially over the last four or five years, as the agenda in other schools has gotten bigger and stronger. But Timothy was on the outside looking in. He wasn't part of that system. He wasn't circumcised. He was outside. There was shame. Timothy wasn't circumcised, and everybody knew the story. We can probably all think about people like that in our lives. Probably all think about situations. Oh yeah, that's that person's son. Oh yeah, we all know what happened there. We all we all know the product. Yeah. Yeah. And the parents all have those yeah, we all know. Kids don't know. They they're just kind of unaware and there's oh yeah, it's a playmate, but everyone oh yeah, that's that person And that's what Timothy is growing up with. It's not an easy environment. They know the sin, they know the shame. There's a big situation here. Timothy is on the outside looking in. He wasn't a part of the Jewish community or the area synagogue. He probably was even ostracized by his mother and grandmother's relatives, like the people of Samaria were, if you know your New Testament stories. Samaria was like this. They're mixed breeding, that's what Timothy was. He was, in essence, kind of a Samaritan, a mixed breed on the outside looking in. And if you stop and think about and then examine the culture, Eunice was raising this boy alone, apart from the religious structure or conservative environment. And the Romanized Greek culture of the day was filled with immorality. Vices abounded. And so here you have this young man who's growing up at an at-risk environment. He is statistically speaking, it doesn't look good for Timothy. Statistically speaking, Timothy should not have succeeded. Eunice lacked the support system, the small groups, the Christian books. She didn't have the blogs. She didn't have the whole gentle parenting movement to help her. That's a joke. She was facing it alone and well she had Lois as an encouragement. There were too many negatives going against Timothy. He didn't have the strong youth group. He didn't have he didn't get to go to the wilds of New England. As camp. He didn't have a VBS system. He didn't have everything that the kids today would have. You know, he's on the outside looking in. There's shame, there's reproach, there's issues, there's problems. It's problematic. So statistically speaking, Timothy should have just been that, another statistic. But notice what we see here. Paul, back in verse 1, comes to Derby and Lystra. And behold a certain what's that next word? Disciple. That's key Here's this young man, we're not exactly entirely sure of the age, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen years old. There's a certain disciple Who's there? He's following God. So instantly your mind starts to wander. Your mind starts to ask, well, well, what's the method? Hi, hey, hey, hey, Eunice. What method were you following? Eunice, who were you listening to? Were you were you following like Bill Gossard? Were you following Michael and Debbie Pearl? Oh, I know you had Jim Dobson 's books, didn't you? What what what parenting blog were you following? I know I'm being a little facetious tonight. Some of that's just to keep our attention, because it is Sunday night. But some of that is to start to help us hopefully get us to think it wasn't a method. There is no method that you can one, two, three, I got kids that, you know, do and act and think right. There's no method. And tonight I want to challenge and encourage every parent here and even grandparents by way of application because grandma is mentioned here in the text. What's the method? In fact, it's not a method. You're here in Acts 16. Look back with me what the Bible says there in 2 Timothy. Second Timothy, you saw what it says there. Listen to what Paul highlights. When I call to remembrance the what is those next two words, the Oh, that was that was weak, boys and girls. Let's try that again. When I call to remembrance the Unsaigned faith. Now unsaigned is not a word that we use anymore, but what does that mean? Without guile, without hypocrisy. Real, genuine faith. Friend, parenting is not a method, it's not something you follow, it's not some book you get and then it changes your life. No, it's not. Well I follow doctrine Spock, I'm following this blog, I'm following this person, I'm following this psychiatrist. No, no, no, no, no. They may all have some truth in their methods, their methodology, they have some truth, but they ultimately get it from the Bible, they get it from God's truth. Parenting, when it comes down to it, what was it that provided success for Timothy? What was it that Lois and Eunice were following? What was their overarching attitude in their entire life? God, we need you. There's nothing duplicitous about their life. There was not one way acting one one one day acting one way, one day acting the other way. No, no, no. It was God, we need you It was a real, genuine trust, God, we can't do it. You know, when you're 18, 19 years old, and I'm not picking on any young person here tonight, when you're 18, 19 years old, you are an incredible parent. And some of us can remember back to making statements at that age when we were in Bible college or even seminary. And man, we had the whole parenting thing figured out. Wow. I was a great parent back then. And then you have children. And you know, the first one, you do everything nicely and correctly, and you have all your time and attention that, oh, I must have this down. And then God gives you others. And some of the parents tonight are starting to smile and grin. Because you know what I'm talking about. Yeah. Some of you don't have kids, well, just stay sleeping. It's okay. But the rest of us, we realize, we come to the realization pretty quickly, and pardon my southern, I ain't got this. And you ain't got it either. I need God. I don't have it. And anytime we think that we have it, well, we're missing it. And here's two people, Eunice and Lois, grandmother and mom, who are raising this teen boy. Apart from the religious social structure today, apart from society, everything was going against Timothy. He should not have succeeded. It was too much against him. But what did she do? What did they do? Oh God, we need. She believed God. The un word unfained faith or that phrase unfained faith has the idea that there wasn't this duplicity There wasn't acting one way around church and pastor and another way when you get home. One of the easiest things that will drive our young people away from church, away from God, away from truth is when you and I Who's talking at the mic? That's gonna bother me. I'm not quite as OCD as your pastor, but We'll fix that. There we go. I can poke, because I've known him for thirty years. Anyway, where were we? One of the easiest things that can drive our children away is this double-mindedness. You've seen it, I've seen it, we've probably all done it unintentionally You know, you pull into the church parking lot, instantly a switch flips in our vehicle where our language changes. Our demeanor changes. Oh, so good to see you, brother. So and so we were just screaming at our kids a few minutes ago out on East West, but you make the turn. Oh, we're at church. And you know our language changes us. What is that? That's guile. That's duplicity. That's not unfane faith. And here's Lois and Eunice raising Timothy apart from the conservative religious structure of the day. And what are they doing? God, we need you. Day in, day out, 247, 365. God, we can't do this. They needed God. It was unfained faith, and no doubt that Lois and Eunice both sacrificed. She could have, mom could have lived for the pleasures and for herself. She could have written this case off. Well, you know, I just don't have the social structure. I don't have the support. I it just it's just too hard. I just I just can't do it. I just it's just not gonna happen. And more than likely she probably did earlier in her life. And that's how Timothy came about. But she sacrificed. She she realized this is gonna be hard, this is gonna be challenging, this is gonna be difficult, but I'm gonna follow God, I'm gonna trust him. And moms, can I encourage us tonight, just in a practical note, the The the never-ending pile of laundry may seem like it never ends, but God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love. Dads, it may seem like we're in an unthankful Thankful a thankless position where we just work and work and work and work to try to put food on the table and it just seems like no one notices and then this breaks and this breaks and this happens. But God's not unrighteous. Keep serving God. Keep having that unfeigned faith. Believe God. God, you've got to do this. No doubt she sacrificed. No doubt she endured. It probably wasn't easy because after all, as we just read in Acts 16, that as it says in verse number 3, for they knew all that his father was a Greek. Everybody knew. Oh yeah. There's Timothy. They knew the story. And no doubt she was reminded repeatedly, perhaps, of the sin, the failure, the shame, whatever the case was. We're not told the details, but no doubt she was reminded repeatedly of what that was. But she endured. It wasn't easy. And as we saw this morning that the trials of her faith are actually producing something, James 1 says it like this, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work that ye may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. Galatians Paul says, and let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. I don't doubt that she endured great opposite opposition, perhaps even angst from her husband or who the man, Timothy's father, we're not told. But it was hard. I don't doubt also that she prayed for wisdom and grace. Parents, we have to pray daily, and this is obviously not clearly delineated in the text. But I think about that passage again in James 1, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. And parents, we've got to admit, I don't have this. That that that hubris that oh my kid's never gonna do that. What the with the thing we said at 18, 19, 20, 21, when our child, our sweet little Johnny, our sweet little Sarah, our sweet little Junior starts doing something and starts exhibiting a will and exhibiting an attitude that's completely contrary to scripture, that's rebellion personified Oh God, we need you. Oh God, what am I supposed to do? How am I supposed to get a hold of this kid's heart? How am I supposed to interact with him? How am I going to supposed to minister to them in spite of all these things that are happening and you know I I know me and I know my failures and oh how am I supposed to do this? It takes prayer. It takes teaching. Notice again what it says there if you got your finger handy in 2 Timothy. Look at chapter 3, verse 15. Paul gives us this little interlude, and obviously Paul knows from the backstory. He says this in verse 15, and it's a key part of Timothy's upbringing. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise in the salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. So in spite of the background, in spite of the baggage, in spite of all the sin , Eunice in Lo is probably taught. They they spoke the word of God into their kids' lives. Oh, parents, even grandparents. Are you and I speaking God's word into our kids' lives? Well that's what we got BBS for. I've been convicted recently because it's very easy when you're in ministry and traveling like our family does. to get, well, you know, my kids are in camp service, my kids are this, and to let our personal Bible time go. And I would just challenge you, you can't do that. Not if you want kids to train, to raise, and to be reared godly. We have to be visibly, physically speaking the word of God into our kids' lives on a daily basis. And instantly there's some reservation because someone said, well, Brent, Brent, hold on. I got weird hours. It doesn't work. Well, you've got to find a time that works for you and your family. But I'm not a pastor. I struggle to speak. I struggle. I couldn't string together two thoughts. Well, you may not be Spurgeon. That's fine. But you can read the Bible, can't you? And even if you can't read, you can get it read to now on your phone. Sit the whole family down and say, hey, we're going to listen to the word of God. And sometimes our family's done that. Just You know, we're tired, we're late, we're on the road, whatever the case. Hey family, let's be quiet. Let's pray. Let's first listen to the Word of God. Sit them down, get them in front of the Word of God. Timothy had a horrible upbringing from the world's perspective, not a stable environment, not consistent. We don't know all the details, but we do know this. As a young boy, he was taught the Holy Scriptures. And friends, we can't think that our children are going to turn out right if we're not daily training them in the Word of God. If we're not daily helping them walk in truth. She taught. We also know, and again, this is not told, but we know that she that she mom and even grandmother got Timothy involved into a vibrant local church. You can't produce successful children outside of God's will, and that's the church, the local church. Well, I know so-and-so, and they didn't raise. That's the exception, not the norm. You and I have to be connected to a vibrant Bible-preaching local church where the Word of God is preached on a regular basis. And here's Timothy. He's growing up, he's ostracized, but if you notice again, look at verse 1 of chapter 16. Then came he to Derby and Lystra, and behold, a certain disciple was there named Timotheus. Here's this young man in well reported of in two churches, and he's a disciple. Now I can tell you this, disciples just don't happen by accident. Disciples take work, they take prayers, they take understanding, they take training. And that's exactly what mom did, in spite of all the shame, in spite of whatever was happening in the background. Mom, patiently, carefully, with great faith, unfeigned faith, said, We're gonna train Timothy. I'm gonna train Timothy, even if dad's not connected, even if dad's not in the picture, I'm gonna train Timothy, I'm We're a passionately follow God, how about you, friend? Are we connected to a vibrant Bible-preaching local church? I don't doubt that tonight there's some parents who perhaps like I am are wondering, is this going to turn out? Is this going to work? I've made some mistakes, and oh I know I know my anger, I know my problems, I know my my fears, and I know this is gonna happen here. And you're wondering, is this whole thing worth it? Is this gonna are you in this God? I've made too many mistakes myself. I you know, here I am in this blended family. We're just not on the same page. And sometimes my wife and I, my spouse and I, my husband and I aren't on the same page. Are we is this actually gonna work out? Is this Is this whole thing going to happen? My job, my her job, and my kids, their temperament, my temperament, oh, is this gonna work out? And I can say honestly that I've had some of those same questions, some of those same doubts. Is God, God, are you going to be able to is my kid going to walk with you? And I want to focus our attention tonight and I want everyone uh every one of us to stop and think about this man, Timothy. Who here doesn't want a Timothy? I do. What did they get when the whole the the books are written about Timothy? As a teen, he was well reported of by the brethren at Lystra and Iconium. He was a disciple. What's a disciple? It's one who's passionately walking, following, learning God. There's many disciples in our culture. Some disciples follow a sports team and they can give you all the different rundown of that sports team. Other disciples follow the politics and say, oh yeah, did you hear this speech and this speech and this person said this and this happened here? Others follow numbers. Yet Timothy was a disciple of Christ, he followed Christ passionately. And may it be said of our young men and our young women at six 16, 17, 18 years old, yes, they're a disciple. They're not just a good kid in church. They're not just even faithful in church, but they're a disciple, passionately denying themselves, taking up the cross, and following Jesus. That's what it is. I want a Timothy for my life. I want my children to be Timothy. He was well reported by the brethren at two churches, Lystra and Iconium. Two churches knew well that this teen boy was a disciple. And here we live in a day and age when teen young men are expected just to be meh just go about their day and just What's that guy? What's he doing? You're not expecting our society to grow up until you're twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, and it gets pushed back every year. Here's a young man who's well reported by two chairs. He's got a good testimony. He's a solid young man, walking in truth, and he's denying himself. He's a disciple. Additionally, he became a dear friend of the Apostle Paul and even traveled with him. Wouldn't you want that for your son? Wouldn't you want that for your daughter to be involved in ministry? I would. I do. He knew the scriptures, and that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures. I want my children to know the scriptures. He went on to help confirm the churches in the faith and later pastor to leading church from what church history tells us. Well, I'm sure Timothy grew up in a great church, great church, great home. He had all the stable upbringing. He went to Bible college. No, no, no. Yes, about the church, but no about anything else. What was it? It was unfeigned faith. God, I can't I don't have it. God, you gotta do something. You gotta help me train my kids. You gotta help me instill truth to them because I don't have it. There's no set pathway. There's no well we read this book, we follow this blog, this psychologist said this, so we're following this. Certainly our kid's gonna turn out right. No. No. You those are the statistics. God, you've got to do this. And let me just say a word as we close the grandparents. There's perhaps parents here who are thinking, well, I've made too many mistakes, and the mistakes are pretty obvious with my kids And my intention tonight is not to rub salt in anybody's wounds. Because I know there's wounds, family wounds, in this room tonight. And I don't know that by any personal pastor didn't tell me no, but I just know the size of this crowd. There's mistakes. There's hardships. There's wounds. But grandparents, even if you have made mistakes, you can Be a huge blessing, huge help. I can remember specifically times in my life where I had a godly grandfather who's now been in heaven for a few years, almost four years now. But a gr godly grandfather who came and spoke truth into my life at a time where I didn't have the best relationship with my parents. I know it comes as a shock that me as a young man would have a struggle with my parents, because I know that doesn't happen in any of your families. But I remember a grandfather who would come along, even a grandmother who would come along and speak truth into my life. And at that time they had more of an influence on my life at around sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen years old. At times they had more influence in my life than my parents even did. So grandparents, grandmothers, grandfathers, don't relegate your influence. Don't push it off, because one of the things that is interesting about this passage in 2 Timothy 1 is the fact that Paul mentions grandma had it first, mom got it, and then it dwelt in Timothy. So grandparents don't push it off. Sometimes you can have even more of an influence than your son or daughter can have in their kids' lives. What is it, Brent? What's the silver bullet? Well, there isn't one. What's the magic formula? What's the ten -step way to have kids that turn out right? You're not going to find it. What is it that is emphasized here in this passage? Unfeigned faith. Being real. You know what that means sometimes, parents? We've got to admit that we've made mistakes. The parent who approaches it saying, well, my I never want m to admit that my to my son or daughter that I've ever made mistakes. Yeah, we see how those kids turn out. And I can't I can't tell you any great, wonderful stories because the the cookies are still in the oven for me. And some of you are in the same boat. But I can tell you that I've had to many times come to my kids and say, hey, you know what? I got I get mad. I get angry. I overspoke. I misjudged. I jumped in too quickly. I I know none of you parents have ever had to do that. But that's just part of being real. I've had to re-examine my heart, my life, and realize that my kids' reaction to their father, somewhat their heavenly father, somewhat dependent upon how they view me. And that's sobering. That's challenging. And obviously tonight we're not looking at delving into a deep passage here, but I do want to be in the help and I do want to be an encouragement. For those of you with kids still at home, it's not too late. Well, you know, I I've made I yeah, there's mistakes here too. You know, I just it's not a great environment. It's not a great environment here either. You know, it just my my kid is I just got too many negatives. Dad Timothy was facing that too And yet here's it, Lois and Eunice who passionately served, passionately followed God, and realize there's mistakes, there's problems, there's sin, whatever. We're going to still serve God. We're not going to throw on the towel. We're going to live with unfained faith. We're going to train this young man. We're going to teach him the scriptures. And what do you get? You get a young man who really was mildly used by God in the early church. Timothy. Who here wants a Timothy? I do. And I can't promise you follow these, these, these steps, you're going to get a Timothy. No, but what is emphasized in the text and what Paul mentions. Unsaigned faith. Unsaigned faith. Just real. God, I can't. I need you. To work through me as a parent. I need you to change me. God, I need you. Parents, if we're going to see our kids walk with God, if we're going to see our kids do things for God , It's not going to be the seven steps we followed. It's not going to be our perfect life that they're modeling because it's not. We ain't got it. It's gonna have to be God. God, we need you. Tonight I hope the truth of the Word of God is encouraged, is even challenged. And perhaps some of you aren't parenting correctly. You're following this philosophy or that philosophy. Get back to the book. God can use you. And for those who are grandparents, there's a grandmother here in 1 Timothy, or excuse me, in 2 Timothy that's mentioned. Who started with unfained faith and it continued on down. Follow God. God, we need you. Let's close in prayer, and as I do, I'd like to pray for you if possible. How am I going to say, Brent? I'm a parent, and Lord knows I've made mistakes, but I genuinely do want my child to walk with God. And tonight God spoke, God encouraged, God convicted, God challenged me. Can I pray for you before Pastor comes? Amen. Anyone else? Just lift your hand. I'll pray for you. Not by name, of course, but I'll pray Put my hands up to Father, thank you for truth. Thank you for the hope that you give us. And we know, Lord, it's not a list that we keep. But it's following Bible principles, but it ultimately comes down to realizing we can't. We don't have this. And the unfeigned faith of two women from 2,000 years ago still speaks as an influence and an example for us. Help us to genuinely, passionately, personally follow you. And I pray that you'd help us as we raise and train our young ones, and even our not-so-young ones. Perhaps we've made mistakes. Would we readily admit that? And would we help them interact with truth? Would we help them get in the right path? Lord, thank you for the example of Lois and Eunice. Lord, we want Timothy 's of our kids too. In Jesus' name. Pastor. Yeah, one of my great burdens as a pastor is that we have very strong families in our church. And because of that, a lot of the preaching and the teaching that you hear from me is directed towards younger parents and teenagers. And the reason for that is I want to get ahead of the storyline. I want to see our parents do it right at the beginning, as opposed to Their kid's a teenager and they're having all kinds of issues and all of a sudden they realize I'm in big trouble. And so a lot of the teaching that you hear is geared in that direction. And I don't apologize for that, and I'm going to keep doing that. But here's the reality of the world we live in. If we're going to reach people with the gospel, nearly everybody that we that we see saved and come into this church is coming from a really messy situation. And you have people that are getting saved when they're, you know, 30 years old, 35 years old, getting close to 40 years old. Their children have already been raised in a very chaotic way. And the fact that they are now trying to live for God is something that brings all kinds of disruption into their families. And that's really complicated. That's really challenging. And the question is, how do you minister to those people? Well, you have a community that is healthy and vibrant. And the thing that really stands out to me about Timothy is that he was clearly ostracized by the Jewish community. She wasn't teaching him in a synagogue, number one, because she was a woman and couldn't teach him the synagogue. Okay. And number two, he wasn't allowed there. He was not circumcised. He did not have a Jewish father. But he did find a place where he could be taught, and that was the church. And in the church, people ministered to him, and they welcomed him into their lives. And that is very apparent in the story of Timothy. And that's why he was the kind of man that he was. And so I want to encourage you this week. We're going to have a lot of kids here. I have no idea the situations. You don't know the situations. Maybe some of you do know the situations because these are kids that you invited personally. You know their family situations and you go, that's not not the best. Or it's pretty good, but it's not, it's certainly not a biblical or uh family that's shaped around the Bible. And so I really want to encourage you, let's reach into the lives of these kids. Let's pray that God will save kids. but also reach into their families because that is something that is so critical. And by the way, it might just be a single mom raising her child. It might be a grandma or a grandpa raising their child. An uncle or an aunt raising a child. But they can find a place in this church where they say, you know, the people there, they love Christ and they love people, and we don't find that anywhere we go. I know there are people that visit this church and they keep coming and they don't even necessarily understand the gospel yet, but they know that there's something very special about this community, and they they don't see it anywhere else. And so they're interested in what's going on. It's very apparent in lots of conversations that we have. So let's keep this in our minds. What I'd like to do is I'd like us to just bow together for a word of prayer and dedicate this week to the Lord and ask him to work in the lives of these young people and to work through us as a church. Let's pray. Father, we are so grateful for the opportunity that we have this week to teach the gospel to children and to teenagers. And Father, you know every single situation, you know what's going on in the lives of these kids. Some of them may come from pretty good homes, some of them may come from very chaotic backgrounds. They do not have a good relationship with their parents. They have struggles and difficulties. And this might be the one place that they find loving people that actually care about them. And so, Father, whatever the situation, help us to have hearts that are ready to engage those situations. I pray that we would see young people trust Christ this week through the clear preaching of the gospel. And Father, I pray that we would connect with these families, that we would show them the love of Christ, that we would be a warm and welcoming community where they will recognize there is something special in this place and there are people. That have an attitude that I don't see anywhere. Father, I pray that we would reach into the lives of families and we recognize That if we do what is right, you're going to bring people here. And so help us to do what is right on our side. We commit this week to you. We ask that you would give us physical strength and the energy that we need. We pray that you'll give us wisdom in every situation. We pray that you would just work in a very powerful way this week. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like us to close with a hymn, and that is soldiers of Christ Arise. And we'll just sing the first and the last. I think originally we were going to sing all three, but I'd just like us to sing the first and the last. So let's stand together. And then we will be dismissed. And uh I did want to mention this. I know that a lot of people were working this afternoon to uh Set up the back room so please children do not go into the fellowship hall or the game room just so that uh all that work does not get uh disrupted. Obviously we can play out in the back. It is pretty hot though But this this week I'd ask that you not uh go back and linger in the fellowship hall or the game room, as we typically do on Sunday nights, which we enjoy, but with all the decorations, let's not do that. Soldiers of Christ arise. Let's sing it out. Let's get the temple go fast. Soldiers of Christ are Christ. And put on Strong with the strength with sun so we So I 'll pray this very god Jesus for We do a lot of ways , no meanness , no small We have been put in the great and worse by the All through one let's go back and predicate when also Alright, well, that's our closing hymn. You're dismissed. And keep us in prayer if you're not able to be with us this week.