Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our study tonight. And uh our family was driving today back from Connecticut and Um, it was about as good as it's gonna get, but I will tell you, the worst drivers in the world are in New York. New Jersey tags and New York tags. Wow, unbelievable. So anyway, um it was something else. But anyway, let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will get started with our Study tonight. Father, thank you again for the opportunity to gather in the middle of the week, and I pray that our hearts would be just settled. And as we open up your word, that you would speak to our hearts, help us to understand this passage of Scripture and how important it is that we don't harbor bitterness in our hearts toward other people, but that we are willing to forgive, to show deference and grace. Because when we don't, it affects our communion with you. And so pray that tonight as we look at this text we'll understand that and that you will really speak to our hearts through it. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Matthew 6 is where we are tonight, and the verses we're looking at are verses 14 and 15. Again, Matthew 6, verses 14 through 15. And The way that the verse starts is with the word for. So I almost feel like I kind of need to go back a couple of verses before we read this. So let's do that. Let's go ahead and we will pick up in the Lord's Prayer And we'll start in verse 9, but what we're focusing in on tonight is verses 14 and 15. So here's what it says. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. For, if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But If ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. The topic we're going to address tonight is a bit of a very sensitive one, I'll put it that way, and that is that an unforgiveness in our spirit breaks fellowship with God. Unforgiveness in our spirit breaks fellowship with God. I think the verses are very clear. They're very explicit. And so let's go ahead and summarize it and then look at a couple of introductory things before we jump into these verses. Christ is re-addressing an important topic from his model prayer. To remind his disciples of a common pitfall that hinders communion with their Heavenly Father. I think it's interesting that out of all of the things that Jesus could have gone back and readdressed in the Lord's Prayer, this is the only one that he readdressed. So it's something that's important. He's talked about in these verses several wrong ways that religious leaders were teaching people on this issue of prayer and how they were approaching the issue of prayer. And ultimately leading people astray. That's kind of how he starts out leading up to the prayer. And then he presents the kinds of things that his disciples should be requesting. That is the Lord's Prayer itself, the model prayer. Well, in these verses, he's readdressing an important topic from the prayer that touched on one of the great hindrances we experience in prayer. So it kind of makes sense that before when he gives the prayer, he says, here are things that people are doing that are wrong and it's affecting the way people look at prayer. So don't do it this way. Here's how you're supposed to pray. Now let me go back and address one more issue. That can cause you to have hindered prayer. That's what he's ultimately doing. And I think it would be safe to say that we could assume that this is an area that would have been a uniquely common hindrance. for the people who were heavily influenced by the teaching of the religious leaders. I mean let's remember that the the teachers of Jesus' day were legalists. They were saying, keep the law and and accept our righteousness, and that's how you're accepted by God. And so their whole system was built on presenting to people superficial righteousness that they could see. And you can only imagine how heavy-handed these religious leaders became, how harsh they were, how graceless, I think is another way that we could put it. that these people were. And so one of the things that happens when we become very heavy-handed and very graceless is that we begin to harbor bitterness in our hearts towards other people And we are unwilling to show them grace. We're unwilling to be forbearing with them. We're unwilling to forgive when we have the need to forgive. And so that's why Jesus is addressing this issue. I think it's something that's common to all of us, but it was especially a problem for these religious leaders because of the nature of the way that they taught how people were supposed to be living. Their rigidly legalistic and self-righteous system cultivated a particularly callous and gracious view of others. And it's important for us to recognize that this can happen in our hearts too. It's easy for us to get an attitude towards other people that we say, We're better, we're more righteous. Now we would say theologically we know that's not the case, but we can have that edge in our spirit towards other people. So I think that's why he's addressing this issue. So let's jump into the text and think about what Jesus is saying here. The first truth we're going to find in these verses Is that we need Christ's warning. In verses 14 and 15 he says, if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But If ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. Several things I want you to notice as we think about this. The first is this. This is the only topic in the prayer he readdresses. I kind of already stated that, but don't miss that. It's the only one that he does. The second thing that I want you to notice is that his statement established a conditional situation. What I mean is there's an if And then there is a then, okay? For instance, the first thing he says is, if you do this, then your father will do this. But if you do not do this, then your father will not do this. Do you see that? I mean, you can't talk around it. It's very clear what it states. And a lot of people try to read a verse like this and they say, well, certainly doesn't mean that God wouldn't forgive someone just because they harbor bitterness in their heart. That's exactly what Jesus said. So we need to just take it at face value. It is clearly a conditional situation. But then there's a third piece to this that is very important. It was given with this expectation that Christians are going to be a forgiving people. You say, well, where do you get that from? Well, I get that from looking back at verse number 12. Here's what he says. He says, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Now, I think that that statement is actually slightly different. than the statement that we are reading here. In verse 12, the idea is you are a person who is regularly forgiving other people. This is your pattern of life. Therefore God should forgive your trespasses when you have wronged. In other words, it's this pattern of life. This is the way that you live. Whereas in verses 14 and 15, he's stating If you do this, this is what he does. If you don't do this, this is how he deals with that. So I think that the tone of it is that he is anticipating that even though he's making this statement, a person who is a believer A disciple of Christ is going to have this pattern of a willingness to forgive other people. We'll talk about a little bit of the why for that in just a minute. But it's important for us to notice those details. So out of all the topics in the prayer that he readdresses, this is the only one, it is clearly a conditional situation. And then thirdly, it is stated with some expectation. Certainly, disciples would do this because they understand how God has dealt with them. Second truth I want you to notice tonight is that we desperately need a Christian view of forgiveness. Now, what I mean by a Christian view of forgiveness is that the way that the Christian approaches this issue is going to be different than the way that the non-Christian deals with this issue. Now, if I was talking to a person who is not a Christian, and I was talking to them about the bitterness that's in their heart I may be inclined to say something like this, you know, when you have bitterness in your heart, do you know who's ultimately getting destroyed by that bitterness? Not the person you're angry with, but you. And you can kind of step back and say, do you see how it's building this anxiety in your heart? And how that anxiety in your heart and that anger is something that's just spoiling inside and it's eating you alive and it's ultimately destroying you as a person. It's affecting your relationships. And so you would kind of appeal in that kind of way. Like if somebody was talking to a therapist, they might Do it in this kind of a way, saying, well, you know, just pragmatically, I want you to think about this. If you if you if you can't work through this in the right way, it's going to destroy you inside. But that's not Christian forgiveness. That's completely pragmatic. Okay? I mean, if people choose to forgive for that reason, they'll be better off, don't get me wrong. But that's not a Christian motivation for forgiveness. A Christian's motivation is very different. It's not pragmatic. It's not like, hey, you know, you should just forgive people because if you do, then you know you'll feel better inside. I mean, though that's totally true. But that's not why we're to to forgive others. He's going to give us a reason, and so we're going to look at that. So his anticipation was built on a series of presuppositions about Christians. For instance, they are a forgiven people. So if I'm a Christian, I'm saying that I am already forgiven, which kind of leads us to another question. Well If I'm already forgiven, then how does he not forgive me? I mean, that's kind of a question that might come to mind. And we have to understand that there is an a category of forgiveness that I think Jesus is addressing here, and hopefully by the end of the time, that'll become a lot clearer. So a person who is a Christian is already Romans chapter 8, there is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. This is a person that their sin debt is dealt with. Okay? Second presupposition. This is a person who is a new creature in Christ with new affections. Now that doesn't mean that we all of a sudden magically don't deal with sin anymore. We all do. Everybody in this room deals with sin. We deal with temptation. We can begin to develop a root of bitterness. Every person in this room can do that. But we are new creatures. And so we are, we could say, living in a way that's inconsistent with the new nature that we have in Christ. And so he's beginning with those two presuppositions. One, they're forgiven already. Number two, new creatures, new affections. Three They understand they have an obligation to be like their Lord. And one of the things that we're going to see emphasize in these verses that deal with Christian forgiveness is that he talks in terms of how God has dealt with us and how we are to pattern how he has dealt with us with others. That's the idea. So those three presuppositions, forgiven, new creatures, new affections, and we are under an obligation to be like our Lord. He is not just Savior, he is Lord. And there are two classic passages I want to draw your attention to tonight as we think about this issue of Christian forgiveness. The first one is Colossians chapter 3. And I want you to notice the way that Paul appeals to the church on this issue of forgiveness. So in verse number one, he says this. He says, if ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth, for ye are dead and your life is hid in Christ with Christ in God. Now notice the word, if you are risen with Christ, Notice the statement, set your affection on things above. Notice he says that you are dead and your life is hidden in Christ. Do you see how those are all talking about positional realities? Okay? In other words, that's going to be the starting point of Christian forgiveness, positional reality. If you're risen with Christ, you have affections that you can set on things above, and you are dead in your life as hidden Christ. Then in verse number 12, we skip down, he says, put on therefore, that's the basis, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved. So He says, as people who are called out to God, that's what the word elect means, called out unto God, okay? And he says that you are holy, that means you are saints, you are set apart to God. And beloved means he has set his affection on you. Okay? These are all talking about positional realities. That's the emphasis. In Christ's position. If those things are true, then you are to what? Put on bows of kindness , bows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another. In other words, the way that we relate to people as Christians is one of forbearance. Forbearance. And then he says, If any are forgiving one another, if ye any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye, and above all these things on put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. Let the peace of God rule in your heart. Notice what he's saying. Because this is true about you, this is how you're supposed to relate to other people. And before he talks about forgiveness, he talks about forbearance, he talks about kindness, he talks about vows of mercy, those kinds of things. Why is that? Well, because You cannot technically forgive a person who is unwilling to come to you and try to resolve the issue. But you can show grace toward this person. And you can choose to take their case that you are holding on to and put it in the hands of God and leave it there. And so that's the sense of it. Because when we talk about this word forgive, there's actually several different aspects to it. And we kind of see both sides here. But this passage is classic because it shows you what Christian forgiveness is. He doesn't appeal pragmatically. He appeals on the basis of position and nature and how God has dealt with us. That is the entire focus of what he's saying. In Romans chapter 12, we're going to see something very similar. Here's what he says. He says, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, you present your body a living sacrifice. Holy acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Be not conform to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind Now, what he says in verses 1 and 2, and what he said in Colossians 3, 1, 2, and 3, is very similar. He's dealing with the same basic concepts, positional realities, and how you're supposed to think in that position. But then in verse number nine, he gets into the real nuts and bolts of this issue. He says, let love be without dissimulation. In other words, don't show hypocrisy or division amongst other people. Be uh be great uh do things the right way towards others. Let love be without dissimulation, abhor what is evil, cleave to what is good, be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love. In honor preferring one another, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer Bless those who curse, uh, persecute you. Bless and curse not. Condescend to men of low estate. Do not recompense to man evil for evil. If it is possible, as much as lieth within you, live peaceably with all men. Do not avenge yourself. Give place to wrath. Vengeance is the Lord's. He will repay. Be not overcome with evil. Overcome with evil with good. These are very practical things. What's the point? Christian forgiveness is all about position, affection, and thinking about how God has dealt with us. So when I choose to forgive a person who has wronged me as a Christian, I should be doing it on that basis, not I'm tired of dealing with this and I don't want it to eat me up. Okay, somebody told me I had to. No, I'm thinking in terms of my position, how God has dealt with me, and I am a new creature in Christ. So the third truth I want you to notice tonight is that this has to be very practical. And I kind of dealt with this several weeks ago when we were looking at the Lord's Prayer, particularly the verse dealing with the issue of forgiveness. But I'm going to hit this again just a little bit. There are three words in the New Testament that we translate in our English Bibles, forgive. And each of them has a little bit different sense to it. To kind of give us this full picture. The first word, a fimia, is the idea of to send away, or to disregard, or to let go of pursuing a debt. It's almost as if In our hearts, we feel so compelled, this person has wronged me. I'm going to go and I'm going to settle the issue with them. And then Ephemia is, actually I'm going to let it go. Now hold on a second, just so you understand this. Me choosing to let it go doesn't mean that it's not going to be dealt with. You say, well What do you mean it obviously if you're gonna let it go then it's not gonna be dealt with? Well do you think that God's not just? I mean like God is just it's basically my way of saying rather than me putting myself in the place of God, I'm leaving it in his hands. I'm putting it in his court. I'm not the judge. I'm letting it go. I'm not going to hold on to this. I'm not going to allow a root of bitterness to boil over in my heart. It's in his hands. In many ways you can say it this way. Forgiveness in this sense is actually learning to trust God with the wrongs that others have done towards you. In other words, he can handle this better than I can handle this. It's his jurisdiction, not my jurisdiction. I'm leaving it at his court, and I'm leaving it on his shoulders. It's learning to trust God with our grievances. And the truth is we can try so hard to get even, but guess what? It's tit for tat in this world. We we we we do wrong to other people, they do wrong to us. There's a lot of this that goes on. So a theemy is is literally me saying, God, I'm going to trust you to deal with this, not me. That's really what it is. The second word, apaluo, to dismiss, to send away, or to acquit. This is like when a person comes to you and they say, I've wronged you. And I'm asking for your forgiveness. Well, you say, okay, I forgive you. As far as I'm concerned, it's over. I'm not going to hold it against you anymore. Now again. Just because you forgive an individual doesn't mean that God is going to just ignore the issue. He may very well deal with the issue. Doesn't mean that the consequences of the situation are going to go away. Doesn't mean This person all of a sudden magically becomes a trustworthy individual. It's safe for you to relate closely to them after that that situation. It just means that you're not going to hold the issue over their head anymore. You're not going to be their judge over and over and over and over again. And then the third word is charizomai. It has the idea of to be kind, gracious, to show favor. In fact, it's interesting in these verses, the way that he puts it is he says, Do not avenge yourself, do not repay evil, vengeance is the Lord's. He says, if thine enemy is hungry, Feed him if he's thirsty, give him drink. Be not overcome with evil, overcome evil with good. What is that? That is me being kind to someone, though they don't really deserve it. That's really what it is. The bottom line is that this is how God has dealt with all of us. That's how he's dealt with all of us Actually, it's even more so because he has established a basis in the cross where he can forgive us, and our sin that is completely gone because Christ took it upon himself. That's what he did. One of the reasons we have to learn to forgive people is the fact is we're not in the place of God. I mean, isn't that exactly what Joseph said? He says, am I in the place of God? He's basically saying, I'll let God handle it. It's not my jurisdiction. It's not my place. It's almost like if a person is uh in the legal system in they're they're on the uh on the state level And it's a state uh a state law that's been violated. They they have no jurisdiction in the federal court system. At least they're not supposed to Okay. Or you could you could put this way, in the federal court system, they don't have jurisdiction in the state. There are certain areas where because of the division of those different jurisdictions, they don't have jurisdiction there. Or even if you're, you know Let's say you're driving through Virginia and you you get through Virginia and then you end up in North Carolina. Virginia State Trooper can't pull you over in North Carolina. They may have wanted to. Maybe they should have when you were in Virginia, but out of their jurisdiction. The idea is that on this issue of forgiveness, there's this sense where it's not my place. I'm putting it on God's shoulders. So I give you the simple definition. A Christian's forgiveness is a faith-oriented choice Based on Christ's action toward us to stop clinging to offenses or pursuing the settlement of owed debts in order to extend grace and kindness in the place of revenge. Let me say it again. Christian forgiveness is a faith-oriented choice based upon Christ's actions toward us to stop clinging to offenses or pursuing the settlement of odets. in order to extend grace and kindness and the place of revenge. And there's three pieces to this. Piece number one, the cross of Christ. It's because of the cross. That we extend Christian forgiveness. Peace number two, because God's future righteous judgment is going to be sure. I can trust him To handle it the way that it needs to be handled. And piece number three, the weight of future eternal glory. I realize that the grievances of this world pale in comparison to the glory that I'm going to enjoy for all of eternity. And so you see that there is a faith-oriented response when it comes to this issue of Christian forgiveness. I do want to make a couple of practical considerations that I think will be helpful here. The first is this. There is an element of forgiveness that is contingent on a person's repentance. I think it's important for us to understand that. Now, this is not to say, well, you know, you didn't you didn't prove to me that you're sorry enough, so I'm just gonna That's not what we're talking about. But the idea is that a person who has not come to you and seen the issue differently is not going to be able to make things right with you. Because of their attitude on about the situation. It doesn't mean you have the right to hold bitterness in your heart toward an individual in that situation or to have ill intentions toward them or to try to ruin them, get vengeance. But the idea is to actually restore the issue, there has to be a repentance on the part of the individual. Notice what it says in Acts chapter 3. 19. When we think about the gospel, what does Peter say? He says, repent. And be converted that your sins may be plotted out. Folks, you and I aren't forgiven until there's repentance toward God and faith in Christ. It's that simple. If a person says, I don't need the gospel, guess what? They're not going to get the benefits of the gospel. You've got to turn to God and place your faith in Christ. And even on the relational side, in Luke chapter 17, verse 3, he says, if thy brother trespass against thee, Rebuke him if he repents. Forgive him. Did you catch that? He's wronged you. You confront him. He repents. You forgive him. And by the way, it says If he does it again, and you go through the same process, forgive him. If he does it again, seven times. He's basically saying this is something you continue to extend to this individual. But notice the concept of repentance. A person does wrong, you confront them. They humble themselves, you forgive them. Another piece of this is that forgiveness does not erase the memory of what's taken place, but it does choose to discontinue recounting the offenses. One of the things that's very difficult about forgiveness of an individual is that we may choose to forgive them, but sometimes our mind goes back and we remember these things. And sometimes a person will get in their mind, if I remembered this, then I didn't forgive them. And that's not the case. The fact is the memory is there. Now when that memory comes up, what do you do with that? You should remind yourself this has been dealt with. They have acknowledged their wrong. I've extended forgiveness. I've let it go. It's in the hands of God. I'm going to extend grace to this individual. But the fact is, once you've extended forgiveness to somebody, you may find yourself in this place over and over and over and over again. That is very different than somebody being in a situation and go, well, you know, I remember when. What's that? That is bringing it back up and saying, you remember when you did this. Totally different scenario. Forgiveness chooses to extend grace and holds out hope that wrongs will one day be properly addressed. And I think that we see this in 1 Corinthians 13 when he talks about love. We also see this in the Romans passage, and we see this in the Colossians. For instance, in Colossians 3, he talks about forbearing with one another. What does he mean? In other words, I am showing deference and I'm holding out the hope that this issue can be resolved See that none render evil for evil. What is that? Well, it's the same kind of thing. Extending grace and hoping that the wrong will one day be properly addressed. Or in 1 Corinthians chapter 13, he says that charity uh does not behave itself unseemingly, seeks not its own, not easily provoked. Think it's no evil. Okay? It's hoping all things. What is that? It's desiring that we can get this thing resolved. The problem is that just because we want something to be resolved doesn't mean it will be resolved. And sometimes we have to sit in a holding pattern and disengage from the situation and just say, you know what? If this person ever comes to the table to resolve the issue, I'll be ready to meet them. But I have to leave it alone. That's a very frustrating position to be in. And sometimes when we're in that position we can kind of begin to think, well you know what? Because there's been an impasse and there's been no movement, this person hasn't been willing to come to me, I must be guilty because they're not willing to address this issue with me. So it's on me. And that's not the case. I mean in the Romans 12 passage he says, As much as lieth within you, live peaceably with all men. The idea is I may have gone to a person, extended opportunity, I showed them grace, I've confronted them, and they just will not resolve the issue. What else can I do? Leave it alone. And so I think it's important for us to understand that forgiveness can choose to extend grace and hold out hope, but it may not be able to resolve the issue. And there is that side to it. Fourthly, there are some situations where we will forgive but not restore trust. It's just the truth. Wisdom would say, don't give that person that stole money access to money again, okay? Your teenager just violated a bunch of rules and they have asked you for forgiveness and you forgave them and they say well can I go back and do things the way they were right before I did that and you say no absolutely not well then you didn't forgive me no that's not true You lost privileges because you have violated trust. So whether I forgive you or not, it's irrelevant to the fact that you have violated trust and you should not be given that trust back. You have to earn it back. It's going to take time. You say, well, that's being unforgiving. No, it's not. There are real-life consequences for the decisions that people make. There are situations where we will forgive, but not seek to remove the consequences of the person's actions. Let's say there's a legal scenario where somebody has physically assaulted another person. I mean this this can happen all the time. A Christian may say, well, you know, I think the Christian thing for me to do is to just forgive them and to say, I don't want pr charges to be pressed because That would be an unforgiving thing to do because I'm being vindictive if I do that. No, no, hold on a second. God created government for a reason, folks. It's to protect innocent people. And if somebody has broken the law and they have actually attacked an individual, maybe you yourself, well the job of the government is to hold that person accountable. You're not being vindictive You're stepping aside and letting the government do what it's supposed to do. I mean, that's just the bottom line. And so you are not in the place of the government to forgive that individual. You're in the place too to not hold it against them on the per interpersonal side. But the fact is there's still real life consequences that have to be there. And so I think sometimes when we deal with this issue of forgiveness, a Christian will get in their mind Well, you know, I I could I could never be in a illegal situation with an individual who's, you know, robbed me, they physically assaulted me, they they they have violated some some legal protection or something like that because now I'm being vindictive. No. You are letting the government do its job. And the truth is if you didn't want to do it, the government should still do their job. That's the bottom line. Next, there are situations where forgiveness will not remove needed relational boundaries for our physical protection. You know, this these kinds of things don't happen a lot, but they do happen. Where especially when you have a situation within a family where one individual has physically harmed another individual and their family members, okay? This stuff this stuff happens. The simple fact is, even though you may extend forgiveness on the interpersonal side, It does not mean that there may not be a need for some real-life physical boundaries in that particular home. And so it's important for us to understand sometimes we need to appeal to people who are looking at this with a clear mind And they are not emotionally bound up in the situation. They can look at it objectively and say, that individual did this, and there's no way that that person should be in the same place as this person without somebody there to keep an eye on what's going on. Those are some things that we have to understand. This this happens sometimes when there's you know marital conflicts and and a marriage is blowing up and and you know kids get caught between their parents acting very foolish and those kinds of things can happen. And so we have to understand that forgiveness does have these sides to it in a practical sense. Truth number four, we need to understand how sin affects fellowship with God. And I think that really is the sense of what we're looking at in these verses. In Matthew chapter 6, when Jesus talks about someone who is his child, he says, pray your father which art in heaven, he's talking about a person who is legally Forgiven. There's no condemnation to this person because they are in Christ. But then he talks about a kind of forgiveness that's withheld from them because of the way that they're dealing with other people. The question is, what is he talking about? I think one of the best passages of scripture to help us with this is Psalm 66, verse 18. I want you to hear what it says. It says in Psalm 66, 18, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Let me read that again. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Now let's remind ourselves that these statements are not dealing with the positional side of our salvation. We are simultaneously saints and sinners. We are accepted in the beloved, yet we can be out of fellowship with God at the same time. Okay? He can use that kind of a terminology. The positional reality And the practical side are in conflict with one another because of certain things going on in our lives. This word regard has the idea of cherishing or harboring sin in our hearts. To put it very simply, if I'm a Christian and I am positionally righteous and I'm positionally forgiven, I'm positionally declared justified in the presence of God I have access to the Father through the work of the Son, and I get on my knees and I come to God with request. And in my heart, there is sin. I know it's there, and I am absolutely unwilling to address that issue. Guess what? My sin is just bouncing off the ceiling. You say, well, hold on a second. I thought you said that you're forgiven and you're justified and you're righteous in Christ and you have access to the Father. All those things are true. But notice what the verse says again. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. If I harbor or cherish that sin , Guess what sin is so easy for us to cherish and harbor? Bitterness. It's one of the easiest sins in all of the world for us to get onto that and we just we just hold on to it, we nurse it, and we justify it In our minds, we can give all the reasons why it's okay for us to have this animosity towards another individual and be unwilling to address it. And hold that over their heads. We become masters of that. And by the way, the Pharisees and their system of thinking, they were really good at that. And so a helpful passage of Scripture on this is 1 John 1, verses 4 to 10. Listen to what it says. These things we write unto you, that your joy might be full. This then is the message that we have heard of him, and we declare unto you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, We have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us if we confess our sins. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Now, it's important for us to understand what these verses are saying. Because there is a similarity between Matthew chapter 6 where he talks about if you forgive, he forgives. If you don't forgive, he doesn't forgive. And Psalm 66, where he says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. And then 1 John 1, verses 4 to 10. There is a similar principle that is illustrated in all of those passages of Scripture. And so here's what it is. John is penning this section because he wants people to enjoy fellowship with God. It's that simple. He says, I've written these things to you that your joy might be full and that you might have fellowship with us. That's what he's saying. So why is he writing this? So that Christians can enjoy God. They can enjoy the fellowship that is available to them. So because that is his intent, he's going to address potential hindrances to that kind of fellowship. And what's the first one he addresses? Sin. Okay? As a general principle, sin. If we say that we're walking with God, yet we're regarding iniquity in our hearts, we are out of fellowship with God. Simple. Period. That's what it is. So in the passage, Matthew chapter 6 where he says, You want God to forgive, but you don't forgive. I mean that's it that's regarding iniquity in your heart. Psalm 66, regarding iniquity in your heart. 1 John chapter 1, he's saying, we say that we have no sin. How does he say it? We deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. So if we say that we're walking with God, yet regarding iniquity in our hearts, we're out of fellowship with him. Two, if we believe we've reached a point of sinless perfection, we're out of fellowship with God. Because what it's basically us saying is, you know what, I don't have to think about sin anymore. I don't have to worry about this. I'm good. This is not true. He uses the word we because John is also in this position. Thirdly, when we sin we've got to face our sin honestly and acknowledge it to God. That's what the word confess means. It means to say the same thing, to agree with God. This is what you call it, this is what I'm going to call it. It's the exact opposite of regarding it in our heart. We're holding on to it, we're nursing it, making up all these excuses for why it's okay for us to do this. Instead, we're calling it what it is. So in an issue like bitterness or unforgiveness, what we're doing is we're saying, well, here's all the reasons why I'm bitter against this person. And I have the right to be bitter against this person. And here's what they did to me, and here's what I'm going to do back. And we have it all figured out. And we can even say, I have righteous indignation against this person. God says no, it's called bitterness. It's called sin. It's called a root of bitterness that's going to spring up and defile many people. He says, which one are you going to call it? Something you can justify or something that God says is sin? And so we've got to face it honestly, acknowledge it to God. And the issue of unforgiveness is one of the great ways we sin. We can justify grievances. We can say we're being principled. We can say it lots of different ways. But what is it really? It's pride? It's malice? It's anger? It's what it is. And when we do this, we're reminded that it is the blood of Christ that cleanses us from every sin. What is Christian forgiveness? It's reminding ourselves over and over and over again that because God has dealt with us this way, we're to deal with others this way. That's what it is. So, what are my final concluding thoughts on this? The first is that access to our Heavenly Father is one of our greatest privileges And with this privilege comes the great responsibility to guard our heart against a presumptuous spirit that ignores and justifies our sin. Unforgiveness is not the only kind of sin, but this is the one that Jesus mentions in this text. And so really in some ways we could say it this way. That's a specific one, but we could put pretty much anything else there. Any sin that we harbor in our hearts And we say, no, I'm not going to address it, is a sin that blocks fellowship with God. And so we need to address these issues. And so I want to leave you with these two final scriptures that I think should be our heart as we think about this. Psalm 139, verse 23. It says, Search me, O God, know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. See if there be any wicked way in me and lead me in the way everlasting. Why does David say that? Because he knows that in his heart there's sin that he's become so accustomed to, he's become desensitized to it. And he needs God to reawaken him to those things. We need to pray that to God. Psalm 19 verse 12, cleanse thou me from secret faults. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. May that be our heartbeat. Let's bow for prayer Father, thank you for your word tonight. I pray that you help us to recognize how easy it is to harbor bitterness, anger, resentment, and unforgiving spirit in our hearts Father, help us to be sensitive to when we've allowed that to creep into our souls and help us to deal with things in a truly Christian way. I know that the situations that people encounter are very, very difficult. And so I pray that you'll give them great wisdom as they look at the situations. Help them to get counsel if they need to get counsel. Maybe sometimes we need other people to objectively look at our situations and help us work through those things. But I pray that you will give us wisdom. Help us to walk in communion with you in fellowship and to enjoy the sweetness of that. Help us to learn to trust you in our difficult situations. So we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.