Okay, if you have your Bibles, take them please and turn to the book of Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 8. And tonight we're looking at a passage of scripture that's very familiar, at least a portion of the scripture is extremely familiar. But I think a lot of times familiar passages like the one we're going to look at tonight, a lot of times we don't realize the context that they're set in. And so what I'd like us to do tonight is look at a very well-known passage, Isaiah 9. 6. But I want us to see it in its context. And I want us to see it in the light of really our current situation that we find ourselves in today And I want us to see how this really impactful Christmas-related passage of Scripture can really bless and encourage our lives today. I want to begin with this question or this statement. I'm going to ask you to imagine something. And some of us have lost our imagination, right? We've lost our ability to do that. I know our kids can imagine things. I hear interesting things every morning when the kids get up in the morning. They're like, Daddy, guess what I dreamed about last night? I'm like, okay, let's hear it. It's very interesting. Especially Adeline. I want you to imagine something tonight. Imagine a day where there's no death, no sickness. No sirens, no poverty, no crying, no war, no sin The effects of sin, as we experience them in this world, they're gone. We don't have a sin-cursed world. Wouldn't you like A world like that? Isn't that exactly what all of the world wants? It's interesting as Brother Rand uh was preaching throughout the conference and then this morning, one of the things that He emphasizes that there are things that the world wants. The world wants peace. The world wants joy. The world wants satisfaction. The world wants to be able to enjoy the things that they possess. The world wants to have a mind that's free from all of the worries and the anxieties and the challenges that go on internally. In fact, this morning in Sunday school, he had that picture of a tree. And he mentioned all these different things that really are like the noise in our hearts. And he said something like this. He said, everybody doesn't want that. Everybody wants the opposite of that. Imagine a world like that. Well the reality is this, mankind in his ignorance believes that through reforming society, moral education, instruction, maybe world treaties, we can create a world that has all those things. Without God. And the reality is this until Christ Jesus sits on his throne forever Until he establishes as the ruler of his kingdom forever, we will not experience a world like that Mankind in his best efforts has never and will never create a world in a place like that. But I want you to realize something. While you can imagine a world like that, I want you to realize that the Bible promises us and the Bible teaches us that there's going to be a day when God takes this world. A world that is scarred by the effects of sin. God takes you and God takes me, people whose lives are affected by our fallen nature, people who deal with all of those internal turmoils that are talked about, that we don't want. There's going to be a day but there's a world that is free from all those things. And this text right here is going to talk to us about that very thing. Isaiah chapter 8, verse 21 is where we'll start. It says, and they shall pass through it, hardly bestead and hungry. And it shall come to pass that when they shall be hungry, they shall fret themselves. And curse their king and their God and look upward. And they shall look on the earth and behold trouble and darkness, dimness of anguish. They shall be driven to darkness. Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation. When at first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebdul and the land of Nephthili, and afterwards did more grievously afflict her by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan and Galilee of the nations. But, verse 2, the people that walk in darkness have seen a great light. And the light shined, and thou hast multiplied the nations, and not increased the joy. They joy before thee according to the joy and harvest as men rejoice when they divide the spoil. For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulders, the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian. Every battle of the warriors is with confused noise, the garments rolled in blood, but this shall be with burning and fuel of fire. For unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given, and the government shall be on his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful. Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it for judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this Now, I read to you a passage that you know verses 6 and 7, but I wouldn't be surprised if you've just skipped over the other part of it. Because if you read very carefully those words, you see words like dimness, and you see words like vexation. And you see words like judgment, and you see words like hunger, and the reality is when we read our Bibles, we want to see the positive, and we want to see the rosy, we want to see the good We don't want to see that kind of stuff. But the reality is you don't understand the good unless you see the whole picture. And so we ask the question: why did the prophet Isaiah Inspired by God, writing the very words of God, why did he write this text? What was his intent? What was his purpose? What was he trying to communicate to those people many, many thousands of years ago, which ultimately is applicable to us tonight? Here's the purpose. It was to state plainly the current misery of the nation of Israel that was in rebellion against God, to set its plight in contrast with its future glory as a redeemed people, enjoying God's eternal kingdom. In other words, God wants us like he wanted them to glory in our future king. The one who's going to take a world that is scarred by sin. And he's going to destroy it, and he's going to create a new heaven and a new earth, and he's going to establish his kingdom forever. A glorious kingdom. That's what God wants us to do tonight. He wants us to glory in the King, our future King, the Lord Jesus. And so I asked the question: how can we do this? Tonight we're going to answer that with a couple of simple truths that we find in this text The first truth is this we need to understand the misery of God's chosen people in this context. In other words, we need to take just a moment to think about the depths of what these people were experiencing and why. They were experiencing this terrible misery. We could put it this way: Israel as a society was full of misery and spiritual blindness Look down in verse 13 and I'll mention a couple of the details. It says in verse 13: Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself. Let him be your fear. That word sanctify means set him apart. In other words, you don't fear God. You don't care about God. You don't see his beauty and his glory and his goodness and his wisdom. You ignore God. You need to sanctify him. You need to set him apart. You need to worship him. That's what he's saying. You need to fear him. In fact, Rand Humble this morning, what did he do? He gave a very simple and a very profound explanation of what it means to fear God. Love what he loves. Hate what he hates, and don't ever want to cause God grief. The reality is that is what these people needed to hear because they didn't fear God. They didn't observe his commandments. They weren't obeying his laws. They were living as if God didn't exist. He goes on to say this. But for a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense to both the house of Israel, God was someone that they didn't like. They chafed at God. They pressed against God. They didn't want to walk in his ways. He was a stumbling stone to them. He was an offense to them. He writes, it's for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Many among them stumble and fall and are broken and snared and taken The reality is that the way that the people and the nation were responding to God was that they saw God as offensive. You know, the reality is this. When we go about society today, if you could go around with a little camera and just ask people questions. What do you think about God? They say, well, well, maybe he exists. I don't know. What do you think about this statement that God made that applies to you? I don't like that at all. Nobody has the right to say something like that to me. Nobody has the right to tell me I can't do that. All kinds of things that could be said The reality is our land is no different than the land of these people those many thousands of years ago. People who stumble at God, people who he is an offense to them, people who have no fear of him. And the scriptures would tell us today, sanctify the Lord, fear him. He then goes on to say this in verse 19. When they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that have unfamiliar spirits, unto wizards that peep and that mutter, should not a people seek unto their God? The reality is, he's saying that rather than you people seeking the Lord in your time of need, in your low times, instead, what are you doing? You're looking for answers in all the wrong places. These people were going to witches, wizards, people with familiar spirits. People that God had said should have no part in his lands. No part amongst his people. People who are involved in the occult. People who are involved in witchcraft. The reality is there are a lot of people that would say, well, you know, witchcraft, that's just a joke. That's just something that we laugh about. The reality is it's legit. It's real. The reality is there are a lot of people that they're not looking to Satan for their answers, they're looking at a secular worldview They're looking at the current thinking of the culture and they say, that's truth. It's my truth. And this text says you need to seek God. Because he's the one that created you, and he's the one that sustains you, and he's the one that can bless or judge you. He then goes on to say this. They will pass through it hardly, bestead it, hungry. It shall come to pass when they shall hunger, they shall fret themselves and curse their king and their god and look upward. They shall look on the earth, and behold, trouble and darkness, dimness, anguish. They shall be driven to the darkness. Basically what the passage is saying is this. This group of people who had rejected God, who had rejected God's ways, We're looking for answers in all the wrong places as their lives began to continue down into this dark hole. They got angry at the only one who could help them, God Himself. Instead of looking to him for answers, they saw him as their enemy. This was a society that could be described in this way: spiritually blind. Ignorant of truth. Rebellious against God's provision for salvation. Separated from God, separated from his blessings, separated from communion with God, a group of people that were troubled on every level. whose enemies were coming against them, whose rulers and religious teachers were leading them astray. That was the people that Isaiah is writing to That was the people that God wanted him to address. And the reason that they were in that position was because their heart was set against God. I want to remind you of a very simple yet very important fact. Sin always has consequence. In fact, this is something that was stated multiple times in the Lick Conference. You can pick your sin, you can't pick your consequence. That is so true. I remember one time when I was I was probably a little bit older than my son Joel. My parents got me a new bike. And I was so proud of that bike. And there were certain limits or certain places I wasn't supposed to go with my bike. Now, you know, I was I was in a neighborhood where all my friends were older than me. And so I just, you know, I wanted to tag along with these boys, and they probably weren't supposed to do what they did either, but they said, hey, let's go and let's ride our bikes off in some wooded area. I remember we went back there and it was a it was actually a homeless camp, kind of a weird situation. And we're riding back there and there were homeless tents everywhere. We were not supposed to be back there, okay? And I'm probably like, I don't know, fourth grade or something, fifth grade. Well I remember as I was riding along I took my bike into a place that I wasn't supposed to be, and I got my bike caught in this thicket area, and it actually it ripped a very important part of my bike right off the bike. In fact it was so bad that I couldn't pedal it, jammed up the bike and everything. And I had to walk the bike several miles back to the house. And I remember the whole time I'm walking my bike back to the house. I've got to tell mom and dad this, and I don't know how I'm going to explain this. Broken bike, wrong place, follow my friends, all kinds of things. I remember my dad looking at me and putting that bike away. I go to bed and the next morning I wake up and I go, I think it was a bad dream that didn't come true. I'm going to go in there and see if the bike's still there. Guess what? There it was. Wrecked, unusable, a reminder of what happens when you don't do the right thing. The reality is that day when I went out with my friends, I had no clue that I was going to ruin my bike, that I was going to feel all the all the internal drama that I felt as a little kid because of what I'd done. And the reality is this, you don't pick your consequence. When we choose to do wrong, there are consequences that flow. And I will remind you that most of the consequences This is my opinion, but I think it's true. Most of the consequences we we receive from our sin are really just the natural the natural consequences that flow from those decisions. It's kind of like this. If I'm climbing up on a ladder and I make a bad move, guess what happens? I fall and something breaks. And actually some things probably break. Well I don't have anybody to blame but myself. Gravity's not an evil thing. It's simply that there's a law there. If I fall and I hit the ground and I hit it hard And those bones aren't strong enough to handle all of that force at that moment, that impact, things break. It's a natural consequence of the laws that are at place. The reality is that sin has a cause-effect natural consequence aspect to it. There's a reason God says don't sin, because sin complicates your life. You know what I'm talking about? You make a bad choice and a couple weeks later you look back and you go, how in the world did I get here? This is a mess. This is complicated It's because you did the wrong thing. Sin complicates our lives. Sin separates us from God. You know, it's interesting in the Garden of Eden, when God is looking for Adam. What's Adam doing? He's hiding from God. In other words, it wasn't that God walked away from Adam. It's that Adam was trying to hide from God. God says, Adam, where are you? He's hiding. He's ashamed. Sin separates us from God. It clouds our judgment. One sin leads to clouded judgment and often to others It deadens our healthy affections. The reality is that sin can get into our heart and it can take root. And the reality is things that we should love we don't. And things that we should hate, we do love them. It takes those good affections, it turns them upside down, it deadens us to what is good and what is right. Hardens our hearts. It dominates our lives. A lot of times when the scripture talks about sin, it talks about sin like it's a trap It talks about sin like it's something that dominates or oppresses or rules us like a cruel master. Sin naturally dominates us. Sin hurts the people around us. The reality is when I sin, it affects my kids. It affects my wife. It affects any person that is under my rule of authority. It affects the people around me. Sin doesn't just affect me. It affects everybody that I interact with. Sin causes us to live empty lives. One of the things that sin does is it causes us to pursue things that have no value and to forsake things that have tremendous value. And sin unsettles our conscience. Lots and lots of Christians walk around day by day, very depressed, very discouraged, very overwhelmed, and it's because of the sins they indulge in. Folks, that's not God's judgment. That's the natural consequence of sin. There's a reason that God says, don't do it. The way of the transgressor is hard. If God never judged you for your sin, you'd still affect you, those things would affect you. There's a second side. God has to punish sin. Sin is a violation of God's law. Sin is going against the sovereign of all. And the reality is that these people were experiencing the full weight of the natural consequences of their sin. And the judgment of God. Their plight was terrible. And the reality is when I look at our culture, I really feel That we're not too far removed from these people in the way that we think and live and feel as a nation. Truth too, we need to understand that their misery was temporary. That's important. And the reason it was temporary was because God was sending his Messiah, the Savior. And I want you to see what the rest of the text says. Verse number two. The people that walked, and that's past tense, that means they used to live this way, they used to think this way, they used to be on this path, the people that walked in darkness Have seen a great light. They that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined. Thou hast multiplied the nations, not increased the joy, the joy before thee as of the joy in the harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the spoil. In other words, Isaiah is saying that the very people that are experiencing the terrible consequences of their sin are going to be at a time in the future of people who don't walk in darkness anymore, but they walk in the light. They used to be downcast. They used to be hungry. They used to be troubled. Today, at this time that he's referring to, they're going to have joy. Joy like people when the harvest comes in. We have so much food we don't know what to do with it. Let's sell it. Let's give it away. We're gonna throw this away. We have so much abundance That's a joyful time. They went from leanness to having so much abundance they didn't know what to do with it. They were discouraged and downtrodden. Now they rejoice. Like those who have the spoils of war. There is rejoicing. The question is why. The question is how. What is the key that takes this people from this terrible position to a wonderful place of blessing and joy? And here's the answer in verse 6. For unto us a child is born. The reality is, the only way that people who walk in the darkness can walk in the light. It's because there's a child born. This is a Christmas text, isn't it? This is an amazing text. Unto us a child is born, a son is given. And he talks about this child's character. He then goes on to say this the government will be on his shoulders. His name will be Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. He talks about the nature of the rule that he's coming to establish of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no ends. Upon the throne of David, upon his kingdom, to order it, to establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth, even forever. And how is this going to take place? The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform it It is God's passion to save. It is God's passion to take this corrupted world and to transform Transform it into a glorious kingdom. It's God's passion for his own glory, his love for the nations. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform us. Notice the words unto us. All of Israel's hope was bound up in this person, the Lord Jesus Christ. They couldn't find it in another nation that surrounded them. They couldn't go to war and take spoils and say, now we've got what we need. They couldn't go to some place outside of God. There was one place that they could find what they wanted and what they needed. It was in the Lord Jesus Christ. The reality is as our culture looks for answers in all the wrong places, at this season they should look to the Lord Jesus. We have the answer. Why am I encouraging us to invite people to a program? Why am I encouraging people to come to this Christmas Eve service? The reality is because at this service, at these events, we're going to proclaim the Lord Jesus Christ as the answer There might be people that walk into this place, they are discouraged, they are downcast, their life is a wreck, and they say, I have no idea where to find the answers. Everywhere I've looked has failed me. Well, if you've looked in the wrong places, then good. I don't mean good because I like you to be in that place. I mean I'm glad that you've come to the place where you realize all the places I've looked is the wrong place. Here's the answer. It's Christ. He's describing a group of people whose lives are transformed. And I want you to notice. The way he's described. I want to kind of break it down just so you can understand the sense. He says a child is born. We're talking about God in the flesh. We go to John one. It talks about the incarnation. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. The Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were created by Him, and without Him was nothing made that was made. In him is life. And the life is the light of darkness. And he came into the world. And what does it say? They didn't know Him. The reality is this passage tells us that God comes to dwell amongst his people. Jesus is God in flesh, perfect humanity. He says the government will be on his shoulders. The reality is that the Lord Jesus will be an absolute ruler. It's not going to be a democracy in the eternal kingdom, folks. Jesus will rule and he will reign in righteousness. What he says is truth, and what is right he will do. He's not going to ask for opinion polls. He's going to rule in truth as an absolute authority, the sovereign of all creation He's called the wonderful counselor. The reality is that the Lord Jesus has infinite wisdom, and the way that he governs will be better than any individual could ever govern. You think of the greatest rulers of American history, the greatest presidents, the greatest individuals in our House and Senate. They don't compare to the wisdom of Christ. He's called the mighty God. The Lord Jesus isn't just perfect humanity. He's God in the flesh He then uses the phrase, he's the everlasting Father. Now he's not confused saying, okay, we have the Son and he's also the Father. That's not what he's saying. He's talking about the fact that this king, the Lord Jesus Christ, is going to rule like a father who cares. If you have a dad who's a good man, if you have a father who loves you and provides for you and cares for you, Someone that you can come to or someone you could have come to when he was living. That is the picture that we should have of the kind of king that the Lord Jesus Christ will be. Not just having absolute authority and rule, but he is a father. He cares for those under his rule. Fathers provide Fathers are relationally, they're relational in how they rule. In other words, he's not going to be this distant tyrant, but a caring father. He mentions he's going to be the Prince of Peace. It means his rule is going to be characterized as a rule of peace. There will be no rivals to the Lord Jesus' rule. Nobody's going to rise up against him and take his authority. They're not going to be able to do that. When he establishes his eternal rule, it's done. Those who've rejected him are eternally judged. Those who have embraced him are a part of his kingdom forever. He's a prince of peace. And I love this last statement. There will be no end to his rule. This is not just a temporary world. 500 years, thousand years, two thousand years, ten million years, forever. There is no end to the rule that is described in this text. I come to a final thought, and that's this. We need to take the point of this passage and apply it to our current situation. Let me ask you a couple questions. One is this. How do you see the current state of our culture and even the church? Do you sometimes get discouraged? Do you? Now I'll tell you what, this this weekend was a very encouraging weekend. It really was. Those kids came here, I say kids, those young, those young adults. I'll say that. Some of our teens may not appreciate those kids. Alright? These are young adults. These are the future of these churches. These are the future leaders of churches in America. I was so blessed to hear those kids sing. There I go. I say it again. I was so blessed to hear them sing. I was so blessed by the way that they studied the word, that they listened intently. Many of them took notes. The kind of back and forth. I was blessed by the the interaction we had in the back with our with our workers that came. We had a wonderful time. It was very, very encouraging to my soul. But the reality is this. Outside these walls, there's a lot of churches that aren't like those. A lot. There's a lot of churches that don't hold to the authority of the scriptures. There's a lot of places that very basic Bible doctrine is unknown. It's not being held to. The reality is there are a lot of places where you see tremendous compromise. And it's discouraging. Our culture is not as rich as it was in the past. It's true. Many of our seniors grew up in a nation where they prayed in school. You don't pray in school anymore. You get in big trouble. There are football coaches that sometimes encourage their their athletes to go to church and guess what? They have atheist group that are bringing lawsuits against them them. You don't have the right to bring religion into a state school. That's the kind of stuff going on. Look at the kind of laws that are going on in our house and in our Senate. The reality is we're a nation that's very different than it was fifty or a hundred years ago. And that's discouraging. That's frustrating. There's some people that say, if this is where it's going, where's it going to be in fifty years? I have no idea. But I can tell you this. Your hope is in Christ. The reality is God will always have his people Until the day that the Lord Jesus Christ returns and snatches up his church to be with him, until that day he will always have his people. There will be people in this nation and there will be people all over the world who are assembling together, whether they can assemble openly or whether they have to hide. They will be worshiping the Lord as a body of believers, preaching the truth, expounding the gospel, praying to the Lord Jesus Christ. They will be there. The reality is that he is our hope. I want to remind you what it says in Revelation 21. John writes, I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away. There was no more sea. I John saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband, and I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. He will dwell with them. They shall be his people. Listen to what it says. And God Himself shall be with them. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. There shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. Do you remember at the beginning of the message I said, imagine a world? Well, there it is. You don't have to imagine it. It's a promise. God says, I'm going to do this, and I'm going to do it to the Lord Jesus. Every tear is going to be wiped away. There's not going to be any more funerals. You're not going to have to go visit somebody at the hospital and they say, I just, I don't know, I don't know how many more days I have left. I'm discouraged. My life is weary. The sickness is it's taking me down. You're not going to experience that anymore. You're not going to have a conversation down here on the side and you say, I've done it again. I cite this sin over and over and over again, and I have failed again. And the pain that I feel, my conscience that is plagued. How I've wasted my time and I've wasted my energies and how guilty and dirty I feel. You won't have those conversations anymore. The reality is God is going to take this world as it is. And he's going to replace it with a new heaven and a new earth. And the terrible effects of the fall that we experience on this side of eternity will be no more. Imagine that, knowing what it was like and knowing what it is. This is going to be the reality for every believer. And it's all rooted in the Lord Jesus Christ. How can you have this hope? Here's the answer: John 3. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again. He cannot see the kingdom of God. Marvel not that I say unto thee, you must be born again. As Moses lifted up the serpent into the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved He that believeth on him is not condemned. He that believeth not is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. I want to ask you tonight. I know this is mostly our church family. But even within our church family, I don't know what's going on deep down in your heart. There are many, many people who go to churches just like this one. over many, many years, who sit in a pew and every time they hear a gospel message, they say, I'm not sure. I promise you it's the case. There are people who are plagued with doubts. There are people that maybe should doubt. There are people that doubt and shouldn't. But the reality is that there are people in churches just like this one who don't know the Lord as their Savior. I prayed a prayer when I was a little kid. I have no clue what I prayed. I don't understand what I understood. And I don't even know if I fully grasped the gospel. There have been people as a pastor, as a missionary, that grew up in churches that I've sat across from and I've been able to open my Bible and say, Here's what the gospel teaches, have you embraced it? And a person growing up in a church just like this says, I don't know. Don't think I have. And they've trusted the Lord as their savior. I would be amiss not to say, do you know for sure you're saved? Have you trusted the Lord Jesus Christ? I'm not just talking about our kids. I'm talking about any person here. The reality is if you've trusted Christ as your Savior, you have the one and only hope for people. So I want to challenge you. Pick these things up, pass them out. Take advantage of the season that we have before us. Take advantage of the opportunities to share Christ with the people that you rub shoulders with. We need to ask ourselves two very important questions. Question one: what's the significance of this passage? God will, by his mighty power, through his Messiah, establish an eternal, perfect kingdom. And we will enjoy his presence forever. What does God want us to do as we think about this passage? If you're not saved, he wants you to come face to face with your need to repent and trust Christ. If you're saved, you know what he wants you to do? He wants you to focus your attention on the glory of the coming kingdom. He wants you to focus on this tremendous work that he has accomplished for you, that he's accomplished for me. And he wants us to reflect on the wonderful character of our Lord Jesus Christ. He is the king who's coming to rule and to reign forever. And that's what we should remember in this Christmas season. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, please. Father, we ask that you'd help us this evening to focus our attention. Not on the tremendous struggles that we may encounter on a daily basis. Not on the frustrations or the potential discouragements of living in a fallen world, for there are many. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be a people whose confidence and glory and cause of rejoicing is rooted exclusively in the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, help us to recognize if you can take a people like Israel, broken and undone, rebellious, stumbling at the Lord Jesus And you can take that nation and you can establish them as a joyful possession of your own. Father, you can do that in the lives of people that don't know you today. I pray that we would be very, very careful to think deeply and often about the work of Christ, and we would be very willing to speak openly and often. About the need for people to turn to the Lord Jesus and trust in his finished work. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.