And turn with me to the book of First Kings. We're in First Kings chapter eighteen this evening, and uh what was read for our scripture reading at the beginning was uh looking back at what took place last week when we were talking about how God provided and God took care of uh Elijah during a very, very dark time in Israel's history. What's kind of interesting about what was looked at last week as Pastor Joshua 's dealing with this text. Is that God was not just providing and taking care of Elijah. But in fact there were other prophets in the land of Israel that were not known by name. They're not as prominent in Scripture as Elijah was. But in the same way that God was taking care of Elijah, God was taking care of them as well. And the way that God was taking care of these 100 prophets of the Lord, in fact, it is a fascinating story of God's power. And God's protection and God's provision and how God uses ordinary people in very difficult circumstances. So If you could, let's take our Bibles, look at verses 1 through 18. I know that's a very a fairly lengthy passage, a little bit longer than what we typically would read when we're looking at the passage, but it kind of gives you the complete story. of what is going on. So here's what God's word says. And it came to pass after many days that the word of the Lord came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go. Show thyself unto Ahab and I will send rain upon the earth. And Elijah went to show himself unto Ahab And there was a sore famine in Samaria. And Ahab called Obadiah, which was the governor of his house. Very important statement. Now, Obadiah feared the Lord greatly. For it was so when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the Lord that Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifty in a cave and fed them with bread and water. And Ahab said unto Obadiah, go into the land unto all fountains of water. Unto all brooks, peradventure, we may find grass to save the horses and mules alive, that we lose not all the beasts. So they divided the land between them to pass through it. Ahab went one by one himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself. And as Obadiah was in the way, behold, Elijah met him, and he knew him And fell on his face and said, Art thou that my Lord Elijah? He answered him, I am. Go tell thy Lord, behold, Elijah is here And he said, What if I sinned that thou wouldest deliver thy servant into the hand of Ahab to slay me? As the Lord thy God liveth, there is no nation or kingdom whither my Lord hath not sent to seek thee. And when they said he is not here, they took an oath of the kingdom and nation that they found thee not. And now thou sayest, Go tell thy Lord, behold, Elijah is here. It shall come to pass as soon as I am gone from thee, that the Spirit of the Lord shall carry thee whither I shall not. And so when I come and tell Ahab, and he cannot find thee, he will slay me. But I, thy servant, fear the Lord from my youth. Was it not told, my Lord, what I did when Jezebel slid the prophets of the Lord? How I hid a hundred men of the Lord's prophets by fifty in a cave, and Fed them with bread and water, and now thou sayest, Go tell thy Lord, Behold, Elijah's here, he will slay me. Elijah said, As the Lord of hosts liveth, before whom I stand I will surely show myself unto him today. So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him. And Ahab went to meet Elijah. It came to pass when Ahab saw Elijah that Ahab said unto him, Art thou he that troublest Israel? He answered, I have not troubled Israel, but thou and thy father's house, and that ye have forsaken the commandments of the Lord, and thou hast followed Balaam What a fascinating passage of Scripture. Let's take a moment and ask the Lord to work in our hearts through it. I also got a note before the service. Uh a friend of Kathy Donlin's who she went to high school with passed away uh in surgery with a complication. And so please remember Kathy 's family and some of uh her friends from years and years ago as they are dealing with a very difficult situation. Let's bow for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless the preaching of His Word and also this family. Father, I pray that as we look at this passage of Scripture, you would give us some very clear insight into your providence, into how you work in history. People who are in difficult circumstances are not outside of your care. How you even plant people in unusual places to accomplish your purposes. And maybe even in this room there are people who will one day be in unusual places because you have put them there for your glory to draw people to yourself and to even stand in the gap. And so I pray that you would speak to our hearts in a special way tonight. I pray for Kathy and her family, and I pray for the family of her friend that passed away. I don't know all the circumstances. but you do. And so I pray that you would take this situation and use it in your kindness to draw people to yourself. And I pray you'd even open doors of opportunity for Kathy to be a spiritual encouragement to people that she cares about dearly. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. As we look at this passage of Scripture, I think it's important for us to, first of all, think a little bit about history. Everybody in this room wants to live through the glorious periods of history. Isn't that true? You want to live in a time when the nation that you live in is thriving, everyone uh has good employment. It's a peaceful time. Everything is going exactly the way that you want it. Everybody wants ease, right? We don't want to live through tumultuous times. But that's not the way that history is. In fact, if we look at history, history is constant clashes between people. It's the rising and the falling of of civilizations, it's the rising and falling and the strengthening and the diminishing of cultures. Even in our own short history as a nation, we have seen these kinds of things go on. And those who study history see that history tends to go through cycles. And these cycles are things that often repeat themselves. Most people over the course of a long life are going to live through several cycles within their own culture So for all the people in this room that are, let's say, 80 years and above, if you were to think back over the course of your life, you have seen the very cycles that I'm going to mention here take place in this nation. And for those of us who are a bit younger, if we live to be uh into our 80s or 90s and we look back over the course of our lives, we're going to see those kinds of patterns follow as well. For instance Every civilization tends to experience this. There are times of struggle and strong individuals will battle to establish a stable society. But many times those who struggled will end up watching their own children become complacent because of the ease that they have actually purchased through their own struggle. I think about immigrants Uh my own my own uh mother's side of the family, they came from Eastern Europe um at the beginning of the 1900s. They were immigrants and I remember reading some of the family history and Finding out about some of the struggles that they live through, um, hearing some of the stories from my grandmother about what it was like to live during the Great Depression, and then the the life that my mother and and her brother lived through and the kind of home that they had was a lot easier than what their parents had grown up in during the Great Depression. And then I think about the life that I've enjoyed as a result of what have been given to me by my parents. Well, the reality is that it is very common for people to take for granted what they've been given. And because they haven't gone through the struggle, a lot of times they relax and they become complacent, they become very self-centered. And you know what happens is a generation oftentimes Will rebel against institutions and norms and society begins to go through a downward spiral of struggle. And this is something that often happens. Cultural crisis takes place and then out of chaos Strong leadership comes. Now that's sometimes good and that's sometimes bad. It really depends on the society. And we've seen examples in history of both of those things. And then after a period of strength, there's normalcy again, and then these cycles repeat themselves. In fact, we even see this in the story of Israel's history during the time of the judges. In fact, this is very, very distinct. We see peace. God blesses his people, and they enjoy his blessings, and then in that prosperity, we see apostasy. And a generation rises up and they become complacent and they're rebellious against God, and then God has to judge the people. He removes that blessing. He permits their enemies to be strengthened against them. And then in the struggle, what ends up happening is the people are humbled and they repent. And they turn to the Lord and they cry out to him for mercy. What does God do? He draws out a deliverer, and that deliverer steps in. And that delivers not a perfect person, but God uses them to reestablish that stability. And then during the period of that judge, it could be a Gideon or it could be a Samuel or one of those individuals. God blesses the people and it's peaceful, but when that person dies, trouble comes again. In fact, this is really predominant in my mind because I'm reading through the judges right now. Now, why do I start here? The reason that I start here is to simply say this. Over the course of a person's life, they will more than likely live through tumultuous periods. And some people will live in societies where it is completely bankrupt of truth. And in those places, the question is this, how do Christians, how do they function in such a society? Does God have a place for them? Does God have a purpose for them? Is it possible for a person living in a very corrupt society to actually honor God? The answer to that question is yes. It is possible. And in fact, the example that we're going to look at this evening to me is a fascinating example of how God raised up an individual and planted him And I could say one of the most wicked and depraved households in all of human history. He was the steward of Ahab's house. Could you imagine being in such a position? This is one of the most evil and corrupted kings in all of Israel's history. He would have interacted interpersonally with somebody like Jezebel. He knew what it was like for Ahab to be moved by his wife to go and to seek out all the prophets in the land and seek to kill him kill them. He knew about the intense hatred that Jezebel had for Elijah. And God planted that man in that house. And he gave that man power and authority in that house. And God used him. Fascinating story. This text shows us that God preserves his people through some of the darkest seasons, and he plants them in unusual places for his glory. He wants us to faithfully serve him wherever he plants us. And so in order to do that, let's look at some of the details of this passage. The first thing I want you to notice is in verses. How God preserves a remnant of his people. In fact, if we were to look at most of Israel's history, we do not see a nation that is following God. We don't see a nation that is passionate about serving him. We tend to see a nation that is in a situation of apostasy. But within that apostasy, there are little pockets of godly individuals, places that people are serving the Lord faithfully. They're living in the midst of chaos, but they are faithful, godly people. This would be an example of it. God preserves those people. Notice what he says in verses 1 to 3. It says, And it came to pass after many days that the word of the Lord came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go. Show thyself unto Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth. And Elijah went to show himself unto Ahab, and there was a sore famine in Samaria. And Ahab called Obadiah, which was the governor of his house. Now Obadiah feared the Lord greatly. I want you to think about what it would have been like to live through that. Think about the spiritual darkness. This is a nation. We're not just talking about people permitting the worship of Baal. We're talking about a nation that is pushing and controlling the people in such a way that they are forcing upon the people some of the most the base forms of idolatry known in the Canaanite world. The king, his wife, his associates, they were very evil people. And here is Obadiah who's living in the belly of the beast. He's living in the midst of great spiritual darkness. Think about the great religious persecution of his day. So Jezebel wanted all the prophets of God extinguished from the land. She wanted all of them dead. And there was no prophet that she was more passionate to see dead than Elijah. In fact, you can see from the interaction between Obadiah and Elijah that in fact Jezebel sent her husband to go to all the lands around the land of Israel and to say, Is Elijah in your borders? Because if he is Delivered him to us. We want to kill him. And if they said no, he's not there, they had to promise that in fact he wasn't there. What does that tell you? That's intense persecution. They're doing everything in their power to stamp out the worship of the one true God. Not only is there spiritual darkness and persecution, but these people are living in a famine. In great desperation. In fact, there are two times where the scriptures talk about how difficult it was in Samaria and how the people were literally starving in the city. And if it had not been for God's intervention, the people would have all starved to death in the city. Twice during that three and a half year period, we have in information about this. These are people who are living in desperate times. Look at how Elijah responds. He's there by this brook and the ravens are feeding him and taking care of him. And then the the water dries up and The ravens aren't going to be there, and God sends him to a widow who's basically making her last meal and she's going to die. God sustains him desperate times. Nobody in this room, to my knowledge, knows what it's like to be starving to death. Where you don't know where your next meal is going to come from. But that was the experience of these people. And so these were dark and hard days. But I want you to think not just about this in a general sense, but think about it for Obadiah. This is a guy who was close to Ahab. He was the steward over Ahab's house. Do you think that there might have been some times that Ahab expected Obadiah to do things that in his conscience he's like, can I do this? Do you think that ever happened? Do you think there are ever situations where where Obadiah would look at what was going on around him and it just weighed heavily on his soul? Think about the story. of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. And it talks about Lot and it says that Lot's righteous soul was vexed daily by the things that were all around him. Don't you think that Obadiah wouldn't have experienced those kinds of things? Could you imagine what it would have been like to personally interact with somebody like Jezebel? I don't know if I want to think about that. There's some people that are like, well, I worked in DC and I know it's like to interact with some people down there. They're not very nice. She's way worse, I promise you, than anybody you've ever interacted with in our government. She is a very evil woman. And he would have constantly had to deal with these issues. And so when we think about the fact that God plants a godly man, Obadiah, in the household of Ahab, sometimes we forget about the fact that that he would have dealt with for three and a half years a lot of great struggle. You know what's amazing about the Bible? It is filled with examples. of people that God planted in very powerful places to use for his glory. Think about the story of Joseph. How did Joseph end up in the palace? Well, it was through some really difficult circumstances. Very, very difficult circumstances. But what it shows you is that God takes this guy, Joseph, who's a godly man who loves the Lord. And he puts him in a position of power. Joseph didn't seek it. Joseph didn't pursue it. God planted him there. Or think about this little girl. In fact, I think our kids were just learning about this in Sunday school the other day. This little girl who was a servant to Naaman's wife. And here is Naaman, this very powerful soldier. Who would have been terrifying to interact with. And here's this little Jewish girl, and she finds out that her master's husband has this terrible illness. And he says, you know, if your husband would go to the land of Israel, God could heal him. What an amazing little story of this girl. She's a servant. During a very difficult time, God used her. Or think about Daniel. He's not just serving the Babylonians, he's serving the next generation after them. And God plants Daniel in the palace and God uses him. Or think about the story of Nehemiah. He is the king's cupbearer. And there one day he's standing before the king and the king goes, Something's not right with this guy. What's going on, Nehemiah? And he's like, Okay, what's going on is I'm grieved in my heart because of what I hear about Jerusalem. This guy's gonna kill me. And he says, I can help you with that. It's an amazing story. God does this. Or think about Esther and Mordecai in Persia. And what does Mordecai say to Esther? Do you not think that maybe God has put you in this place for such a time as this? God is going to deliver his people from death, and he's going to do it through you or without you. Are you willing to stand in the gap? That's essentially what he's saying. The fact is, the Bible is filled with examples of people that God puts in places for a purpose. And you know what? There might be some people in here right now you don't know where God will plant you down the road. What I think is important to recognize is we see no indication that these people tried to get in that position. Daniel didn't say, Hey, why don't you go ahead and take me back to Babylon? I'd like to become a eunuch and I'd like to work for the king. That is not what he did We have no indication that Nehemiah said, hey, I'd like to be the king's cupbearer. If somebody's trying to kill the king, then they can kill me instead. We don't see that at all. What do we see? God in his providence putting people in places for his glory. What is that? That is God preserving his people. Second thing I want you to notice is this. The ministry of people whom God has preserved. Can be really unique. Verse number four. When Jezebel cut off the prophets of the Lord, Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifty in a cave and fed them with bread and water. Now this is a really fascinating statement to think about. Now I know over the last couple of weeks we've really been focusing in on Elijah. And we say, look at how God provided for Elijah. He sends ravens And the ravens bring Elijah the food. So here are these scavenger birds, and basically they stole somebody's lunch and they brought it to to Elijah there on on in the wilderness, sitting by a stream, so that Elijah doesn't starve to death. What an amazing story. And then we see that God provides this one widow woman's barrel, and he takes care of this widow woman and takes care of Elijah, his provision. And those are fascinating stories. Those are examples of God taking care of his people. But notice this one. This one's a little different than Raven's. This is a little different than one individual who God is giving them their food on a daily basis. I know Pastor Josh dealt with this on Wednesday. God is providing for her on a daily basis. He's meeting their needs day in and day out until the end of this time. This is a man whose life was constantly in danger while he was taking care of a hundred prophets of the Lord. Have you ever thought about that? God used this man to preserve the life of a hundred prophets. While Elijah is being sustained by the ravens, Obadiah is hiding these people in a cave. He's going and bringing food to these people in the cave. He puts his life on the line three and a half years. Could you imagine for that entire time the pressure of standing in the presence of Ahab? The pressure of standing in the presence of Jezebel, hearing their conversations, knowing what was in their heart, knowing how they interacted with one another. Knowing how they hated the prophets of the Lord, and you're sitting there going, I'm taking care of 50 guys in this cave, and I'm taking care of 50 guys in that cave. I'm bringing them food. I'm bringing them what they need to sustain them. God put this man in a very interesting place And he would have felt the pressure. Every single one of us knows what it's like to feel pressure in tough situations. I doubt we would feel what he felt. His position gave him access to provision for all that time. His ministry put him in constant danger during that time. And you know what's amazing? I don't see any indication. That Elijah really understood what Obadiah was doing. And here's why I say this. Pastor Joshua will be dealing with The prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel crying out that God would that their God would send fire and he didn't because he's not a true God. And then Elijah just prays a simple prayer and God sends that fire. And then Jezebel says, Elijah, you're dead. I'm coming to get you. And he runs for his life. And listen to what Elijah says in 1 Kings 18, verse 22. When he gets to Mount Carmel, it says, Then said Elijah unto the people , I only I remain a prophet of the Lord. But Baal's prophets are 450 men. Is that true? The answer is no, it's not. Now, I'm not saying he was lying. He didn't understand that there were a hundred prophets of the Lord who were hiding in a cave. In his mind, he is the only person left in Israel who is not dead and is proclaiming the true God of Israel. And then we see that he runs for his life after that momentous moment at Mount Carmel. And when he gets to Mount Horeb, and this is a long journey, he's ready to die. He says, God just take my life. And he says in chapter 19, verse 10 I've been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts. For the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenants. They've thrown down thine altars. They've slain thy prophets with the sword. And listen to what he says. And I, even I, only am left. And they seek my life to take it away. What's he telling us when he makes that statement? He's saying, I don't believe there's any other guys that are alive. Why does he believe that? It's because he doesn't know what Obadiah was doing. So here is this guy who is the steward of Ahab, and he's putting his life on the line for three and a half years to preserve the lives of a hundred prophets in a cave. And Elijah, the guy that we know about, doesn't seem to know what's going on. What does that show you? God has his ways of taking care of his people. And just because you and I don't see what God is doing does not mean he isn't working. Sometimes we get in our heads that we're like the only people in the world that are living for for God and we're like, we're the true Christians and everybody else around us. They're all compromised and they're doing the right thing. And there's nobody else doing the right thing but us. That's just not true. Not true at all. God has his people all over this county, all over this state, all over this country, all over the world. He's working in places you and I know nothing about. But his work is thriving, and we thank God for what he's doing. Here's Elijah, the prophet we know all about, and he doesn't know what Obadiah's been doing. God had his people in the land despite the darkness of those days. In 1 Kings 19, verse 18, God says to Elijah, I have left me 7,000 in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, every mouth which hath not kissed him. What is the point of this? The point of this is God preserves his people, and God takes those people and he puts them in places that he can be served by those people. And sometimes people don't know anything about Third thing I want you to notice here is this. God's deliverance is in his own time and in his own way. Now, what's very fascinating about this passage is there's a very human side. There's a very ordinary side to what God is doing. Yet if you step back, there's also a very profound side to this. And this is how God works. When we talk about God's providence and and we talk about the way that God works in history, his hand is invisible many times as we are living through things. We don't realize what he's doing. A lot of times it's looking back. And we say, you know, the reason that that unfolded the way that it did, and the reason that that unfolded the way that it did, and the reason that this path went that way instead of that way, and it continu the kind and gracious and merciful hand of God through very ordinary things. That's the way that God works. And we see that in this passage of Scripture. Notice what it says in verses 14 to 16. He says, go tell thy Lord, behold, Elijah is here, and he shall slay me. And Elijah said, As the Lord of hosts liveth before whom I stand, I will surely show myself unto him today. So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him, and Ahab went to meet Elijah. Now we know, because we know the rest of the story, that in fact what's going to happen is there's going to be a confrontation, and then ultimately there's going to be a greater confrontation at Mount Carmel. And then Elijah is going to go and he's going to pray and he's going to plead with God to send rain on the land. And God does send rain on the land. And Elijah runs ahead of the chariots of Ahab as the rain is coming down. And God preserves his life and protects his life, and then Elijah ends up in this very, very dark and lowly place, and God uses Elijah to set some things in order and then to choose Elisha. So there's a lot more information that's coming down the road. But before we get to those things, what do we see? A very human and ordinary interaction. We see a man who expresses his fears. A man who expresses his doubts. A man who expresses that he doesn't know that if this will play out the way that it's going to, and he has to take a step of faith. All of those things are a part of this interaction. So let's kind of walk through it quickly. The first thing we see is that God sends Elijah with a message in verses 1 and 2. It says, It came to pass after many days the word of the Lord came to Elijah. And he said, Go show thyself unto Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth. Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. How would you have liked to have that conversation? You know the guy hates you. You know the guy has done everything in his power to have you killed. And you're gonna go talk to him. And you're going to basically have a confrontation. But God told him to do it. And he did. And then we see in God's providence, Elijah just happens to meet Obadiah. I used to just happen to I put that in quotes, okay? Because it's an ordinary thing. But God was working. And so in verse 7 it says, as Obadiah was in the way , Behold, Elijah met him, and he knew him and fell on his face. By the way, when it says he knew him, it's not saying Elijah knew Obadiah. It's saying Obadiah knew Elijah. Okay? He fell on his face and said, Art thou that, my Lord Elijah? He just happened to run into him But what is this? God worked him. And then in verse 8 it says Elijah sends Obadiah to facilitate this meeting with Ahab. It says, go and tell thy Lord, behold, Elijah's here. Very natural thing to do, right? And now Obadiah is going, okay, I don't think I want to tell him that you're here. I don't want any association with you. I know what he wants to do. He's gonna kill me. And if he comes here and you're gone, I'm in trouble. He's just saying, you tricked me. You talked to this man and you're hiding him. And in the back of his mind, he's like, and I'm a I'm hiding a hundred other guys and I have for the last three and a half years. But Elijah says, go talk to Ahab. Obadiah expresses his fear. He's very transparent about it. He says What? Have I sinned? That thou wouldest deliver thy servant into the hand of Ahab to slay me? As the Lord thy God liveth. There is no nation or kingdom where my Lord hath not sent to seek thee. And he goes on to basically say this. I don't want you to disappear and then I'm gone. What's he doing? He's expressing his fears. And that would be a natural and normal thing for any person in his position to experience. You know what's amazing though? When God is working, even when we are fearful and we have doubts about the right way to handle something, and we're even a little tentative to take some of the steps that we need to take, so long as those steps are taken, God works through them. And what we see in the next part is that Elijah sure's Obadiah, he's going to stay, he's going to meet Ahab. Obadiah needs to go and do what he says. In verse 15, it says, Elijah said, as the Lord of hosts liveth. Before whom I sin, I will surely show myself unto him today. So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him, and Ahab went to meet Elijah. Now don't miss the significance of this. Obadiah was afraid. Obadiah expressed his fear. Obadiah's fears were based on a rationalization of the situation. If you were there, you'd do the same thing. But you know what he did? He put his life on the line, he took a step forward. And the same way that when Nehemiah is in front of the king and the king says, Why are you troubled? He's like, Alright Lord, I think I'm about to die, but I guess I just gotta tell him what's going on. And he says, I'm troubled because of what's going on in Jerusalem. He says, Okay, I can help you. with that. Or you have the story of of Mordecai and Esther. And Mordecai says, Esther, do you not realize what's going on? You need to go and talk to the king. And she's like, well, I haven't seen the king in this amount of time. If I walk into that palace and he doesn't welcome me, I'm gone. And he says, well, you need to do it anyway. What does she do if she says, Well, if I perish, I perish, I'm gonna go do it. And what's amazing about all these situations, you can go back to Moses And God says, go and talk to the Pharaoh. And he says, I can't do it. And he goes through all of these arguments. But at the end of all that interaction, these people who had doubts and struggles and were timid, they obeyed, and God worked through them. Sometimes we find ourselves in such a place. We also see that Ahab was unsurprisingly confrontational. He wasn't as confrontational as uh as some people thought he'd be, but he was pretty confrontational. In verse 17, it says, It came to pass when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel? This is true. When people are in the position of an Ahab, they can't see that they're the problem. It's so true. Here Elijah is simply speaking for God. He is not desiring to make misery for Ahab and the house of Israel, but Ahab can't see that Ahab is the problem. What does Elijah do? He speaks the truth bluntly. In verse 18, he says, I've not troubled Israel, but thou and thy father's house, you have forsaken the commandment of the Lord and hast followed Balaam. I want to pause for just a moment and say it like this. There is a mysterious side to how God works. In Proverbs chapter 20 it says, Man's goings are of the Lord. How can a man then understand his own way? That is so true. In all of these situations, these people had choices to make. And they were struggling in their heart to make the choice. They even express their struggle in the midst of it, but at the end of the analysis, what happens? They did what they were told to do, and God worked through it, and God accomplished his purpose. And that's the way life works. That's the way people make decisions. There are many times in life that we are at a crossroads, we have a decision to make, and we're struggling through all these details, and the reality is we take a very timid step. But God works through it. Why does God work through it? Because He's a gracious God. There's a mysterious side to how He works. As God works, we often don't see it until later. And here is the part of the story that Elijah did not know until he lived through it. In verses 36 and 37 , As Elijah is on that mountain, it says, it came to pass at that time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, Elijah, the prophet, came near and said, Lord God of Israel, Of Abraham, Isaac, and his uh and Israel. Let it be known this day that thou art God in Israel, that I am thy servant, and I have done all these things at thy word. Hear me, O Lord, hear me, that this people may know that thou art the Lord God and that thou hast turned their heart back again. And you know what happened? God answered his prayer. And so here is all this turmoil and all this struggle and all this weakness and all of this frailty and all of these doubts. But at the end of it all, here is Elijah standing on Mount Carmel, praying a prayer, and God follows through. And that's how he works. Don't doubt him. Walk by faith. How do we apply this text? Let me give you some simple thoughts to close with. The first thing I want to say is this God is always working even during the darkest seasons of history. There are seasons that people have lived through that are I I I cannot imagine what it would have been like to live through such a Yet God still did his work. Despite all of that, this would have been one of those periods. God's work extends far beyond our limited sphere. Just because you don't see what God is doing doesn't mean that He isn't working. There are churches that you don't even know about that aren't far from this one right here, and you know what God's work to those churches. There are people that God has raised up all throughout church history. Nobody writes a biography about them. Nobody talks about their life. Their sermons aren't published. Nobody knows about them but God and the few people that they ministered to during that period of life that God put them on this planet. But God worked through them. God blessed their lives. He blessed their ministries. And their life was a part of God's story of continuing his work, of drawing people to himself, building his kingdom. And you know what? Our lives people don't know about as well. And that's okay. His work extends far beyond what we know. Thirdly, he is free to work in each individual life as he sees fit. You and I don't write our stories. We have choices to make, and those choices matter. And I don't want to in any way diminish the importance of the choices we make, but I will say this. If it all rose and fell on your choices, it would all fall flat. It's true. If it all rose and fell on your choices, we would all fall flat. God works through our choices. We are to walk in wisdom. We should walk in obedience to the Lord. But God works in His grace. In spite of a lot of difficulty in our lives, a lot of weakness on our part, a lot of struggle, and a lot of turmoil. God puts people in unprecedented places and uses them for his glory. Somebody says, man, I want God to use me mightily. And then he says, Well, you're a Badaiah and you're going to work with Ahab. Well, I'm not talking about that one. How about putting me in a different place? And he says, No, somebody's got to do it And it's going to be you. And you know what? God might do that in the lives of some of us in this room. Or maybe in the lives of some of our children that are in this room now are not yet here. We don't know. God has his ways. He puts people in places. He raises them up. He plants them. There's a very ordinary side to the mystery of God's providence. And so what are we to do? We should purpose to be faithful wherever he puts us. In whatever circumstances we encounter. If we're like this man Obadiah who gives all his reasons why he's afraid, but at the end of it all he says, all right, I'm gonna put my life on the line. I'm going to go Ahab and I'm going to tell him you're here. And we do it. God uses that. Or we have Esther who tells Mordecai, I can't go and talk to the king. And he says, well, then God will raise up deliverance from somewhere else. She says, all right, I'll go do it. God uses us, even when we're a little weak in the knees. So be faithful. Serve him humbly. Wherever he plants you. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for this passage. Such an interesting story. I can't imagine what it would have been like to be in the shoes of this man. Yet you used him to preserve the life of a hundred prophets in one of the darkest periods of Israel's history. You planted him in one of the most debased homes in all of history. To be light and great darkness. When he was weak and fearful, yet obeyed, you used him. Father, help us to be challenged by his life. And help us to be challenged by the way that you worked through him And help us to be comforted that you can work through us in similar ways. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.