How people deal with the law is a hot issue. And obviously Paul is concerned that the people at Ephesus are not handling the law in appropri in an appropriate manner. And because they're not handling the law in an appropriate manner, they're corrupting a good thing. And so I start with this purpose statement for the section. Paul wanted to correct irresponsible uses of the law. without giving the impression that the law served no current function or was evil. Now that's really important. He wanted to correct irresponsible uses of the law without giving the impression that the law served no current function. Or was evil. Therefore he reminded Timothy of two good functions of the law. One, restraining evil, two, revealing the righteousness of God. Now, a lot of times when we deal with a biblical concept, you have an extreme on this side, and then you can have an extreme on this side. And what the Bible teaches is right here in the middle, and what will happen is we'll kind of over-emphasize over here because we don't want to end up over here, and what do we do? We end up in error. Or we really don't want to end up on this side, so we push over to the other side and we end up in error. We've got to just say what God says. We've got to use God's truth as he intended it to be used. And the law is one of those issues. If I say that there's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, that statement is absolutely true. If I say that the believer is 100% under God's grace, that statement is absolutely true. But if I give the impression that there being no condemnation to those in Christ Jesus, Or the fact that the believers under grace means that the law of God is irrelevant to the Christian, that it doesn't matter, that God doesn't care how the believer lives. Well then I've taught you an error, okay? Because God absolutely cares about how we live. Now when God looks at our standing before Him and determines righteous versus unrighteous Heaven versus hell. He's not looking at our performance. He's not looking at our good deeds. He's looking at the righteousness of Christ. However, the way that we live matters. It says something about whether or not I actually am a Christian Because the reality is when I become a child of God, I receive a new nature in Christ, and that new nature in Christ begins to manifest itself. It begins to reveal itself. And so we would say it this way. We are justified by faith alone, but not by a faith that is alone. That's really important for us to understand. In other words, it's not faith and works that saves us. It's a faith that works that is genuine. And that's really what this is all about. So I want us to talk about this concept of the law. We're going to draw upon some of the things that Paul is going to say in this passage of Scripture, but we're also going to go to some other places because I think to deal with this topic in any kind of detail. We have to go to some other passages. And I know I won't answer all of your questions. I know that we're going to get a little bit into this topic of Old Covenant, Old Testament. versus the New Covenant, the New Testament, the church age versus what it was like under the Mosaic Covenant. There'll be statements that I'll make that may not go deep enough and full enough for you. And if you have more questions, I've I'd love to sit down and just hash it out with you as much as you need. But I think what we'll go through today will be extremely practical. So we start with part number one, the law and its proper use. I want to make four important observations about the concept of law and righteousness before we actually get into this section. To me, these are really practical, these are very important, and it'll help us in our discussion. The first observation is this A righteous person does not need the law to become righteous. He already is. Does that make sense? If you're righteous, whether the law is there or not, you're righteous because that's what you are. Now my question is, do we have any example of a person who's righteous? The answer is, of course we do. It's Jesus, the Lord Jesus Christ. When the Lord Jesus Christ is born into this world, he was fully, completely righteous, sinless So Jesus didn't need the law to become righteous. He was eternally righteous because he's eternal God. But the presence of the law did something when Christ came in contact with him. It demonstrated that indeed he is righteous. Because as Jesus lives out his life, what we see is the righteous requirements of the law being demonstrated in every single situation. that Jesus was involved in. But the point is this. A righteous person doesn't need the law to become righteous. He already is. Matthew 5. 17 says this. Think not that I have come to destroy the law. Jesus is talking to the religious leaders. We're the prophets. I'm not come to destroy, but to fulfill. That's a really interesting statement. I've come to fulfill the law. Now, on some level, Jesus is talking about the fact that he is the fulfillment of the prophecies that we find in the Old Testament. But he's also talking about the fact that he's fulfilling all righteousness. In other words, everything that Jesus does is a demonstration that he's righteous, and it is perfect obedience to the law. He says, Verily I say unto you, until heaven and earth pass, not one jotter in no wise, not one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled. That verse basically says every element of the law is going to be fulfilled. And it's going to be fulfilled in me. That's what he's saying. But that first observation is that a righteous person, the Lord Jesus Christ, he didn't need the law to become righteous. He was righteous too. A person does by nature what's in their heart, whether there's a law or not. Whatever's in your heart is what you do. You know, it's interesting when you go to a Christian college, and they used to be more this way than they are now, become a little bit lighter in some of their rule books. But they're in the more strict Christian colleges. They have this really thick, long rule book. And it's kind of funny how you go through this rulebook and you're like, what in the world's that all about? Like, what do you mean guys and girls can't ride in the same elevator? That's crazy. Like Like in the real world everybody does stuff like that, right? You can't even walk up the same stairwell. Well apparently there was somebody that got a little carried away on an elevator one day We'll just leave it there. And so what did they decide to do? They decided to write a rule about it. Well, here's the deal. Before the rule was there there were lots of kids, college-age kids. I went up and down that elevator and they never got carried away. Why? Because it wasn't on their mind. Well, for the most part. Okay. Wasn't on their minds. Alright. The fact that there's no rule doesn't mean that people are gonna do something The rule is implemented when people violate a problem and what do they do? They say we've got to put a rule there now because we got to somehow, you know, suppress that behavior. It's not right. We can't do that. But this is my point. People do what they do because of what's inside of them. So if you're an unruly kind of a person, it doesn't matter what the law says, you're going to express that. And if you're a person that has good discipline and good character, it doesn't matter what the law says, doesn't matter what the rules are there. If there's no rules, if there's lots of rules, you're going to do right because of what's inside. Romans 2. 14 When the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law are a law unto themselves It's kind of an interesting statement. Now, in this passage, Paul is not suggesting that Gentiles are sinless people. Not at all. He was basically saying this. There are things that Gentiles know intuitively not to do, even though they don't have the Mosaic law. You got the law? They don't. But you know what's amazing? Because they have a conscience and they have a built-in morality system. They know it's wrong to steal, and they know it's wrong to cheat, and they know it's wrong to kill people, they know it's wrong to commit adultery. If there's no No law saying that. They know it intuitively. But my point is this: we do based on what's within. Three, an unrighteous person does not know that he's unrighteous. Unless a righteous standard reveals he's unrighteous. Say that again. An unrighteous person does not know that he is unrighteous unless a righteous standard reveals his unrighteousness. You know, one of the reasons in our evangelism it's so important that we take God's law and we lay it out is because when you do that, you awaken the conscience of the person you're giving the gospel to. So if somebody believes they're a good person and you open your Bible and say, well, this is what God says, they look and go, oh, that's not good. Maybe I'm not so good. Maybe I have a problem here or there. In other words, God's law awakens our mind to help us to understand. We're guilty. We have a problem. This is a really interesting passage. Romans 7, verse 7 says this. What shall we say then? Is the lost sin God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin but by the law. That's a really amazing statement. I would not have known sin but by the law. For I had not known lust except the law said, Thou shalt not covet. Interesting. In other words, when the losses don't do it, all of a sudden I begin to realize, here's the standard, here's where I'm at, I'm in trouble. You know, we have this statement you have a person who is a big fish in a small pond. I remember when I was in college and I went out for the wrestling team. I I wrestled in high school and I mean, I did okay, I guess, you know. It's okay on the team. And I remember getting on the college team. I was the sixth man in my weight class I mean I got I got torched every single practice, okay? I mean the guys on the team they were good and they just you know they crushed me. On my high school team I was the only one. I thought I was pretty good. Well guess what? Once you got a little different competition, you realize you're a small fish now. in a big pond instead of the big fish in the little pond. Well the idea is that the standard that we compare ourselves to says a lot about how we perceive ourselves And when we when we compare ourselves to other sinners, what do we do? We say, I'm a pretty good guy. I don't do what she does. I don't do what he does. I got more discipline than them. I'm not involved in those activities. And God says, who cares? You're both guilty. Here's the standard. That's what the passage is saying. In other words, the law reveals to us that we fall short. And then observation four. Once an unrighteous person becomes aware of their unrighteous nature, a change of nature, not the presence of the law, is the only way to make them righteous. Let me say that again. Once an unrighteous person becomes aware of their unrighteous nature, a change of nature, not the presence of the law, is the only way to make them righteous. Romans 7 verse 8, this is a continuation of what Paul's saying. He says, sin taking occasion by the command, and this is really interesting. He is personifying sin as if sin is a person or an animal that is trying to destroy you. It's an interesting way he puts it. Sin taking occasion. By the commandment wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. I'll put it like this. I didn't think about doing that until I was told I couldn't. And then it's all I could think about. You know what I'm talking about? I'll give you an example. So, you know, you go to school and this guy's painting. You know, he's painting walls and painting doors. If he doesn't put a sign on the wall, you know what's really interesting? No fourth grade boys are going to touch the wall. But as soon as he takes, you know, piece of paper and writes, do not touch wet paint. Here's what every fourth grade boy is thinking when he walks by that wall. I wonder if that's wet. Never even thought about it. But once it says don't do it, it's like, I gotta do this. Hey, we're all little fourth grade kids, we're just a little bit older than that. But the same thing's inside of us. Paul says, when the law said don't do it, all of a sudden there was something inside of me that wanted to do it. It's like, why is that? It's because our nature's fallen. It's because we're sinners. Without the law, sin was dead. In other words, I didn't even think about doing it. But once God says don't, then all of a sudden I begin to think about it I was alive without the law once, but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died in the commandment which was ordained to life I found to be unto death. For sin taking occasion by the commandment deceived me and by it slew me. Wherefore the law is holy and the commandment just and good. Wasn't that which is good made death unto me? God forbid, but sin that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which is good. We know that the law is spiritual, but I'm carnal, sold under sin. Basically, that passage is saying this. If you realize you're unrighteous, the presence of the law doesn't help you become righteous. All it does is says, you're guilty. The only way that you can change is if God changes you He's got to give you a new nature. And that new nature has a new set of desires, it has new motivations, and all of a sudden you begin to obey God in a different manner. You say, well, why do I go through all that? Because those are all foundations to help us as we come to this issue of the law. One of the reasons that people don't use the law lawfully is because they get in their mind the law is a ladder to lead me to God. The law is this mechanism that God uses to make me righteous. You know, if I sit down and I make a list of rules and the church has to follow the rules and this is how you dress and this is how you cut your hair and this is what you chew and what you don't and what you eat and how much you have to exercise and I lay out every single rule you're supposed to Guess what? We just have a bunch of hypocrites here. Those rules have no power to make you a godly person. Zero In fact, sometimes people have got it all good and on the outside really good. Down on the inside, it's really not good at all. Because those rules and those regulations have no ability, they have no power to change you. So someone might say, well then, why do we have the law? Well, I'm glad you asked the question, because I'm going to answer that tonight. Okay. So let me begin with three wrong uses of the law before we get into some of the right uses of the law. And these are extremely important. And all of these things that I will mention are really connected to some of the very problems that Paul is addressing. That are going on at Ephesus. We find this being a common problem in lots of churches in the New Testament. The first wrong use of the law is seeking to be justified before God by the law. Evangelism. And actually in our culture, things have changed in many ways. You know, it used to be that most of the people you talk to, they had a religious background. So, you know, you talk about Jesus and well, we're all talking about the same person. Oh yeah, the Bible's God's word. Yeah, we believe that. So you can just read a verse to them and they say, oh, that's what God says And so basically what we're doing is we're laying a case for the fact that we're saved not by the works of the law, not by going to church, not by reading the Bible, not by prayer and fasting and all those things. We're saved by the grace of God through faith alone in Christ. Of course, now we have, you know, do you believe in God? Did he really make the universe? And who is Jesus? Well, the truth is that in those days, a lot of the people that Paul is witnessing to come from a Jewish background. And they're starting with this belief system. I can work my way to God. I can climb the ladder, not of success, but of righteousness to God. I can build up credentials. Before God. Using the law to try to be justified before God. Folks, we cannot, we cannot stand righteous before God by doing something for Him. Or by giving something to him. It's impossible. And here's the proof of it. In Romans 3, it says this, verse 20. By the deeds of the law there shall no flesh. Be justified in his sight. Why? Because by the law is the knowledge of sin. In other words, the law doesn't make me righteous. It tells me I'm not. Romans 3. 28, we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. In other words, we're saved by trusting in what God did for us, not by what we can do for God. Galatians 2, 16. A man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus that we might be justified by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law there shall no flesh be justified. Galatians 5:4. Christ has become of no effect unto you. Whoever you are that are justified by the law, you're fallen from grace. He's basically saying if you think you can be justified before God by doing the works of the law, you're wrong. You've fallen away from the ability to be saved because you are trusting in your own deeds rather than what he's done for you. And that is one of the most common ways that people misuse the law. They believe it's a ladder to God. And it's not A second, and this is very important, is a source of pride. The idea is this because of my relationship to the law, I have clout I have standing. In fact, really, this was one of the major problems with the Jewish people when Paul is writing to them in Romans chapter 2. He says this. Thou art called a Jew, and restest in the law, and makest thy boast of God, and knowest his will, and approvest the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law. And art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them which are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes. Which has the form of knowledge and of the truth and the law. And what he's basically saying is, you are proud because of your access to knowledge. Maybe a parallel example in our time is somebody's proud because of the Bible they hold in their hands. And I'll tell you what, there's a lot of that. It's got nothing to do with having embraced the message of the book. It's I'm holding it in my hands. I carry it to church. So what? Who cares? The fact that you hold that book in your hands doesn't make you righteous at all. The fact that you have access to the Bible, the fact that you come to this church, to a church where the gospel is preached, the access to truth does not save you. And then he says this thou which teachest another, teach yourself. Boom. Just slams them Right there. Basically, we should not view the law as a source of pride. The fact that we have access to it, the fact that we know the Bible, the fact that we have access to truth. God's laws. The third is this, seeking to be sanctified by the law. You know, it's possible for a person To trust Christ as their Savior, to be resting in the work of Christ, but they believe that the way they grow is by focusing on keeping laws and standards and principles. In other words, the Bible ends up becoming just a book of rules. Now I'm not suggesting that the Bible has no laws. In fact, I'm going to talk a good bit about that as we get into some of these details But the Bible is primarily about helping us know who God is, know who we are, and what He's done for us so we can be made right with Him. And the reality is that as we grow in the knowledge of the Lord and as we grow up in a love for the Lord, we begin to walk in obedience to his commands. That is the product of healthy, vibrant Christian living. A rule-oriented structure does not grow people. It doesn't mature people. In fact, the truth is there are a lot of people that they read their Bible because it's checking it off on the list. I did my thing today. Well, it's really not about checking it off on a list. I prayed this many minutes today. Or hours. I don't know. I witnessed to this many people this week. I had this many people pray with me this week. And we have this whole list of rules and standards. I dress this way. I say these things. I don't say these things. I go to these places. I don't go to these places. I associate with these people. I don't associate with these people. And we go through all these lists and all these rules and all these standards Folks, those things don't don't don't mature people. If that's how people grew, then the Mormons would be the holiest people on the planet. Simple. They do. You know, Mormons, clean cut, very modest, distinction between men and women, very clear cut. Lots of rules. They go on missions trips. A lot of times people who are involved in the morning Mormon church are They give a lot of money, they're involved in a lot of good causes. They follow a lot of rules and a lot of structure. If that was the case, then Islam and Muslims would be the most godly people on the planet. I tell you, a lot of Muslims blow away Christians and how structured they are in their religious system. We could look at some very devout Catholics. Some very devout Jews. But folks, rules and regulations and standards don't grow people. And the fact is That that was a major problem that Paul had to confront when he writes the book of Galatians. And listen to what he says. O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you? What does that mean? Who hath cast a spell over you? And blinded your eyes, and they have dominated and controlled your thinking. You have been duped that you should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ has been evidently set forth, crucified among you. This only would I learn of you. Received you the Spirit by the works of the law or by hearing of faith. Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now made perfect by the flesh? Basically says this. Did you get saved by keeping the law? Nope. Well, if it didn't have power to save you, why do you think it has power to mature you? Right there. It's faith alone in Christ. It's the presence of the Spirit of God. It's a vibrant and healthy walk with the Lord. That's what matures people Now folks, again, don't misunderstand me. I'm not suggesting that the Bible teaches us we can just do whatever we want. It doesn't matter about anything else. I'm not suggesting that. But what I am suggesting is this. A lot of people get imbalanced or just flat wrong in how they view the law. It's their way to God. It's the way they grow. It's a source of pride. The fact is that God's law was given for an entirely different purpose. And next week we'll try Talk about that. Alright? So, part two, the specifics of the passage. We're going to look at four good uses of the law, and uh we're going to talk about the Old Testament, the New Testament. We're going to get into some very specific issues about restraining of evil and a standard by which we can judge what is right and wrong. And we're going to look at some very specific examples, and then we're going to get into, let's see, what else we have. Revealing that man is morally bankrupt and that he needs to place his faith in So we're going to be looking at some really important concepts next week, and I hope that you'll come. But I hope you don't miss these introductory thoughts. About the concept of law and righteousness and how we grow and how we're saved and how we mature and really where our sense of value and our our sense of Comfort is really. It's not in our law, but it's in the person and work of Christ. Let's bow our hearts together for prayer, please. Father, I pray that you'd help us as we look at this concept of the law again next week. That as we get into the specifics of this passage in front of us. that you'd help us to understand the good uses of the law that are provided, the intention behind why you gave us. These commandments. What it reveals about us and about you and about salvation, what it reveals about our growth into Christ's likeness. I pray that you'll help us to understand these things and live in the light of them. Them.