Well tonight we're continuing our study in 2 Samuel. Braxton got us back into it last week. And in this message we'll be focusing on chapter 6 of 2 Samuel, primarily mostly the first third of the chapter. We will back up a little bit in the chapter 5 and some other things, just a little bit. 2 Samuel chapter 6. And tonight we're gonna look at something that seems rather obvious, but yet something that I think we often overlook or struggle with ourselves. In 2 Samuel 6, we're going to look at using God 's word to obey God. Sounds really simple. But sometimes in our flesh it's more challenging than what it first appears. But using God's word to obey God, we'll read our text in 2 Samuel chapter 6. Starting with verse number one. Again, David gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, 30,000. And David arose and went with all the people that were with him from Baal of Judah to bring up from thence the ark of God, whose name is called by the name of the Lord of hosts that dwelleth between the cherubims. They set the ark of God upon a new cart, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in Gibeah. And Uzzah and Ahio The sons of Abinadab drave the new cart, and they brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which is in Gibeah, accompanying the ark of God. And I I keep wanting to say Ohio. And I know that's not right, so I got it out. I did the same thing at the mission on Friday, I tell you. So if I say Ohio, I mean this guy All right. So he went before the ark, the brother, the son of Inadab. Okay, so they're driving the car. We got it, two guys. Verse 5. Back to where we're at. And David and all the house of Israel played before the Lord all manner of instruments made of fir wood, even on harps, and of salt trees, and on timbrels, and on coronets, and on cymbals. And they came to Nab they came to And Akon's threshing floor, Uzzah put forth his hand to the ark of God, and took hold of it, and the oxen shook it, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and God smote him there for his error. And there he died by the ark of God. And David was displeased because the Lord made a breach upon Uzzah, and he called the name of the place, Peres Uzzah, to this day. And David was afraid of the Lord that day and said, How shall the ark of the Lord come to me? Father, we thank you so much. For your word. And sometimes just in a moment through circumstances in life. I think everyone here this evening, and maybe even watching by way of streaming, they have a desire to know you, to spend time in your word, and to obey you. But there are times in life where We just let our sin nature rear its ugly head and we want to do things our way, and it can cause some frustration. And yet sometimes we think that we are doing what you want. But it's not according to your word. Father, would you help us this evening as we look through this text and some of these challenges? That you would just work in the hearts and minds of your people as we look through this text of Scripture this evening. And may it be all done to bring honor and glory to you. And we thank you through Christ's name. Amen. So using God's word to obey God. In the first couple verses, we're going to look how David is king over all Israel. We see this in the first two verses. I'm not going to read all those again. But he is a king over Israel, as we've been studying through. You know, we had Samuel and then Saul and now David. But I just want to back up just a little bit because it's kind of significant that David here is over all the tribes now as king. It didn't start that way. So I'm just going to back up and read a couple verses actually in chapter 5 and verse 1. In 2 Samuel 5, verse 1, it says, Then came all the tribes of Israel to David unto Hebron, and spake, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh. Also in time past, when Saul was king over us, that was he that led us out and brought us in Israel. And the Lord said unto thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be a captain over Israel. So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron, and King David made a league with them in Hebron before the Lord, and they anointed David king over Israel. David was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years over all Israel and Judah. So by the time we get to chapter six. He's establishing himself as king over all, not just in part, but now all of Israel. So he's gathering himself here. It's kind of like the new king. It's like the new quarterback or you know the new pastor or whatever. There's just some new and exciting things. And I think in David's excitement over all Israel, it may lead to some downfalls, as we'll see here in a little bit. But things are going well for him. If we continue on just a couple more verses in chapter five, I'm just kind of hitting some of the highlights to build us up to kind of get our context since we had missions month. But David is prospering, he's been seeking the Lord, he's defeating the Philistines, he's got a lot of things going for him. And in 2 Samuel 5, 12. It says, and David perceived that the Lord had established him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom for his people, Israel's sake. So David is recognizing God has placed him in this position. over all of Israel, and it's for their sake. And you skip down to verse 19. And David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go up to the Philistines with thou deliver them into mine hand? And the Lord said unto David, Go up, for I will doubtless deliver the Philistines into thine hand. So he's doing well over all Israel. He's Inquiring of the Lord, shall I go battle these Philistines? And God is like, Yes, we'll conquer. And you skip down to the last verse of chapter 5. And David did so, and the Lord commanded him and smote the Philistines. From Giba until thou come to Gazar. So David is established as king over all Israel. Everything's going really well. He's prospering in every way. And you can pause after chapter five and say, things are going great, wonderful. Certainly. This is a man after God's God's own heart. And he's finally being able to practice what God has prepared him for for all these years and running from his life and caves and all these things. And things are going very, very well as they appear. But then we keep on reading. And things kind of shift gears because by the time we get to verse 3 of chapter 6. As we just read through it at the beginning of our evening, you can just read over and think, okay, it doesn't seem like that big a deal, but I'm going to pick apart a couple little things here that are going to help us to understand the significance of what takes place here in verse. Number three of 2 Samuel chapter 6. So let's look at verse 3 again. Here it says, and they set the ark of God upon a new cart. And brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in Gibeah. So here in verses 3 and through 5, we're going to see they put the ark on a new cart. Why does this so significant? When you read through this, if you're not reading through your Bible and you're not thinking, you're what's the big deal here? So so they put it on a new cart. Why wouldn't you? And I think the intentions were good. David here, they're going to get the the uh ark of God and they're gonna bring it back and every David is very excited, he's trying to restore things the way they should And the ark is a wonderful picture of God's presence and of God's glory. And that would be very exciting to get back and to have in your possession and to be treated right. But in his excitement, I think David got a little impatient. Maybe a touch selfish, maybe just hurried and and caught up in the excitement of being a new king. But here. It says, when they set the ark upon a new cart. Very, very interesting. First off, I just want to go, what is this Ark here, because he says he set the ark of God upon a new cart. First off, I just want to look at the ark here in verse 3. As I said, it's it shows the presence and the glory of God. And we're going to see that Moses was instructed by God to build a sanctuary to represent God's presence. We see this in Exodus 25, verse 8. This is uh God speaking to Moses, giving him instructions. He's going to share about all the pieces of the tabernacle and all these things. So as they travel around, basically God's presence can be known and seen among them. And in Exodus 25, 8, it says, and let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them. And what's interesting is in the description of this. A couple of verses later, the first piece that is mentioned as God is giving instructions to Moses is this ark. It's a box. Okay, it's a box, and they're gonna overlay it with gold. But look at this, I think it's kind of interesting. It's the first one mentioned. In Exodus 25, 10, just a couple verses later. And they shall make an ark of shitam wood, two cubits and a half shall be length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. It's just the first piece that's mentioned when he talks about God dwelling among his people. And we're going to look at some more specifics about the ark here in a little bit. Another thing I just want to insert right here is as it's mentioned, the Ark of God in verse 3 here. It's very interesting that the Ark of God was only mentioned once during the whole reign of Saul. Only once. Here at the beginning, as David is establishing himself over all Israel and things are going well, the ark comes up pretty quickly. But only once is it mentioned during the whole reign of Saul. And I just think that in itself is showing that Saul was picked because of how he looks, and that's what the people People demanded, they w and they they got what they asked for. And here's the verse in 1 Samuel 14, 18. And Saul, son to Ahiah, bring hither the ark of God, for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel. So by the time God is using the penmen here, obviously the ark of God was not in Israel, but here he's saying at that time We still had it. And Saul calls for it. That's the only mention during his whole reign of the Ark of God. Pick and keep in mind, the Ark of God pictures it's the presence. It's where God would dwell between the cherubims, which we will see And it's not only just the presence of God, but the glory of God. So just an interesting note there And I want to focus on this with the glory of the Lord very quickly as we look at this ark of God and why would David seek this pretty early. The glory of the Lord with the Ark of the Covenant. In Exodus 40 and in verse 34 and 35, we read this. Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation. congregation, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle, and Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation, because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. In Exodus 25, verse 22, and there I will meet with thee and will commune with thee from above the mercy seat. This the mercy seat is above on top of the Ark of the Covenant there. between the two cherubs which are upon the ark of the testimony of all the things which I give the commandment to the children of Israel. So this presence of God, this glory of the Lord is pictured as being between these two cherubs. That is like the the top of this box, this ark of God. And so it's the presence of God. We're seeing it's the glory of God. I want to give a couple more just to help give pictures. Why would David go seek this gold-covered box? Don't think he can just make another one. Notice this is very, very significant. In Numbers 7, and when Moses was gone into the tabernacle of the congregation to speak with him, then he heard the voice of one speaking unto him. Off the mercy seat, who was upon the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubs, and he spake unto him. Once again, on the ark of God between the cherubims, Psalm ninety one, I'm sorry, Psalm ninety-nine, verse one And the Lord reigned, and let the people tremble. He sitteth between the cherubims. Let the earth be moved There's a similar reference to that in Psalm 80, verse 1, if you want to look that up. Very similar. So we have this ark of God that is representing and shows a dwelling place of God, God's presence. We've seen that with his presence it shows the glory of God. This is why a very large man, when he heard that was taken, fell back and broke his neck and died. It was a very significant, it wasn't just a box covered with gold, it was much more than that. So we see some of the importance just throughout uh these the Old Testament of why David would go get this ark of God So he does this in verse 3, and he set the ark of God upon a new cart. Now I mentioned this earlier. Why is it significant that he would mention But it was put on a new cart. I think in the excitement of everything, and he wanted to do things uh right And he wanted to do things new. You know, a lot of times you want to change things. Well, here David. Was not supposed to, and he knew this, was not supposed to put on a new cart. But why do you think he would put the ark of God, which he knew, and which certainly These two uh young men that are helping transport the ark, they would have learned this, they were uh Levites, they were not priests, but they were Levites. They would have been familiar with the Word of God on how to transport the Ark. But this is just some thoughts I had with why David would use a new car. I do think it's probably some of the excitement. I do think he was trying to Make this brand new and we're gonna transfer and it's gonna be a great thing, and he's getting these 30,000 men, and we're gonna play songs and we're gonna have a great time, and he's trying to do everything right. But here's the trick. He's trying to do the right thing. In the wrong way. He's trying to do the right thing in the wrong way. And that's why I'm saying we got to use God's word to obey God. You and I many times can think we're obeying God and doing right. Other people may agree with you and think you're doing right But does it line up with the Word of God? I think David may have been influenced by his time while he was in the Philistines. It's very possible. The ark was taken by the Philistines, and we know David lived there. How did the Philistines move it? They didn't know the Old Testament, they wouldn't have known what Moses commanded and what the law was. They just throw the thing on a cart and just move it. Work for them. Maybe David's like, well, I'll warn up them. I'm gonna build a brand new cart, specially designed. Nothing can happen to this thing. It'll be specifically designed, all brand new. Not made in China probably, but brand new to all this Ark of God. But going back. So he may have had some influence from the Philistines. And it was certainly taken by the Philistines. In 1 Samuel, I'm going to go look back a little bit more here, just to give some background to the Ark, because of the symbol of everything that it was. The Ark was taken by the Philistines. In 1 Samuel 4, verses 10 and 11. It says the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten. And they fled every man into his tent. And there was a great slaughter, for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen. And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, were slain. The Philistines understood the importance of the ark. And then in 1 Samuel 7, it says the men of Kirjatharim came and fetched up the ark of God. and brought it to the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eliezer his son to keep the ark of the Lord. I saw different numbers of how long it was there, I've seen twenty years, I've seen forty years. I didn't do the math, I'm just taking other people Word for it, but it was there, we'll say at least a couple of decades. It was there for a long time. So the Philistines had taken it, they got it back, but not where it should have been. So David, when he's using this new cart, it may have been influenced from his time in the Philistines. Maybe he's just trying to do something brand new, but he knew better. And what we're going to see here is The word of God can be very clear in certain areas. And there's areas that doesn't say, you know, you can't have cable TV or use a certain phone or doesn't mention anything about internet, okay? Had the Bible been written today, it might have said something more specifically about that, but we'll never know that because it's not done that way. But the point is the Bible is still very clear. But yet today we could be challenged. I am still sometimes just shocked with the clarity the Bible is between two genders and marriage between a man and a woman. Yet somehow that's confusing today And sometimes because of the way that we live in the world, it's almost like living in the Philistines. We start, oh, it's not that bad. It's okay. Not according to God's word, it's not. It's not okay. I'm not saying you run around and club them and beat them. That's not what I'm saying. But what I am saying is even things that we think would be no clear, the Bible has no questions about that. There's no Is there a third gender? Is there no man, woman, period. It's that simple. He created them in his own image. Genesis 1 and following But here David knew, and here we know that Abinadab would have known, his two sons would have known. what is the proper way to move the ark? I just want to look at this just briefly with some scripture. Because they think they're doing right. David thinks he's doing right. Obviously no one in his council noise said, um David had Did you think this through? No one's really questioning him. He's the new newer king over all Israel. They're just kind of exciting, just going to flow. Something like that. Very possible. But let's look at the proper way to move the ark without using a new cart that's pulled by oxen. In Exodus 25. It says, and thou shalt cast forth four rings. This is describing the Ark of the Covet being built. And it's describing, I'll just save a little time here. It's describing the Ark, and it's got four rings, one on each corner. And the whole point of these rings is because you were supposed to have these golden stabs, these bows, these stabs that you would stick through one on each side. And they were not to be removed from the ark. For the purpose of you weren't supposed to touch it. And when you moved it, you were not supposed to move it in any way. But priests. were to bear it up and carry it up on their shoulders on both sides of this with the rods. That's how you're supposed to carry it. So it describes this in Exodus 25. It describes these rings and the stags, how you're supposed to use them And then I do want to turn to this passage in Numbers 4. You don't have to turn there, I'll just read it. But when Aaron and his sons have made an end of covering the sanctuary and all the vessels of the sanctuary, as the campus set forth, after all the sons of Korah shall come to bear it. But they shall not touch any holy thing, lest They die. These things are burden to the sons of Korhath and to the tabernacle congregation. Later in Numbers 18, the Lord said unto Aaron , Thou and thy sons and thy father's house with thee shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary, and thou and thy sons With thee shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood. And the brethren also of the tribe of Levi, and the tribe of thy father, bring thou with thee, that they may be joined unto thee and minister unto thee But thou and thy sons with thee shall minister before the tabernacle of witnesses, and they shall keep the charge, and the charge of all the tabernacle. Only they shall not come nigh to the vessels of the sanctuary and the altar. Neither that neither they nor ye also die. And they shall be joined unto thee, and thou shalt keep charge of the tabernacle of the congregation. For all the service of the tabernacle, and the stranger shall not come nine to you. So basically he's saying you need to be a priest after the line of Aaron, and they need to be the ones that move it, and they're the ones that are in charge of all the tabernacle and the pieces and the assembling and the taking down. But listen, don't touch it. And only the priests started to move this. And if you do this, you'll be fine. If you obey God's word, everything will work out. But if you do it contrary to the word of God, the consequence is you shall die. Reminds me of Adam. You can do all these things, perfect world. I'm sure a beautiful wife. Nothing nowhere, there's nothing you can do except for don't eat from that fruit on that one tree right there. Anything else you can do. And if you do, the consequence is you shall die. Reminds me of that. But all this we're saying here. When they put this, when David constructed a new cart that was nice, I'm sure it was fancy, built with the best that Israel had to offer, I'm sure. And they're going to move this. This is a big deal. 30,000 people in this entourage to move this thing. And though it is a good thing, they would have known this scripture. We can try and do good things, but if we don't do it God's way, there are consequences. There can be challenges. Are we really trying to get the presence of God our way? Are we trying to glorify God how I think it should be? And this really happens a lot with how we worship in churches today, too. We'll do what draws people. We'll do what St. Mimi be. We're practical. But the question is, are we are yeah, we're we're a church, we're trying to obey God, but we're trying to obey God, is it with man's ideas? Especially if it's clear within Scripture, we should not, we cannot, we must not budge on the clear teaching of Scripture We cannot. David succumbed to this. Those around him would have known this. So as we read to this text We see, excuse me, we see that David is excited, they start moving the ark, all is going well. But then we get to verse 6. They're continuing to move this ark on this new cart, but as they're traveling along. Being pulled by oxen, it begins to rock. Either an ox stumbled, there was a bump, or rock on the road. I don't think they had nice paved roads like we do in Maryland. Okay, maybe they did, and it still bumped it around. Sorry. And so maybe for whatever reason, the ark began to shake. And in Uzzah's mind, he sees the ark, and it's going to fall, it's going to slip, and what does he do? He just doesn't go up and then just kind of pushes it and steadies it. That's kind of what I first had in my mind. But as I read this over and over again, in verse 6 says, he put forth his hand of the ark and took hold of it. For the oxen shook it. I mean he like grabbed this thing to steady it. He knew he had helped watch over this ark. He knew what the word of God said. Here's the situation I think that Uz, and then what happened? Some people then we read the next verse, and the Lord smote him. The Lord was angry at him in verse 7. And smote him there for his error. And he died by the ark of God. The idea there is he steadied this ark. He held on to it until it was steady again. And then it's like as soon as he let go of the ark, he dropped dead. And some people, I actually uh typed this online just to see really quickly. Some people are like, oh, that seems awful harsh. I mean the guy was just trying to help protect the furniture. And that could be your initial thought if you just read this text. But here's what happens when you try and serve God. When you try and obey God, that you're doing it in your way. You're doing it by what you think is best. It can lead to other challenges. Because of David's decision to do it his way with a new cart, that is what allowed Uzzah to be put in a situation where he felt he had to steady the ark. So I don't want to put all the blame on Uzzah here. I mean he yes he did no better, but I think he was put in position, and we need to keep in mind as fathers, as employers. If you have people anyone that has people under you, even children under you, are you putting them in a situation that's like a no-win situation? We're trying to do it our way and with what we said we should do. So we see here in verses 6 through 11, does that he takes hold of the ark. He was a Levite. He should have known better. He would have been familiar with these things. The Lord smote him. And then look how David responds. David was displeased. This word displeased mean he was hot. He was furious. Actually, it's translated kindle the lot He was very angry, we'll put it that way. This is like when your face turns red and you know all the blood vessels are sticking out your neck and you just can't wait to punch something or tell someone what you're really thinking. I I get the picture, that's what's going on here. David is very displeased. He's very furious. And because of this, maybe he was Mad because he knew better, maybe he was angry, like God I'm trying to do it your way, or I'm trying to you know do what you want. I'm trying to get the ark back uh where it should be in the city that you've allowed me to reign over, over your people and and your na with this nation, and this guy drops dead. Maybe he just understands. Maybe he is getting convicted. I didn't do this right. I'm not sure. But he was very, very displeased. He was very upset. And the reason why he said is because in verse 8, the Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah. Why is it that when something doesn't go our way, We have an expectation. That expectation is not met. So we get angry. We get frustrated. Because we have something that we think it should happen in this way and in this timeline, it doesn't happen. So we react in anger. And sometimes When we do this, then we acknowledge God because we want to blame him for what has happened. God, why did you do this? Well, I've given you clear teaching and instruction on this. Why did you not obey? What kind of God would he be if he said, if you touch this, you will die? And then you touch it and you don't die. God is a perfect balance of mercy, grace, and justice. And what kind of God would we be if he always just allowed something as clear instruction as this not to happen? Sometimes in our minds we want to justify ourselves. We want to blame God and give Him credit for something that it really should be on me. Sometimes even our ABBI class, we're like, well, well the devil made me do it. Sometimes I think we give him too much credit. I really do. Why did I do what I should have done? And yet we'll give him credit when it doesn't go our way. Because the Lord, he blamed the Lord, but made a breach upon Uzzah, and he called the name of it Peres Uzzah. And that Periz-Uzzah just literally means breach unto Uzzah. that means unto this day. But the good news is, if we look at verse 9, David was afraid of the Lord that day. Sometimes when there's consequence, it reminds me of my children when they were younger and we were in more in the spanking routine. If you discipline one child and the rest of them know it, do you know what happens the other three? In my case it was the other three, do you know what happens to the other children? Oh, hey, yep, yes, dad, yes, mom, yes, sir, yes, please, no, thank you. And they do this and they do it, and they just hop right to it, and they get going. They want to obey. Why? Because they're afraid of the consequence I don't just want I don't want what happened to them. And sometimes it's really bad when they all are involved in like a similar thing and they have to take their turns. That's probably horrible. I remember those days. But I was all of the oldest, so I always got it first, so that was good, I guess. But with this happening and God allowing the circumstances of taking other life For disobeying the clear teaching of Word of God, which David allowed and put him in that situation, shame on David. Uh should have known better. He shouldn't have touched it. This whole thing was a giant mess. And you know what sin does? Sin complicates things. And if you don't do things God's way and you're trying to do it your way, it's like, okay, I I did this problem and I had this problem, and then then you go running to Pastor, Pastor, I've got this problem. And Pastor 's mind is going, you got lots of problems. Where do I start? Because it's been sometimes, I don't mean that bad way, I mean it's for all of us. Because sometimes what happens is we're trying to do something right, but it might be days, it might be weeks, it might be months. And sometimes we don't realize how bad it is. It's like being in the middle of a tornado. Everything's going great. Everything's fine. Yeah, if you're in the exact middle of a hurricane or tornado, yeah, it's very peaceful. But you step outside that a little bit, it's a mess. And there's destruction. So when David was afraid, that is actually a good thing. It helped them recognize, whoa, this is the ark of God. This is the very presence of God. This is the very glory of God. This is not something to be taken lightly. This is something of huge, massive importance that we need to be careful with. And I'm sure I'd like to think that David went back and said, I want to make sure everything is done exactly right. And he did. I skipped this passage earlier, but I'm going to say this now. In 1 Chronicles 15, the good news is David was so afraid that later when he went to get the ark, listen to what he did. He took the word of God and he dotted every I and he crossed every T and he's trying to do it right. And we see this in 1 Chronicles 15. I don't remember if it's in my notes or not. But in starting with verse 11, and David called for Zadak and Abathar the priests, and for the Levites. So he's getting priests. Very good, David. And then he lists them. And the chief fathers, sanctify yourselves, you and your brethren, that ye may bring up the ark of the Lord. We are getting priests. Levites, priests, and they are gonna carry the ark. Very good. And then it goes on in 1 Chronicles 15. And he says, to bring the ark of the Lord God of Israel unto the place that I have prepared for it. Now not only is he using priests, to bear the ark the way as it should. He even has a place prepared so when it gets there, it's already ready. They can put it in place and leave it. So there's no other uzes. For because he did not at first. So this is in 1 Chronicles. David here, by the time you get to verse 13 of 1 Chronicles 15, he is recognizing I did wrong. And this is another reminder of another statement that David is a man after God's own heart. It's not that we make mistakes and we beat ourselves up and we think, oh, I can't ever do this. A just man is the one that falls seven times and does what? Rises up again. We are all sinners. You know what? You're gonna make mistakes. You're gonna mess up. You're not gonna do things right, Father. Mother, you're not going to make the greatest decision for your children every time. Or for yourself. The question is not, am I going to mess up? It's will I learn from it? Will I correct? Will I take God's judgment and have a fear of God to change to be more godly? So in this case, using God's word to obey God. It continues. He says, because ye did it not at first, the Lord God made a breach upon us. See, he's kind of he did this to us. For that we sought him not after the due order. God, I am sorry. Your word is clear, the instruction is plain, and I didn't do what you instructed me to do, and now Uzzah's wife. has to deal with that. His family. Those siblings. His father. His brother. So the priests and the Levites in verse 14 of 1 Chronicles 15. So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel. And the children of the Levites bear the ark of God upon their shoulders, with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the word of the Lord. They did exactly what God said. And you know what happens? It worked. It works! Imagine that! We obey God and it works just like He said. But why is it that you and I struggle with? Yeah, I know God's word says that, but I'm gonna do it this way. I'm gonna build me a new cart. What is your new cart? How are you trying to serve God? So David was afraid of the Lord, but ended up leading to correcting his mistakes, to wanting to do things right. Very quickly, just so we can say we made it through the whole chapter. The Ark of God is moved successful. We see this in verses 12-23, and don't worry, it's very quick. We see the house of Obed is blessed in verse 12. So and this is we're kind of going backwards. I went with they got it successfully, but now in between there, okay, going back to 2 Samuel 6 and verse 12. So they leave it at the ark there in Obed's house. His house is being blessed. And here's what I see. This is a picture of the grace and wonder of God. Wow, Obed, he's being blessed. This is about three months later, and you know what David is thinking? Oh, that's a good thing. I mean God's not gonna strike us dead. I know we messed up, and you know when you make a mistake, you're more hesitant the second time You know it's like your kids when they're little and they go to the doctor and then they get shot and they realize what it is and they're like, I don't want to go there. Why do I want to do that? They're learning. I don't want to do that. But if they get the lollipop or something afterwards, it might be worth it. You know, oh okay, there might be a reward here, okay? So the the thing here is they learn and so when the house of Obed is being blessed David is seeing this probably as a sign of grace of God and his blessing of hey it must be time to go get the ark again. God, you you know I want to do it, but instead of getting in a frantic hurry and just look, let's build another cart, you know what he does Let's make sure we do it exactly as God has instructed. I knew better. And now we're going to do it right. And it signals it with great gladness. They move it with gladness, as we see. And it says, I love in verse 13, where it says, they that bear the ark. They that bear the ark. Not the oxen, not the new cart, the priests. These Levite priests are bearing the ark on their shoulders with the stabs, not touching it, just like they're supposed to. Wonderful. And then there's a great celebration. We see this in verses 14 through 19. They're all kinds of celebrating and we'll see probably a bit on the too much of a celebration. But there's shouting and there's trumpets and there's dancing and there's offerings. Great celebration. The challenge comes in at the very end. When Michael, in verse 16, she harbors some things in her heart and she despises David. And probably rightly so. I didn't see what she saw out the window, but it didn't sound the greatest, okay? But She was upset and I think she harbored in her heart. So then when she had an opportunity, okay, my husband comes home. Now I'm gonna let him have it. Probably not a good time This is just a hint of practicality. You know, if your husband comes home from a long day at work and I know you've had a long day with the kids But blasting him immediately when he walks the door with all of your days challenges with the kids and whatever happened is probably not a good de time. Feed the guy first. Give him some give him a break or something. And then talk to him about it. It might, this is just a practical, okay, this is just a practical foot with Michael and David here It might go better for you. Just a practical words of wisdom there, okay? Because he probably had a rough day at work. He's probably ready to take that phone and chuck it and strangle the guy that he works with and who knows what else. Okay So so Michael's mad, she harbors these things, David comes home and she just lets him have it. Just lets him have it. And uh basically they never have any kids and uh their relationship is probably never the same and it doesn't go well. And some of that is probably justifiable. And the way David probably danced, yeah, it was probably not great at it, and you can explain that to your kids and wherever else in that last part of the chapter. But the point here at the end is the arc was moved successfully. And it happened because David learned from his mistake, feared God enough to use God's word to obey God. Would that be true with us? Father, we thank you and praise you so much for this passage of Scripture. And David truly was a man after God's own heart, but he did make mistakes. But because he was a man after God's own heart, he would seek you, he'd ask you for forgiveness, he would try and make things right. And really the simple truth here for us. If we just trusted you enough to obey your word, to do what you said, it would spare us so many scars and challenges of sin in our life. Would we do our best to heed your word, to obey it, and not just to hear it, but be doers of it. Father, with your grace and mercy, and yet even with your judgment from time to time, Would you help us to walk with you in the ways of your word, even when it may seem challenging and difficult? And we thank you once again for this lesson that we can learn from David And would you help us, each one of us, to leave with your presence and your grace and desiring to be obedient to your word? And we come to you through Christ's name. Amen.