Of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and we are back in Luke chapter 6. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. And let's look together at these verses. We are in Luke 6 and we're looking at verses 6 through 11. It says, And it came to pass also on another Sabbath that he entered into the synagogue and taught. And there was a man whose right hand was withered, and the scribes and Pharisees watched him whether he would heal on the Sabbath day. that they might find an accusation against him. But he knew their thoughts, and said to the men, which had his hand withered, Rise up, stand forth in the midst, and he arose and stood forth Then Jesus said unto them, I will ask you one thing. Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil? To save life or to destroy it? And looking round about upon them all, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. He did so, and his hand was restored whole as the other. And they were filled with madness and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus. This is a fascinating passage of Scripture. And we need to understand that what Jesus is doing is both an extremely deliberate act and it's also extremely provocative. And so the question we should ask is, why did Jesus do this? Well, to understand why Jesus did this, we need to recognize that it's connected to what happened just a few verses before. where Jesus makes a startling statement that he is the Lord of the Sabbath, meaning that he has the right to dictate what is right and what is wrong on the Sabbath, because he's the one who created it. And if Jesus is claiming to be the Lord of the Sabbath, he's also claiming to be the creator in flesh. And so this miracle that we're going to talk about this morning is connected to that statement. I'm the Lord of the Sabbath. So the question we're going to ask first of all is how would we summarize the verses in front of us? Let me give you the following statement. The miracle in front of us was meant to validate Christ's claim to be the Lord of the Sabbath, meaning he is the creator in flesh. That's what this miracle is all about. Yes, it's true that Jesus is showing mercy on an individual. And this man who had a withered hand is going to have a hand that's restored. It's going to really improve his quality of life. We understand that Jesus is demonstrating his power, his ability to heal. But there's more to it than that. It's more than just an act of mercy. Jesus could have performed this act of mercy. In a secret place where the person's life is benefited, but nobody knows about it. And Jesus has already done things like this in other passages that we've read. Jesus is doing this deliberately in the public for a reason. And so let's go ahead and break this down a little bit this morning and try to understand the implications and really how this miracle that we're witnessing today in this text is something that that shows us a pattern that we see in the Bible. The first fact is this Christ's statement about his authority was true. But it was not yet validated. Notice what it says in verse 5. He said to them that the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath. That was the statement recorded just a few verses before what we're reading this morning. Jesus is demonstrating on another day that in fact he's the Lord of the Sabbath. Now when I say that his minute or his his authority was not yet validated, That is true in a sense, but there's also a sense in which really it's not completely true. Jesus' ministry had been validated. But at that moment the statement that he made needed to be confirmed for the people. And I guess in some sense it didn't have to be confirmed. I mean there was enough evidence already of who Jesus was for the people to understand who he was But he's going to demonstrate the validity of the statement that he's made about his relationship to the Sabbath. Now, I mentioned earlier that we see a pattern in the Bible where God gives a message through an individual. And then he validates that message. This is something that we see repeated over and over, particularly in the Old Testament. In fact, when we talk about the Old Testament prophet, we see that in the book of Deuteronomy. There were certain laws that were meant to govern whether or not a person could actually be viewed as a prophet or not. If someone made the statement, Thus saith the Lord, God says There had to be evidence that what they were saying was in fact from God. One of the evidences that would happen was it would be conformed to for uh uh previous information that God had given. In other words, there wouldn't be contradiction. They wouldn't be leading a person astray to serve another God. This was part of what the Mosaic Law understood for a person who was a prophet. But another thing that we see in the Old Testament is that many times the person would make a prediction or there would be some kind of miraculous sign that would coincide with the statement that was made. The reason for that miraculous sign was meant to validate the message that was being presented. It was to confirm that in fact this is God 's message. This is God's messenger. This is a legitimate prophet of God. So we see this kind of a thing happening in the Old Testament. We see that Moses ' ministry was validated by signs and wonders when he was leading the people out of Egypt. We see people like Elijah, people like Elisha, who are performing miracles to validate their ministry. So this is not a foreign concept in the Bible. In fact, when the apostles were spreading the gospel throughout all of the Roman Empire, there were signs that accompanied the apostles, and Paul talks about that in 1 Corinthians. When Jesus sends out his disciples, they were able to perform signs and wonders. These are things that we understand happened all throughout the Old Testament and then into the early period where the church is being formed. This is a biblical pattern. Divine authority is demonstrated by assigned gift many times. Well, Christ's ministry was validated as well. In fact, there were several ways that Christ's ministry was validated. The first that I think is the most important is that the Old Testament prophets were giving information that was to anticipate the nature of Christ's ministry and who he actually was. Those promises or those prophecies, however you want to articulate that, they really are kind of both in the same. Some are promising in the sense that this is going to happen. Some are prophecies in the sense that this is going to confirm that when this happens, this was already stated. But every jot and every tittle of the Old Testament prophecies have been fulfilled in Christ, or we are anticipating them because they have eschatological significance. We see a second validation of Christ's ministry, and that was the ministry of John the Baptist. Now John the Baptist was someone who was predicted by the prophet Isaiah And then we see that John the Baptist comes and he actually points people to the Lord Jesus Christ's ministry. We also see that each of the three persons of the Godhead validate the ministry of Jesus of Nazareth. In other words, the Son actually states, this is who I am, and he demonstrates who he is. The Father says, this is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. And the Holy Spirit descended on the Lord Jesus Christ at his baptism to demonstrate, to authenticate that this is in fact the Messiah. And so when we look at the baptism of Christ, what do we see? We see John saying, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. We see the Father saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I'm well pleased. We see the Holy Spirit descending on him as a dove. So what we see is that Christ's ministry was validated. validated by angels who came and said, He's going to be born, he's been born to you this day in the city of David, the Savior Christ the Lord. We see people like Simeon and Anna also demonstrating by their words that Jesus is the Messiah. So there was so much information that should have confirmed for people that Jesus is in fact the Messiah. But what we see is that Jesus also performed specific miracles. that were meant to validate his person and his work. This passage of scripture is an example of that. Some of the miracles that Jesus performed demonstrate he has power over sickness, demonstrated that he has the power to forgive sins. demonstrated that he has power over creation, over nature. This is demonstrating that his statement, I'm the Lord of the Sabbath is in fact a valid statement. It is true. Jesus is the Lord of the Sabbath, meaning that he is God in flesh. The Creator has come to dwell amongst his people fully God, fully man, the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies regarding his person and work. The second fact that we're going to see this morning Is that the miracle was both deliberate and provocative. When I say provocative, it was meant to make people think And it forced them to choose a side. Do I believe that Jesus is the Messiah or do I reject that he's the Messiah? Do I embrace the message that he's preaching or do I reject the message that he's preaching Because of the public nature and the way that it was performed, Jesus is forcing people to take aside. And he's demonstrating that they need to take the side of he's the Messiah, his message is true. Notice how he puts it, how the text uh puts it in verses 7 through 10. And the scribes and Pharisees watched him, whether he would heal on the Sabbath day, that they might find an accusation against him. But he knew their thoughts. And said to the man which had a withered hand, Rise up, stand forth in the midst. Literally, stand up in front of these people. I'm about to do something. I'm going to prove a point. It says that he rose, it stood in, stood forth and arose, and then Jesus said unto them, meaning the religious leaders. I will ask you one thing. Is it lawful on the Sabbath day to do good or to do evil? To save life or to destroy life? Looking round about them, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he did so, and his hand was restored whole as the others. What's Jesus doing He's making a point. He's trying to get a response. Jesus is basically saying, I'm going to prove to all of you that are sitting here today and you are scoffers And you are in rebellion, rejecting the truth, you're suppressing the truth. I'm going to demonstrate to you that in fact I'm the Messiah. I am the one who is the Lord of the Sabbath, and I have the right to dictate what is right and wrong on this day, because I created this day and I know the intent. for which I created this state. And I'm going to demonstrate that in a way that's undeniable in your midst. The third fact that we're going to see, and this is a very interesting observation, I think. Is that an unbelieving response is both illogical and it's rooted in rebellion, not a lack of evidence The reason that these people rejected Christ's person and his work and his message had nothing to do with a lack of evidence It was all about rejection of what they knew to be true. It was rebellion. So what we see is that it was illogical. It made no sense I mean, when you were the one who witnessed these events and you have the Old Testament, you have John's ministry, you have all of these witnesses confirming, validating Christ's person and work. How can you reject those things? It doesn't make sense. The only answer is you have rebellion in your heart and you don't want to face the truth. It's not that you're unaware of the truth. It's not that you don't have enough information to have confirmation it's true. It's that you don't want the truth. And folks, that's really why people reject Christ. People reject Christ not because there isn't enough evidence, but because they don't want to come face to face with the realities of what that gospel means. They don't want to face the reality of their sinfulness. They don't want to face the reality of God's Lordship and His right to dictate what is right and what is wrong. They don't like the idea that they're not the center of the universe, but it's God. And they're merely a creature, not the creator. People don't like that reality. They don't want God to say, this is right and this is wrong and this is holy and this is unrighteous. They don't want to come face to face with that And we see that demonstrated in the reaction of these people. But the way that these people responded to Jesus It's just one amongst untold examples of people's rejection of Christ's person, work, and message. He says in verse 11, they were filled with madness. and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus. You say, Why would they respond in such a way? Why would they have hatred? Why would they be plotting to somehow eliminate Christ? He just performed this wonderful miracle. He's the fulfillment of all these Old Testament prophecies. Why in the world would these people have such an angry, hateful, wicked response to Jesus? And the answer is, it's called rebellion. People reject the truth, not because of a lack of evidence, but because of rebellion in their heart. And that leads me to my final, what I think is the most practical takeaway from this section. What you see demonstrated in Luke chapter 6 is what Paul wrote about in Romans chapter 1. Listen to what the Bible teaches. It says, the righteousness of God is revealed. From faith to faith, the just shall live by faith. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and all unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth in unrighteousness. Now that statement is a really interesting statement. When it says that they hold the truth, the question is, is they hold it up to their face to look at, or is it that they hold it down to suppress it? Well the answer is they hold it down to suppress it. People know the truth. They're exposed to the truth, and they press it down and they push it away. They don't want to come face to face with the realities. of who God is and what the implications of God's character are. And it says that they suppress the truth or they hold the truth in unrighteousness. The reason that people suppress the truth and the reason that they hold it down and the reason that they reject it is because within their heart is a love for sin. It's like what Jesus said in John chapter 3. Men love darkness rather than light than light because their deeds are evil. And they won't come to the light lest their deeds are reproved, exposed, shown to be what they are. People have a knowledge of God, but this knowledge of God rubs against the grain of their nature. that doesn't like God's character and so they suppress that truth and unrighteousness. He says That God has made known or manifest himself unto them. God hath showed it to them. The invisible things from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Folks, people know that things that have order, things that are built, are built by somebody who has intelligence Someone who has a mind, someone who has the the power to actually do it. When we hold a cell phone, we know that there are people that manufactured it and people that designed it, and people that painstakingly put labor and time and energy into making that product. When we look at this world that we live in, we have to walk away with one simple conclusion. Somebody made this Somebody who has infinite wisdom and infinite power and someone who's outside of time and someone who believes in morality created this world. There is a sense of a knowledge of God. And the truth is that people suppress that truth. It's not something that's that's unable to be known. It's something that we can know. It's something that we should know. It's something that we press away from ourselves. And so he says that what people do is they don't glorify God as God, but become unthankful. And they're vain and their hearts become vain and their foolish hearts become darkened. That's what the Bible teaches. So folks, I want you to realize that when we think about the text in front of us, it demonstrates that when God gave information about who he was, people often rejected it. Not because the evidence wasn't there. but because their hearts were biased against the truth. And so folks, when we talk about what is before us, it reminds us That conversion, salvation, it's a miracle. The fact is that when God breaks that stubborn heart that is callous and hardened towards him , When God convicts a sinner of sin and righteousness and judgment, and he brings them to repentance so that they see the cross of Christ. and has shed blood on that cross and his resurrection and his righteousness as their one and only hope to stand before God, and they see the glorious gospel not as something that they hate and despise. But as something that is lovely and something that demonstrates God's incredible grace and love for humanity, when people go from rebellion to repentance, from unbelief to faith, That's a miracle of God. It's a demonstration of the power of the gospel. And when you and I give the gospel to people, we have the privilege of witnessing God do his work in people who are rebels. who are humbled by the gospel and become saints by the power of the work of the Spirit of God. I want you to realize that when we talk about the gospel and salvation , Repentance, regeneration, faith. We're talking about a wonderful demonstration of God's grace and God's love and God's mercy. And so if you're listening to this message this morning as a believer, I want you to realize this is a time to just praise God in humility and gratefulness that he has brought us to see these wonderful truths. so that we can repent and believe on Christ. And for those of you who might be listening and say, I don't even know what you're talking about. Gospel, what is this? I want to encourage you, reach out. I want you to realize that the Bible gives clear evidence to validate the authority of the message. Jesus is the Messiah. He really died for your sins. He really rose from the dead. There is a hope that you can be saved through the work that Jesus has done for you. And so if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, I want to encourage you. Turn to him. Trust in his finished work. If you don't understand the gospel, reach out so that we can go through the message and God can work in your heart through the explanation of the scriptures of what Jesus has done for you. Hope that this has been an encouragement to you. This is a wonderful text of Scripture. It blessed me as I thought about it this morning. Hope that you have a great weekend. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to reflect on such a wonderful text of Scripture. Use it in our hearts for your glory, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well hope that you have a great rest of your day and a wonderful weekend, and Lord willing we will meet again next week by now