Well let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to First Corinthians chapter thirteen again this evening. First Corinthians chapter thirteen, and we are looking at verses one through seven together. And we're really getting into what is the heart, no pun intended or intended, the heart of the issue of walking in Christian love. What is uh the the heart of this passage. And so let's go ahead and pick up in verse number one, and then we're going to work our way to verse seven. And my goal is not to get into some of the controversies about When tongue ceases and prophecy and all that tonight, that's going to be another night because I really want us to focus in on what I think Paul really wants us to take away, and that is how to how to live like a Christian. How to walk in Christian love. So, 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verse 1. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels. and have not charity, I am become a sounding brass or a tinkling symbol. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, And though I have all faith so that I can remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemly. Seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth. Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things To put this in simple terms, God wants us to walk in Christian love. And we need to know what that looks like. We need to know what that means. In fact, when we use the term Love today , people tend to think of love as simply sentimentality. They think of love as a soft emotional um response, there's no background back backbone, there's no spine, there's no principle associated with it. It's just being guided by your feelings. And that is obviously not what the Apostle Paul means when he says you need to walk in Christian love. So what's very helpful to us is that Paul takes this concept. And he breaks it down into very simple terms that we all can understand if we have the heart to do that. So this passage breaks down into three simple parts. First of all, he he talks about why is the Christian to walk in love. Why is this so important? Verses 1 through 3. The second part is what does it look like practically to walk in love? And then the third part, which we're not going to get into tonight, but we'll deal with another night, is what sets apart love from all the other virtues. He says, now abides faith, hope, charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity. We're going to get into verses 8 through 13 because this gets into this question of uh tongues and prophecy and when do they fail and cease and all those different kinds of things. To me, I want us to table that discussion and focus in really intently on verses four through seven so that we don't we could say not walk in love as we argue about what those verses mean. Okay? So that's what we're gonna do tonight. We're gonna look at part one and two. Why is Christian love so important? And then secondly, what does it look like practically to walk in love? So the first section, we could say it like this. Christian service is hollow. It's empty. It's vanity if it is done without Christian love. So it's not just about what we do But it's what's driving it, what's motivating it, what's supporting it. And so this is how he puts it in verses 1 through 3. Though I, and we talked about this last week, He really personalizes this. He says, though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not charity, I am become a sounding brass or a tinkling. symbol, though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, though I have all faith so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing. Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, though I give my body to be burned and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Now there are five things that Paul says, if I do them. But I don't do them in love, then they are without true value. Not to say that people don't benefit from those things. They most certainly can't. If someone is starving and you give them a meal and they eat that meal and that meal strengthens and sustains them, they are blessed by that. But if your motive was not pure, if your motive was not love, when God evaluates that action, he's not asking, did it benefit this person? It did. The question is, was there true value in it from his perspective? Because what he thinks is what really matters. What what we think or how other people perceive it, that's really not and the final analysis was the most important. So notice the different things he talks about. First of all, he talks about speaking in tongues. Though I speak with tongues of men and of angels. He's not saying that people speak in one language and animals speak or animals angels speak in another. Every single time angels communicated, they They communicated in human language. Okay? So he's talking about the gift of tongues, which was a real gift operating in the church. And that gift, he says, if I have the ability to do this, which he most certainly does But I'm not doing it in love, then I am a sounding brass clang or a tinkling cymbal. I'm just noise. That's all I am He mentioned, secondly, speaking prophetically. And we know that when Paul talks about speaking prophetically, he's saying, I am actually receiving a message from God And I'm communicating that message for God to you for your good. So we know that speaking prophetically has real value to people who are hearing that message. By the way. We know that when Balaam was on the road, an animal talked to him. God can even use a donkey, okay? So God can use anybody that he wants to communicate. We know that Saul prophesied. And I don't mean the Apostle Paul before he became Paul. I'm talking about King Saul. He prophesied. God spoke through lots and lots of different individuals. Interestingly, he spoke through Balaam. And so God can use whoever he wants. There can be benefit to people through that instrument. But what does he say? Though I have the gift of prophecy, I understand all mysteries. We defined that on Sunday. This is information that is true but not fully revealed, and now it's being more f more thoroughly explained. Though I have this understanding of mystery and knowledge, if I don't do this in love, I'm nothing. He goes on and talks about faith against the impossible odds. He says, though I have all faith so that I can remove mountains and have not charity or love, I'm nothing. And I think that when Paul makes this statement, faith that can remove mountains, he's actually referring back to what Jesus is talking about in the Gospels. And Jesus isn't saying like if you believe you can move a mountain, you can move a mountain. That's not what he's getting at. There were some very specific things in each of those contexts that were going on. And those things seemed to be humanly impossible. And the disciples say, why can't we do this? Or how could this ever be done? And Jesus basically says, if you had this kind of a faith, you could remove this. specific mountain that's right in front of you. And the point that he's trying to make is the seemingly impossible God can work through it when you trust him. But what does he say? Even if I have that kind of faith, if I don't have love, I'm nothing. The fourth thing he mentions is a radical self-sacrifice, so I bestow all my goods to feed the poor. It profits me nothing. And by the way, this isn't just I gave somebody a dollar when I was driving in Baltimore City to be nice to them. Or I went and I served at the Baltimore Rescue Mission one night. Notice what he says. I bestow all of my goods to feed the poor. I literally take everything that I own, I sell it, I break it down to money, and I distribute it to people that need it. I'm willing to go with nothing so that these people can be benefited. He says if you would take that level of sacrifice, but you don't do it in love, it has no profit. Crazy And then the last one he mentions, martyrdom. Though I give my body to be burned and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Notice Paul doesn't say if you do this, he says if I do this. So his point should be very clear. Five actions that would would be considered noble or a demonstration in their mind of spirituality. And he says, if I do those things and I don't have love, They don't benefit me at all. They do not give me any clout before God. They do not earn me any favors in God's courtroom. Those things have no value in that system. So three things to observe about this. Hollow action. The first is this, if I do these things without love, I'm just making noise. And by the way, I would say kind of obnoxious noise. A clanging gong. I mean like in other words, when God looks at it, he's like, you think I'm impressed with that? Doesn't have any value to me. He he makes secondly the statement, it doesn't give me any genu genuine credibility. He says, I'm nothing. Now other people may look at you and say, Man, what an amazing servant of God. And look at those things that you're doing for God, and God's like, you think I'm impressed by that? Like, gives you no credibility in my courtroom, man. It doesn't give you anything. And then thirdly, it doesn't secure eternal reward. It profits me nothing. So what he's basically saying is this, all of those things that I've mentioned, if I do them without love. It's just noise, gives me no credibility, it earns me no favor before God. That has no lasting eternal value. Not that God can't use it. But there's not true value. It's empty. And so we can conclude on this point. Genuine Christian virtue has to always be driving Christian service. We should always strive to serve from the heart with pure motives. And I know that I kind of talked about this a little bit last week. And kind of broke it down and said, hey, we're we're growing and we always fall short and sometimes we we divert, we need to get back on track. I I'm I'm I'm I'm I know that that's all there, but the idea is that the The striving should not be so much about how we look and what we do, but doing it with the right heart. And when the heart is in the right place and it's being guided by principle, then what's going to happen is the action is going to follow that properly. In other words, we need this in the right order. We start with the affection, we start with the mind, and we start with the thinking. Worship flows out of thinking properly about God, and service should also flow out of that as well. Second thing I want us to notice, and this is where we'll spend the heart of our time, genuine Christian love is more than action alone or sentimentality. Like a Hallmark card. Do you like Hallmark cards? I don't because they're so expensive. Ten dollars for a card? I mean like come on man Like I remember we had 33 cent candies and you know a dollar card or something like that. Some of you are like, I remember when the card was like 25 cents or something. It's like eight, nine, ten dollars at the safeway Oof, unbelievable. But the problem is it's sentimentality. Like where is the real value and where's the real substance to a lot of the things That people think of when they think of love. And the fact is that it's just pure emotion. Notice what he says in verses 4 to 7. Charity or love, Christian love, agape love, charity suffereth long. And is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity vauneth not itself. It's not puffed up. It does not behave itself unseemly. It seeketh not her own, it's not easily provoked, it thinketh no evil. It rejoiceth not in iniquity, but it rejoiceth in the truth. It bears all things, it believes all things, it hopes all things, it endures all things. So let's kind of step back and recognize that when Paul writes this, there's actually a very distinct order to what he's doing. In fact, the way that Paul is presenting this issue of love, the way that he's defining it, is the way that a lot of the Proverbs are set up. So we have, it's not this It's this. And so if we want to understand the concept, it's actually the combination of the negative and the positive together. Or sometimes you'll give a generalization and then he'll kind of flush it out more thoroughly with a couple of examples. In this we have a lot of it's not this, instead it's this. And so when Paul is doing this, he's trying to fill out this concept of love more thoroughly. So he doesn't want to be like, well, here's my You know, Webster's dictionary explanation of what love is. It's it's not this, it's this. It's not this, it's this. It's not this, it's this. It's all of And so when we talk about this self-sacrificing love, it is a rich, multi-faceted concept. And by the way, I do believe that the way he breaks this down is tailored specifically to the kinds of issues that were going on in the church. It'd almost be like if you were in a counseling session and and you were you were having an issue with somebody and they were having an issue with you and whoever the counselor is that's breaking down this issue, they're like, you know, you need to be forbearing, you need to love this person. You need to be patient with them. You need to forgive them. And they say, let me give you some ex some very specific ways that you can do this. And you're like, huh, thanks. That's what Paul's doing. He's giving very specific ways that they need to stop doing certain things and they need to start doing things. It's tailored specifically to them. So let's break it down. Love is a rich concept that involves a standard. It is defined in terms of God's nature. So when we talk about love, true biblical love is never going to come in conflict with the character of God. That's very important. So, love is not going to cause you to do something that violates God's moral standards of what is right and what is wrong So when somebody says, well, love has no boundaries and you just do what feels good, that's wrong. It's a lie. It's not true. When the Bible defines love, it defines it from a point of reference being the character and the nature of God. The way that God designed things to be is how they are to be, and we are to submit to his purposes. That's the idea. So love begins with a standard, and this is going to come out in these verses. The second thing is that love is active It's not passive just sitting back. It's taking steps to do what needs to be done. It feels a sense of duty, responsibility. It's proactive. But it's not hollow. It's not just I'm doing the responsible thing. I'm doing my duty, but my heart's not in it. That's not love. Okay? That's doing duty for duty's sake. So there is a sense in which I feel compelled, I feel obligated, I know what is right, but I'm choosing to do it, and I'm setting my affection on God first. And that's helping me orient my affection properly towards the individual that I'm struggling with. So it's active. Love is passionate. Sometimes people say things like, well, you gotta love them, but you don't have to like them. I entirely disagree with that. I entirely disagree with that. I'm not saying that you like their behavior, but I'm saying this: you value them as an individual, and in your heart, you have an affection for their good. And that is really important. So I I may I may not appreciate a person's behavior. In fact, I may be adamantly opposed to their behavior. And maybe the reason that they're not happy with me is because I've told them that. Okay. All right. Fair enough. Now hopefully I've told them that in the right way and in the right context and all that kind of stuff But the idea is that I I value them as an individual, an image bearer. I recognize the love that God has for them, and I, as a maturing Christian, begin to reflect what he has for that person. I mean, don't forget, the Bible says when we were God's enemies, he loved us. He loved us. Him loving us wasn't about us having like all of these good things to give him. He set his love on us, and it's purely of his grace. And so we need to recognize that there is an emotional side to it. There's a warmth, there is a compassion, there is a burden for that individual, for their good. And I know it's a little delicate. But we need to have it there. You know, there are people that'll say, Well, I love them, but I despise them. I'm like, that's not possible. It's just not possible. They they are in conflict with one another. Don't embrace such a thinking. And then fourthly, love is practical. It does what is best for the one who is loved. Now that does not mean it does always what the person wants. Okay? It also doesn't mean that we can always resolve issues with people. For us to have reconciliation, there has to be repentance. I can extend grace to a person and not be reconciled to them. Why? Because there's no repentance on their side. There's no action on their side to actually resolve the matter. And so I can only go so far on my side. But the reality is that I am always taking practical steps to the extent that I can to do what is best for the person that I love. And by the way, the person may not see me as being loving when I take those steps, but I'm doing it for their good. So love is a rich concept, a lot of facets to it. And Paul defines it in terms of what it does and what it does not do. So let's break it down. First of all, what does the text say love does? There are four things that I think we find here. The first is this. It talks about a person who loves is patient. They are patient with the person that they have chosen to love. I think a lot of times we say, if I show them grace for 10 minutes, that's enough. If I show them grace for two days, that's enough. If I show them grace for a month, that's enough. He simply says that love suffers long. And love bears all things. And people say, well, I don't have the capacity to do that. That's true. You don't. Nobody does. That's because love is a virtue that is created in you as you mature in the faith. As we grow in our knowledge of the Lord , And our lives begin to reflect more consistently the position that we have, our capacity to do what God says to do, it grows and it matures. And so this issue of patience is something that we grow in. And by the way, nobody's naturally patient. A lot of times we say, well, that person's naturally patient. What we actually mean is that person is naturally passive and they don't lash out at people. That's really what we mean by that. We're talking about a temperament. But patience, where we're actually put to the test and we endure, this is a virtue that we grow in as the Spirit of God matures us and shapes us. us and and and develops us as an individual. So number one, the first thing that he says is that love is patient. That means that a person may We may not be able to resolve an issue for years. And it's not because we aren't taking action to try to resolve an issue. But when the moment comes, five years from now, and this person says, I actually want to address this issue, we come to the table. We're ready. We 're ready to engage whenever the situation happens. You say, well, I mean five years? I just decided after five years I'm never gonna I'm never gonna give that person an opportunity. I'm done with it It's not a godly response. It's not love. Patience. It suffers long. It's kind. Second thing, it's kind. We say it's kind, that means that we treat people with dignity. We're not demeaning to them. We're not treating them as an enemy. We are treating them better than they deserve. We're extending grace. That's probably the word that would really, really work well here is the idea of grace. Kindness is grace. You may not be able to resolve an issue with a person, but you can be kind to them. You can treat them with dignity. You can extend grace to them. You say, well, if I extend grace to them, then they're going to get away with it. Do you believe that God is just? Do you believe that God is sovereign? Well then don't worry about it. God's bigger than you are. God is stronger than you are. He's more just than you are. He's going to address wrongs. So extend grace and trust God to do the right thing on His part. Who are we to correct God? And so it's not just that love is patient, love is kind. Thirdly, love delights in what is true. And this is really important. When he says he rejoices in the truth, the idea is this. I'm not going to do wrong in order to just appease a person to kind of put something behind us. Love doesn't appease. Love holds to what is true. And so sometimes people in their minds are going to go, okay, hold on a second I'm not going to appease the person, but I'm going to be kind to them. I'm going to be paid. How do these things all work together? Listen, you cannot resolve an issue until there's repentance many times. Really, all the time. You cannot really resolve an issue without repentance. And you know what repentance is? It's the standard of truth stands. That's what it is. The standard of truth stands. But I delight in what is true. That means this is guiding the way that my emotions relate to this individual. It's always oriented toward God. It delights in what is true. And then the fourth thing, positively, that it does is it doesn't give up. Notice how it says, believes all things. Oh, so love is naive. No. Love is not naive. But love holds out the hope that there's a God in heaven who can actually bring this issue to bear. Love waits for God to do that. He believes that God can. When he says he hopes all things, the idea is that a person And says in their mind, I can't, but God can. And so you know what? I'm just going to be patient and I'm going to endure and I'm going to let God do his work and I'll engage when the time comes. But I'm not giving up on the possibility this might get results. Endures all things. So four simple things. Love is patient. Love is kind. It delights in what is true. It doesn't give up. But then we see the negative side. It does not do these things. And by the way, he spends more time on what it does not do than what it does do. It's kinda kind of interesting how that is. And I think the reason for that is that our tendency in the flesh is to do the wrong thing more than to refrain from doing the right thing. Okay? I am more likely to lash out at somebody that I'm upset at than to not go and have a conversation that I need to have. Because that's just my impulsive response. And most certainly, these people, that's probably where they were. So he actually spends more time on the negative. Love does not do these things because they're doing all of them. So let's break it down. Here's what he says. Number one, love is not jealous. That's what he means when he says that it envies not. And a lot of times, one of the things that'll happen is, you know, when when I I would say siblings, this is a great uh great um example of the kinds of dynamics that we deal with. One one sibling seems to Get better grades than the others, seems to be a better athlete than the others, plays music better than the others, gets along better with mom than these, or dad than these, or one grandparent seems to favor one over the other. Or this this one's older and and they they you know mom and dad were so hard on them and then the younger kids they seem to get away with everything. I'm sure nobody's ever seen those dynamics, you know, or I'm the middle kid and everybody forgets about me. They love the firstborn and that's their little baby, but here I am in the middle and I'm caught and I don't know what's going on. And love doesn't envy, it's not jealous. Love doesn't brag. That's what he means when he says doesn't vaun itself. Doesn't tell everybody about how amazing they are. That is so human nature. Always the hero of our stories. Always the one who is doing it the right way and everybody else is wrong. That's not love. Love is not arrogant. That's what he means when he says it's not puffed up. Love is not rude or harsh. It does not behave itself unseemly. It's not personally demanding. Seek it not her own. You know how many people they have all these hoops that you have to jump through so that you can Coexist with them. You know what I'm talking about? That's not love. That's self-centeredness. It's arrogance. And so love is not setting all these parameters, and if you want to be my friend, then here you go. You gotta you gotta make all this work, or if you want to keep mama or dad happy or my sibling happy or whoever. Then you've got to jump through all these heaps. That's not love. It's not easily angered. That's what he means when he says not easily provoked. And by the way, anger isn't just explosive. There's a boiling kind of anger and there's an explosive kind of anger. You know what's really interesting? I think that sometimes people that um You know, they they they react violently immediately. They're the ones that everyone looks at like, man, that guy's got an anger problem. But once they kind of blow up, it's over. And then they kind of, you know, all right, I was wrong. I'm sorry, I'll work through it. I'm gonna do the right thing. And then, you know, somebody who just doesn't say anything, but inside they're just seething and they're just waiting for their opportunity to like. Pounce. We don't even realize what's going on. They're both sin. They're both anger. One is very visible. One is under the surface. But we're not easily provoked. We're not easily angered This is a good one. Does not keep meticulous records of offenses. Think it's no evil. Like You know, there's nothing more challenging than than than trying to keep up with all the wrongs you've done to something. You didn't even know you did it, but it's like I got the logbook right here, man. You want to get things right with me? Well I got I got 452 things that you did over the last year that uh that need to be addressed and then we can you know we can be good now. It's like how do you even deal with that? But there are people like that. Meticulous records. By the way, we like to keep meticulous records with others, but we don't like what people do with us. And love does not keep these meticulous records. The last one is very interesting. Rejoiceth not in iniquity. This really could be taken two different ways. Either one, it doesn't enjoy seeing others suffer. It's sort of like, Well, you did me wrong and I can't wait till God suffered. brings it out on your head. You know what I'm saying? There's a lot of people like that. They hear bad news about something and they just they're smiling inside like, yeah, it's about time. I'm glad you're getting it. That's one way he could be talking. The other is you don't enjoy what is sinful. So the idea is this: all of these things tell us that love is a very A very rich topic. It involves things that I do and it involves things that I don't do. And at the heart of love is killing the flesh, submitting to God, and doing what is best and what is right. for the other person. That's really what it is. Third truth I want you to notice is this. We've got to ask ourselves some hard questions. I think that when we come to the Bible, we gotta let the Bible examine our own hearts And so we need to ask some questions. Are we contentious? Are we easily angered over others' offenses? Do we obsess over the wrongs that we have endured? I mean, I could think of some times where I split a lot of wood thinking about how upset I was about something that somebody said to me or did to me, and I'm just split wood, split wood, split split wood, you know, and you're just thinking about it. And what do you do? You're just obsessing over it. Why do we do that? It's a flush response. Do we serve because of what we can get out of it? I'll do the right thing as long as I get a little bit of respect for it. I'll do the right thing as long as somebody thinks me. I'll do the right thing as long as I get a little bit of clout for it. And so what do people do? They're actually doing these actions not because they genuinely love God and the people around them, but because of what they can get out of it. It's like I'm doing it for myself. Do we enjoy seeing others experience trouble? I'm not saying like we just have this attitude about everybody, just those who have made our lives miserable. Like we're just waiting for the shoe to fall on their side. Are we constantly talking about ourselves? Do we treat life as if it's a competition to get ahead and everyone in our lives is someone to beat? I don't mean physically beat. I mean we're going to rise above them. The reason that I bring this up is because this is what the text tells us to do: to ask these questions. Is this how we live? And his presentation was probably very personally framed. The church was filled with rivalry, filled with contention People were vindictive. They're hoping the worst. People were like hoping Paul would be in prison because it would make them feel vindicated. Hoping that some other preacher was going to get more preeminence than Paul was because they didn't like the messages coming through Paul. They're keeping meticulous records of all the things that people have done wrong to them. They didn't want to resolve their issues. They'd rather talk about the issues. And you know, it's easy to talk about the issue, but talk doesn't accomplish anything. Unless you're talking to the one who can actually resolve the issue. So we expend all this energy diverting from a productive outcome. And that was a huge problem in the church. They were unwilling to extend grace and endure the offenses of others. They served to bolster their own reputation. That's why Paul wrote what he wrote. And so I leave you with one very simple challenge. We need to walk like the people we are in Christ. And this is something that's emphasized so many times in the New Testament. Colossians 3:12, put on as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercies. That's a deep affection. Kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long -suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving one another That's not easy, but that's right. If someone has a quarrel, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. Above all these, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts. That's a high, high bar. Romans 12, 14. Bless them who persecute you. Bless and curse not. Rejoice. With them who rejoice, weep with those who weep. Be not wise in your own conceit. Recompense to no man evil for evil. If it is possible, as much as lies within you, live peaceably with all men. Avenge not yourself, rather give place unto wrath. Be not overcome with evil. Overcome evil with good. First John 3. 16 I think somebody asked the president what his favorite verse is, and he might have said 1 John 3. 16. Somehow I'm not sure if that's the truth, but says hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us. I think you meant John 3. 16. We ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. Whoso hath this world's good and seeeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but indeed and in truth. And we could just go on all night going to scripture after scripture after scripture. That just says the same thing. So, how should we respond? Three things. Remember who you are. You're a Christian. You're forgiven. You're righteous in Christ. There's no more condemnation to you. And it's all because of the cross. Two, remember how you came into that position. It's not because you went to God, it's because he came to you. It's not because you earned it, it was all of grace. It's not because of some sacrifice you made, it's because of the sacrifice he made. And so the only thing we're entitled to is death and destruction. But he's given us his grace in Christ. Thirdly, let's live like the people that we are in Christ. We are in the midst of a growing process. We're all work in progress. But I have seen that God in his providence, he allows us to go through things, not because he's cruel and harsh, but because he wants us to realize you are not as mature as you think you are. And you need to grow. And sometimes he allows things not to work themselves out very quickly because we have to develop the character and the discipline of pay. Patience and forbearance. And we need to be meek. And that only comes through a process that takes time. May God help us to do that. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, I thank you for your word. This is a very convicting text for me. And I'm sure for everybody here. Help us to walk according to your word here. There are a lot of tough situations we encounter in life. Help us to navigate them in a way that pleases you and honors you and ultimately leads to good outcomes that bring of glory. Help us when we fall down to get back up. Help us to come alongside those who are struggling and give them a strengthening hand and support their burdens. With them. Help us to pray for those who are in tough places and help us to be with them in those places. Help us to be available when it comes to working through challenges. And I pray that you'd help us to reflect the position we have in Christ. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen.