Hebrews eleven, this is a familiar passage, and for those of you who are here last night, we talked in general a little bit about the book of Hebrews, what it is. And Hebrews was written to Hebrew Christians who had come to faith in Christ out of Judaism. And when they did, their lives got miserable, their lives got tough. And here we have in the toward the end of the book, Hebrews 11, the hall of faith, as we like to call it, but it's really lives of men and women who live by faith. Who are set up for those first century Jewish Christians that these are examples that you and I can attain to. These all died in faith, not having received the promises. I remember in, I think it was fourth grade, memorizing I think most of this chapter. And I'm thankful for that. And perhaps you as a young person or you've known this passage for your entire life. And you know the temptation is there for us just to simply, oh yeah, by faith, no, no, no, by faith Abraham, by faith, Sarah, by faith Isaac. He's all dying, and so uh the temptation is there to read through it as though we've known it for a long time. But tonight I want us to see what it means to walk by faith, what it is that faith should do and should be in our hearts. in our lives. So let me read a few verses. Now while I read, would you follow along with me and listen to what the Word of God has to say? Hebrews 11 verse 1, God says this. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, for by it the elders obtained a good report. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God so that things which were seen, which are seen, were not made of things which do appear. By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and by it he being dead yet speaketh. By faith, Enoch was translated that he should not see death and was not found because God had translated him. Before his translation, he had this testimony that he pleased God. But without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him By faith, Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for inheritance, obeyed, and he went out, not knowing whither he went. By faith who should journ in the land of promises in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles. with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For he looked for a city which hath foundations whose builder and maker is God. Then look down with me at verse 13. These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth For they say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. And truly, if they had been mindful of that country from which they came out, they might have other opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. Father, would you help us tonight? I know it's been busy for many of us today, myself included. There's been a number of things happening. Several of us are just now walking in the door. Would you help us tonight to see from this passage that more than likely we've seen, we've been there before. Would we see what your word has to say to us? And would we, with one accord and individually, put away all the busyness of today and listen intently to what your Bible has to say, would you challenge us with truth Lord, I need you. I can do nothing but fail. And I pray that you'd work back in the kids' program as well. We need your help tonight, Father. In Jesus' name. Amen. We sang about faith a few seconds ago, and if you're like me, uh you've probably heard stories about men and women who live by faith. How many of you enjoy Christian biographies? My hands up. I love a good Christian biography. Back in December I finished Warren Wearsby 's Fifty Christians, everyone should know. And there's some men in there I had never and women in there that I had never heard about. But it's very interesting. I was encouraged, challenged. And I want to do some further reading on some of these men and women who lived in decades and centuries past, who lived by faith. And oftentimes when we talk about living by faith, our minds instantly go to the missionaries. in Africa who are sitting there and you read their prayer letters or maybe this is in times past who see God do incredible things and you know their their dinner just walks in the door as the chicken praise the Lord for his provision that type of thing. And we think about that as living by faith. Or we think about back to Victorian England when George Mueller was there running his orphanages. An incredible story, sitting down with his orphans. To pray for breakfast and there being no breakfast on the table and a knock coming at the door. And we go, whoa, that's living by faith. But do you know without faith it is impossible for each and of every one of us to please God? God asked you and I here in 2019, living in this suburban area, to live by faith. Even with our set incomes, our jobs, our our houses, whatever we have, God asks you and I to live by faith. And sometimes we like to put living by faith as one of those things that God asks missionaries and evangelists and maybe some pastors to do For me, I got a nine-to-five job. We got a set income. How do I live by faith? Look again what it says there, verse six, but without faith, it is impossible to please him. You and I have been called by God and asked by God each individually to live by faith. So how do we live by faith? Tonight's not going to be anything profound or deep. But I pray will be a challenge to each and every one of us. How do you and I today in 2019 live by faith? Well, first of all, let's see what it says here. Look at verse number 7. By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house. He trusted God. Did it make sense? No. Look at what Abraham did in verse eight. By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after see for an inheritance, obeyed, and he went out not knowing whether he went. First thing I want you to see is that number one, faith, living by faith, involves trust. Noah built a boat. What you doing, Noah? Building a boat. Does anybody know how long it took them to build a boat? I heard it? Yeah. A hundred years. So that's a project. That's a remodel project right there, men. That's gonna take a while. But here's a man who's living by faith. Did he get mock? Of course. Did he get made fun? Of course. Was it easy? No. I'm sure there are days where the wood didn't want to do what it wanted to do he wanted to do, and there was there was a Big mess. I'm sure he thought about quitting. But he trusted God. What about Abraham? Here he is, 75 years old, and we can go back to the biblical account in Genesis 11 and 12. And God moves in his heart and he leaves Earth. Can you imagine the conversation when he went home that night to Sarai? Hey, honey, we're leaving. Okay, where are we going? I don't know. Hey, wise, what would you you say if your husband came home and told you that? Uh I don't think so. I'm not leaving. Not with you. Well, you know, I we travel a lot and we're going to Pennsylvania this next weekend We got a GPS and we got the roads mapped out and I got the Atlas. I know where I'm going. We plane the stocks. I get online, look at gas buddy, and find out where the cheapest diesel is. That's a hobby of mine filling up a diesel. And you know, we find out all our stops and we plan it. And sometimes we get the picture of Abraham, Sarai, and maybe nephew Lot hopping over on a camel, staying at a couple days in on the way, and you know, making it to where they're going. But that's not the case at all. You study the biblical narrative, you find that Abraham was a very wealthy man. He had three hundred and eighteen trained men servants who could handle a sword, who were all born in his household. Read the account sometimes. That's a pretty big household. 318 men, what else do you have to have if you have 318 men born in your house? You gotta have women, right? That's the way that thing works. And so you're looking at a household that's probably well over a thousand people. And God calls Abraham to leave. Where am I going, God? I'm not telling you yet. I want you to leave. Living by faith always, always, always involves trust. Lean on the Lord with all your understanding. Don't rely on your own will, your own intellect. Trust God for everything. Living by faith involves trust first of all for the eternal. At this point in the story, Abraham is technically not even believer. God spoken to him and but his faith has not been imputed to righteousness if we follow the Romans account and put it back into the Genesis story. But God has spoken and yet he's trusting God enough to leave and uproot his entire family, whatever business he had, however he had gotten his wealth, he was uprooting all of that. Going out into the unknown, and God and God saw that, and later on God imputed it to Abraham for righteousness. That's trust. But he didn't just trust God for the eternal, he trusted God for his future plans. This is where it gets amazing. Just imagine again the conversation. Abraham and Sarah are there, Abram and Sarah as they were back then. And Abram 's like, okay, we're leaving. Where are we going? How long are we going to be there? Am I ever going to see my family again? Abram's like, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. This took incredible amount of faith. And yet God asked you and I in this day and age, yes in 2019, to do the exact same thing to leave and leave her and go to her No, maybe not necessarily do exactly what Abraham did, but to trust God implicitly with our life. So often we get set in our ways and we get a little hunkered down and we get comfortable. in what we're doing. We get into our routines or literally our ruts. And we get comfortable doing what we're doing. Because we've got the job, we've got the church, we got the family, we got this, we got that, we got the house, we got We got it all situated, we got all set. And yet the child of God, in order for us to live by faith, it's one from glory to glory, it's from faith to faith. We're trusting God for every step of the way. I don't know about you, but when I was eight eighteen, nineteen, twenty, even twenty-one, twenty-two, I thought by the time I'm I would fill in a different age, a different age categories, by the time I reach this age, and it's usually a decade ahead of me, I'm gonna have it all figured out. I'm going to know exactly what I'm supposed to do, where I'm supposed to go, I'm going to have it all figured out. I'm going to be set for life. But do you know what I've learned? That never happens. If you and I live by faith, you know what God does to us from time to time? Okay, I'm making you uncomfortable Like the the the mother eagle getting the chicks ready to fly. She pulls out all the soft stuff, makes them uncomfortable. And that's where it gets difficult. That's where it gets challenging. That's why you and I have to trust. Living by faith always, always, always involves trust. Living by faith is having a scholarship to college and walking away to do God's will. Living by faith is finishing your dream house and being willing to move away to follow God's call. Living by faith is having your finances all set and your ducks all in a row, so to speak, and being asked by God to sacrifice. Think about Moses. In fact, look in Hebrews 11, verse 24. By faith, Moses, when he was called, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. I have thought about Moses many times. Here's a man who grew up in opulence, who grew up in popularity, whose name was known throughout Egypt, and he threw that all away to go to the backside of the desert for 40 years and chase sheep. That took faith. And we don't know all everything that happened in his heart and his mind. I'm sure there's problems, there's issues, there's doubts. He's not a perfect man But here's a man who left it all, was willing to walk away from the career, walk away from the money, walk away from the fame to follow God. I think of another Christian hero that we don't know much about, but William Borden of Yale. Uh there's a book that you can read. I don't know if you've seen it. Will them William Borden of Yale oh nine. I believe it's by Mrs. Uh uh the Hudson Taylor's Da son and daughter-in-law, or daughter and son-in-law, I forget who it was, the Howard Taylor family. But here's a man, a young man, who in seminary gives away tens and even hundreds of thousands of dollars of his fortune. His family thinks he's nuts. He goes, he's on his way to China to work with Muslim people. This is over a hundred years ago. A man who's giving his life back then to work with Muslim people in what is now Western China. And while in Egypt he contracts a deadly disease and passes away fairly quickly. What a waste! No, no, no, no. Here's a man who was trusting God with his light And no matter where you're at in your life, no matter what stage you're at, and I know there's a lot of different stages here. There's teenagers, there's young adults. There's middle age. There's those of us who are older than that, perhaps. You're approaching retirement. There's those of you who are retired. In every stage of your life, God is asking you and wants you to trust him implicitly. Abraham's 75 here. I don't know if there's anybody in this room that is 75 tonight. But you know how most of the time you get older and you get a little bit more set in your ways. Just set, I guess you could call it. I'm trying to be polite here. But here's a 75-year-old man who's wealthy, who has position, influence, power, prestige, everything you'd want. And he walks away from it all. Why? Because he's following God. Did it make sense? No. Could you picture the conversation that his friends were having? Did you hear about what Abram's doing? He's leaving. Where's he going? He doesn't even know. Man, that guy's g that guy's kooky. He's been spending too much time out in the sun It didn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, but that's the nature of walking by faith. It's not stepping out on absolutely nothing, it's stepping out on the Sure promises of God, but being willing to step out, being willing to leave all that God has given us and say, God, what do you want me to do? I want to know and do your good and acceptable and perfect will. No matter what age I am, I want to do it, and I am willing to sacrifice to do it. That's the nature of living by faith, and that's what God requires of each and every one of us if we're going to please Him. We get so comfortable. I do. Uh you know, I'm not against things. The Lord's given us a beautiful house. We're incredibly thankful for it. I have a beautiful pickup truck. I gotta sell it here in a few weeks. But I got a beautiful pickup truck out there. I I like my truck. 360 horsepower, 660 foot pounds of torque. I I like my truck. Got another one sitting in the driveway home, so that's why I need to sell that one. But I like things, but you know, when it comes down to it, they're just things. And we have to be willing to walk away. God, I trust you. I don't understand. I know you're leading. I know you're guiding. I know you're moving in my heart, my life, and I'm going to trust you. I'm gonna do what's hard, what's difficult, what's challenging, and family may not understand. I've gotten that before. Perhaps you have. What are you doing that for? No, no, no, don't do that. Just stay here. Stay close by here. Just stay here. Everyone's right here and you can have a comfortable life and you got this position and job and the house. Everything's set That may be God's will and that may not be. God requires and asks every single one of us to trust Him completely. Trust Jesus. Living by faith, number one, involves trust. Number two, living by faith involves obedience. Let me read verse number uh again and when I stop reading you finish what it says next. By faith Abraham when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance Obeyed? Now wait a minute. Obeyed? Obedience? I realize this is not the little kids' class meeting down the hall in the fellowship hall. I understand that. You know, when I was when I teach, and my wife when she teaches, we teach our kids and we teach those, perhaps even your kids this week, that obedience is doing what you're told. when you're told with the right attitude. The three W's of obedience. In fact, we even have the kids get your fingers up and what you're told? When you're told with the right attitude. Three W's of obedience. And I understand that this is not kids' class. But still that's required to please God. Obedience. Something so simple, something so minute. Oh Come on, Brent, really? I came to Revival tonight to hear some concrete truth, some deep, life-changing truth. Here it is. Obey. Here's a 75-year-old man who left Earth. He could have said, Yes, God, I'm trusting you. I'm trusting you. You want me to leave? Nope, I'm not leaving. I'm trusting you, though, but I'm not obeying. It doesn't work. In order to be happy in Jesus, as the song says, you and I have to trust and obey. There may be some young people here tonight that you think, well, once I reach a certain age, when I get to a certain social status, or when I get out from under certain apparent or authorio uh authorial structures Structures I won't have to obey anymore. Friend, can I tell you that's completely false? The longer I live the Christian life, the more I realize obedience doesn't decrease, obedience increases. And if God can't trust you to clean up your room right now, how is he going to trust you to do his good and acceptable and perfect will of God in the future? God wants you and I to obey in every area of life. And again, I understand I'm not talking to the little kitties down the hall. But I need this. I need this. We know what is right. We have the Bible. We understand the Bible. The Bible is written in our language. We can understand it. We have the Holy Spirit. And what's the biggest problem that we often face? Obedience. Doing what we know is right. And that's where the rubber meets the road. Yes, I can trust God for the great things of God. I want to trust you. I want to know your will. But if I'm not willing to obey today, I'm not going to know the good and acceptable will of God. It all comes down to daily walking in the Word. Obeying what we know is right today and God shows us more light and more light and more light and then we're able to look back and see the path that God's had us on Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. It's a lamp unto my feet today. It's a light into my path for the past decade, two decades now. I can see, wow, this is great. And you know what it starts with? It starts with a teenager saying, I'm going to obey my parents. I'm going to obey authority. Starts with a college student, I'm going to obey the authority that's structure that's put in my life. You know, I'm privileged now at my age, and it's not nearly as many as some of you, to look back to my life and go, wow, I've gotten to do some incredible things. Just from a human standpoint, I've been to 49 states and 19 foreign countries. That's nothing of me. That's just simply because I obeyed. Living by faith is a blast, to put it bluntly. It's an absolute thrill just to walk by faith and let God control your life. But if you're not willing to obey today what you know is right, what is clearly laid out, then friends, you can't tell me that we're living by faith. We're not pleasing God Living by faith is trusting God, yes, for the big things in life, for the eternal things, for the life that He has first, but also it's obedience. Trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. I don't know where you are at, and I don't know your life story, but I do know me, and I know what the Word of God says, and oftentimes I struggle just in Simply saying, God, I trust you. Help me to obey today what I know is right. That's living by faith in a practical sense. Abraham in verse 8 obeyed. He left Earth. Age 75, a man set in his way, a man with uh innumerable wealth, a wealthy individual. He obeyed. Thirdly, I want you to see that living by faith not only involves trust, secondly, it involves obedience. Thirdly, it involves looking at the eternal. Look what it says there in verse number nine. By faith he sojourned. Now that's an old word we don't use much, but it basically means he's dwelling there temporarily. He's not putting down deep roots. By faith he sojourned in the land of promise. Wait a minute. Where's he dwelling here? This is the promised land. Who did God give the promised land to? Abraham and to his seed. For how long? Forever. You read it for yourself in Genesis 12, and it's repeated throughout the Old Testament times. You know, you know, if God gave me, like, uh Uh it's probably about the size of the state of Maryland or the state of Delaware, put Maryland and Delaware together. I'm not exactly sure how you would overlay the promised land into our local area, but if God me gave me ten counties in Maryland You know what I'd do? I'd build a city. I'd call it Brentville or Gelisopolis or something. I'd put down roots, I'd build a big house I I'd set things up. I'd make a permanent structure. I would do things on a permanent basis because God gave it to me. I got the title deed to it. But look again what it says in verse 9. By faith, Abraham sojourned in the land of promise. This was the land that God had given to him and his seed forever, as in a strange country. Dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs of him of the same promise. What's a tabernacle? It's a tent A tent? Why are you dwelling in a tent? Because you can't afford a house? No, he's a filthy rich man. Why? Because his focus, look at verse number 10, for he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker Is God. There's an old southern song that I know we're kind of partially in the South but not really here Kind of like, I don't know where we're at. You go over just west of here to West Virginia and you're in the south. But here you're we kind of don't know where you're at. But there's an old song that we sang in the South growing up goes, Looking for a city where we'll never die. And some of you are like, Yeah, I know that song. Some of you are like, What in the world are you singing, Brent? But that's the truth about it. When it comes down to it, we should be looking for a city. How many of you enjoy living in a tent? You could do it No. How many of you could do it at least for a day? A night you could spend a night in a tent? How many of you honestly could not spend a night in a tent if you had to? It just isn't happening. Okay, a couple honest people. Just isn't happening. Not happening. Okay, I recall spending some nights in the tent with your pastor. You remember the time that you, me, Jackson, and Dan Fitch all went out? for a couple nights on the sandbar. We had some stories. Some of the best flounder, the best flounder I ever ate. I made sure when I was camping I was camping with him because he's a good fisherman. And if I if I didn't go with him, we were eating beans out of the can. I went with him and we're pulling fish out of the water. The best flounder I've ever eaten was in the water about 10 minutes prior to us eating it, thanks to this man right here. But I remember living in a tenant, you know, be fun for a couple of days. Remember we'd climb the sandbar at night and go to Dairy Queen. Um Yeah But we walked in and we l we looked rough. I mean rough rough after two, three days out in out in Sandbar. We were burnt, bleached tattered, I mean we look rough and we climbed up and we're just counting change and we're and these poor dairy queen workers are looking at us But I say all that to say, you know, we can live in a tent maybe for a couple days, maybe a week if we had to, maybe a couple months if it is absolute necessity, if it was necessity. But when it comes down to it, we like modern civility, right? All of us do. Even those of us who like to tough it out. We we like civility. We like our bed. But Abraham, if you follow the biblical narrative, lived in the tent for 100 years of his life. The next hundred years of his life he lived in a tent. Why? Because he couldn't afford a house? No, no, no. Because his gaze was set. He was not concerned with what this world had to offer. He was looking for a city which hath foundations and builder and makers, God. Friend, so often living by faith involves you and I, yes, trusting and obeying, but involves you and I turning our gaze to what really matters. We get so focused, so bent out of shape, so glued down to what we have here. We get this payment and this mortgage and this car payment and this this thing and we gotta pay for this and this and this. We have all these nice things. That we cripple ourselves, we handicap ourselves, we s we sidetrack our stuff ourselves and look down at what we have. Oh I gotta keep this and I gotta watch this, I gotta manage this, and I gotta steward this and gotta do this. And yet we should be living by faith. That shouldn't that's not saying we shouldn't have those things. But we should have our focus on what really matters. There are some young people in this room tonight, and you know you're in the prime of your life. You're you've got the physical ability right now, uh, you've got the looks right now, so to speak. That's all going to change. One day you're going to look like your grandparents. Isn't that encouraging? Yeah. You know, you some of you I was noticing in the parking lot, some of you have some nice automobiles. I like cars. I'm I've always been a car nut. I like fast cars, I like slow cars, like big cars, I I I just like cars. If it has wheels on it and goes down the road, I'm usually intrigued by it. I follow what's happening. I was at the Chicago auto show a few weeks ago. It's pretty cool to see all the new vehicles that are coming out. I like cars, but one day that beautiful $70,000 car is gonna sit in a junkyard somewhere and people are gonna like me are gonna come pull parts off of it. Right? Close. It's another thing. Have you ever looked at your old yearbook pictures and gone, whoa What was I thinking? You know what's going to happen to your clothes one day? They're going to wind up in Africa and people are going to be sorting through them. And pulling things out and or they're going to be in goodwill. And a bunch of teenagers are going to walk in for tacky day and find your outfit that you're wearing and go, oh, this will work great. That's why they call them fats. Things pass away. Things aren't eternal. And so often what we invest so much of our time, our energy, our passions, our money into is just fleeting. It's passing away. But he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Only two things tonight in this room are eternal. Only two. The word of God and the souls of men. And everything we invest in those two things has eternal value. But so often we invest and we invest heavily in things that are not eternal. And Abraham stands as an example for us. Because he looked for the eternal. He looked for something of value. He was looking for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. Look with me what it says in verse 13, talking about generally about these people in the hall of faith. These all died in faith, not having received the promises. but having seen them afar off and were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth They saw them afar off. That means they believed the promises of God by faith. They were persuaded of them. They were motivated by the promises of God by faith. They embraced them. They held them by faith and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. They proclaimed them and they lived them by faith. We are strangers and pilgrims. This world is not our home. This world is not our home. We're just a passing through. My treasures are in my garage and in my bank account, too. That's the American version Right? Yet living by faith says, hey, hey, hey, the things of earth will dim and lose their value. If we recall, they're borrowed for a while. That's what living by faith involves. And how do we live by faith, making a set salary? And some of you may make good salaries. I don't know. How do you live by faith making a set salary, driving a nice car, living in suburban America in 2019? How do you live by faith doing that? I've come to realize that living by faith, and this is not original with me, but living by faith has more to do with what we give and how we live and our focus than it does with how much we make. Because God asked everybody, everybody, to live by faith Living by faith has more to do with our focus and how much we give than how much we make. Because no matter where you're at in the financial spectrum, God wants you and I to live by faith. And without faith, we can't please him. Living by faith, number one, involves trust. Number two, it involves obedience. Number three involves looking at the eternal. Finally, as we finish up tonight, living by faith, number four involves faithfulness. Even when you don't receive. Look back at the beginning of that verse verse thirteen. These all died in faith, having received their best life now, and their all their prayers answered, and all everything in their life hunky-dory. Is that what your Bible says? Whoa, whoa, whoa. What did your Bible say? These all died in faith. Wait a minute, wait a minute. But they were looking for the promised Messiah. And they didn't receive him in their lifetime. They were looking for that deliverance. And some of them were killed with the sword. They were looking for the answer to prayer, and it never came. They were looking for that and it didn't happen. These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off. Living by faith involves faithfulness even when you don't receive. You know, all of our favorite stories. You read a story, and it all ends with the good guys winning, the bad guys losing, and they lived. But what about when that that that's just not true? What about when a spouse walks out? When there's been infidelity? When there's been difficulty that's out of your hands, when there's been bankruptcy or financial problems or issues or difficulties or life just hasn't been good to you, or so you would think. What happens when just man it's been challenging. I I've just been through the ringer. Just hasn't been easy these past couple months, years, decades, whatever the case may be It just hasn't been good. How do we come into that situation? I think about the biblical example of Joseph in Psalm 105. 19. Until the time that his word came, the word of the Lord tried him. He knew God had given him a promise that one day your brothers and your your family is going to bow down to you. But here's Joseph in his mid -upper twenties, laying in bed each night in the prison, if it was a bed even. Thank God This isn't it. This isn't happening. This is not what you promised. The word of the Lord was trying him. God, do I choose to believe your word or do I do I just give up and give in and say, forget this mess. It isn't worth it Living by faith involves faithfulness even when we don't receive. You know, the housewives that are in this room tonight, your job is Not very thankful. You know, not many three and four year olds say thank you for doing their laundry. Do they? Mine don't. Maybe yours do. But there's a never ending mountain laundry. There's all these projects for school. There's never thanks. You're never noticed. Yet living by faith says, God, I'm going to stay faithful to the calling you've given me. I'm going to keep under this. I'm going to remain under this because your grace is sufficient. I know it is. And if nothing changes, I'm going to remain under this difficulty. There may be a man here who's in a dead-end job. There's no hope of promotion. There's no hope of advancement. It's not the best situation financially, morally, whatever the case may be. It's just not good all the way around. And living by faith says, God, I'm going to trust you that your your plan is best. I'm going to remain faithful. I'm going to remain passionate. I'm going to keep my eyes fixed on you, knowing that it's just a few years here. It's just a few years and then eternities here. Isn't it amazing that Christians oftentimes can trust God for the millions and billions and trillions of years of eternity in a place we haven't seen and can't see and can't go to till we die? But we're so unwilling to trust God for the forty, fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty years that He gives us here in this life. Living by faith says, God, I it it's not easy right now. It's not fun. It's it's it's difficult. It's challenging, but I know you're using this for my good and your glory. And I may never see it now, but I'm going to stay under the difficulty. I'm going to follow you. I'm going to passionately love you. Recently I was listening and watching a testimony of a young lady who had been uh paralyzed in her youth and had gone to one of these faith healing crusades shortly after her uh accident. Now, this faith healing crusade left her with a bitter taste in her mouth when she left because she wasn't healed. She was like, God, what are you doing? And her testimony was wonderful, it was encouraging to me, even though I don't face the difficulties But she came away realizing later on through the course of biblical understanding, the Holy Spirit working in her life. But living by faith for her is staying faithful to the calling that God has for her and staying joyful, staying content, knowing that God's doing something There could be a young person here who God wants you to say no to the world when the world is saying, do it, enjoy it, come on, partake. There could be somebody else here who you're waiting for God's perfect will in marriage or a companion and it hasn't come and may never come. And yet living by faith says remain faithful, remain pure, remain holy, focused on me. God asks each and every one of us to live by faith. And again, I don't know your life story and you don't know mine, but I do know that God wants you and I, each of us, to live by faith, and without faith, we can't please God. For the high school teenager here, living by faith for you involves, first of all, obedience to your authority. Clear cut in Scripture But it also involves right now, trusting, saying, God, what do you have for my life? I lay my plans, my goals, my dreams, my desires on the table, and I trust you with everything. Living a faith for the young person is saying, God, I have some drives, I have some dreams, I have some desires, I think this is what you want me to do. I'm preparing, I'm planning, I'm studying this, but God, I'm going to trust you still. I'm going to trust you with your plan for marriage. I'm going to trust you with your plan for job, for everything in life. I'm going to trust you for the families like our age. my age, my wife age, who are raising kids right now, living by faith, says, God, we're going to take your word at face value, and we're going to raise our family according to your word. We're going to defy the world's embrace. We're going to Grip the word of God. We're going to embrace the truth of Scripture. We're going to live by faith. We're going to trust you with your promises for money. We're going to invest in the eternal. We're going to say no to the world because we want to live by faith. Living by faith for those who are a little bit different bracket of saying, God, I'm going to trust you with my teenagers. I'm going to trust you with my college kids. I'm going to trust you with my young adult kids because they're yours, not mine. I'm going to trust you with them. I'm going to live by faith. I'm going to claim the promises of the Word of God. I'm going to keep being willing to to and humble and submissive, living by faith that every age has its challenges. There could be some older folks here where living by faith for you is saying, God, I trust you. The fears that may plague you, the fears that may come at times. You're saying, God, I trust you. God, I I trust you for the difficulties in life. No matter what age, no matter what category you're in, God asked you and I to live by faith. So how are you doing? We can sing about it, living by faith. We can read about it, missionaries, George Mueller and others. But God wants you and I to live by it. Live by faith. Trust, obey, look at the eternal faithfulness, even when you don't receive.