Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today we're getting into a bonus episode. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with me to Romans chapter 13. And if you joined us for our Bible study on Wednesday night, this is the topic that we are addressing, and we've actually been dealing with the issue of the conscience for several weeks. And uh this is the final uh of the section dealing with the issue of conscience. And so uh this will kind of give us a summary of that that whole entire discussion that we've been dealing with. So Romans chapter thirteen, we'll read verses ten down to the end of the chapter and then Move over into verse 1 of chapter 14. Here's what it says. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. And that knowing the time, and now it is high time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light Let us walk honestly in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh to fulfil the lust thereof Him that is weak in the faith, receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations. This morning what I'd like to talk about is an important topic. The topic is walking in love when disagreements develop between brothers. And so if you remember we were in 1 Corinthians chapter uh eight a couple of weeks ago on Wednesday night, and if you look at 1 Corinthians 8 and 9, and then you look at Romans 13 and 14, what you're going to see is two different discussions that are ultimately in principle the same. And so on the table the content is different, but when it comes to the timeless truths that are are driving the applications in those two passages of scripture It's the exact same. So let me kind of summarize what Paul is talking about, and then let's walk into the details a little bit and hopefully be very practical this morning. Paul wanted the church to be united, and let's remember that there that there were Jews and there were Gentiles who were part of this bur this body, and he ultimately wanted them to be united in sending him as a missionary to Spain And so he wanted to stop, he wanted to minister to the church, he wanted to encourage them, and then he wanted them to get behind him, even as a financial supporter or partner in ministry. In the same way that we partnered with missionaries in our local church. And uh Paul was very concerned about the division going on within the church. From from the Jewish part of the congregation to the Gentile part of the congregation. People would not eat together. They were not fellowshipping together as brothers and sisters in Christ should, and he's extremely, extremely concerned about that issue. And and and the biggest point was that there were contentions on issues of conscience. And so the cultural baggage that people brought into that uh discussion was causing divent division. And so while the specific cases that are addressed in the Romans passage and in the first Corinthians passage are are different, the application to those two texts is nearly identical. And the two passages when compared together, what they're going to do is they're going to give us a good practical framework for understanding how we can deal with issues of disagreement over conscience. And so let's dig into the details here. First of all, I want to talk about the background. I mentioned that they were Jews and Gentiles, but it was more than just the Jew-Gentile contention that was so common in the first century. There was also a component to it where they'd had a complicated history. And so if you study Rome's history during that time, Claudius, one of the leaders in Rome, kicked out all the Jews. And so for a period of time the Jewish people were uprooted, uh they were basically living like refugees all rout all throughout the Roman Empire, and then when they were allowed to come back to Rome, you can only understand how there would have been a lot of distrust, a lot of uh tension that was there. You know, think about what happens in a in a in a when there's two countries that have gone to war or when there are factions fighting within a nation. Maybe the conflict is over on paper And there's no more shooting going on, but but people have animosity towards one another, there's a lot of distrust towards one another, even though the border is set and uh even though there are are legal boundaries that have been established On the interpersonal level, people still struggle. Well, that kind of a thing was affecting the church at Rome. And so what Paul does is he establishes about five priorities in these verses to help the people to understand on these issues of contention between you, here are the principles that should guide us. Let me give you Each principle or each priority, and then I want us to dig into them one by one. The first priority was they needed to have a distinctive Christian walk I don't want you to get the impression in a conversation like this one that Paul didn't care for the people to walk in holiness. The truth is, he absolutely did, and we're going to see that in his first party. The second prior is that he wanted to prioritize the need for the church to be united and growing into Christ's likeness. Third priority was he wanted them to have a healthy view of other Christians. The fourth a healthy view of themselves, and then lastly he wanted them to walk by faith. So when it comes to issues of contention over disagreements of conscience, those are the priorities that Paul emphasized. An expansive discussion on this point So, first of all, the priority of a distinct Christian walk. In verse number one of chapter 13, he says, walk in love. He says love worketh no ill to his member, therefore love is the fulfilling of the law. He says, I want you as believers to live with the distinction of a loving walk that does no ill towards your neighbor. And that doesn't mean that you just do whatever your neighbor wants, you do what is best. Truth guides the application of love. The second priority, walk consistent with your position. This is the holiness walk. Chapter thirteen, twelve to fourteen he says, The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us put off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness and chambering and wantonness. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make not provision for the flesh. It's very clear from these verses that the Apostle Paul expects these Christians to be living in a way that's consistent with the righteous position that they have because of Christ's righteousness imputed to them. His second priority is unity and growth. And we see this in in chapter 14 verses 1 through 4 where he shows us that we're supposed to receive a brother as opposed to judge a brother. He says to him that is weak in the faith, receive. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not. Let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth, for God hath received him. Who art thou to judge another man's servant? What an important statement. Or in verses 14 and 15 of the same chapter, he says, don't damage your brother over some unnecessary point of division. He says, If thy brother be grieved with thy meat, thou walkest not charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat for whom Christ died. What Paul is saying is, don't fight and hurt your brother to win an argument and an unnecessary point. Verse 19 says the same thing. He says, let us follow after things which make for peace. And those things which may lead to edification. Verse 1 through 3 of chapter 15, he says we are to be willing to set aside our rights. for the spiritual well-being of others. He says, We then that are strong should bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves for his good to edification. Even Christ pleased not himself Do you see what Paul's priorities are? Walk in love, walk distinctly, and put unity and spiritual growth ahead of your own interests and ahead of your own desires and what you want. The third priority that he emphasizes is the need for a healthy view of other people. He says, have compassion towards those who are not as matured in the faith, who are weak in conscience. Chapter 14, verse 1. Him that is weak in faith, receive him. Chapter 14, verse 2. Don't despise him. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not. Chapter 14, verse 10. Don't disdain other Christians. He says, why do you judge your brother and why do you set at not your brother? Very important questions. Be more concerned with your attitude towards your brother. then where he draws the line on these issues of conscience. Chapter 14, verse 13, he says, Judge this rather that no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall in his brother's way. So what Paul is saying is when it comes to how you relate to other Christians, you need to view them with compassion. Don't despise them, don't disdain them, don't be their judge, be more concerned about your attitude toward them than where they draw the line on a debatable matter. An area of liberty, an area of freedom. That's what he's saying. His fourth priority, have a correct view of yourself, a healthy view of yourself. And by the way, the connect there's a connection between how we view other people and how we view ourselves. For instance A lot of times people that do not view themselves as having value, what they will do is they will put down other people to try to prop up their own egos, make themselves feel better. And so that's one of the things that we even see this when children are bullying each other on a playground when they're very small. What are they doing? They're trying to prop themselves up by putting down others. But what Paul actually does is he affirms our value and he affirms their value. He affirms the value of both. That's what he's saying. And so he says you need to view yourself in a healthy way. Live with a clear conscience before God. It is valuable to have a heart that is internally at peace and at rest and settled. Chapter 14, 5 Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. If you're going to make a decision, make sure you're not violating your conscience. That's what he's saying. Where we draw the line on an issue of conscience has no bearing on our position in Christ. It has no bearing on the gospel. This is not a gospel issue We're not talking about an issue like the deity of Christ, the substitutionary death of Christ, the imputed righteousness of Christ, the fact that the gospel is by grace alone. through faith alone on the basis of the work and righteousness of Christ alone. Those areas are in a totally different category than the kinds of things that he's talking about. And so he says In chapter 14, verse 17, he says, The kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. He says you need to view yourself right. Your position is secure, not because where you draw the line on this issue, or you're being compelled to make another person draw the line where you do. Your position is established by the work of Christ. It is a grace-alone matter. And then thirdly, don't violate your own conscience Kind of going back to what he says in chapters 14, 5, and 7, he says the same thing in 10 to 13. He says, we shall stand before, excuse me, he says Hast thou faith, have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that condemneth not himself in that thing which he alloweth He that doubteth is damned if he eat, because he eateth not of faith. Whatsoever is not of faith is sin. And that statement, he that doubteth is damned. He's not talking about eternal condemnation, but what he's talking about is the fact that a person, if they violate their conscience, will be self-condemned Internally, they're going to be conflicted. And so all of this is really boiling down to he wants you to view yourself correctly in the light of the gospel. He doesn't want you to disrupt a peaceful and joyful position that you should be enjoying in Christ. That's what he's saying. And then the fifth priority, walk by faith. Trust God to do what's right in his own time. Chapter 14, verses 10-13, he says, We will all stand before the judgment seat of Christ, so then every one of us shall give account of himself to God. Let us therefore judge one another let us let us not, excuse me, therefore judge one another anymore. What's he saying? He's saying on these issues, you've got to just leave it in God's hands. You've got to trust him to do the right thing. Let him address that issue with that brother when the time is right. What is the whole point of Paul's discussion to these believers? His point is he wants them to be united in truth. He wants them to love one another. He wants them to be willing to lay aside their rights for the good and the the ultimate uh spiritual well-being of their brothers and sisters in Christ. That's what he's driving at. So let me put it together with a couple of simple admonitions, practical admonitions, as we go into the weekend. The first is this. Let's put others ahead of ourselves. That's the driving principle in this passage of scripture, one of them. Number two. Let's care more about unity and spiritual growth than winning an argument. What a very important lesson for us to live by. Number three. Let us consider how our decisions affect other people. Don't just choose to do what you do because you have the liberty to, because you want to do it. Because somebody gave you permission to do it. You do it because it ultimately is going to be for the edification of another person. Or I choose not to do it, even though I have the liberty to do it because I love my brother. And I care about their spiritual growth, and I am actually prioritizing their growth and our unity over my right to do what I have the freedom to do. That's what we're saying. Next, be patient with other people. Let's carry ourselves with humility and with grace And let's trust God to handle people the way they need to be handled. That is what Romans 13 and 14 ultimately is driving at. This is how we're supposed to live as Christians in a very practical way when it comes to issues that are disagreement kind of issues because of conscience-related matters. I want to encourage you this weekend. Let's really chew on these things. Let's live in the light of the truth. Let's actually walk in love toward one another so that we can mature together, grow together. and ultimately become more like Christ together. That's my challenge this morning. Hope you have a wonderful weekend. If this has been an encouragement to you, please do share that. And if you think it will be helpful to somebody else Feel free to share that to them as well. Lord willing, we're going to see many of you on Sunday at church. Have a great weekend. Bye now