Well, good evening. Hope that you're enjoying this lovely spring weather and looking forward to our study tonight. Let's go ahead and bow together for prayer, and then we will sing a song and get started. Father, I pray that this evening as we open up the word that you would speak to our hearts and help me as I work through this passage to be able to present it in a way that is Uh very easy to understand. It's uh very consistent with your word and uh very practical, and I pray that we would take these truths and and internalize them. And then as we spend time together in prayer and as we lift up these requests, I pray that we would truly bear one another's burdens and that we would come into your presence with our petitions and that we would see you at work actively in these situations. And pray for your blessing on the children in the back as they're in their classes and also the English class in the back as well. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, our song that we're going to sing is 495. Count your blessings. 495. Count your blessings. We'll sing the first and the last together, please. When the thought might be our channel as false, when you are discouraged thinking of this lost , counter Many blessing seen and one by one. And it was surprising what the Lord has gone. No palm is Can't put your universe under you go. Okay. Good singing. All right, well the passage that we will be dealing with tonight is uh the book of Romans, and we're in chapter 13. So if you have your Bible, let's all turn there, please. Romans chapter 13, and we are we have been dealing with uh the the topic of conscience for quite a while, and as you can see, I think that it's a very important topic. I think it's something that we really need to understand. And I think some of the things that we addressed last week might actually not be very commonly taught in churches many times. How do we deal with issues of conscience? how it relates to people when we have differences on these issues. And so we spent a lot of time, 1 Corinthians chapter 8, and we're also going to look at Romans chapters 13 and 14 this evening. And what I want us to do is I want us to notice the similarities in the way that Paul applies these topics, yet he's dealing with two totally different issues. Okay? So in the book of 1 Corinthians, he's dealing with all Gentiles essentially. He's talking about a topic where people are going into the market, they're buying meat, and that meat has been offered to idols, and the question is, is it okay to eat it or not okay to eat it? And what about when we have differences of opinions within the church? Different Christians believe different things about it. How do we deal with an issue like that? Now we're going to go to a totally different topic. He doesn't talk about meat offered to idols. He's talking about whether we eat meat or vegetables. Or he's talking about whether or not we're eating something like chicken versus pork. Th those are the kinds of issues that he's talking about. Or do we follow the Jewish festivals and the Jewish Sabbaths? Or do we not follow the Jewish Sabbaths and festivals? So what he's dealing with in the book of Romans is a different topic. But not. That's what we're going to see. And that's why I think it's so helpful for us to see these two passages of scripture side by side, because what Paul's going to do is he's going to land in the same principles. And the applications are really going to be essentially the same, even though it's a different situation. Same principles. So we're to see that. So the topic tonight that we're looking at is walking in love when There are disagreements that develop, which they do sometimes happen. Romans chapter 13, verse number 10. Here's what it says. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor. That does not mean that love always does what your neighbor wants, okay? It means that you do not do ill to your neighbor. That that is an important distinction. Sometimes what people want isn't good for them, and what they don't want is good for them, but that's another topic. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor, therefore love is the fulfilling of the law. And that knowing the time, that now it is high time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. The night is far spent. The day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. Let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness Not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ. Make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof Him that is weak in the faith, receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations. Now, the topic we're going to deal with is actually the bulk of it is going to be from that last verse throughout the rest of chapter 14. But I think that that initial part that we read is very important because it helps us to understand some foundational matters that tie into this discussion of conscience. Let me begin with a summary statement. Let's work through a couple of introductory thoughts and then dig into the actual content of this passage of scripture. So Paul wants the church to be united. To walk in love toward one another, despite their significant cultural differences and the conscience issues that were disrupting their unity as a body of believers. A lot of times when we come to the book of Romans, the first thing we think about is the Reformation. And it is true that the Book of Romans was instrumental in the Reformation in Europe. Okay? When Martin Luther understood that we are justified by faith alone in the finished work of Christ alone, that was a completely transformational concept. that was not common on the continent of Europe at the time. Very few people understood that doctrine. And so as he began to preach it and others began to preach it and As people began to study the Bible, all of a sudden, the gospel was going out throughout all of Europe. And so when we think of the book of Romans, we tend to think of the Reformation. But the Reformation happened. Almost 1500 years after the book of Romans was written. The Book of Romans really isn't about the Reformation. Believe it or not, the Book of Romans is about a dispute between Jews and Gentiles within the local church. And the Apostle Paul believes that the church needs to get behind his ministry to Spain, but he wants the church to be united in that getting behind him. And in order for him to do that, instead of him saying, y'all need to just get behind me and you need to send your financial support and your prayer support and I want to be sent on my way by you, church at Rome, he instead of just telling him this is what you need to do He begins with why there is a consistency between the Jew and the Gentile, even though totally different cultures, lots of different problems within the church between these two different groups. Why they needed to be united. He goes all the way down to the gospel, the heart of our faith. He says, this is the foundation. If you understand the foundation, then you can be united as a church with all the differences that you have. If you do not understand the foundation and you do not embrace the foundation, then any kind of band-aid we put on this is just a superficial thing. So really what Paul does is he says, the way you have unity in a church is you get back to the gospel. So that's really what the book of Romans is all about. It's about getting back to the gospel, and then from that he springs into all these practical conversations that are very pertinent to what's going on at the church. This passage, Romans 14, and then bleeding into 15, is one of the big issues going on in the church. You have members of the church that will not eat in the same house. They will not enjoy meals together. They do not celebrate the same festive days. There's a division amongst themselves. And so what Paul does is he says, Look, this is all about conscience And we need to understand how to relate to one another in love on issues where we have difference on conscience. That's at the heart of all of what is going on. He wants them to be united. And so, while the specific cases being addressed in Romans 13 and 14 are significantly different than the cases in 1 Corinthians 8 and 9. The ultimate application of the two texts is nearly identical. These two passages, when compared, provide a practical framework for helping us to understand how to understand issues of disagreement over conscience related matters. That's really at the heart of what we're going to talk about this evening. So let's go ahead and review a couple of things from last week so that we can kind of put these two passages side by side. And by the way, when I say review, it's going to be a brief, quick review. Okay? 1 Corinthians 8, 1 to 13 calls all believers to walk in loving humility. And the key statement that we found last week was in verse 9. Here's what it says. Take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. He's basically saying just because you can does not mean that you must, and it does not mean that you should. That's very important So he's saying the reason that you do something, part of what factors into that decision is how does this affect other people? Not just do I have the right to do this, not just do I want to do this, but is it morally okay, and does it not hurt other people? That's really what he's getting at. Walk in love And so he gives several counsels to help us to practically do this. Let me work through them one by one. Counsel one: be cautious about what you do before other people. Now, he's not suggesting that we're supposed to be hypocrites, okay? So like in the dark we do all kinds of evil things, but then we present ourselves in such a positive light. That's not what he's suggesting. What he's suggesting is there are certain things, there's nothing wrong with you doing them, but you may not necessarily do them publicly because of how it affects other people. That's what he's basically saying. And he's specifically talking about the situation of meat. There's nothing wrong with eating meat that's been offered to an idol. That's what the Bible says But eating it in front of your friend and telling him that it was offered to an idol when you before you bought it, that could be a problem. That's what he's saying. So in verses 10 to 13 he says If any man see thee, which hath knowledge, sit at meat in the idol's temple, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened? I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to a f The second counsel he gives is deliberately don't overanalyze the situation that you're in. I think as Christians, we actually do the exact opposite. We want to take a thing and we want to break it down and pick it apart and figure out what could possibly be wrong with it on some level. And the fact is you could probably make an argument for almost anything you could do in life being wrong if you took such an approach. So in verse 25 to 27 he says, whatsoever is sold in the shambles, that ye asking no question for conscience' sake. Later he says, whatsoever is set before you eat asking no question for conscience' sake. He's saying there's nothing wrong with meat, but you don't have to ask, was this offered to an idol? Because technically it does not have any bearing on whether or not it's right or wrong to eat the meat. But the moment that you ask and the answer is given, now you have to figure out: should I do this or not? That's really what it comes down to. Counsel three. Limit your involvement once a difficulty arises. Chapter 10, verse 18 to 30 says, If any man say unto you, This is offered in sacrifice unto idols, eat not for his sake. Important statement that showed it, not thine own, but of the other. What he's basically saying is, it wasn't wrong when you ate it. But the moment that the person asks the question or the moment that the person brings this to your attention, now you recognize that there is a conscience matter that has been brought into the situation and so now I'm gonna stop not because it used to be wrong and now because now it has become wrong it's now I'm concerned about how this affects him. That's what he's saying. And then counsel number four, realize why you're making the adjustment. 29 to 30. If I by grace be a partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that for which I give thanks? The adjustment isn't being made because you were wrong. You could have enjoyed it. You make an adjustment to limit offense in order to minister and to edify another person. Counsel five. Make your decision based on what brings glory to God, not what makes you most happy in the moment. Chapter 10, 31, whether therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. And then the last counsel. was know your context and adjust appropriately for the good of others. If you know that something's going to be an offense You're going into a situation and you care about the people, you want to make a connection, you want to fellowship with folks, you want to edify them. You want to be a blessing to them, then for the sake of unity, knowing your conscience, there are certain things you just don't need to do. That's what he's saying. Listen to the way he puts it. Give none offense, neither to the Jew, nor to the Gentile, nor to the church of God. These are all principles that anybody who wants to be a missionary better understand thoroughly. Okay. But it's not just missionaries who need to know this. If you want to navigate your in-law's house, you might need to know how to do this. Okay? I'm not trying to be mean to anybody's in-laws, but you know, sometimes there are differences in families, okay? Or you may have a brother in the church that you go to their house and There are certain things about that interaction that you need to be wise. You need to be prudent if you want to have good interaction with them. If you're going to another church in another part of the country. It's just that's the way that it works. And so that's what the Apostle Paul is saying. So, in summary, we're never told to affirm something that is false. We're never told to encourage or act in a way that is sinful. We're being taught to restrict The exercise of our liberty in certain situations for opportunity to minister and fellowship with immature Christians. Maintaining unity is more important than demanding our rights when relating to others This is a really important principle. And it just goes into so many areas of life. Now, don't forget what we just talked about. Because now we're going to go into a passage of Scripture, completely different context. We're talking about Jews and Gentiles now, not all Gentiles. We're not talking about meat offered unto idols that's not even on the table. We're talking about totally different scenarios. But here's what you're going to see As we work our way through the controversy at the church at Rome, Paul is going to essentially give us the exact same instruction because this is how we deal with issues of conscience. Whether it's is it right or wrong to eat meat? Is it right or wrong to eat meat that's forbidden under the Old Testament law, like shrimp and And all those kinds of different things? Or should we should we celebrate Sabbath days and festivals that are in the Old Testament and all those kinds of things? Bleeding into our modern era, the Western culture that we live in, where we're dealing with totally different issues. But it's the same principles that apply. So let's work our way through this passage. First of all, the background of the church at Rome's controversy. I've already talked about this a little bit, but you have two different cultures. You have Jews and Gentiles. And one of the ways that you can get insight into this is think about What happened when Peter goes to Cornelius' house, okay? And he sees this vision, and there's this sheet that comes down, and it's got all this meat on it. And all this meat on it, basically God says, take it and eat it. And he says, I can't do that. It's been forbidden for me. And he says, I'm telling you, take and eat it. What God has cleansed is is no more considered unclean. And ultimately what he was doing was God was preparing him to go into the house of a Gentile, Cornelius. And when Cornelius and his family hears the gospel, and the Holy Spirit comes upon them, and the evidences that they have been placed into the body of Christ become evident. They Peter and the people working working with him have a discussion. They say, should we baptize these Gentiles? And Peter basically says If they've received the same spirit that we've received and they've embraced the same gospel that we've embraced, then how can we forbid them to be baptized like we have been They've essentially been placed in the body of Christ already, and so we need to also allow them to be baptized, submit to uh that that particular ordinance. That's what he's saying. Well, what does that tell you? That tells you that Peter was very uncomfortable going to a Gentile person's house. He was he the idea of eating Gentile food was just no way. The fact that they could even be a part of the same church was something that to Peter was a struggle. And then we see later on in the Jerusalem Council that the Apostle Paul had to go to Peter. And stand him in the face and say, the way you're treating Gentiles is wrong. And he gets in his face about it. What does that tell you? A lot of tension. A lot of tension. I mean Peter was a godly man. Flawed, but a godly man. What do you do when you have young Christians? Very immature Christians. They're coming to church and they're they're seeing different cultures and different practices, and they're in the same body. And you know, even though they've placed their faith in the same gospel. Some of the old habits don't die quick. You understand? And for a Jew to walk into a Gentile's house and sit down and eat a meal with them. You want to talk about offensive. Peter could or Paul could have said, well, you know, let's just be pragmatic. Two churches in Rome is probably a great idea. I'll take the support of your two individual churches. He didn't do that. He said, No. The gospel is bigger than that. And then history complicates this as well. We know that Claudius kicked the Jews out of Rome. So by the time that Paul is writing to the church at Rome, it's just a small church. A small body of believers, even meeting in people's homes at the time. But the people that are there, the Jewish people that are there, they had literally been kicked out of Rome. Lost their jobs, lost their homes, all those things, and now they're back in Rome. And so it's not just the Jew-Gentile controversy and the cultural differences and the Old Testament law and all those things. There's also history here. There's a lot working against them. I could say a lot about the Jewish dietary laws and the Sabbaths and the new covenants, but let me put it simply this way. The Jews under the Old Testament law were commanded to observe those things and were forbidden to eat certain kinds of foods. They were supposed to follow those laws as were stated in the scriptures. But under the new covenant, things changed at the cross. And so all of a sudden they were commanded, they were no longer under the obligation to follow the Sabbaths, and they were no longer forbidden to eat these foods. That under the Mosaic law they were not allowed to eat. However, they were not commanded to eat those things either. So the fact that a Jewish person after the cross who is now a believer chooses not to eat pork, it's not sinful, okay? But he has no basis to tell someone that it's sinful for him to eat pork. Do you understand what I'm saying? In other words, it's a liberty that he has, but not necessarily a liberty he embraces. And so when we talk about this issue, we're not saying that a person is forced To go and eat this meat. We're saying they have the freedom to, but their conscience won't allow them. That's what we're talking about. So we move to Paul's priorities, and these are very important. Paul's priorities fall into a couple different categories. I'm going to tell you what they are, and then I want you to actually see what they are. So first of all, It's to walk in love or to have a distinctly Christian walk. We'll look at that in just a second. The second priority is unity and growth. The third priority, I'm going to Work my way through here is a healthy view of others. The fourth is a healthy view of self. And then the fifth is a walk that is by faith. These are the key priorities that the Apostle Paul is going to lay out when it comes to this issue of how to deal with conscience debates. How to relate to others on these issues. So let's take them one by one. Priority one: a distinctly Christian walk. There are two passages I want to draw your attention to. The first one is chapter 13, verse 10. Here's what it says. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. Simply put, walk in love towards other Christians. Such a simple command, right? Uh to say and then to do, well, it can be a little bit different a little bit different Because we're not all lovely people. Okay? In fact, we all have our flaws. We all have areas that we frustrate one another. Some of our personalities we we clash. We don't mix well by nature And so when he says walk in love toward everyone, well that's not necessarily easy. He gives a second. Walk soberly, consistently with your position and In Christ. In verses 12 to 14, he says, The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. So he's saying there's a way that you walked when you were not a Christian. That way needs to be put off and now you need to walk different, distinctly as a Christian, consistent with your position. So he says, walk honestly instead of being dishonest. the truth. He says not in rioting and drunkenness. He's probably talking primarily about the festivals that they would have, which would have been riotous parties. The word chambering literally means living with somebody that you're not married to. Wantonness means that you're basically wasting your life with um We'll say kind of like the prodigal son type living, okay? That was a wanton kind of a life. Strife. That means we are contentious with other people. Envying, that means that when we see what people have, it disrupts our calm and our peace because we want what they have and we're not content with what we have. So if if all we did was just focus on those issues right there, transformative, right? Okay. Absolutely transformative. And by the way, everything that he mentions here was a huge problem with the believers at Rome. I mean, this had been their lifestyle. I mean anybody that knows something about Greek Roman culture Knows that a lot of the things that he's mentioned there, that was just common practice, totally accepted in the in the society. He's saying you don't live like that. You're a believer, you're different, you have a different position. And so these verses are in no way suggesting that we just live casually and we don't care about what is right and wrong. That is not at all what's being stated here. He's very narrow in the category that he's dealing with. He's dealing with conscience matters. Areas where you have freedom, but you're not obligated necessarily to use the full extent of your freedom. Freedom, but sometimes we choose not to take those steps because of how it affects others. That's what he's talking about. So that's priority one. Priority number two: unity and growth. More than anything, Paul says, I want the church to be united together and growing into Christ's likeness. Not a unity that leads to a lack of Christ-likeness, okay? We're talking about a unity that's focused on growing into Christ-likeness. And so notice what he says: lovingly receive your brother rather than judge him, even when his understanding of liberty is immature. Here's what it says in chapter 14, verse 1. Him that is weak in faith, receive, but not to doubtful disputations. One believeth that he may eat all things, another who is weak eateth only herbs. Maybe he's weak because he only eats herbs. Gotta eat some meat, alright? Here I am I'm I'm I'm a gardener and I'm like eating all these veggies. But I'm I'm I'm having garden salads with steak chunks in it or With chicken chunks and things like that. Okay. That 's that's not exactly what he's saying there. He's saying the reason that a person will only eat herbs is because in their conscience they're bothered by eating meat for whatever reason. He said, it says, Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not. Maybe laugh at him. Let not him that eateth not judge him that eateth. Now notice he addresses both sides. So the person that says, I have the liberty to do this, don't look down on the person that doesn't feel that they have the liberty to do that. And the person that doesn't feel that they have the liberty to do it, don't look person who feels the liberty and go, how dare you? In other words There can be an attitude of pride on either side of the issue. Some people are proud in their liberty, and others are proud in their restrictions It goes both ways, okay? In Paul's mind, it doesn't matter if your pride is on this side or that side, they're both wrong. That's what he's saying. Why is that? Because neither of them is demonstrating love. Neither of them is emphasizing the priority of unity. Both of them are focusing on the wrong thing. He says, Who art thou to judge another man's servant? His own master he standeth or followeth. He's saying, Why are you taking the place of God? Another example, chapter 14, verses 4 to 15. Don't damage your brother just to prov prove an unnecessary point. He says, I know and I am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, there is nothing unclean of itself. Chew on that for a minute. But to him that esteemeth anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean. That means if he decides to do something that in his heart he believes is wrong, even though he's wrong in his viewpoint, his heart is condemned. That's what he's saying. His conscience is conflicted. He's internally going to have turmoil and trouble. That's what he's saying. He says, but to him that esteemeth anything to be unclean, it's unclean. If thy brother be grieved with thy meat, now walkest thou not charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat for whom Christ died. He says, Why would you hurt another person just to prove a point? Yet that's such a common human practice, is it not? I I don't care how it's going to affect you. I'm going to prove to you you're wrong. That's he's saying, don't do that. That's not the way that Christians should conduct themselves. That's arrogant, it's condescending, it's not considering the value of that person, certainly not loving them. Chapter 4, verse 14, verse 19. Prioritize unity and growth over proving your point. He says, Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and things wherewith one may be edifying another. Great statement there. Chapter 15, 1 to 3. He says, We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak and not to please ourselves. He says, Let every one of us so please his neighbor for his good to edification. Even Christ pleased not himself, but as it is written, the reproach of them that reproached thee fell on me. He says, be willing to set aside your rights if necessary for the spiritual well-being of others. There are times in the Christian life that the only way that you can actually be a help to somebody is if you're willing to lay aside your right to be right. And you're right to do what you want, and you kind of lay those things to the side and you meet this person where they are and you're patient and you forbear and you work with them through those kinds of things. That's that's what he's talking about. And he says, you know who did that for you? Jesus did. Philippians 2. He made himself of no reputation. And he took upon himself the form of his servant. And what does he say? He says, Let that mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Scripture makes this connection a lot. The third priority: a healthy view of others. Now, these verses are very practical. Not that the other ones were not, but these are very practical. 14 verse 1, it says, Him that is weak in faith received Have a compassion toward him with a weak conscience. Don't go home and talk about how I don't understand why this brother just can't get over this issue. I don't understand why this person can't get over this issue. That's not what we do. He says, receive them. Value this person. Have compassion on them. 14 verse 2, let not him that eateth despise. Him that eateth not. Allow these don't allow these issues to stir up an arrogance toward others, where you begin to look down on them and see them as having less value than you. By the way, we won't say that. We wouldn't say, oh, I believe I'm more valuable than this person. We would not say that. But sometimes the way we talk about people when They're not there. You know what that communicates? That's exactly what that communicates. Don't disdain a brother over these issues. 14 10. He says, Why dost thou judge thy brother? Why dost thou set at not? Thy brother disdain. Fourteen thirteen, judge this rather that no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall in thy brother's way. He says, Be more concerned with your attitude towards your brother than the decisions that they're making in these days. areas. Did you catch that? Be more concerned about your attitude toward them than the decisions they choose to make. This is his third priority, a healthy view of others. But then he moves from a view of others to a view of ourselves. By the way, how we view others and how we view ourselves, a lot of times there's a lot of interconnection here. Okay? A lot of times the way that people make themselves feel better is they crush other people. Okay? That's what they do. But you why why do kids bully each other at school? Because for them to make themselves feel better, they gotta make you feel worse. Because their sense of value is connected to you being below them or above them, or that kind of a thing, as opposed to Something that's above us all. That's the key. But he talks about a healthy feel self. Live with a clear conscience before God. Chapter 14, 5. One man esteemeth one day above another, another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind He that regardeth the day regardeth it unto the Lord. He that regardeth not the day to the Lord, he doeth not regard it. He that eateth, eat it to the Lord. He that g Giveeth God thanks He that eateth not to the Lord, he eateth not and giveth God thanks. He's like, you got one guy, he does it, the other guy he doesn't do it. This guy is motivizes. He's doing it for the Lord. This guy, he's not doing it for the Lord. He says, you know what? God's good with them both. All right? On these issues of liberty. I'm not saying that this applies to areas where God is very clear. He says, this is sin. We're not talking about issues like that. We're talking about issues of liberty. But there's lots of issues that fall into this category. And I I have learned that these are the areas we get the most upset about, okay? Because when it's not as clear, we feel a little bit like we take it more personally when somebody agrees with us or doesn't agree with us. When it's just cut and dry and everybody can see clearly the issue, we don't take it as personally for some reason, but we do in these issues. That's why he addresses them so thoroughly. Where we draw the line on these issues of conscience has no bearing on the gospel or our position in Christ. Listen to what it says in 1417. The kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. Basically, he's saying this. When you hear the gospel preached, guess what you don't hear it being talked about? What you're eating and what you're drinking. What you're hearing is what Jesus did. You're hearing about his righteousness. Why? Because that's the gospel. The things that I'm talking about that you as a church are squabbling about, that's not the gospel. Where you draw the line on that issue has no bearing on whether or not you're a Christian. Now, there are certain doctrinal matters that clearly do have bearing on whether or not you're a Christian. Okay, there there are. I mean, if it's a fundamental aspect of the gospel, these are gospel issues. But then there's other issues like this one. It does not fall into that category. And so he says, you need to understand this has no bearing on your position, no bearing on the gospel. So don't squall about it, don't fight about it. Chapter 14, 22 to 23. He says, Hast thou faith, have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that condemneth not himself. And that thing which he allows. He that doubteth is damned. He's talking about he's conflicted internally. His conscience is condemning him. It's plaguing him. That's what he means by that. If he eat, because he eat is not of faith, whatsoever is not of faith is sin. Don't violate your own conscience, and at the same time, don't feel obligated to make everybody else live by your conscience. That's what he's saying. Priority five. Walk by faith. Verses 10 through 13, here's how he puts it. We shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God. Let us not therefore judge one another anymore. Notice saying Worry about yourself. Trust God to take care of your brother if he's wrong. That's what he's saying. You're going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ, they're going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ. When you stand at the judgment seat of Christ, he's not going to say, Hey, what what what about this person over here? That's not going to be a concern of that of that time. The concern will be you. And then when it's that person's time, the concern's going to be them, not going to be you. He it's basically his way of saying Why don't you just let God do his job and you worry about being faithful? That's what he's saying. You worry about walking in good conscience before God, not forcing other people to follow your system. That's what he's saying. Now, everything that I've mentioned here, I mean, it is very clearly what the Bible teaches, but it is also very much against the grain of how we like to live our lives. How we feel combat. And I'll even say, I think there's a lot of teaching out there that actually violates a lot of what has been laid out right here. I really do. This is a very important principle. So that comes to this third question. How do we take this information and teach our kids? This is a family thing, right? We've been talking about family. And I want to just mention these very briefly. And by the way, didn't you see the consistency between the 1 Corinthians passage and the Romans passage? The exact same things that are the driving points in application in 1 Corinthians are the exact same things that are the driving points in application in Romans. Why? Because It's the same timeless truths. So, we need to emphasize the authority of Scripture to our kids, not culture and preferences. That's very, very important. You know, I grew up in a I grew up in a context where I went to uh Christian school, Christian college, um I I had a dress code when I went to Walmart as a kid. Okay. It's true. I'm just being honest, alright? That's not Bible. It's not. Now I'm I'm I mean That's the way I lived, and I don't feel like I was scarred by it or anything like that. But but the reality is that if you're raising children in an environment, you better make clear to them that that's not what the Bible commands us to do. That's simply a cultural norm within a certain context within Christianity. It's the truth And the fact is that when we start blurring these things, all of a sudden what we do is we create very unhealthy conscience dilemmas for our children. But when we emphasize the clear authority of Scripture, all of a sudden, as our kids grow up, they start realizing: this is non-negotiable, this is gospel, this is central to the faith, this is an area of liberty. And as they mature and as they grow up, they start being able to make this distinction. And then what needs to happen is then they need to know how to interact with people that haven't learned how to make that distinction. But the way that that starts is by emphasizing the authority of Scripture. Secondly, emphasize the need for growth and the way people grow. We need to grow spiritually, not conform to a rule book. You know, we could just have a policy manual, and here's all the things that you need to do, and you have absolutely no reason no understanding of why this is right or wrong. Or we could just teach the Word of God and say, this is what Christians need to do to grow. And as we think about what God uses to help us grow, we mature. And some of the things that might have been in that manual, some of them we might end up doing. For a totally different reason than following a rule book. And some of them we just ignore them because they didn't need to be there. But the idea is that we see the need to grow. And then we think about how people grow. How do people grow? It's through the word. It's through the word getting into their heart. It's through the Holy Spirit working through the Word in them. It's about internal, dispositional, character change, thinking change. It's not a bunch of external things. That is not a part of the equation. Real growth happens at the root. We emphasize the importance of laying aside our rights and our comforts to help people grow. If you have more than one child, then you have endless opportunities to teach your kids this principle. Endless opportunities. You do. Why? Because there are all kinds of disputes that take place And as you work through disputes, one of the things that you do, you're not just working through a dispute so you have peace for ten more minutes in your household. You're working through a dispute, yes, for peace. But because you are shaping a life that is going to have values that are going to carry them the rest of their life. It's going to shape the household that they have. It's going to shape the way they raise their own children. It's going to shape the kind of marriage that they have, the kind of workers that they are, the kind of overseers that they are in a business. And so all of these scenarios are opportunities to say, look, you know what? This person right here If you really love them and you really want to help them grow, then you have this preference. You're going to set it to the side, and you're not going to hold fast to it. Because you love this person enough, you value them enough that you're going to work through that with them and you don't care about that preferential. You're going to just lay it aside. Okay? You do have a right to that. That's true. But you do not have to seize that right. You can set it aside. You're not sinning by setting aside. In fact, what you're doing is you're showing the value of an individual by laying aside that right, laying aside that preference, and working through the issue with it. These are valuable life lessons. Valuable life lessons. And by the way, when you're teaching your kids and they're very young, they have no idea what school is But what's gonna happen is as they start getting older and they start reading the scriptures, they start going, these are the values that my parents were teaching me. Now I see the connection here. Very important. Next, emphasize a healthy view of others, especially when our children have been wrong or witnessed things that cause them frustration. Now, just because your brother did you wrong in that particular dispute does not mean that your brother is someone that you should despise and hate now. You need to love your brother. Your brother has value to God. That thing that you just said to your brother, or that you just said to your sister. or the way that you handled that situation. Yes, it's true that they were wrong to you, but their wrong does not make your wrong response okay. These are very important principles for us to work through. Emphasize the correct view of self in the face of the gospel. Son, what gives you standing with God is not where you draw the line on that issue. It's the work of Christ. It's very important for your children to understand that. Very important. We need to get back to the foundations. Teach your children to trust God to right the wrongs that frustrate them in life. And you know what? This happens to all of us. As adults, we have a situation at work. It's unjust, it's infuriating, it's frustrating We got passed over for something. Somebody undermined us. And so we we didn't get an opportunity. And we say that's unjust. That's wrong. That's evil. And you know what? You may very well be right. But you've got to learn how to let God deal with those issues for you. These are the kinds of things that really come right out of this passage of Scripture. So let me put it all together in closing. We need to learn to put others ahead of ourselves. We need to care more about unity and growth than winning arguments. We need to consider how our decisions affect other people. We need to carry ourselves with humility and with grace. We need to be patient with others. We need to keep our priorities properly ordered. We need to trust God to handle people the way they need to be handled That really is what 1 Corinthians 8 and Romans 14 and 15, that's really what they're saying. That's what we're We need. And I'm convinced that healthy Christianity cannot happen without people living in the light of these principles. These are foundational matters for us as Christians. Let's start for prayer. Father, I pray that you'll take the word that has been given tonight and use it in our lives. Practical Christianity Is always rooted back to what you have done for us. All of these responsibilities are rooted in a position And we are reminded that we are to reflect the good, gracious work toward us that uh that Christ has given toward us as He who is forbearing with us and as He is forgiven with us with us. I pray that you'll help us to walk in godly, humble wisdom in these areas. And please give us wisdom and strength as we work with our own children in these areas. We ask all of this in Christ's name, Amen