Please take your Bibles and let's turn together to the book of 2 Chronicles. And we'll be in 2 Chronicles 32 this evening. We are working our way through stories of the kings. of Israel and Judah and looking at various snapshots from their lives. In fact, the last king that we talked about was Jehoshaphat Excuse me, Joash. We did talk a little bit about Jehoshaphat. But the story of Joash is a very interesting story because he is someone who starts out very, very well and he ends very, very poorly. And then we have several kings who come to power. They rule for maybe 16 to 20 years. Most of them, one exception, rules for a very long time. But we come to the life of Hezekiah. And Hezekiah is one of those stories in the life of the history of Judah that is one of the most significant kings in their history. And his life really has both a lot of very, very positive things that we can look at. And tonight we're going to look at some of those positives. But it also ends with some some negatives as well. And so more than likely, as we look at this, we're going to see that there are really two sides to this man. One that is very noble, very strong, very wise, a great example. And then the next time we look at his life, we're going to see some of the tragic flaws that he had. And sadly that is how we all are. We are people who are made of clay. We have strengths. We have areas where we do very well. We also have great weaknesses and limitations. And Hezekiah is an example to us in both the strong and in the weak. So I pray that we'll learn from both of those examples. But tonight we're looking at a good example, an example of walking by faith. And so the title of this section that we're going to look at is Walking by Faith in the Face of Trouble. Walking by Faith in the Face And we're looking at 2 Chronicles 32, verses 1 through 9. So let's go ahead and read it together. It says this. After these things And the establishment thereof, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, came and entered into Judah and encamped against the fenced cities, and thought to win them for himself. And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, he took counsel with his princes. and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were without the city. And they did help him. And so there was gathered much people together who stopped all the fountains of the brook that ran through the midst of the land, saying, Why should the kings of Assyria, come and find much water. Also he strengthened himself and built up all the wall that was broken, raised it up to the towers, and another wall without and repaired millow. and the city of David, and made darts and shields in abundance. And he set captains of war over the people, and gathered them together for him in the street. streets and to the gate of the city, and spake comfortably to them, saying, Be strong and courageous, be not afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitude that is with him. For there be more with us than with him. With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the Lord our God to help us and to fight our battles. And the people rested themselves upon the words of Hezekiah, king of Judah. Let's bow together for prayer. Lord, as we look at this passage, I pray that the Spirit of God would really move and speak to our hearts. Help us to see the very practical truths that are in this text. Help us to see what it means to walk by faith. Help us to see the active side. see the resting side. Help us to see how our hearts should be set when we are walking in such a way. And I pray that you'll speak to our hearts. Maybe there's someone here this evening That's going through tumultuous days. Maybe there's trouble in their life, and they need to hear these things. Maybe it's a young person who's looking at the beginning of their the the future of their life and they wonder the direction that they should take. And I pray that as they look at this text of scripture, it would be very instructive to them. I think of parents, I think of grandparents that are trying to influence their children and their grandparents children to walk in your ways. I pray that we would take these truths and we'd apply them to our hearts. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a very interesting passage because really it's kind of the end of a very lengthy portion of information about Hezekiah. If we were to look at the information that's given about Hezekiah, we have to go all the way to chapter 29. And then 29, 30, and 31 are all about the reforms that Hezekiah led. there in the land of Judah. And then once we get into chapter 32 and we continue reading, we're going to look at more information about Hezekiah's life. This is one of the most defining moments in Hezekiah's life. It was probably the high point of his life. It was a time where he demonstrated what it meant to walk by faith more than probably any other time in his life. And so as we look at these verses, what we're going to see is that trouble is an inescapable part of life. And we've got to learn to walk by faith through those difficult seasons. Here is a godly man. Here is a great leader. Here is someone who gave a great example for us when it came to this issue of leadership. And yet. In the midst of giving us a good example of leadership and walking by faith, he faces a tremendous obstacle, and the obstacle comes by a man named Sennacherib. And Sennacherib is from the Assyrian Empire, and he's coming to wage war against Jerusalem. And by the way, Sennacherb's waged war against all the nations and all the towns and all the cities in that region. If you were to look at that empire at its height, you see that it basically encompassed this entire region all the way down to Egypt, except for one little portion of land. And you know where that land was? It's in Jerusalem. This guy conquers the whole region, but he doesn't conquer this one city. And the question is why? It's because of what we're going to read this evening from the Word of God. So how do we walk by faith according to the example that is laid before us in this text? Well, let's go ahead and dig into it piece by piece. First of all, walking by faith does not does not guarantee a smooth road. Now, there is a passage of scripture in the Proverbs that says that the way of the transgressor is hard, and it also, there's another proverb that talks about the way of the righteous being as a shining light that shines more and more under the perfect day. And as a general statement of life, people who make poor decisions have bad outcomes. And as the general rule, people who make good choices, wise choices, have a much smoother path in life. That is true. But what is also true is that there are a lot of things in life that you can't anticipate Now, when we talk about the hardship that comes from walking poorly, we would say that that is the fruit of sowing to the flesh And when we talk about the smoothness of the path of someone who walks by faith, we would say that smoothness is a direct result of the consequence of making wise choices. Hezekiah is making wise choices. Hezekiah is a godly man. Hezekiah is taking a nation that has been moving toward apostasy. And he turns the nation around and he says, under my watch, this nation is not going to live like this. People have abandoned the temple. We're going to re-establish proper temple worship. People are not celebrating the feasts and the festivals that are prescribed by God in the Old Testament law that are supposed to be a A part of our history, a part of our culture, a part of the rhythm of life. And we have we have diverted away from that and we're going to get back on track. We have a polluted priesthood. And we're going to clean that up. And so Hezekiah moves quickly and decisively in all of those ways. Yet We have this statement in verse 1. After these things, and the establishment thereof, all of the things that we read about in chapters 29, 30, and 31, and they are really good. They are really remarkable. They're excellent examples. After those things, and God establishing this man as a vibrant ruler in Judah, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, came. And he entered into Judah, and he encamped against and fenced the fenced cities, and thought to win them for himself. And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, we see the rest of the section, he takes certain actions. Now what's going on? What's going on in these verses is that a godly man is being tested. In fact, one of the reasons that this man is being tested is because some of the people that had been ruling before him capitulated to these other empires. When you capitulate to a bully, guess what happens? The goalpost gets new. And then it gets moved again and it gets moved again and it gets moved again. So when you give and you give and you give and you give to a tyrant, he takes and he takes and he takes and he X And at some point a person has to say, not anymore. We're going to stand our ground. Even if it's going to cost us, we're going to stand our ground. We're not going to give you any more ground that's not yours to take. And that's what Hezekiah did. And when Hezekiah did this, Sennacherib said, Well, I'm not just the tyrant that takes when you give, I'm the tyrant that takes when you say no. And so he sets himself in the battle against Jerusalem. And the king takes decisive action in this moment. To bring the nation to prepare for war. Now this is an important thing for us to remember. Even though this king had left a tr had had led a tremendous reformation amongst the people. And all of these things are very good. In fact, when I read 29, 30, and 31, I go, hey, God, raise up people in our generation, raise up people in our nation who'll be like this. He'll say we want to turn back to the ways of the Lord. We don't want to divert down this path. We want our culture to be guided by principle and truth and what is righteous and good and holy and right. We want God's ways to be the ways that our nation is moved. That's what they wanted. Hezekiah was that kind of a guy, but didn't change the fact that this king was going to come and impose his will on him. Second thing I want you to notice is this. Walking by faith is not passive. It's not passive. Sometimes people get in their minds, I think especially when someone is young, they say, walking by faith is sort of like this. I give everything over to God, and he does all the work, and I just sit back and I don't do anything Now maybe that's not the way you think, but that's the way that I thought when I was a lot younger. I just I need to surrender this to God. I give it over to Him. I need to get out of the way and just let Him do it But that's not what we see in these verses. We see that this man who is walking by faith is unquestionably trusting God. He is also unquestionably taking decisive action in all the areas that he is responsible to take decisive action in. Look down at verse number two. It says, and when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, He took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were without the city. And they did help him. So there was gathered much people together. who stopped all the fountains and the brook that ran through the midst of the land, saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come and find much water? Also he strengthened himself and built up all the walls that were broken, and he raised it up of the towers, and another wall without, and he repaired Milo in the city of David. And made darts and shields in abundance, and he sent captains of war over the people, and gathered them together to him and the street of the gate of the city, and spake comfortably to them. Now I want us to just pause and I want us to break down the various components of what this is saying. And I think it's very important to recognize something. All of the actions that Hezekiah took were not him taking matters into his own hands. It was him taking his responsibility as a king seriously in the light of the fact that he recognized he serves the one true God and needs to stand his ground. If he was taking, we could say the pragmatic path, this is what he would have done. He would have said, Sennacherib, I know that you want to take the city. What's your price so that we can have peace? He would have capitulated just like the other kings before him. That's not what he did. He said, I'm going to stand my ground, I'm going to trust God, but I have responsibility as a king to prepare my people for war. Notice each position each point. First of all, in verse 20 at verse number two, he says this. When Hezekiah saw That Sennacherib was come and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem. He does these things. What is that talking about? This is telling you that this is a man who had foresight. He was circumspect. The Bible talks about the fact that a wise man or a prudent man foresees the evil and he prepares himself. So here is here is Hezekiah and he's looking at what's going on. He's like, I know what Sennacherib is capable of. I know what he's done to that city. I know what he's done to that city. And he goes through all the different places and he says He is assembling his troops. He's laying siege on our city. He's going to do to us what he did to them. And so what's this telling you? He is looking and he is analyzing and he's preparing himself. We've got to be people who walk circumspectly. Wisdom recognizes danger. Wisdom looks ahead, it thinks about the future, and it prepares based on what it sees. Walking by faith is not inconsistent with seeing ahead there's a problem and preparing ourselves. Second thing we see is in verse number three, he took counsel with his princes and his mighty men. As soon as he recognizes that the situation isn't good, he takes counsel from the best available experts to him. And it's really interesting what these guys do. As they look at the situation, they recognize a weakness in the city. I don't know if you remember the story about when we were talking about Christ coming down from the Mount of Olives, and he went down into the Kidron Valley, and then as he came up From the Kidron Valley he goes up into Jerusalem. I don't know if you remember us talking about that, but the Kidron Valley has a stream, or should I say, had a stream that ran through that that and that stream started with springs called And the Gihon Springs were up in the higher parts of the elevation, and the water would flow down into that valley and through that valley. And what's interesting about it is in those days if people wanted to get water, they had to leave the city and they had to go down into the valley and they had to draw the water from that location And so as they're looking at this situation, they recognize this is a dangerous situation for the city. Our water is going down into the valley and our enemies are able to go and use that water and we are vulnerable because if we want the water we got to go out of the city. So here's what they did. It's a fascinating thing what they did They devised a plan to build an aqueduct that basically stopped up the springs that were feeding down into the valley. And they dug this tunnel, they made this aqueduct from where the springs were all the way down to a low point in the city, and that's where the modern day pool of saloon In fact, we know the story of Jesus healing a man at the pool of Siloam. And so that water would not have naturally gone there if they hadn't diverted it. So this is a massive engineering project. They are digging a tunnel, and this tunnel is channeling the water away from the valley where their enemies would be seated, and into the city where now they can be sustained under a siege. Pretty amazing thing to think about. By the way, it's still there. They've discovered it. People can walk that if you go uh to Israel at this time you can actually go and visit those places And so they take quick, decisive action in verse number three. They stopped the water of the fountains that were in the city. Pretty amazing thing. Fourth thing we see is that he assembles a motivated team, verses 3 to 5. And they did help him so that there were gathered much people together. And stopped all the fountains and the brooks that ran through the midst of the land, saying, Why should the king of Assyria come and find much water? So what do you see here? You see a man who recognizes there's a problem. He goes to the best available advice, and he gets it. He listens to what these people have to say. They have a plan. They work together as a team. They take decisive action. They're strengthening the city to prepare for battle. That's what walking by faith is. It's you taking your responsibility seriously as you trust God. We then see in verse number five. That he strengthens the defensive position of the city. It says he also strengthened himself. He built up all the wall that was broken. He raised up to the towers. Another wall without. He repaired Milo in the city of David And then in verses 5 and 6, he strengthens their military capabilities. He makes darts and shields in abundance. And he sets captains of war over the people. So he's preparing for war in every way, strengthening the city, diverting the waters so that they're prepared for a siege. He he's ramping up industry if you want to use it that way. He's making sure that they have weapons, he's making sure that they have shields. He's making sure that the military is properly ordered and everybody knows their job because he knows Senakrib means business. And then we come to one final thing. He encourages his people. Verse number six. He gathered them together to him in the street of the gate of the city. And he spoke comfortably to them. Now all of the steps that this man takes are consistent with walking by faith Because the motive for why is built on his trust of God. If he was not walking by faith, he wouldn't have taken any of those actions. He would have said, what's your price to Accrob so that we can have our lives? What do I need to give you so that we can have peace? Walking by faith is no. What do I need to do to be prepared to defend? What actions do I need to take? He did his duty. Third thing I want you to see here is that walking by faith rests in God's power and care where our responsibility ends. Now here's what's so important for us to recognize. You and I have duties to perform in all areas of life. And if we don't do those duties, it's not God's fault when we have problems. Okay? Let's look at something as simple as raising our kids. If we're praying and asking God to help us to raise our kids, but then we take no action on our own part to make sure that we do it well, then the question is why are we praying? We've got to sit down with our kids. We've got to teach them the word of God. We've got to make sure that they're in church. We've got to be careful about their education. We've got to be careful about their influences. We need to stimulate conversations with them. We need to go what's know what's going on in their lives, get them to open up, share with them. We've got to allow them to be a part of our lives. Lots and lots of daily steps that we need to take. So if we're praying, we also need to be doing our responsibility or our duty. But there's a second side to this. If we do our duty, we still have limitations. I can teach my kid, but I can't put in their heart a love for God. I can show them how to do it. I can give them a really good example, but they have to take it to heart themselves. I can teach them how to work. I can give them so many things, but they've got to want it themselves. And you know what that shows? You have a limitation. You can only go so far. And if you don't do what you're responsible to do, that's a problem. But when you do the right thing, you realize there's a limit to what I can accomplish. And that's what really comes in here. He recognizes that though he has taken all of the steps that he needed to take appropriately, there was another factor that if God didn't do it, he'd be in trouble. And so in verses 7 and 8, he talks about the ultimate deciding factor. Not his strengths, not his wisdom, not all those actions that he took, though they're all very important. It's God on his side. That's really important. It's not just what I do, it's him working through me. He says in verse 7, be strong and courageous. By the way, this is what God told to Joshua multiple times when there's a transfer of authority. Moses is no longer in this position. Now Joshua says, be strong and courageous. He says it over and over and over again. Whenever we see this transfer, we see that the one who is passing the baton on says, be strong and courageous over and over and over again. God says that. Why? Because it's not easy to lead people. It's not easy to carry the burden of responsibility. It's not easy to be the one who has to make those choices. And you know what a lot rises and falls on those choices, and people's lives are going to be affected. Be strong. Be courageous, be not afraid or dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitude that is with him, for there are more with us. than with him. And those people are probably looking out over their walls and going, I don't know if I believe that. I see a lot of people out there This is a powerful, vicious army. There's more with us than with him? He says yes. Why? With him is an arm of flesh, but with us. is the Lord our God to help us and to fight our battles. Now this is what I think is so important to not miss. This is the same guy that's that looked ahead and said, we have a problem. What's your counsel? Let's take action. Let's assemble a team. Let's build our military capabilities. Let's reinforce all of these defensive positions. He takes all of those actions. But that's not where his faith was resting. His faith was resting in the fact that God is with him. And that's so important. Because walking by faith does not ignore our duty, it does not ignore our responsibility, it embraces it, but it doesn't rest in our strength and wisdom. It rests in God's. Hezekiah looks ahead. He prepares for war on so many levels. He prepares the people to fight. He recognizes his own limitations. The deciding factor was in God's hands, not his. That's why he says, with us is the Lord our God to help us. and to fight our battles. Hezekiah encouraged the people from God's power, not their own preparation. And this is one of the great balances that we need in our lives. We must prepare, but we can't allow that to become our ultimate confidence. When people say I'm trusting God but I don't prepare, you know what that is? That's folly. When people say I prepare but I don't need God, guess what? That's folly too. It's falling on the ditch on this side or on that side. And we need to say Set ourselves right in the middle where we prepare but we trust. And that's what walking by faith is. Fourthly, walking by faith can rest even when life is tumultuous. Now, if I was to put myself in Hezekiah's shoes, I can only imagine. You know all the terrible things that have happened to the people all around your region. You've heard the stories. You've heard how ruthless and terrible these people are. And you know that they're encamped around your city. And you've prepared yourself and you've calmed the people and you've told them God's with us. But you still have to go to bed at night and put your head down and go, but they're still outside our walls. And I don't know how long they're going to be there, and I don't know how they're going to wage war against us. But what do you see in verse number 8? The people rested themselves upon the words of Hezekiah the king of Judah. By the way, I'm not going to get into this in this passage here, but you can see that when Sennacherib sends his letters, And as the people stand outside those walls, basically they humiliate the people and they say, you're trusting Hezekiah's words. Hezekiah has no ability to protect you from us. Your gods have no ability to protect you from us. All the gods of the people all around us, they have been unable to protect those people from us. Don't listen to him. And when Hezekiah receives those letters, this is what he does. He takes the letters, he goes into the house of the Lord. He lays them there and he gets on his face before God and he says, God, you see what this man is doing You hear what this man is saying. You see what this man has written. And I'm pleading with you, intervene for us. You know what God did? He answered that prayer. But before we come to that, the people are resting in Hezekiah's words. This is what true leadership is. When the pressure is intense , Leaders, stand strong and say, let's trust God. That's what you got to do as a dad. That's what you have to do as a mom. That's what a pastor has to do. That's what a missionary. That's what a church planter has to do. God puts us in places where we're the one who's got to take the hit. Or we're the one that's got to make the tough choice. Or we're the one that's got to stand up and say, we can do this. And that's what leadership does. It trusts God. It rests in Him when there's trouble all around. And God mightily delivered his people out of Sennacherib's hands. If you turn later on in verses 21 and 22, he tells us that. It says, And the Lord sent an angel which cut off the mighty men of valor, and the leaders of the captains in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame to face to his own land. And when he was come into the house of his God, they came forth of his own, they that came forth of his own bows or his own children. Slew him there with the sword. And thus the Lord saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, and from the hand of all other and guided them on every side. Now, when Hezekiah made all those preparations, he was not anticipating that kind of an outcome. He was anticipating that there would be a battle and they would have to fight. And that through the battle and through the fighting, God would give the victory. But God chose to do it a different way. But that didn't mean he shouldn't prepare. And it didn't mean he shouldn't be ready. But God intervened in a way that was clearly he's in charge. He's the one who delivered. You know, there are many times in our lives that God does things like this. I don't mean the angel of the Lord kills our enemy. I'm not saying that, okay? But what I am saying is this. God in his own way does things in our lives sometimes we go, where did that come from? I didn't see that coming at all. And what's God doing? He's reminding us that he loves us. He cares about us. And he's the one who is the ultimate determiner of the outcome. So what can we take away from this? What are the applications? Let me give you some final thoughts here. First is this. Let's not embrace the illusion that God's people will always escape hardship and tests. Boy, I wish that was true. But it's not. The Bible is full of God's word being put to the test and godly people, some of the most godly people in Scripture. facing some of the greatest hardships. Why is that? Because God was giving an opportunity for them to trust Him and Him to demonstrate His faithfulness. Two, when our faith is tested, we must embrace this careful balance. What I mean by that is this: take your responsibility seriously. You don't just give it to God and do nothing. If you have something that God has given you to do, do it. But at the same time recognize that that is not ultimately what's going to determine the outcome. God may work through it God may work despite our lack of preparation. God may work outside of those things, but it doesn't change the fact that we need to do two things. One, do your duty, and two, trust God with what you can't control. Three. We must take decisive action to be discerning, to seek good counsel. To take action when action is necessary and to prepare for the worst in life. We need to do that. We need to do that on every single level. We need to do that when it comes to the raising of our kids. We need to do that when it comes to our future. We need to do this when it comes to all these major life decisions. We need to do it this way. That is walking by faith. Decisive action, discernment, seeking counsel, taking action, preparing for the worst. Fourthly, we must avoid the danger of trusting in our provision. One of the things that can happen for a person Who has prepared well, they've trusted God, and He's worked through their preparation, is that they forget that God worked through their preparation. They start putting their confidence in their preparation. Don't do that. Because God may have to bring something else that'll remind us that's not the case. Fifthly, we've got to learn to trust God where our responsibility ends. Fifth, or sixth, we need to lead when we're called to do it. And lastly, we need to learn to rest in his power and his care. I want to leave you with that last statement from verses 7 and 8 that I think really captures the whole message so well. It says, be strong, be courageous, be not afraid, nor dismayed for the king of Syria, nor for all the multitude that is with him, for there be more with us. Then there be with him. With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the Lord our God to help us. And to fight our battles. I want to encourage you that when you're going through difficulty in life, God is with you. He works through our lives. He works despite us many times. He's a good God. He's got our back. We can trust him. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to apply this to our lives. Father, thank you so much for this text. What a beautiful example of faith, trusting you, obedience Decisive action, thinking through the best possible outcome, but seeing you work despite all of that. I pray that you'd help us to be a people who walk simply by faith. That we're not lazy, that we're not careless, but that we are diligent, that we are faithful, but that we trust you. Take the word and use it tonight. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.