Also want to mention that this evening after our evening service we have a business meeting. This is our third quarter meeting, and uh the financials will be available when you uh leave the service this morning. So Please pick that up and review that for our meeting. If you've not seen the agenda, it had been posted for a little bit and it's in the back hallway over by the office area. So just take a note of that And another reminder is that next Sunday is the time change, and so please make sure that you turn your clock the correct way. Or it'll be a little confusing when you get here. So please make sure that you do that. I guess now with our cell phones they do it for us. We don't have to worry about it. I just want to remind you about that. And then also there are several things on there, but I did want to mention in particular the Lit conference that's coming up If you have not signed up for that and you're hoping to help out with that, please do sign up. We still do have some items that we need to sign up for to bring to that. And it's always a great time that the teaching is very encouraging to our young people. It's a great time of fellowship as we have lots of churches that we um fellowship with that are semi-local that are able to be here and then we have uh camps uh camp ministries and we have uh schools so I just hope that you'll uh take advantage of that opportunity to be involved. So make a note of that on your calendars and sign up for that if you haven't signed up for that as well. And also I wanted to say a big thank you to those who came out yesterday for the Workday, we got a good bit done and uh all the beds have been mulched and there was work that was done inside. So those who are able to make it out to that, we want to say a big thank you for that And just want to remind you that we do a second work day in the fall. That will be our leaf raking. And that's always a highlight for our kids. So notice that on your calendar that we have Leaf raking coming up, and please do sign up for that so that we can plan well with donuts for that. Pastor Josh has our opening scripture reading, then we'll start our service. Our opening scripture reading is found in Isaiah 53. We'll start in verse four. Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows. Yet we did as seen him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter. And as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. He was taken from prison and from judgment. And who shall declare his generation? For he was cut off out of the land of the living. For the transgression of my people was he stricken. And he made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in his death, because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, and he shall prolong his days. and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many. For he shall bear their iniquities. Amen. The theme for this morning's worship Let's marvel in God's redemptive purpose for our lives. Just want to invite you to look at the hymns that we will sing in our opening this morning with that theme of considering God's redemptive purpose for our lives. The first hymn is very familiar. It's I Sing the Mighty Power of God. And we are going to celebrate the power and the majesty and the glory of our God And then from that, the second song we're going to sing is worthy of praise. And so we're going to think about who he is. And then Talk about how we need to sing praise to him because he is worthy of all of our praise. And then the third hymn that we're going to sing is another familiar one. And can it be? And that's really going to focus our attention on the fact that we are sinners. We do not deserve to come into the presence of God. It is all of his grace. And it is all of his grace purchased for us through the redemptive work of Christ. And so I really want to encourage you, let's think about the truths that are packaged in those songs as we sing them, and let's really sing them from the heart this morning as we prepare our hearts to hear the preaching of God's Word. Let's bow together for prayer, and then we will get our service started with song. Father, we're so grateful for a wonderful Lord's Day, wonderful opportunity to open up our Bibles, to be fed from the Scriptures, to have our hearts strengthened as we reflect on wonderful truths about your greatness and your majesty and your glory. And I pray that as we reflect on the fact that we are a redeemed people , who are sinners and separated from you, but brought into your presence by the grace of your redemptive sacrifice, I pray that our hearts would be deeply and richly fed and strengthened and blessed today. Father, uplift those who are weary, strengthen those who are who are very discouraged. I pray that you would just refocus us this morning as much as we might need that. And we ask for your blessing on this time. In Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church. It's a lot warmer in here than it was outside this morning, a little on the chilly side, huh? I'd like to welcome all of the visitors. Thank you for assembling together with us, both in person and online. At this point in time we're going to begin our song service. Please stand with me. Turn to page six in your hymnal. Page six in your hymnal, I sing the mighty power of God. Sing it out I think you're getting warmed up. As we turn to page 14, continue singing out like that. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord this morning. Worthy of praise is he. As we turn to page 134. Page 134. And can it be? Well you rank me at the thousand God of us Amen. You're singing wonderfully this morning. And as we go to the scriptures, we will go to the book of 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians. We'll start in chapter five. And then in verses What is it? 13 through 21. So 2 Corinthians 5, 13 through 21, the scriptures say For whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God, or whether we be sober, it is for your cause. For the love of Christ constraineth us, because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. Wherefore, henceforth know we no man after the flesh. Yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him no more. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation, to wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's stead. Be ye reconciled to God. For he hath made him to be sinned for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. May the Lord add the blessing to his work. Okay. All right, amen. Now at this time we're going to turn to page 592 in the back of the book. Page 592. Soldiers of Christ arise. Okay. Gonna need to stand for this one, please. At the uh it's uh three verses at the end of the second verse Please do our meet and greet at the end of the second verse. Turn around and great somebody you don't care. No Alright , what better went back to the day? Okay , you're gonna go to the house. All right, please remain standing. For our next song, the looking on the screen plays. For the sake of his name. On the third verse, we're going to sing it a cappello, so I'd ask the mus the musicians to Stand down for that verse and come back together on the fourth. For the sake of his name. One, two , one, one , three , four, one , three, go , three , three, three. For Jesus Lord , that one can replace. Well please I pray, praise, let might be raised , all Jesus. I have Talum and the I will make a garden who will bear my God and When I was paying I have well men of my good brain In the lady, I will look in my draw. Entra. Okay, well our children who are in the junior church age can be dismissed to the back with the help of a parent. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And I don't know about you, but I love this time of the year. Because we stop from all of our normal, uh, we could say our typical sermon series that we are working our way through, and we pause, and we just focus on the need for the gospel to go to the nations. And one of the things that is a great burden to my heart as I think about this topic is that there will be no churches sending people to the nations if those churches are not healthy. If those churches are not vibrant, if those churches are not doing the work that they're supposed to do in the places that God has planted them. And so the text in front of us is really, I hope, going to motivate and challenge us in a biblical way as we consider the fact that we are ambassadors for Christ. There is no question as to whether or not we are ambassadors for Christ. The question is simply where. The question is not if, it's how are we positioned in this world that God has planted us to be a part of his work? of reaching the nations and the nations start in our local communities. The nations start with our neighbors, our family, our coworkers And then from those small areas of interaction, they go to the uttermost parts of the world. And so let's read the scriptures one more time this morning before we dig into this topic. of how we are ambassadors for Christ. Here's what God's word says. Therefore, if any man be in Christ He is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given unto us the ministry of reconciliation. To wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them. and has committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now, then we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead, be reconciled to God For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain. For he saith, I have heard thee in a time accept it. And in the day of salvation have I succored thee. Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. Please let us go to the Lord in prayer and ask him to really help us to think very carefully about the passage we have just read. Father, as we think about your word this morning, I pray that you would take it and that you would press it deep on our souls. We recognize that your word is alive. It has the power to take our hearts and press them in the direction they ought to go. Father, I pray that this morning as we think about your word, if the need is for us to be warned, or the need is for us to be convicted that in fact the conviction of the Holy Spirit Would be very, very heavy on our souls, and that we would respond to that conviction with a humble and repentant heart And Father, if the need today is not for conviction, but rather great encouragement, or we have become weary and we have become discouraged in the work that we are doing in your kingdom. And we feel as if we can't get back up. I pray that as we read this passage that you would strengthen and uplift and encourage every person that that is the effect that they need today. And Father, I pray that by the end of this sermon, all of us would worship you with a unified heart that is just so very grateful for the work you have done in us, the work you have done for us. And the work you desire to do through us. Help me to handle the word very carefully this morning, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. So what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to remind you where we have been this uh entire month. And what I mean by that is what is the progression that we have been dealing with on each Sunday morning? Usually we're going through the book of Luke. And uh we've been in it for quite a few years. Uh we have also gone through the Psalms, and we've worked our way through about the first 50 or so Psalms. And as we're working our way through these, there's a progression. Sometimes when we step away and we do more of a topical series, we miss progression. And so this morning I want to remind you of the progression of our missions month. The first thing we talked about in our missions month was actually the text that's here in front of us. You probably can't read it unless you're on the front row. But that's 1 Peter 2, verse 9, and it says this. that he should that we should show forth the praises of him who has called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. We are a kingdom of priests, a holy nation, a peculiar treasure, because God wants us to take the gospel to people who do not have it. Parts of the world or parts of the United States where there are communities that have very little gospel witness. And even in our own country There are many places that have very few gospel preaching churches. And sometimes there are gospel preaching churches, but in fact They're not healthy, they're not strong, they're not vibrant, they're not places where the word of God is preached clearly, passionately, week in and week out. And all of the cities in our country need gospel preaching churches that are strong and vibrant. And then if we think beyond our states , And we think beyond our country, we have countries all over the world. There are people groups today that do not have a strong gospel witness in them at all. In fact, there are some folks that have come through over the last month that desire to go to parts of the world that are really closed to Western missionaries and they're going to have to go and they're going to start businesses so that they can live in the country, in the society. And as God works, they're going to make connections with people. And we pray, Lord willing, they will establish gospel preaching churches as they are faithful in the work. We are saved to show forth his praises where there is no witness. The second discernment we look at is that we cannot allow ourselves to miss the opportunities that are right in front of us. And in fact, one of the things that I'm so very concerned about during a missions month is that people think a lot about what's going on in other parts of the world and they fail to realize that we are a part of the world. Okay? And we start to neglect some of the most normal and ordinary but most impactful areas of influence. And I would say that that area is in your own family. Your children, your grandchildren, your nieces, your nephews, the children that are growing up in this church, the people that you rub shoulders with the most The fact is, your children are going to learn far more from what they see you do and hear you teach and the commitments you expect them to follow through with than any person you will influence that you work with. Or any person that you give attracts you, or anybody that you go to church with. Your kids see you and hear you and know you better than anybody. And if you neglect in the home to reach your family, we'll have a huge problem. A problem that has already begun to develop in our own society today. And so we saw how it was the desire of Christ. To reach into a community of the Samaritans. And he went through a woman who was one of the most unlikely people. And the disciples did not see what was right in front of them. And Jesus wanted to work through them. We've got to think about that second sermon from John chapter 4. And then we move to a third. We need to think practically about making disciples. And passing on the faith to the next generation. In 2 Timothy chapter 2, we talked about, we have this picture of people running a race. And as one runs the race, there is always going to be an end date on your ministry, on your influence, your interaction with people. There will always, always, always come to an end date. If if we think about it, we're going to get too old to be able to do the work that we're doing. We may lose our minds. We may lose our strength. Maybe people will not continue to be in the environment that we're in the way that it is. And so what happens? is we have to be very, very involved in preparing those coming behind us to take up where we have left off. It's like running a race. You run, you hand the baton, they run, and you pray they run very well. And then the third text that we dealt with was last week, 2 Timothy chapter 3. And we talked about the fact that we need a strong commitment to the tools that God uses to build his church. He promises, I will build my church. But the question is, through what? How does he build the church? Does he just speak it into existence from one generation to the next? The answer is no. He does it through people. He does it through people speaking. He does it through people being actively engaged in the lives of other people. And at the heart of that is the preaching of the gospel. And the authority of the scriptures. And so it is the word of God and the gospel of Christ that is what God uses to build and strengthen the church. and pass on from one generation to the next generation. Today, we're going to look at the fact that we need to be faithful ambassadors. You said, wow, you just preached the sermon. Ah, it's only the intro. We have some room to cover this morning. So I want to begin, first of all, before we dig into the text deeply, I want us to consider the overall flow of the passage in front of us. In fact, I would put it like this. In 2 Corinthians 5, verse 9, we see the introduction of a thought, and in 2 Corinthians 6, verses 1 and 2, we see the conclusion of that thought. And everything we will talk about this morning is packaged between 5. 9 and 6. 2. And here are the statements that open and close the section we will look at this morning. It says in 2 Corinthians 5. 9, we labor, that whether present or absent, we may be accepted of Him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And then he says later, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. I am convinced that lots of Christians do not labor. They relax. I would say especially in a country like this one. Because life is pretty easy. You say, oh, it's not easy. We have a tough economy. Well, if you were to compare us to the rest of the world, I promise you, we have an easy life. Things are much simpler, much easier , much more prosperous in this country than almost any other country in the world. And the fact is, it's so easy for us to think that church is about sitting in a pew and enjoying the music. And enjoying the preaching, to fail to realize that the reason that we come is to worship God with our hearts so that our hands engage in his work for the rest of the week. He says, we labor. And then he says, because we're going to appear at the judgment seat of Christ, you say, well, I'm just thankful that I'm uh I'm saved so I won't be condemned. That's true. But you still will stand before Jesus at the judgment seat. And there's a reason for that. And we'll talk about it in just a moment. But this is how he opens the passage. Then he closes with these statements in 2 Corinthians 6. 1. He says, we then as workers together with him. Amazing statement Beseech you also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain. What a stunning statement. He says it, we as workers together with him beseech you that you do not receive the grace of God in vain. What is he saying there? We will get into it in just a moment. So here's how I'll summarize the text that we're looking at today. Christians are saved out of spiritual darkness to show forth God's light as his ambassadors. Christians are saved out of spiritual darkness to show forth God's light as his ambassadors. As you sit here this morning, God wants you to faithfully represent Him to those who need to be reconciled to Him. You say, Who are those people? What are their names? Well, look at your children, look at your coworkers, think about your neighbors, think about the people you come in contact with. These are the people that the Bible would be referring to. These people who we come in contact with on a daily basis. So I begin with truth number one. We see the motivation that Paul has in this text. to do the work of ministry very, very faithfully. What is the motivation? Well faithful ambassadors feel the weight of three simple factors. Let's look at them one at a time. Factor number one. The reality of the judgment seat of Christ. Verses 9 and 10. We labor that whether present or absent, we may be accepted of Him. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Now, interestingly, the Apostle Paul has addressed this concept in his first epistle to the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. And what he says in chapter 3 of 1 Corinthians and what he says here has a lot of overlap that helps us to understand this concept a little bit better. Here's what he says in chapter 3 of 1 Corinthians. He says, we are laborers together with God. Does that sound very similar to what we just read? Laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry. Ye are God's building. And the next statement is fascinating. According to the grace of God which was given me as a wise master builder, I laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereupon. Let me put it like this. Every person in this room experiences some kind of challenge in life. Seasonal challenges. Some of them are the way that we grew up. Some of them are some things that happen to us along the way. Some of them are things we're living through right now. Some of them are financial pressures, physical pressures, all kinds of different things. People that we're dealing with that we're not happy with them or they're not happy with us or a challenging neighbor situation. There's all kinds of potential situations And in every single situation we encounter, God provides for us a measure of enabling to handle that situation the way He wants us to handle it. We would say he gives us grace to interact with that situation victoriously. The grace is available, but we have to utilize it. And when we talk about Christian ministry, the same thing will be true. It's true for a pastor. It's true for a parent It's true for a missionary. It's true for a church planter. It's true for a deacon. It's true for every single person in the church. God gives you a measure of grace to do the work he's called you to do. Here's the question. Have you received that grace in vain? Say, what does that mean? It means you ignore what's in front of you. You say, well, like rebelliously? Sometimes. But sometimes it's just distraction. I don't see it. I ignore it because I'm so focused on other things, it doesn't catch my attention. Do you see this the similarities here? Labors together with God according to the grace of God. It was given to me as a master builder. I lay the foundation, another builds thereon. He goes on to say this: every man's work shall be made manifest. It's going to be revealed. The quality of the labor is going to be demonstrated. Every man's work shall be made manifest. The day shall reveal it. And it shall be revealed by fire. Now we could say a lot more about the text, but the things I want you to notice are this. We're all going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ one day. Number two, the quality of our service will be evaluated on that day. It's not about heaven and hell here, folks. In this particular judgment seat, it is about the quality of your ministry, the quality of your service to God. Whether or not you allowed the grace that was available to you to be wasted or you utilized it and you engaged in the situations God put in front of you. The true quality of our spiritual investment will be revealed in that day. And this should motivate our service for the Lord. Now I want to just stop for a second and say this. There are times that people misjudge us too positively, and sometimes they judge us too negatively. The idea is that some people they're doing the work of ministry very well, very faithfully. They're enduring. But when someone evaluates their service, they say, oh, it's a small thing. Why aren't you seeing this or why aren't you seeing that? And they really look down on the quality of what you're doing, not knowing all of the factors that God is aware of. And so this passage encourages us that when we are looked at, we could say a little bit negatively, but we are enduring faithfully, what other people think doesn't matter. I don't want to say who cares, but in some sense it's true. Don't worry about it. But there's also a second side to this The fact is that sometimes what we see looks really good, but we don't know what's going on below the surface And sometimes a person will evaluate another service and say, whoa, that's amazing. And in fact, it's not. And God knows that very, very well. And so I want to encourage you to strike the right balance on this issue. The judgment seat is real. The quality of our ministry is going to be evaluated, and Jesus will determine the true quality with perfect understanding. Far better than you and I judge one another. Which I'll just add should be we should be quite cautious of. When you come up with an idea about a person for good or for bad, know that you do not know the whole story. You never do. And they don't know the whole story about you. And so this is the motivator. Factor two. The sobering terror of God's justice. Verse 11. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade man. Now I have to say something here. He's writing to Christians. And so he's not suggesting that the Christian is in fear of condemnation. When he talks about the terror of the Lord, we need to ask the question, in what sense does the believer get sobered by the terror of the Lord? Is he concerned that when he stands at the judgment seat of Christ, that he's going to be judged forever in hell? Is that what he's concerned about? Or is it something different? And I believe it's something quite different. Romans chapter 8. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. And John he talks about how we pass from death unto life. But here's something that we need to consider. We understand as Christians the holiness of God. And that ought to sober every one of us. And when we think about the holiness of God, and we think about the human condition as sinners, You know what that should do? Sober us. You know, a person who rejects the gospel is going to face the full wrath of God. And you and I need to think about that. Now I'm not responsible for another person's decision at all, but I am responsible for whether or not I engage with that individual if that is exactly what God wanted me to do. And so this text reminds us that we need to feel the weight of the fact that God is a holy God who hates sin and people we know and rub shoulders with are going to face his wrath. If not, for the grace of God saving them through the gospel. This conviction should so impact us that we labor diligently to call people to faith in Christ We often think of how we should motivate the lost to turn to God because of his wrath. And that's true. But this should also motivate us to give the gospel. Third factor. The incredible goodness of God's love. The word I have is incomprehensible. In verses 13 and 15 he says, the love of Christ constraineth us. Can you imagine? The more deeply you understand the love of God, the more that love for for you and for the world and what was accomplished for you, the more that grips you, the more compelled. You will be to take the gospel to the nations, starting in your own backyard. A lot of Christians do not think very much of the love of God I don't mean that they think it's worthless. I don't mean that. I mean they do not think often of the love of God. Every one of us, when we wake in the morning, we should remind ourselves freshly I am a sinner saved by grace who's the object of God's love, and I'm accepted only because of Jesus' sacrifice. And that ought to really flood our hearts every day. And so this third factor, the goodness of God's love, should drive us. So we see the motivation. Second thing I want you to notice this morning is the message. That Paul is preaching. And the message that we have to preach as well. The only message that provides reconciliation between a sinful person and a holy God who hates sin. Faithful ambassadors are gripped by the glory of the cross of Christ. In verse number one of chapter, excuse me, verse 18 of chapter one, he says that the preaching of the cross is unto them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. Foolishness, power of God. What's the difference? Are you saved or not? When you hear the preaching of the cross, does it mean something to you? Does it move you? Does it bring some joy to your heart? Some gripping of your soul? Foolishness? Or the glory, the power of God into salvation? It reminds me of what we read at the opening of our scripture this morning, Isaiah 53. Listen to this text. Because what it does is it describes the nature of what was accomplished on the cross. Now I know this is predictive, written hundreds and hundreds of years before the cross, but Isaiah writes with such careful detail what the cross was accomplishing. Listen to what it says. Isaiah 54, verse 53, verse 4. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Our sin literally was placed on Jesus. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. That word for is very important. He became our substitute. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. Another way to put this is that because he was punished, we have peace with God. The word that we use is propitiation. The payment that removed the wrath of God so that we could be reconciled to Him. Those who were enemies are now at peace with God. Propitiation. Chastisement of our peace is on Him. That's what he's saying. He said, It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put his his soul to grief. You shall make his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seed and prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. What does that tell you? That's what the cross did. The cross was God taking your sin. And placing them on the shoulders of your perfect substitute, Jesus. And he pours out his judgment on Christ so that he can forgive you of your sin. You say that's what it is? Yes. That's what it's saying in Isaiah 53, and that's what it's saying in the text in front of us. Notice how he puts it. 521 He hath made him to be sin for us. It's the exact same thing we just read in Isaiah. Do you realize that Isaiah 53 and 2 Corinthians 5 are su are they're separated by close to 600 years? Same thing. Why? Same gospel. Same message. From the front side, from the backside. It's the same message. It is a glorious message because he became sinned for us. 2. It says he knew no sin. Now if Jesus was a sinner like you and me, the cross would be pointless. What makes the cross the power of God and the salvation is that Jesus Christ, the second person of the Godhead, he takes on humanity. And the perfect righteous man Is representing us and taking our sin debt on himself, and he's punished in our place. He became sin for us, though he did not know sin. The question is why? The answer is there. So that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him. When God looks at you, he does not see sinner. He sees his righteousness. He sees the cross. He sees the resurrection. And he says, not guilty, righteous in Christ, set apart to God, holy, accept it. Why is that? Because of what Jesus did. It's got nothing to do with what you did. It's got nothing to do with what I did It's got nothing to do with what I promised to do, which would be empty anyway. Because if I told God I was going to do something, I wouldn't follow through with it. Have you ever told God you're going to do something and not follow through with it Maybe I should ask you how many times and how bad was it? How bad did it fall short? It's not about what we did for him or what we'll do for him or what we hope to do for him. It's what he did for us. He became sin who knew no sin so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. The cross is the one and only basis for a holy God to forgive sinful men. You know, there are lots of people in the world that they believe that God is just benevolent. By the way, he is benevolent, don't get me wrong, but just benevolent. Just, kind, and he just forgives people. He just like, you know, waves his wand and it's like, boom, you're forgiven. No. He's just, he's righteous. He cannot overlook sin. He can't ignore it. He can't turn away and say, I didn't see that. I mean we do that sometimes He cannot forgive a sinner as a holy and righteous God without compromising who he is without a basis, the cross of Christ Folks, that's why the gospel isn't just a nice story. It's the only hope for the world. Truth number three. He talks about the methods. Faithful ambassadors understand the nature of God's work. There is this glorious chain from start to finish that is all a testimony to the grace of God. And what's amazing about it is this passage of scripture is going to hit like the whole thing. And I'm not going to like dig deeply into it because of our time, but I want you to see what is there. The first link to this chain is the word regeneration. God makes people new creatures in Christ. Verse 17, it says, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Another way to put that is, when you come into this world, you are a sinner. separated from God, spiritually dead. Ephesians chapter 2. You he hath quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. And so what does the text say? It says, we are now new creatures in Christ. You hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. And so the way that salvation begins is with new life. Another part of this is the word reconciliation. God reconciles us to Himself. And this is stated over and over and over and over and over again in verses 18 and 19. Here's what he says. All things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. Verse 19, God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them. Now, there's a whole lot I'd like to say here, but I'll limit what I have to say. The reason we are reconciled to God is not because we went to Him. And may I add this. The way you are reconciled to other people is not by you waiting for them to come to you. The strong goes to the weak. The strong takes the burden of reconciliation on their own shoulders. Because if it wasn't that way, there would be no reconciliation between God and people, or might I add between other people and themselves? And this is a beautiful picture of grace. If God was to say, you come to me and then I'll meet you, we'd all be out there. Nobody come to him. If he said, you do your part, I'll do my part, then we're good. That's not how it works. He says, I'm doing it all. Grace alone. He says, accept my grace. And that's what he means when he says he has reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. He didn't say He's reconciled us through some of what Jesus does and some of what you do. And it's good that you came. No, no, no, no, no. He's not into that. You are reconciled because of him alone. God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them. Romans chapter 5. We We're dead in trespasses and sins. We are walking according to this world. Romans 5. 8. God commended his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. Amazing consideration. New creatures in Christ reconciled to God. But there's another piece to the chain. And that's the word calling. God calls us to the ministry of reconciling people to Himself. God doesn't save us so we can just sit around and enjoy the benefits of salvation without a little labor. Now the labor is not how we get it. The labor is not how we keep it. The labor is what we do because we have it. That's the goal. And so in verse 18 he says, and He hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation. Verse 19, and he hath committed to us the word of reconciliation. So God makes us new creatures in Christ. He reconciles us to himself, and then he says, you've got a job to do. That's what he's saying. Fourth word, appointment. God appoints us to represent him to the lost. Verse 20. This is one of the most amazing statements in all the scripture. Now, then we are ambassadors for Christ. Catch that? Now, then we are. So we weren't like that before. That's the now. There's a basis for this. That's the then. All the things that he's just talked about. We are Not we should be. We are. It's like in the Sermon on the Mount when Jesus says, you are the salt of the earth. You are the light that is set on a hill. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. He didn't say, Well, you know, you might be light, you might not. Do your best to be the light. No, no, no, no. He said, you are light You can't hide yourself. So why do you try? That's what he's saying. Appointments. He has appointed us to represent him. That's what the word ambassador means. So you have this king, he's the creator of the universe, and he says, I've called you to represent me to them. And you say, why be? Because that's what I do with all the Christians. That's what he's saying. You say, wow, I guess he got a good deal when he got me. Don't you dare think that. Don't you dare think that Just ask your spouse if he got a good deal. Ask your kids. Ask your parents. No. It's called the grace of God. Appointed as ambassadors for Christ. Next he says, empowered. God did beseech you by us. Lotus verse 20. As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead be ye reconciled to God. I thought that the last statement I made was like pretty pretty wild to think about. This one might even be more. I don't know. In the stead of God, be reconciled to God. We have this song that we sing. It's called Channels Only. And it basically is saying this, you and I are conduits that God uses to bring his word to people. We're just the messengers. We don't have the authority. We don't have the power. The power is not in us. The authority is not in us. We are the channels that bring the message that changes People's lives forever. Empowered. You might say, I don't feel very empowered today. I get that. There's days I don't either. But it doesn't change the fact that it's true. How I feel about this isn't necessarily reality. People have to recognize just because it's in your head doesn't mean it's true. Just because you're feeling it doesn't mean it's really true. You've got to judge, you've got to analyze, you've got to look at the facts. These are objective truths. These aren't about feelings. This is reality. The most significant piece of this story is the humbling fact that a holy God chooses to reach people through other broken people. And this is where the passage closes. We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain. Here's my question. In what ways are you failing to appropriate the grace God has given you to reach the people in your sphere? You say, I've not thought about it that way. You need to. You really do. We need to. We all need to think this way. We are workers together with Him. What an amazing statement. We've received not the grace of God in vain. We've been given a special supply to meet the need in front of us. And what's really interesting, you may not see this unless you have a Bible with cross-references, but Paul literally quotes from Isaiah 49. And that Isaiah 49 passage is really an amazing passage to help us to understand what Paul's saying here. Here's what it says in Isaiah 49. I'm not going to read every detail, but I'm going to hit highlights because it really is important. This is God speaking to the nation of Israel during one of their most rebellious times. When Isaiah is writing, the people are going to be judged so severely that Jerusalem is going to be laid waste. The walls are going to be broken down. Every single every single gate into that city is going to be burned with fire. The temple is going to be absolutely destroyed. And everybody that survives that has any value to the Babylonians is going to be taken back as captives into Babylon. And for seventy years they're going to live in exile. This is what God says to those people before that is about to take place in their history. He says, I also will give thee for a light unto the Gentiles. That thou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the earth. Kings shall see and arise, princes shall worship because of the Lord that is faithful, and the Holy One of Israel, he shall choose thee. I will preserve thee and give thee for a covenant of the people to establish the earth, to cause to inherit the desolate heritages. These shall come from far and lo, these from north and from the west. Did you catch that? He's saying this broken people in rebellion against me is one day going to reach the desolate heritages. What does that mean? Broken cultures. Spiritually dark. I mean, maybe we can look it around a little bit. All over the world. The people that do not appear to have the enabling to do this, God says, I will choose them and I will work through them. So how do we apply this today? Some final thoughts. First, I want to speak to someone who maybe doesn't know the Lord is their Savior. Talked about the gospel. And you could be sitting here today or you could be on the live stream joining us. You might catch this sermon like a year from now. I have no idea. But if you are not sure, confident that when you stand before God, that you are his child, because you have embraced the gospel, repentance toward God, faith in Christ, you are trusting in the death, burial, resurrection of Christ. And his righteousness has been imputed to you. If you don't know what I'm talking about, I'm talking to you. We all need to be reconciled to him. He has graciously moved toward us, removed the enmity by offering his son for us. He's calling you through this sermon to repent and believe in Christ. Anybody can be saved. You say, well, Joel, you don't know me. I don't need to. I mean, I'd love to get to know you if that's opportunities available, right? But I don't need to know you to know that that's true. Because this is a universal truth. God can save anyone. Anyone who is willing to turn to him. To place their faith in the finished work of Christ. He says, come, be saved. They can. But many say no. What is your situation? Second group I want to mention would be pretty much everybody else. If you've been saved, a few things to think about. One, we're all going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ. I'm not saying that to uh to terrify you. I'm saying that to make you think like really about life. Really about that day. It's going to happen. The question is, how will it go? We should all be sobered and compelled by the love of God. We need to regularly remind ourselves that this wonderful redemptive message is true about us and it should grip our souls. We need to grow in our ability to communicate this wonderful message. There are lots of Christians that they really do care that people get saved, but they've really never gotten to the point where they're comfortable sharing the gospel. You might say, that's me. If that's you, come talk to me. I want to be a help to you any way that I can. I want to help you think about the tools that are available to you so that you can be effective in giving the gospel to people. We need to be reminded that we are new creatures in Christ who have been reconciled to God for an immediate ministry. We're called to participate in this ministry of reconciliation. We've been appointed to represent him before the lost. We've been empowered by the Spirit to do this work effectively. That's true of all of us. The question is not if, but how. Where? Each one of us has been uniquely fitted to touch the lives of other people. There are people that you today can reach far better than I can. And there are people that I can reach better than you can. And there are people that you can reach better than anybody in this room. And there are people we can reach better than anyone in this room, than you could reach in this room. Why is that? Well, because God's made us all a little bit different. I mean, you can look at that two ways, I guess. We're all a little bit different, right? But he puts us in unique places. He intertwines our lives with other people so that we can reach into their lives. And so the fact is, we are. It's not if, it's how. It's where. And so I'll tell you, it's here. And wherever God may plant you in the years to come. Each one of us has been uniquely fitted to touch the lives of others. Uniquely placed to reach into other people's lives. So let's ask God to open our eyes to the opportunity and responsibility before us, and let's embrace it from the heart. Let's faithfully represent Him To those who need to be reconciled to Him. May God help our missions month have really moved our hearts in a very profound way. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Before I close in prayer, I'm going to ask a simple question. Is there anyone here this morning that would say, Pastor, I don't know for sure that I'm saved? And I'm concerned about that, and I'd really like to uh I'd like to speak to somebody about that. If you were to raise your hand, I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to ask you to come and talk to me right now. I want to take note of that so that I know I need to speak with you. Is there anyone that would raise their hand and say, Pastor, that's me. I need to talk to you about salvation. I do not know for certain that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't understand the gospel and I really need to talk to somebody about that. Anybody at all? Give you just a moment. Give you just a moment. You might say, well, Pastor, I don't want to raise my hand, but I need to talk to you. No problem. Just come and do it Send me an email. There's lots of ways to reach out. I want to be a help to you. I want to point you to the gospel, what Christ has done for you. Nobody should leave this place without knowing for certain they're saved because this is the place where you get that information Let's bow together for a prayer. Our Father, we thank you for the word. We thank you for the opportunity that we've had this morning to sit under its ministry, and may it have very powerfully impacted us. I pray that you would work in hearts, not just in this moment emotionally, but I pray that you would move our hearts for the rest of our lives. I pray that this text of scripture would be something that constantly pricks our conscience or encourages us in discouragements. That shapes how we think about you and the gospel and the ministry you've called us to. Father, help us as a church to be very faithful in the most basic areas on this issue, and we ask it in Christ's name Amen. Please, I'd like to ask you to take your hymn books and turn to our closing hymn. The hymn is Near the Cross, 251. And we will sing first and the last verses of this song, 251 near the cross. And if God's keeping our heart near the cross, we're going to want to tell people about it. Let's stand together, please. Let's sing the first and the last verses of near the cross She 's And our shot briefly She was being I mean the spring trust me on I hope that you have been challenged from the Word of God this morning. Just want to remind you that tonight both Eric and Sergei will be Uh with us uh we will hear a presentation. Uh that part will not be live streamed uh because of the sensitive nature of it And then also uh Eric will be preaching tonight. And so really looking forward to our evening service. Also don't forget that tonight we have a business meeting after The evening service, so this is our third quarterly meeting. The agenda is um on the back wall if you have any questions about that And also our financials are available when you leave as well. So please pick up a copy of those so that you are aware of the last three quarters and where we stand financially , both in our spending and our giving And uh so we're looking forward to that meeting as well. Um I'd like to ask if uh Brother Charlie Archibald can close us in prayer and also if Eric and Sarah Hey, if you guys can stand in the lobby area, people can come by and greet you. And also glad to have Conrad and his family here. Been praying for Conrad with his health. And if you look at your prayer bulletin, you see a guy named Conrad SchwarzenTruver. He's here today and we thank God for that because he spent what a month in an ICU? Yeah. So I went up and visited him up in Lancaster and uh I'm really thankful to see him here today. So it's good. So Charlie. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your love. Thank you for bringing us together this morning and being able to hear your word and to fellowship. And just thank you for The way that you you do use us and you do choose to use the um the failed people that we are to reach out to others and to bring people to you. Just help us to Um take that to heart and go through as we go through our our our daily routine and to look for Those that we can reach out to and draw to you and just uh help us down and glorify you in Jesus' name. Amen