Luke chapter eighteen, and I'll begin reading in verse number nine. And he Jesus spake this parable unto certain folks which trusted in themselves. That they were righteous and despised others. Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a publican The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself. God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, even as this publican I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican standing afar off, would not even lift so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, Lord, be merciful to me, a saint. I tell you that this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. Every one that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. I want to ask the question as Luke is recording this conversation that Christ has with a group of people. Why did Why did Luke record this particular passage and what exactly was Christ trying to communicate when he gives this parable? I'd like to summarize it with this statement. Christ wanted to confront the lie. that we are saved by our own righteousness. He wanted to confront the lie that we are saved by our own righteousness. God wants us to rest alone in the righteousness of Christ for every aspect of our standing before Him. Now, tonight's message is going to be primarily focused on how a person is, we could say, reconciled to God or how they're justified, how they are having a right standing before God. But I want you to realize that this particular passage really goes beyond just how I become a Christian, but it has a lot to do with how I view other people once I am a Christian as well. And so with that in mind, we're going to ask the question, how can we have a biblical view of ourselves and the gospel and our righteousness? I want to begin with a series of questions. Question one is this. Why did Jesus even give this particular parable? Well, before we look at what it actually says in the text, I want you to think about this fact. Deep down inside, every single person, and I don't think there's an exception to this. Every single one of us has this self-righteous vein deep down in our hearts. We are proud We are self-pleasing. We are self-dependent individuals. It's in the fabric of our being because we are fallen creatures. What does the scripture say in Romans chapter 3? It says, there's none righteous, there's none who understands, there's none who seeks after God. They've all gone their own way. There's none who does good, not even one. But you know what's interesting? While the Bible says that that's true about humanity, everybody believes that they are good. You get what I'm saying? While the Bible says there's none who does good, we believe inerrantly that we are good. We believe that we have it together. One of the greatest proofs of this statement is that we have absolutely no problem recognizing the sins in other people. When we got the same problem. You know what I mean? We can sit there in our house and we can around the dinner table talk about, oh, brother so-and-so, sister so-and-so. They got this going on in their life and we can talk about it and talk about it. And we're doing the exact same thing in our own lives. And we can't even see it. We have this self-righteous streak within all of us The truth is that religion, in the sense of the way that these people were practicing religion, is something that has a tendency to promote self-righteousness. And there's probably no greater example of this than the Jewish people living at the time of Christ. Listen to what Paula says in Romans chapter 10. He says, Brethren, my heart's desire, prayer to God for Israel. Is that they might be saved. I bear them record that they have a zeal for God, but it's not according to knowledge. They being ignorant of the righteousness of God and going about to establish their own righteousness have not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God. That statement describes the majority of the people living in the world today. Now, you might say, well, what about the people who are irreligious? They're agnostic. They don't believe that there's any kind of faith system. They reject it. Whether you realize it or not, even the agnostic is self-righteous. Because in his mind he says, I still have a justice system. It's very, very interesting to consider You know, after Paul's conversion, this is what he says about the way that he thought prior to his conversion. Philippians chapter 3. He says, I was circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of tribe of Benjamin, the Hebrew of the Hebrews. He says, as touching the law, I was a Pharisee , considering zeal, persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in the law, I was blameless Why does Paul state all this in Philippians chapter 3? He's basically saying, before my conversion, I was a self-righteous self-absorbed, zealous, religious individual who believed I had standing with God by what I do. But you know, there's nothing in this world like the gospel to break that proud heart. Because you know what the gospel says? The gospel says you have no right to stand before God. You have no righteousness that is acceptable before God. You are a sinner, and apart from the grace of God, apart from the work of Christ, you have nothing. You have to trust alone as a repentant sinner in what He did for you, not what you give to him. And that's what the gospel does. In James chapter 4 it says this God resisteth the proud And gives grace to the humble. If you're going to be born again, if you're going to experience the grace of God and salvation, there has to be repentance and humility before God. That leads us to this particular parable. This is why Jesus gave the parable, because there were people who were self-righteous. and self-absorbed. Now to kind of give you an illustration, I want to pull out a game that my kids absolutely love. Anybody like this game Anybody like this game? Alright boys, what's this game? Monopoly, okay. You know what I love about Monopoly? It gives you this sense of value When there is none, okay? So let's say that you got your game out there and you know the banker gives you twenty, you know, twenty bucks was worth a lot. when my grandparents were my age, but I guess twenty bucks isn't worth a whole lot anymore. And then you got the fifties and then you got the hundreds, you got the five hundreds, and you start the game and you got the board and you start buying properties and you got all this stuff. Well imagine you walk in and they're there the kids playing, you know, Joel and Na and Drini and Judah and Eli back here. You guys are all sitting here and you're playing Monopoly and you know what you're going to start seeing? You know these little guys they're like they're counting up their money and they are really feeling like they are big stocks And they're just like looking at all their property that they got. And they're looking at all this stuff, right? And they're comparing and they're feeling really proud. But you know what's funny about it? That's not worth anything. That's not worth anything, is it? And you know what really gives you the reality check when the little brother comes in and slams the board and then everything gets messed up. Right? That's the reality check. Well, folks, here's the reality check. We grow up and we live our lives that way We look at everybody around us and we say, you know, I don't do the things that they do. I'm not as bad as him. Look what I'm doing for God. And we have the exact same mentality. It's not a monopoly game. But the way that we think has the same value, if you will. We are self-absorbed and we think that our righteousness really is something to God and in front of others. Who was the target audience? Look down in your Bibles at verse number nine. It says this: He spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves. That they were righteous and that they despised others. They trusted in themselves, they believed that they were righteous, and they looked down on other people. This is why Christ gave this parable. Let me ask you a question. Is there a time you kind of get into that realm a little bit? Trust in yourselves. Kind of the self-righteousness despising others. That's his target audience Question three, who were the people in the story that Jesus told? Well, let's look down in our Bibles and see what it says. In verse 10, it says, Two men went into the temple to pray. One man was a Pharisee. The other man a publican. One man was a Pharisee and the other man a publican. Now let's talk for a minute about the difference between these two people because you know it's from a different culture. We don't have Pharisees living today in our society here that I'm aware of. And we don't have publicans. We have people that have the exact same mentality as those two individuals that are doing a lot of the same things that those two individuals did. But we don't have those kinds of people in our culture. So how would they have responded when they heard of these two men? Well, as soon as they heard the term Pharisee, the first thing that pops in their mind is, this is the godliest person I know. This is the preacher. This is the righteous person. This is the guy who prays. If I have a problem, you know who I'm going to go to? I'm going to go to the Pharisee and ask him to pray. for my situation because he talks to God. He fasts. He prays. He tithes. He goes to the temple. He's the religious, zealous individual. The Pharisee was devoted. He was consumed with the law of God and keeping his commandments. The Pharisee was somebody who had memorized large portions of God's work. I was thinking about this for a moment. All of us carry our Bibles either in our pocket or in our hand, right? We can go anywhere we want with that book and we can open it up and read it. Of course, now with technology Your phone, you can be sitting at a traffic light, and you can pull out your phone and start reading if you want to. You get a break at your job. You can be sitting in line, you can pull out your phone, you can read. We have tremendous access to God's word today. But in those days it wasn't like that. Every person didn't have their own copy of the scriptures. So how many scrolls would you have had to have in your house to have the entire Old Testament? You ever thought about that? So in a community, there was a location, a synagogue, where they would meet, and they would open up this huge scroll, and men in that community would sit down in Moses' seat and they would read that scroll. scroll. And so one of the things that the people did was they memorized large portions of scripture. They didn't have chapter-verse divisions like we have today. So they just memorized huge sections of the scriptures. These individuals were people who did that. So when you think of the Pharisee, you're like, this is the guy that knows God's word. This is the guy that's very detailed in keeping the law. This is the person who's devoted, if you will. This is the person who has the highest standards in society. Okay, God says don't do this. So what does the Pharisee do? He builds a list of rules. Nobody would do that, right? He builds this list of rules and this list of regulations. So that we don't touch the law. We've got all these standards that we stay away from that rule in. And that's the kind of person that we're talking about. And then we talk about him paying his tithes. And by the way, when we talk about tithe, it wasn't 10%, folks. It was more like what you pay on your income tax, okay? We're talking beyond 30% of what you had as a Jewish person was paid in tithes and offerings. And so you can imagine how a person would have been tempted to kind of like cut corners in lots of different places. But this guy would even go to his vegetable garden. And he would make sure that he had a tenth of this mint. He'd have a tenth of of of of this particular herb and that particular herb and of all the different foods. He was meticulous in making sure that he followed the rules. That's the first guy. The second guy, well, he had a little bit different way of life, okay? He was a publican. And so to put it in perspective, let's think about what it would be like if a foreign government came and conquered the United States. Now, you know, we can't even consider that, right? But there have been times within our history that we've had foreign governments uh marching at our doorstep, if you will. In the 1812, what happened to Washington, D. C. and Francis Scott Key and and and the national anthem. Well the British were trying to ta to take back this country, if you will. We fought multiple wars in Europe. The fact is that the Jewish people were a conquered people, and they'd been a conquered people for generations. They had a series of nations that had conquered them, and at that time it was the Roman government. And so the Roman government had their soldiers everywhere. They had Roman law everywhere. They had Roman currency everywhere. People were not even speaking the Hebrew language in those days. A lot of them they were speaking Greek because they'd been conquered by the Greeks in the generations before that. So you can imagine that the Roman Empire was not a love government for the Jewish people. In fact, the Jewish people were constantly chafing at Rome's power and domination in their region. So what was a publican? Well he was a guy, if you will, that decided he was going to work for the Roman government. He was a Tory, a loyalist. Okay? Sorry, Tory, I didn't mean anything by that. He was working for the king. Or we could say the emperor. If you will, he was a traitor in the eyes of the people. So forget how he lives morally. He's a hated individual But it goes a lot deeper than that. Because not only is he working for the Roman government, but his job is to collect money for the Roman government. And he's got a lot of power and he's got a lot of authority. He can go to your house and he can say, you owe this, pay up now, and what are you going to do? You gotta pay it now. But you know what that guy did with his authority? He was a thief. He was extorting the people. It's like he's saying, well, you know, you owe a hundred. Well, you actually owe 75 or 70 or 60. What does he do with that extra money? Well, he's building a beautiful house next door to yours. That's what he's doing with all that extra money. He's living a luxurious life on your back, working for the government that has conquered your people. Now can you imagine how that's going to go down This is a hated guy. And by the way, he's a guy that's probably not got a lot of conscience. So he's obviously not a very moral man either. With all that money and all that power. You can imagine the way he lives his life. There's a reason that when that Pharisee mentioned things like extortion, unjust, adultery, he mentioned them because he knows that's the kind of guy that he's dealing with. So we have these two individuals. They go into the temple and they're going to do the same thing. They're going to pray. Question four: what did the Pharisee say when he went into the temple? Well, it says in verse 11, He stood and prayed thus with himself. Is that not an interesting statement? It doesn't say he prayed to God. I mean, from his perspective, that's what he did. But it says he prayed with himself. God, I thank you that I'm not like other people. Whoa. He's not asking for anything, is it? He's not praising God for his power and his glory. He's saying, listen to how good I am. And he begins this rehearsal of things. I'm not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all I possess. You can pretty much summarize it with one word. I And another word, am, or I do. That was basically what it was. It was telling God about how good he was. Now, whether we like to admit this or not, there's something inside of our souls that is tempted to do that. It's just the truth. There's a reason why people resist the gospel. Because it says you're a sinner. You have no standing before God. You must depend on his righteousness. And you know what we do? We pull away from that message. It's like we run from the light because we don't like what it says. That was this man. Fully self-absorbed. If you will, Jesus was talking to his audience and he's saying, that's who you are. You're the man who walks into the temple and says, I don't steal from people, I'm a just individual, I don't commit adultery, I fast twice a week, I pay my tithes, I'm a good person, listen to what I have to say, God. It's basically what he's saying. It's a rehearsal of his own righteousness. This is a person who trusts in themselves, that they are righteous, and they look down on other people. Question 5. Well, what did the publican say when he came into the temple? Something totally different. Look down in verse 13, it says, the publican standing far off. Would not even lift so much as his eyes into heaven. He smote upon his breast and he said, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I'll give you this illustration. Let's say that you're walking into a place where there are a lot of people and you have a little child with you. Okay? I know all of our parents can probably relate to you know taking their kids into an environment that's kind of scary And you know what your kid does? They they come up really close to you and they grab a hold of your hand and they just they look down. They're very uncertain. They're very nervous about the situation where they are. If you will, that's the kind of situation we have here. We have a man who's going into the temple and it's not where he belongs. This is not his domain. He doesn't feel comfortable here at all. He doesn't feel worthy to be here at all. He feels very, very humbled and he feels very uncertain of himself. So he's standing off in the side, he's down on his face, and he's just saying, God, I've got nothing to say unto you other than be merciful to me, a sinner. What a total difference between those two people. He's falling on his face in humility. He's crying out for mercy. He's overwhelmed by his sin. He recognizes he has no standing in that place before God. And I ask you this question. In your heart, which of these two people represents how you think? About yourself. The truth is for us to come to faith in Christ, in our hearts we have to come to the place where this publican came. I don't mean we walk into a room and we're trembling and we fall on our feet. I'm not saying that. But we have to have the same humility of heart. We have to see ourselves as morally bankrupt. We've got nothing to give to God. We cannot present to Him anything and say, look what I've done, accept this and give me standing. We can't do that. We just say, God be merciful, me a sinner. So the question is, which of these two men was really right with God? Was it the guy who felt very confident, or was it the guy standing afar off who couldn't say a whole lot? Jesus gives us the answer. He says in verse number 14, he says, I tell you, this man, the publican, went down to his house justified. That word justified means that when God viewed him, he did not view him as guilty, he viewed him as innocent That is essentially the crux of the gospel, that we're justified. We are justified by faith alone in the finished work of Christ, where God declares the sinner to be righteous, not because he is, but because he's in Christ. And because of Christ's imputed righteousness, God says, not guilty, righteous. That's what that's saying. That man went to his house justified rather than the other. 4. Everyone who exalteth himself shall be abased, but he that humbleth himself Shall be exalted. I want to ask you something here. Have you come to God God's way? Have you embraced the gospel? Have you come to that place where you see that you are morally bankrupt? You have nothing to give to God, you are a sinner who deserves nothing but his judgment. But because of Christ's righteousness and Christ's death on the cross and Christ's resurrection, by faith in that death and that sacrifice and that resurrection, you stand Complete in Him. Have you come to that place? If you haven't, I hope that God is stirring up your heart That he's removing the veil, that you can see clearly that you're a sinner who has no standing apart from the grace of God. What was Jesus trying to teach through this parable? I think the first thing that he's trying to teach is this: no man who trusts in his own religious credentials is right with God. Doesn't matter how good you look. Doesn't matter how people perceive you to be. If your heart is truly resting in what you have to give to God, you're lost. It's that simple. They may call you Reverend Doctor. You're still lost. That Pharisee was the most righteous person. In his community, in the eyes of his fellow man. Yet God said, that's not the man who went home justified. A second thought is this: those who are truly saved are humble when they think of their sins and God's perfect righteousness. The humblest people in this world should be, and I believe are, those who recognize the true nature of the gospel. The more that we are consumed with what Christ has done for us, the more we come face to face with what we are as sinners and unrighteous people. The more humbled we are, the more gracious we are, the more willing we are to forgive, the less likely we are to condemn all the people around us and compare ourselves to one another. Humility is something that finds its source in a converted soul. When a person is self-righteous, there's no way he can do anything but look down on others. And be consumed with pride. But when a man comes face to face with his sin, and he's a child of God , He's humble. Look at the Beatitudes. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Theirs is the kingdom of God. Blessed are those who mourn. They will be comforted. Blessed are the peacemakers. Why is he talking about those kinds of qualities? Because those are the kinds of qualities you find in people who understand they are saved by grace and grace alone. The first man was completely focused on how he compared to other people. The other man, how do you compare to God? And that's really what matters. So I want to come to a final question, and that is this: what's in your heart? How do you think and relate to God and to other people? If you're proud, I want to ask you this question: what do you really have to give to God? Is your righteousness really better than the Lord Jesus Christ? You know, when somebody believes that they can stand before God on the basis of their own merits, they're basically saying this. What Christ did Was good, but not sufficient. What Christ did was good, but not enough. I think of what Paul said in Galatians. He said, if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died in vain. In other words, if I'm saying that I believe I have standing before God by my own righteousness, then I'm basically saying what Christ did was pointless. To that condescending individual. Not that I'm saying anybody here is, okay, but just to think about this for a moment, if that is your inclination, why are you comparing yourself to other people? They're not the standard. God 's the standard. You can always find somebody who is stronger than you and smarter than you, and you can find somebody who sins more than you. You can always do that. It doesn't matter where you are. You will always find somebody that can meet the criteria that you're looking for. But when you look at God, you see perfection. Don't compare yourselves to other people. It's foolish. To the third, to the fearful. Why are you afraid? Is there a deficiency in the righteousness of Christ? You know, there are many Christians, people who have come to that point of repentance and faith, and they're born again. And they're trusting in what God has done for them in the person of Christ But then there are these thoughts and these seasons where they begin to drift away from that rest in what Christ has done for them. Not saying that they believe that they have standing before God through their good deeds. I'm not suggesting that at all. But they lose confidence of their salvation. They become fearful. They begin to doubt. And I ask you the question. Why are you afraid? Is Christ's righteousness deficient in any way? I think of the story of David Brainerd. David Brainerd was an individual who went through tremendous turmoil in his soul. John Bunyan was another individual. Tremendous turmoil in his soul. And in Bunyan's book, Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners. He talks about the fact that there was a point in his turmoil, if you will, that this thought popped in his mind. Your sufficiency is in Christ. The reason you doubt is because you're not looking at him and his perfection and his righteousness and what he did for you and in Christ, that is how God views you. To the fearful, why are you afraid? Christ's righteousness is not deficient. To the discouraged, why do you think it's possible to reach God's standard? And I'm in no way suggesting that we as Christians relax and just kick back and do nothing, not suggesting that at all. We should be driven and motivated to live for the Lord. We should be focused individuals. But sometimes we get discouraged because we begin to get our focus off of who we are in Christ. And we begin to develop this mentality that God accepts me on the basis of what I'm doing for Him today. As opposed to He accepts me on the basis of what Christ did for me 2,000 years ago. Are you discouraged, Christian? Keep the focus where it belongs. And then lastly, I mentioned the weary. Why are you laboring? Is it to prove something to God? Is it to prove something to other people? Folks, we should serve the Lord because that is the natural flow of a heart that is healthy before God. If I'm growing in grace, And the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. If I'm a healthy Christian, then God is going to be working through me. It's like I will be a channel of God's work in the lives of people. It's not that I'm working for him and I'm burdened and I'm wearied, but he is just moving and working through me. And as my focus is right and as I'm growing in grace. God is working and moving through me. It's as if I'm conduit, if you will. It's like we got all these lights in here. Okay? Those lights are powerless unless they're connected to electricity. And we're like those lines where that electricity channels through to accomplish the work of giving us light here. And so God works through us in that kind of a way. As we are growing and as we are walking with him, he works through us. You know, a lot of the problems that we face as Christians. are connected to us missing that focus on Christ. I want to encourage you tonight If you don't know the Lord, if you're a self-righteous individual, you're depending on your own righteousness, your own works, repent and trust in the finished work of Christ If you're a Christian who says, I know theologically the gospel, I'm the saved person I can tell you when I trusted Christ. And I am a child of God. I'm confident of that. But I have those problems. There are times that I fear. There are times I get discouraged. There are times I get weary. There are times I get this condescending, proud, arrogant attitude. I want to remind you of something. Preach the gospel to your soul over and over again. Because the cure, if you will, to addressing those problems is found in a right focus in Christ. May we as God's people be folks who are not self-righteous, self-dependent. May Christ be our supreme delight and the rest of our souls. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer. Our Father, we thank you so much for this text. And it has application to those who know you and those who do not. I pray that if there's anyone in our midst who's never come face to face with the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Their hearts have been broken with conviction and guilt of their sin and their complete inability to stand before you in their own righteousness. That you will humble their hearts, that they will turn to the finished work of Christ, trust alone in what He has done for them on the cross. And Father, I pray for every believer in this room who at times drifts into these areas of condescension, of pride, weariness. Fear, being overcome. Father, may we be people who are centered on the gospel. People whose souls are in a healthy position. People whose Christian lives are the conduit through which you do your work in this world. This world. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen