Turn in your Bibles please to Ephesians chapter two. Ephesians chapter two. And what I've decided to do is change our Philippians study to Wednesday nights and then Sunday evenings I want to do a series of sermons, messages related to gospel issues. Some of these sermons we could say would be evangelistic, if you will, if you don't know the Lord And some of them are simply helping us as Christians to understand the nature of the gospel. The truth is that when we study the gospel, where we stand before God really determines how it impacts us. That's really what it ultimately comes down to. And so what I'd like us to do this evening is look at Ephesians 2, and I'd like us to see what salvation is. What is salvation ultimately? An expression of what? So Ephesians chapter 2, let's look at verses 1 to 9. I'll read through it quickly, and then we'll begin looking at what is a very important foundational truth. If we don't understand this text and we don't understand the nature of what we will talk about tonight, really we don't understand the gospel at all. And so this is a very important passage. So let's look at it together. Ephesians 2, 1 to 9 says this, and you have he quickened who were dead in trespasses and in sins. Wherein in times past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience Among whom also we all had our conversation in times past, in the lusts of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace ye are saved. And hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. We can take this passage and make one very simple statement. God wants us to understand that we are saved by grace and grace alone. What does that statement mean? Why is that statement so important? What are the implications of a statement We are saved by grace and grace alone. He says it multiple times. In verse 1, he says we were dead in trespasses and sins in time past. He says later on that we were by nature the children of wrath even as others. And then the next phrase is hugely important. It says, but God. It doesn't say but you, it says but God. God did something when we were in this woeful condition A position that we had no power to remove ourselves from. A position that we came to by nature. But God. Later on, he says, by grace you are saved. Then he says, By grace you are saved through faith. It salvation is the gift of God and it is not of works, lest any man should boast What does it mean that salvation is by grace and grace alone? Let's bow our hearts together for prayer, and then we'll look at this very important topic. Our Father, as we open up the Word and as we think about this important text, I pray that you'd help any person in our midst who may believe that in some way they can give God something. that can merit salvation, I pray that you'd help them to see that that is a false view of salvation. Help them to see that there is nothing that we can give to God to merit his favor. In fact that is an offense to God. It is rejection of his gift of salvation. Help us to understand that if we are in Christ, It is because God in his grace has drawn us to himself, he has opened our eyes to our lost condition, and he has turned our hearts. We have repented and believed on Christ because of his work. Not because we were smarter than the person next to us, not because we were nobler than the person next to us, but God in his grace reached into our lives and he helped us to see the truth. Father, I thank you so much for the work that you've done in my heart and the work that you've done in the hearts of countless people in this room I pray that if one here has not yet come to faith in Christ, that through the preaching of your word, you might open their eyes to see the truth. That you might grant them the understanding so that they will turn to you in repentance and place their faith in Christ. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The first truth we're going to see from this passage is this. We need to turn away from false or wrong views of salvation. You know, there are countless views, if you will, of how a person is made right with God. When we were dealing with this issue in our vacation Bible school, I brought up a, if you will, a scale. And with the scale, I had weights on one side and I had weights on another, and I said, there are a lot of people that believe salvation works this way. God puts in one bucket all of our sinful deeds, and in another bucket he puts all of our good deeds. And when we stand before him, after a life lived, that one bucket is going to be placed on one side of the scale, and that other bucket is going to be set on the other side of the scale. And then God is going to say, well, which side is heavier? Which side is going to eventually play out? There were folks that believed for a large portion of, we could say, church history wrongly. that the way that they got saved was by participating with grace in the church, if you will. And so by being baptized and washed away their sins, their original sins in Adam, and then it was like they were a clean slate. And over the course of time, obviously they would sin, so they would need to go to a priest and they need to confess those sins. And yes, there were going to be times that they did bad, but when they did good, it was like that was merit that was going to be added to their life, and eventually they'd see how it all played out. Well, really, all of this came to a head, if you will, during the time of the Reformation, when Martin Luther began to study the Word of God. Now, I'm not I'm not a Lutheran, okay. I'm not saying that Martin Luther had a lot everything right. In fact, there are a lot of things he didn't have right, but I'll tell you one thing he absolutely had right was that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And the fact that he stood against, if you will, the church of his day, and I use the church in quotes, if you will, okay? But that system that was so powerful and so vicious and, if you will, so bloodthirsty, the fact that he could stand against that system and say we are not saved by participating with God's grace We are saved by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ and what he did, we don't merit God's favor at all. That was a huge stand that he took. Many of those living at his time lost their lives because of that. And when we study church history, we find the countless stories of people, particularly in England. during the time of the English Reformation. We have a book called Fox 's Book of Martyrs. And there are people that were killed for the simple fact that they would not allow their children to be baptized in the establishment church, if you will. There are people who are killed because they opened up their Bible and just taught their children the Lord's Prayer. There are people who were killed because they made a public statement of faith in baptism as adults. There are many, many stories. In fact, some of the stories recount that some of the leaders of the day stops burning these Christians in the public square because people could not help but be compelled by the testimony and the courage of these people. We think about people like William Tyndale and others. The reality is that this concept of salvation by grace alone is an important concept and it's cost a lot of people their lives. over the course of church history. But let me talk to you for just a few moments about some false understandings of salvation that are confronted by a text like this one. The first false understanding is this. People believe that our faith somehow merits salvation. Okay? I want you to notice carefully how the text is worded It says, But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. And it says this, by grace You are , saved. And then he goes on to say this by grace you are saved through faith He doesn't say by faith you are saved through grace. Okay? There's a big difference between those two statements. He says by grace you are saved through faith. God does not save us, Christian, because we have a strong faith. He doesn't save us because we have the presence of faith. In fact, there are a lot of people today that think they're going to heaven because they have faith in something. The reality is that faith is not valid or genuine faith if its sort or if we could say its object is not Christ and Christ alone. But we need to understand God doesn't save us because we have strong faith. This is something that a lot of people struggle with. A lot of people do They sit down in a chair and they ask the question, when I first understood the gospel and trusted Christ, was my faith strong enough for God? Has anybody ever thought that? Or is my faith going to continue? Was my faith mature enough? Is my faith mature enough? There are all kinds of things that people will begin to struggle with, and they will begin to wrestle with in their heart. And the reality is this: God doesn't save us because of the nature of our faith. He saves us by grace. There's a difference. When he has brought us to that point, our faith is the means through which God gives us salvation. But he doesn't save us because of faith. He saves us because of what Christ did. Listen to what it says in Romans chapter 3, verse 24. He says, we are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. When God saves a sinner, he saves them because of what Christ did, not because of what they will do. We come to a second point. We are not saved by our physical birth. We're not saved by our physical birth. And this is something that a lot of people have struggled with over the course of history. Nicodemus is one of the greatest examples. Nicodemus is a godly man in his mind. He's a godly man in the minds of all those Jewish leaders that were around him. He was the teacher of the Jews, it says. He was one of God's chosen people. And Christ looks at Nicodemus and he says, Nicodemus, unless you're born again, you cannot enter the kingdom of God. He's confronting this misunderstanding that Nicodemus can be saved because of his physical birth. Paul talks about the same concept in Romans chapter 10. He says, My heart desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they may be saved. They have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. They're ignorant of his righteousness. And one of the great challenges that the Jewish people struggled with was they said, because we're God's people, we're his people, if you will. And God says you have to believe on the gospel. You aren't saved because you are in a church right now. You aren't saved because your dad was a preacher. You're not saved because you were baptized. The fact is, we're not saved by our physical birth. Rather, the scripture says in verse 3, we are by nature the children of wrath. We are spiritually dead. Dead in trespasses and in sins. We are in Adam. And I want to ask you a question. Have you in your mind gotten to the place where you realize I can't be saved because I was born into a Christian family, if you will. Or because I'm a member of a church, or because I grew up around church. I have to be saved by the new birth and the new birth alone. We come to a third question or third statement. We're not saved by observing religious duties. And this is the most common, I think, of all the misunderstandings of the gospel. People believe they can earn their way to God. If you will, they say salvation is like climbing a ladder to God. And so this Good deed that I'm doing here is like one rung. And so I'm working my way up to God, one rung at a time. That's not how salvation is He says very clearly in verse 9, it is not of works lest any man should boast. There are many, many different kinds of religious duties, if you will, that people are clinging to and trusting in and depending on. But as Isaiah says in Isaiah 64, all our righteousness is like a filthy rack. There is none righteous, not even one. Very important statements. I come to a final point that I want to make, and that's this. We're not saved by confessing a doctrinal creed. There's a verse in James that says this. You say that there is one God, and you do well. The demons also tremble, they believe, they confess, but they're obviously not saved. Why does James refer to that statement, if you will? It's because that was referring to a Jewish doctrinal creed or confession, if you will, that people would mention. All the way back into Deuteronomy chapter 6. And they would say, Here, O Israel, the Lord our God is one. And they would say, I believe that. You know, there are a lot of people today, and there are a lot of people throughout history who have believed that they were saved because they confessed some kind of doctrinal creed. Okay? It's like they learned the catechism, they could quote the catechism. They had a head knowledge of doctrine. They could regurgitate that doctrine, if you will. That's not how we're saved. We are saved by grace and grace alone. Romans 3. 24, we are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. We come to a second truth and that's this. We need to understand what grace actually is. Okay? We need to understand what grace actually is. And to do that, I want to get a couple of uh kids to help me. So I need three kids to come up here Three kids, raise your hand. Tribune. Come on up here. Okay, Nat and Joel, come on up here, guys. Oh, sorry, I missed you. Alright, guys, I want to illustrate grace. And I looked really hard to find some money and I had a hard time finding any cash. So I have three I have two dollars here. And I have an additional dollar and twenty-five cents right here. I want to illustrate what grace is and what great what is not grace. And I want to use these three boys. Okay. Each of you is going to represent a different situation. And I want to start out with my son Nathaniel. Okay? Nat I want you, let's just pretend that one day Nat comes to his dad and he says, Hey daddy, I have a little problem. I'm at school and the the teachers say that if I'm going to get my milk at lunch that I have to bring one dollar and twenty-five cents to lunch. Now I'm sure this is totally hypothetical. Milk's not a dollar and twenty-five anymore, is it, right? Okay, so I need $1. 25. And he comes home with a little paper and it says, please send $1. 25 with Nathaniel. So Nathaniel, do you want me to give you the dollar and twenty-five cents? Yeah? Okay. So I give Nathaniel $1. 25. Put that in your pocket. Don't lose it. Give it to your mother when you get home No, you can keep it, Nat. Okay, I have a question. Is that grace? Is that grace? No, absolutely not. If I don't give him what he should have as his dad, am I doing something that's really kind of inappropriate? Like I'm not fulfilling my responsibility as a dad. I mean, if if he's going to sit in school, he's going to be hungry And I choose not to give him what he needs, then I'm not being a faithful dad. Let me tell you something. Grace is not what we just saw there. God is under no obligation to save anybody. Okay? He isn't. He doesn't have to save anybody. The fact that God saves people is a wonderful thing, and that God loves us is a wonderful thing. But he's not obligated to save us because Adam sinned. He's not. And so when we give money to our child because it's our responsibility as a mom or a dad to do that, that's not grace. That's fulfilling your responsibility as a parent. Okay, now go ahead and sit down, buddy. Thank you. We have a second situation. Okay. Drinian. I have a uh a big need at the house. Okay? I need somebody to cut my grass. Yeah, it rains so much that some somebody doesn't do that anymore. No, it's not true. You do that. Like the days that it doesn't rain, Tim's out there, you know. Okay, Drinian, I need you to rake up some leaves around my house. I'm really busy. I don't have the time to do it. If you do it, I'm gonna give you a dollar. Would you agree to do it? Okay, this is hypothetical. Okay? I don't really expect you to like rake leaves, but I'm gonna give you a dollar. Now hold on a second I'm not going to give it to you before you do it. You got to go and do it. So Drian goes out and he rakes those leaves and he's so excited he's going to get a dollar, right? So he comes and he's like, Oh, Pastor Joel, I finished the work that you gave me. And I say, Okay, so what's the point? He's like, well, you know, a dollar? And I'm like You're just a kid, man. I can't pay you for work. You're a kid. Talk to your dad about that. What would that be called? Extortion, whoa! That would be unjust, would it not? That would be extremely unjust. That would be wicked and cruel, and I would be in big trouble with Tori. And Joanna. That's when I'd really be in trouble. Okay. But let's say that I'm going to be honest and fulfill my end of the bargain, and he did a great job, and I say, There you go, Drain, it's a dollar. Put it in your pocket, you can keep it. But don't leave it there, because when your mom washes your pants It's gonna end up in the dryer and that's not a good thing, okay? Alright. Is that grace? No it's not grace. He earned that, okay? He earned that. Not grace at all. Go ahead and sit down. Keep your money. Okay. Joel, I want you to just sit on the side here. This poor child's parents don't take good care of him Totally hypothetical, I promise. And I somebody just happens to be walking down the road and sees this this little kid, he's dirty, he's just, you know, playing in the dirt and they Kid, it's hot today. Very hypothetical. It's hot today. Would you like an ice cream? Yes, I I love ice cream. You do? But I give you ice cream, you're not my kid. He doesn't know what to do with this. So I say, hey, hey, hey, you know what, kid? Let me give you a dollar and go get you an ice cream, alright? And he's like, well, why'd you give it to me? I'm just being kind. Go ahead, go get you an ice cream cone. Alright? And he gets to take his ice cream cone Now do I have I mean, obviously he's my son, so in our hypothetical situation, do I have any responsibility to give him a dollar? Not at all. Did he earn the dollar? Why did he give him the dollar? Out of the kindness of my heart. You know, I saw this kid, I have compassion on him, I love him, I want to just give him a dollar to show him kindness. Now please, I'm not trying to make the gospel look trite at all. We are talking about the most precious and the most glorious message that could ever be discussed. But I want you to understand what I'm trying to communicate. The gospel is by grace alone. The gospel is not something that God was required to do for us. He was not obligated to send his son to die on the cross for our sins. So that we could be forgiven. He was under no obligation. The gospel, salvation is not like we work for God, and if we do our part, then he pays us back. That's not how we are saved. Salvation comes by God looking at this helpless person who is not looking for him, who does not understand the depths of his own depravity. He doesn't understand. Like the Bible says, there's none that understandeth. There's none that seeketh after God. We are together become unprofitable. There's none that doeth good, not even one. We are all as an unclean thing, and our righteousness as filthy rags. God looks down at us. And because he is a God of love and a God of compassion, he looks down at us and he says, I want to save that individual right there. And that's grace. Grace is God giving something to me that I don't deserve at all. There's nothing in me that merits God's salvation. The fact is, I'm not looking for God initially. He seeks me out Grace is something that starts with the giver, not the receiver. Look, you know, when Joel was sitting here on the side, he didn't say, hey, sir, can you give me a dollar so that I can go out and get some food? He didn't do that in our illustration. And the reality is that the Bible teaches that we're not looking around for God. We are just stumbling in the darkness. If you will, he enters into our realm and he comes to us and he engages us. Grace is something that starts with the giver, not the receiver. Grace is given to those who are unworthy, not those who are worthy. What does he say? It is so that no one can boast. I can't boast in my salvation. It's all of God's goodness and all of God's grace and all of His compassion. Grace is a type of gift that is granted in love and in favor. A gift is not something that you work for. It's not something that you earn. It's not something that you merit. It's something that somebody freely gives. The payment for the gift is to the giver. Not to the receiver. Grace ceases to be grace when something is given to receive it. Listen to what the scripture says in Romans chapter 4, verses 2 and following. It says, if Abraham were justified by works, he hath were up to glory, but not before God. Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness. Even as David describes the blessedness of the man unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works, saying, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin. Take your time and digest that passage, if you will, sometime this evening or throughout the next week. And what you'll notice is this It's very clear that God does not save us because of some merit or some goodness or some work that we do for Him. It is based on His goodness, and it is through faith alone. By the way, faith is a position of complete dependence. We're going to talk about what faith is in another service, alright? So we're going to expound that whole concept. But faith is not doing something for God. Faith depending on what he did for us. There's a huge difference. Faith is not working for God, it's depending on the work he did. And it's hugely different. Faith is not meritorious, if you will. Faith is depending on the one whose merits are sufficient. We come to a third truth, and that's this. We need to understand why it's important. Why is the concept of grace, salvation being by the grace of God alone, so important? It's important because it removes all boasting. In verse 9, he makes it clear. He says, it is not of works lest any man should boast. If I understand that my salvation had nothing to do with something good in me, that it was all about what he did for me. That the fact that I believed is not because I was just smarter than the guy next to me, but because God's Holy Spirit worked in me over the course of weeks and months and perhaps years for some people. That God pursued me as I was wallowing in the darkness. That God opened my eyes through his Spirit's work. When I begin to understand that, it leaves me no room to boast. I can't say, oh, I'm smarter than the guy next to me. That's why God saved me. I'm a better Christian than the guy next to me. That's why God saved me. Oh, I was born into the right household. That's why God saved me. No, none of those things. Our boast is only in God, only in his goodness, only in his love, only in his mercy, only in his grace. It removes some of the most common misconceptions about sin. The majority of the folks that you interact with, maybe I shouldn't say the majority, but a very high percentage of folks. If you ask them how are we saved, they say, well, I'm doing the best I can. They don't understand. It removes those misconceptions. The truth is you can go into many different religious systems, and if you break them down to their most basic level, they're the same. It's not about grace. It's about me. It's about the ladder to God, not resting in what he did for me. It's about my story, not his story. Huge difference. And it makes salvation available to anyone. If you are not a highly intelligent person, you can be saved. If you're a highly intelligent person. You can be saved. If you grow up in a far off and distant land, you can be saved. If you come from a very difficult family environment You can be saved. The truth is that God's grace reaches down into the lives of all kinds of different people. In our congregation, there are people who might have been saved out of decadent misery, if you will. And there are people that were saved in a Sunday school class. Isn't that amazing? People whose lives were in complete disarray. Their home life was in complete disarray. Their childhood experience was tremendous pain and suffering. And God rescued them and saved them. And people who grew up in very stable homes The fact is that it's grace. It's grace just as much for the kid that gets saved in Sunday school as it is for the one who is saved Whose parents are involved in all kinds of terrible things in the center of Baltimore City. It's still Grace. In both situations. So how has God accomplished this work? My friends, God in his entirety has accomplished this work. Listen to this. First Peter 118 he says, You are not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. As of a lamb without blemish and without spot, who verily was forordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you. You know, this morning in Sunday school we were talking about the concept of evil. Okay? And where did evil come from? And why is it in the world? And how does God conquer evil, if you will? When Adam sinned, God knew it would happen, and God had already determined a plan of redemption. Before the foundation of the world, God's plan of redemption was established, if you will. And it was manifest in these times, as he said. I want you to reflect on the fact that it's God who brought you to understand the gospel and to embrace the gospel. In 1 Peter 1:21, he says this. Who by him do believe in God? James 1. 18, it says, Of his own will he begat us by the word of truth. In Romans 10 it says, faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. How can they believe on him who they not heard? How can they hear without a preacher? In John 16, it says that when the Holy Spirit comes, he will reprove the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment. If the Holy Spirit didn't come to you, Christian And convict your soul of sin and righteousness and judgment. If it wasn't for the work of God through the preaching and teaching of the gospel, you would have never believed. Did you ask God to send the evangelist to you? You didn't even know about it. You didn't even think about it. And so when we reflect on the fact that God has saved us, we're reminded of this very simple fact. If it wasn't for God bringing those circumstances to me, if it wasn't for God bringing those individuals to me, if it wasn't for the preaching and the teaching of his word, I would still be lost. Faith is something that God works through the preaching of the gospel, that we come to embrace the gospel. God will keep you by his power and not your own. First Peter 1 5 it says we are kept by the power of God. Not only did God determine a plan of redemption by sending his son, not only did God work personally in your life to bring you to repentance and faith in Christ. But God's going to keep you Christian. There's nothing that can pluck you from his hand. That's grace. And you know, God encourages us to look to Him for our ultimate source of confidence. We spent an entire sermon a few weeks ago talking about primary and secondary means of assurance, if you will. What is the primary means of assurance for the Christian? It's the perfect righteousness of Jesus. As he looks at Christ, he says, He is my righteousness. His work on my behalf is enough. And he sings with the hymn writer, if you will. My faith is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame. I wholly lean on Jesus' name. That's the gospel. We are saved by grace. through faith alone and the finished work of Christ. If we can understand that salvation is by grace and grace alone Through faith alone in Christ, it'll clear up so many misconceptions about salvation. I want to ask you tonight: have you been born again? There's no question in my mind that God in his grace has been working on you. You know, the fact that you're here is a testimony to that. You're under the preaching of the Word of God. If you're feeling conviction in your heart of sin, righteousness, and judgment, it's a testimony of God's grace that He's working on you. And my question is, have you repented and believed in the finished work of Christ? Christian, have you stopped glorying in the fact that God saved you and there was no reason in you? That earned that or deserved that. You're like a kid on the side of the street who God shows love and mercy and kindness to. And he has no, he doesn't have to do that. May that humble our hearts. May we glory in His grace. Let's bow our hearts together for prayer tonight. Our Father, as we think about the fact that salvation is by grace alone, I pray that we would not get over this glorious truth. As the hymn writer Isaac Newton wrote , Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. He says, 'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. And grace, my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? Father, help that to be the testimony of every person in this room, that they would recognize your grace Is what sent the sun. Your grace is what sent the spirit to open their eyes, to awaken their soul to their lost condition. to the preaching of the gospel to help them to see the simplicity and the glory of Christ's finished work, that they might place their faith in Christ alone. It's grace that will keep us till we are safe in glory. Father, help us to remember these wonderful truths And not to depart from them in any way, we ask it in Christ's name, amen