Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are going to be looking at John 1 John chapter 2, verses 1 to 2. So if you are with if you're able to join us this morning, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn with us to 1 John chapter 2, verses 1 and 2. Let's begin reading it together, please. My little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous, and he is the propitiation for our sins. And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. When we come to this passage of Scripture, I want to summarize it with this with This simple statement. John stated his tender affection for these Christians so that he could encourage them to strike a correct balance in their view of God and their Christian walk. Again, John stated his tender affection for these Christians to encourage them to strike a correct balance in their view of God and their Christianity. Let's look at some of the details of this passage and you will see that that's exactly what John's doing here. The first truth we find is in verse number one. These verses were written with a fatherly affection. for John 's audience. Notice how he puts it in verse 1. He says, My little children, these things write I unto you. Now I want to remind you that he's connecting what he said in the verses previous to what he's about to say here. And in fact, John uses this phrase quite a few times in the book of 1 John. He refers to them as his little children. And it's important for us to understand that John was a pastor. John was probably an older man when he writes these words. And he was an extremely compassionate person. In fact, out of all of Christ's disciples, he's the one that seems to be the most compassionate. Peter is the spokesman, he's the aggressive one. John is the very compassionate person. And so John's writing as a pastor to people that he has deep affection for. But the question is, why does John express that affection in this way? And I think ultimately it's because he wants the people to understand that the love that he has for them is really just an expression of the love that God has for them as well. So John is representing before the people the kind of love and the kind of compassion that God has for his people. In other words, he is expounding these truths with warmth and affection. A warmth and affection that's consistent with the Savior. A one that reminds you of what the psalmist said in Psalm 145, verse 8. He says that the Lord is gracious and he is full of compassion. He is slow to anger and of great mercy. The Lord is good to all, and his tender mercies are over all his works. One of the things that John is emphasizing in these scriptures Is how much we have to have a balance in our view of God. We need to understand that yes, God is a God who hates sin. God has wrath against our sin. God is just, God is holy. And at the same time, God is also extremely compassionate and he's merciful and he's gracious and he loves his people. And that's really why there's a cross. There's a cross because God is just, but God also loves people. We come to a second truth that we find in these verses, and that's also found in verse 1. These verses are written with a very precise balance. Notice how he puts it in verse 1 These things write I unto you that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father. Now notice that John is saying, look, I'm writing this to you because I don't want you to sin. And God doesn't want you to sin In fact, the whole reason that we're having this discussion is because God wants to have fellowship with you and sin hinders fellowship with him So I'm writing this because I want you to understand God wants you to live a holy life that is consecrated to Him. Yet at the same time, I understand that you're still a fallen creature. You're living in a fallen world. While God wants you to have fellowship with him and God wants you to walk uh in a way that's consistent with his will and his and his laws, we also recognize that you won't. In fact, he says we have an action. advocate. Even John includes himself in this discussion. What you're seeing here is that John is striking a balance. There's the desire for a person to walk in obedience to the Lord and there's a recognition that a person is going to sin from time to time, and God has made a way that that sin can be dealt with. That's what 1 John 1 8-10 was all about. We see that balance. We see the balance of God's love and God's wrath, God's justice and God's tenderness. And so not only is John trying to communicate a warmth and affection, between himself and his uh and his readers, but he's also trying to indicate that there is a warmth and affection from God to his people as well. Let me explain it this way. John is rejecting the idea that when a person becomes a Christian, it doesn't matter how they live, that they can just do whatever they want to do. We call that antinomial. It's like because I'm a Christian, now I'm under grace and it doesn't matter what I do. He's rejecting that idea. He wants us to understand that grace is not to be abused. And he understands that that's something that some people will have a tendency to do. In fact, I'm reminded what Paul says in Romans chapter 6 He says, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? And he says, God forbid, how shall we that are dead to sins live any longer therein? And so the idea is that when a Christian understands that he's under grace and there's no more condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, he wants to Go right to the point and say, listen, don't abuse grace. Just because there's grace doesn't mean that we should live lawlessly. On the other side, he's emphasizing the fact that look, God does not want you to sin. Verse 1, these things are right to you that you sin not. But he also rejects the concept of sinless. Perfection. He recognizes that while God doesn't want us to sin, and while we shouldn't push off grace and just live any way that we that we want to, on the other side, he recognizes that look, even the conscientious Christian is still a fallen creature. He's going to sin in what he says, he's going to sin in what he does. He's going to sin in the disposition of his heart from time to time. And so God has made a way that that can be addressed so that we can have fellowship with him. He knows that we will sin, and so he wants to comfort that conscientious Christian. He says it like this in verse 1: If any man sin , We have an advocate with the Father. So then we want to move on to a third truth that's very important. And that's kind of dealing with this question of what does he mean by an advocate with the Father? And so the third truth that we find is that these verses were written with a desire to strengthen and to comfort. Let me read to you what it says in verses 1 and 2, dealing with this issue of an advocate with the Father. He says we have an advocate with the Father. Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins. And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Now there are a couple of words in there that are really important. That word advocate is an extremely important word. The phrase Jesus Christ the righteous is an extremely important phrase. And then the word propitiation is an extremely So what is John trying to express to us that is going to strengthen us and comfort us and encourage us? Well, first of all, that word advocate or comforter. We've heard that word used in other parts of the New Testament, and one of the places where we hear that word used. is in John chapter 14 verse 16. This is what John writes. He says, Jesus said, I will pray the Father and he shall give you another comforter. That he may abide with you forever. Now that word comforter is a word that has the idea of an encourager, somebody who comes along and strengthens and encourages the Christian. That's the role that the Holy Spirit plays in our life as Christians. When we're going through difficulty and struggle and frustration, what does he do? He comes alongside of us And he strengthens us and encourages us. And someone might say, Well, how does he do that? How does the Holy Spirit comfort us? Well, he takes the word of God And he applies those truths to our heart. He helps us to understand the significance and the weight of those truths. And as we internalize those truths, what is the result? We are strengthened and we are encouraged Well, in this passage, the Bible says that Jesus Christ is our comforter, our advocate, and he's our comforter or advocate with the Father. I want you to get in your minds the picture of a courtroom where someone is walking into the courtroom and he's standing before a judge. But he's not standing before just any any judge. He's standing before the God of the universe. He's standing before the one who is holy and who is righteous. And we understand that we do not meet God's standard of perfection. We fall far short. We don't even come close So when I'm standing in God's presence, the question is, should I be encouraged and should I be bold or should I be scared? Well, this passage tells us that we have somebody who comes alongside of us and stands with us in the presence of the Father and he encourages us. He comforts us. He strengthens us. And the question is, how can he do this? Well, he can do it because of two reasons. One, because he's righteous, and two, because he's the propitiation for us. our sins. You say, well, in what way does he do that? Well let me remind you of 1 Timothy chapter 2, verse 5. It says this there's one God and there's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. In other words, Christ is the one who stands between us and the Father. And he does two things as he stands between us and the Father. He says, first of all, I am righteous, and the believer is to be viewed as righteous because he is in Christ. God declares me righteous when I trust Christ as my Savior. Because he views me as righteous in Christ. In other words, the way that Jesus encourages us and comforts us and strengths strengthens us is he reminds us you are not righteous in the way that you live. But because you are united with me, in me you stand righteous before God. He comforts us, he strengthens us in that way. On the other side, he comforts us and he strengthens us and encourages us because he is the propitiation for our sins. That word propitiation means that there is just wrath between God and us. When God looks at my sin, in fact that sin is a huge offense to God. And God has to judge that sin. And so what did Jesus do? He offered himself and he bore the full wrath of God's justice against my sin. And when God pours out his wrath on his son, who stands as my substitute, what happens? Now the wrath is satisfied. God does not have to pour his wrath on me because his son has taken it from me. for me. And so when the Bible says that Christ is our advocate with the Father, that that means that he is standing between us and the Father and standing saying, look, I am righteous, accept this believer on the basis of my righteousness, not his righteousness Yes, he has sinned, but I have borne the full wrath of his sin on myself. And so your wrath is satisfied. You can accept him because the wrath of God has been poured out for the sins of that individual already. And so the way that the Lord Jesus Christ is my advocate with the Father is he reminds me that I stand righteous in him and my sins are fully forgiven and God's wrath is satisfied. I can come into the presence of the Father, not because I'm fit, but because I'm in him. And this is extremely important. So we come to a third and final truth that I want to mention this morning. These were verses or I'm sorry, that I'll I'll stop there. We've talked about Christ being our propitiation and our righteousness. So how can we practically apply the passage this morning. We've seen some very important theological concepts. How do we take this and just boil it down into our practical lives? Well let me give you three simple things that I jotted down this morning. And my desire is to personally meditate on these things, and I'm going to encourage you to do the same. The first of these is this. We must view God as a compassionate father and reflect his tender care towards those whom we minister. There is no place for a Christian minister to be harsh and overbearing with people. He needs to reflect the love of God that God has for For himself. You know, when John says little children, we see compassion, we see tenderness, we see mercy, we see love, we see fatherly care. That is a reflection of how God views his children. And that's the way that we need to be towards the people that God's put in our lives. We need to reflect His compassion for them. That's very important. A second practical thought is this: we must keep a balanced view of the Christian life. We need to make sure that because we're under grace, we don't say, Hey, the law doesn't matter anymore. I can do whatever I want. What does Paul say? So so shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sins? live any longer therein. On the other side, I need to recognize that you know what? I'm still on this side of glorification. I'm still a fallen creature. I'm still living in a fallen world. I am going to deal with temptation. till the day that God takes me to be with him. And so I need to have this balance that I recognize God wants me to live a holy life. I'm going to stumble and I'm going to fail. And that's why we have 1 John 1 18. through 10. And the third practical thought is this. We should constantly be encouraged because of Christ's presence, both as an encourager and representative to the Father. There are days that I look at how I live as a Christian and I just, I'm discouraged. I don't know about you, but I'm discouraged. I'm frustrated I see what I am and I say there's no way that God would accept me. There's no way that God could love me. I mean look at look at what I am and I'm reminded I haven't had It with the Father. Jesus Christ the righteous. He's the propitiation for my sins. God does not accept me because I'm righteous. God does not accept me because somehow I have atoned for my own sins. God accepts me because I stand righteous in Jesus. God accepts me because the wrath of the Father is satisfied in the the cross. And that's an encouragement to all of us. I hope that as you go throughout your day today, you'll be reminded of the important balance and these very important theological truths that help us to have a sound mind. as we think about the Christian life. If this has been a blessing to you, I hope that you'll just jot down a note of encouragement. Perhaps share it with a friend so that they can hear it. This is a very gospel-oriented study. This is meant to be an encouragement to the Christian But the truth is it really expounds the gospel. And so it's a very, very practical passage of scripture for us to look at. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and I hope that you have a great rest of your morning. Father, it's been good to be reminded of these very important truths that we can come into the presence of the Father, that the holy, righteous judge of all things. Because we stand righteous in Christ, and because our sins have been paid for in full by Christ's cross. I pray that we would be encouraged by these truths. I pray that we would have a very balanced view of the Christian Christian life, and I pray that we would reflect the tender love and compassion of our Father towards his children and the way that we interact with other Christians today. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning. I hope that you have a wonderful rest of your day, and we will look forward to the next time we're together in 1 John. Have a great day. Bye now.