Well, good evening. Hope you all are having a good week and looking forward to our study tonight. Let's go ahead and start with a word of prayer and then we will uh sing our opening song. So let's let's go ahead and bow for prayer. Father, thank you for this opportunity tonight to gather, and I pray that you'd help us as we look at a very delicate matter that you'd open our understanding. To these truths, help me to be able to communicate this in a way that will be very helpful to each person that's here and also those that will join us in the live stream. And as we think about our conscience, help us to recognize why we respond internally the way that we do, and how vitally important it is that we have a biblically grounded and a healthy conscience. And we ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. If you have your hymn books, please turn to 374, and our song we'll sing tonight is Be Thou My Vision, and we will sing just the first and the last verses together for you. Is that my pleasure? Not me and all the speech and I did not. I present my. . Many are each other and join the whole pride of small. Okay, well if you could let's all turn together to Romans chapter two and we're going to be spending time I'm anticipating that this is going to be a multiparter that we're going to be talking about this. But the the topic that we're dealing with this evening is what is the conscience and How does it work? What is the conscience and how does it work? And if you if you recall, we're in the midst of a series where we're talking about how to raise children in a godly and wise way. And you say, well, why are we dealing with the issue of the conscience? Well, the reason we're dealing with the issue of the conscience is because one of the most significant things we do as parents is we shape the conscience of our children. And we may be shaping our children's conscience in a very godly and healthy manner, or we may actually be really damaging our children by the way that we Teach them or the way that we encourage them to relate to this issue, the conscience. And so what I think is so very important is that we deal with this biblically so that we understand what is the conscience. How do we have a healthy, biblically grounded conscience? And then from that we're going to talk about, well, how do we help our children in these areas? How do we reinforce a biblical worldview in these areas? How do we reinforce a healthy view of the conscience? So that's where we're going. It's going to take a little bit of time to get there because this is a huge topic. There's a lot of scripture that deals with this issue, probably more than you realize, and we'll look at that tonight. Romans chapter 2 is where we will start this evening, and we will read verses 11 through 16 together. Here's what the scriptures say: There is no respect of persons with God. For as many as have sinned without law shall perish without law. As many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law. For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. For when the Gentiles which have not the law do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts, the meanwhile accusing or else excusing another, one another. And the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel. Now I think it's important when we look at a passage like this to recognize really what Paul is doing. Paul is in the midst of an argument. Where he's demonstrating that whether you are a Jew who has the Mosaic Law, and so you have God's rule and you know exactly what is right and what is wrong biblically, Or you're a Gentile who's had no contact with the law, and so you do not have access to the scriptures. You do not know what God says is right and wrong in written code. He says, it doesn't matter. Either way, whether you are the Gentile who has no law, access to the law, or the Jew who has plenty of access to the law, you both have a law that is internal. It's a fascinating statement. Notice what it says. He says, the Gentiles which have not the law do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law The law are a law unto themselves. They show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness, their thoughts accusing or else excusing. So what this passage is ultimately saying is everybody has a sense of right and wrong. Now please don't read into this too much. That does not mean that your sense of right and wrong is an infallible sense of right and wrong. Okay? So when we have a conscience and we come in contact with the Word of God, what ultimately happens is it drives the truth home and it awakens our conscience. in a very substantial way. But either way, we have this sense within us that we call the conscience. And this is a part of us that we cannot escape. It's a part of us that we've got to deal with. We've got to understand how it works. We've got to understand how to relate to it. That's really the topic that we're going to be dealing with. So first of all, let me give you a summary statement for where we're going with this, and then I want us to look at how much the scripture has to say about this issue. All people, whether religious or irreligious, whether Jew or whether Gentile, whether they have access to the scriptures or they don't have access to the scriptures, have a moral sense. And that moral sense cannot be ignored without serious consequence. If you remember back a couple of weeks ago, we were in Psalm 38. And in Psalm 38, David talks about this internal struggle that he's dealing with. The reason that he is able to communicate that is because he has a conscience and he's not living consistent with what he knows to be right internally and so he's disrupted. We have the same experience in our own personal walks with the Lord. And so God wants us to be a people who have a healthy conscience, a biblically founded conscience. So first of all, let's notice how much Scripture has to say about this. If you're to read through the Psalms carefully and you're to take each Psalm at face value, you know what you're going to discover about a large portion of the Psalms? They talk about what's going on inside. They talk about the anguish that people experience when they are not doing what is right. The conflict internally. A lot of the Psalms deal with this issue of the conscience. This is a major theme in the pastoral epistles. If you go through and do a word search, In 1st, 2 Timothy and Titus, you're going to see the word conscience used over and over and over and over again. Because this is a big deal. The Apostle Paul talks about the fact that he wants the people to have a good conscience. He talks about people who have a broken conscience. He talks about how he does his work with a good conscience. The conscience is a huge topic in the pastoral epistles. We go to Acts chapter 15. One of the major narratives when we talk about the Jerusalem church is in Acts chapter 15, when there is a controversy between betwixt the Jews and the Gentiles over this issue of issues of conscience. And so they actually convened this large discussion. What do we do about Gentiles? Do they have to follow the Jewish dietary laws? Well ultimately what that was was it was a debate, a discussion about conscience. We all know that Romans is a book that's all about the gospel. In fact, if we're trying to lead someone to the Lord, there's probably no book that we are more inclined to take people to. Yes, John. Yes, Ephesians chapter 2. But the book of Romans, because we have chapters three, four, and five dealing with our guilt, the inability that we have to make ourselves righteous. before God, the finished work of Christ, the substitutionary death of Christ. Romans 3, 4, and 5, heavy emphasis on the gospel. But do you realize that chapters 13, 14, and 15, a very large chunk of the book of Romans is dedicated to a topic on the conscience? Okay? This is a very big deal. In fact, I think it was actually one of the primary reasons that the Apostle Paul wrote the book of Romans. Because there was a major conscience controversy going on at Rome, primarily between the Jews and the Gentiles. He wanted them to be unified. He wanted them to get behind his ministry to the Gentiles as a mission. We then go to 1 Corinthians chapter 8. This entire chapter is dealing with the topic of conscience. The question is: if we know that a piece of meat has been offered to an idol, should we eat it? That's a great question. In fact, you might say, well, it has no bearing on us today at all. The principle has huge bearing on us today. And you know what's amazing is the Apostle Paul says, there's nothing wrong with the meat. Go ahead and eat it. But don't ask if it was offered to idols for conscience sake. And he he goes into this whole long explanation as to why. This is there's nothing wrong with the meat. It's totally acceptable for you to eat it, even though it's been offered to an idol. And so we're we're going to get into some of these topics. The whole point of bringing this up is to simply say it's a huge topic. Sadly, it's a topic that's neglected. Especially when we realize how much weight is put on it. And I think it's one of the most practical and significant topics we could deal with because if you have a conflicted conscience, guess what? You're a miserable person. And if you have a conscience that's conflicted and you don't deal with it the right way, you might become a person that has an upside-down conscience, who has basically dulled their conscience and has lost sensitivity. And so this is a very, very important topic. For instance, in Romans 9, when he's communicating the importance of this issue, he says, I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost. He's saying, I have a clean conscience when I say that. Romans 13, why should we submit to authorities? When you must needs be subject not only for wrath, but also for conscience' sake First Corinthians 8 7. Howbeit there is not in every man this knowledge, some with conscience of the idol unto this hour eat as a thing offered unto an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. Lots and lots of examples. So let me give you a couple of implications as we work into the topic. We need to prioritize this thing. There is a principle when it comes to Bible interpretation that we should emphasize something in proportion to the amount of scripture that is dedicated to the issue. And I think we should also add to that, we should be as dogmatic as the scripture is clear on an issue. And so when we have an issue like conscience, it's talked about so much, we've got to prioritize it. Number two, if God says a lot about it, we need to think a lot about it. We need to understand it. It's a serious thing. Number three, you can't escape it. It's a part of who we are as people that are created in the image of God. And so let's begin with our first truth tonight. We need to understand what our conscience is. What our conscience is Go with me to Romans chapter 1. So just turn over a chapter before, just a couple of verses really from where we've already been this evening. And I want you to notice what it says in verses 19 through 21. It says, that which may be known of God is manifest in them. For God hath showed it unto them. The invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Now, notice that statement. He says, what may be known of God is manifest in them. Well, what he's basically saying is because God created people with the ability to think And because God created people as moral beings, there's a right and there's a wrong, and we have that sense about us, then when we look at the creation around us, our ability to rationally think And that moral sense, they kind of come together where we are forced to process what we're looking at, and we know somebody made this place. Which means they made me and I'm answerable to them. And there's this moral sense and it's got to have come from someone. So who did it come from? Well, the one who made it all That's really the sense of what Paul is arguing. So the conscience ultimately is an internal moral sense that is a part of who we are because we are created in God's image. This is the thing that really separates us, one of the primary things that separates us from the animal kingdom. Okay? You know, when my dog Does something that I don't like, well, the reason he might respond the way that because you can just see my body language. I'm not too happy, or he's learned from you know he's basically been trained. But he doesn't have like this moral sense like, oh that's That's sinful for me to do that. And so the dog doesn't do it because he feels guilty in his conscience. That's not what a dog does. But a human processes things different. A human has a sense of right and wrong. Now, by the way, when we reject God's authority and we establish ourselves as the center of the universe, We don't lose that sense of moral right and wrong. It's just that our sense of moral right and wrong is twisted. It's off-center. It's not consistent with what God says is right and wrong. So So a person that rejects God's authority still is a person who has a strong sense of morality. It's just wrong. Okay? It's not submitted to God's morality. So the conscience is something that you have, whether you're a Christian or non-Christian, whether you're a complete pagan or somebody who really is dedicated to the things of God, the conscience is still there. And that conscience accuses us and disrupts us internally when we act against what we believe to be morally right. So, the fact that I believe something's morally right doesn't mean that it is morally right. But the fact that I believe something's morally right, if I act against it, I don't feel right. Do you get that? Okay? So that means if something that I believe to be morally right, or excuse me, something that I believe to be morally wrong, if it's acceptable and I do it. Even though I can do it, okay? I'm gonna feel guilty about it. I hope that makes sense. So it's possible for you to feel guilty about things that are not sin, okay? And it's also possible for you to feel completely at peace in doing things that are absolutely abominable to God. It's all about what you believe to be right or wrong. And so what we think and our worldview has a huge part to play in what makes us feel guilty or not guilty. And by the way, even though that is true, there are still certain things that everybody universally knows to be wrong. Okay? Though after a while you start wondering. In some cultures, it it gets gets pretty pretty hairy, pretty uh pretty shaky. But that's what the conscience is. It's that internal awareness that there's right and wrong. When you do something that you believe to be wrong, you feel guilty. You feel conflicted. And when you do something that you believe to not be wrong, you feel fine about it. That's the way that it works. And so we see the phrase manifest in them. God has shown it to them. It's clearly seen. It's understood by the things that are made. All of this is talking about the fact that we process things and we know there's right and wrong. That's what it's telling us. Class. But it's stated even more emphatically in the next chapter, chapter two, verses fourteen and fifteen, what I read earlier He says, when the Gentiles which have not the law do by nature, and when I say by nature, he's not saying that we're just naturally bound to do the right thing. What he's saying is They feel compelled internally to do something that they've never been told they can't do or that they need to do. That's what he's saying. They feel compelled to do certain things. that are contained in the law. These having not a law are a law unto themselves. They show the work of the law written in their hearts. Another way to put it is they they prove that they are made in the image of God. That's really what it is. So the conscience is what demonstrates that in fact you really are created in the image of God. It's stamped into you as a person. You can't escape it. You can twist it, you can abuse it, you can ignore it, you can be conflicted by it, but it's there. Does not go away Their conscience bearing witness, their thoughts accusing or else excusing one another. We see these phrases. Having not the law are a law unto themselves, they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness. Accusing or excusing. Those statements are all very, very important. We need to recognize that this is a part of all of us. And by the way, this has great implications when you're dealing with somebody and giving them the gospel. Some might say, well, this person would never, ever, ever listen to what I have to say. They're beyond help. They're beyond hope. They're beyond conscience. Whether you realize it or not, whether you believe it or not, they still have a conscience. They still have a conscience. And the truth is that when you take the word of God and you open it to them and say, this is what God says, sometimes they rage again. against it. I mean rage against it. Why? Because they don't want it to be true. But they know it's true. Why? You know, if they didn't if they didn't think it was true, they wouldn't care. They say, ah, whatever. If that's what you believe, I I I could care less. Go live the way you want to live. What what's the phrase? You do you, right? Why don't people do that with the Bible? Because their conscience pricks them That's why. They can't just let the Christians do their own thing because internally they know it's true. It makes them angry. By the way, it's true for us sometimes. Even as believers, sometimes we know that God says this is right, this is wrong, and we we wrestle with God. God. We fight with God. So this actually can happen for the believer too when we go through seasons of rebellion against the Lord. So, as corrupted as our heart is by the fall, we still have a moral sense. And this moral sense is something we cannot escape without severely damaging the sense by repeatedly suppressing the truth. And so if you go back to Romans chapter 1, basically what Paul says is this is what happens when people suppress the truth. Listen carefully. He says that they hold the truth in unrighteousness, and then they became vain in their imaginations. And that that phrase they held the truth. It's like I've got it and I push it away. I don't want to listen to it. I want to ignore it. You know what that does? It deadens, it dulls the conscience. And when a person's conscience becomes desensitized, that's really dangerous. Because they get to the point where they could do anything. It doesn't even bother them. Their foolish heart is darkened. description of what happens when a person dulls their conscience. They change the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible man. The idea is this person still has this sense of right and wrong. It's just that they wanna they want to put themselves in the place of their creator. And guess what? Now they become the center of the universe and everything that's right and wrong is connected back to them. And you need to do what they want you to do. We all live this way, little kings of our own kingdoms. To some extent. They changed the truth of God into a lie. They did not like to retain God in their knowledge. God gave them over to a reprobate mind to do those things which are not convenient. That that statement reprobate means that the mind is completely turned upside down. They do what's not convenient. It's not like, oh well, oh this is not the easy way to go. That's not what he's saying. The idea is that it's inconsistent with the purpose, the design for which God gave it. It. So God made us for a reason. He has a noble purpose for us, and we say, I don't want it. I'm going to do my own thing. Filled with all unrighteousness. That's the result. And so what we see is that this thing called the conscience is something that we have to contend with. It's a part of who we are. As humans made in the image of God. Truth number two, we understand how it works. Now, the way that I want to approach this is I'd like you to turn with me to Romans chapter 8. Because in Romans chapter 8, what we're going to see is the Apostle Paul is going to talk about the distinct difference between someone who is a believer and how they process things. and someone who's an unbeliever and how they process things. And what this is ultimately going to do is it's going to give us a lot of insight and understanding into how this thing called the conscience works. It really is. So let me read it to you, and then let's kind of work our way through some of these pieces. It says in verse number one: There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Next statement's fascinating, and he mentions it twice, okay? Who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. This is this is a this is an explanation of the practical way that the believer lives. It's very distinct and different. from the way that he lived as an unbeliever. He says, for the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made us free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin. Condemn sin in the flesh, and his next statement's important, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Now, do you understand what he's saying there? Basically what Paul is saying is, it's impossible for a person to become a Christian through the works of the law. And the reason for that is because their heart and life is dominated by a principle that does not enable them to be able to keep the works of the law. Okay? He says what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh. God did for this purpose, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us. And then he makes a statement, who walk not after the flesh, but after the In other words, he's saying there's a principal distinction between the unbeliever and how they live and how they process things and how the believer lives and processes things. It's the presence of a new nature and the spirit of God. So the person who does not know the Lord, while they have a conscience and they have a moral sense, they are bound by their flesh, and so you know what they do? They can't they they they go against what they know to be right constantly, okay? And then the believer has a new disposition. But that doesn't mean he can't sin. Doesn't mean he can't violate his conscience, but what it does mean is that there's a new source that's motivating him and changing the way that he thinks and feels and all those things. And so, as one walks by the Spirit, the works of the law are what we see worked out. In other words, the believer's not saying, Oh, I want to keep the law. In other words, the believer is saying, this is what I desire to do because of the work of the Spirit inside of me. And ultimately, what is it? It's the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. These are the things that flow out of the believer's life because there's a different source than what he had before he was a believer Well, that's important to this discussion of the conscience. Because a believer's conscience has a principle that is focusing on changing it that the unbeliever doesn't have. That's very, very important for us to understand. You know, a lot of times we have issues that we could argue and argue and argue with non-Christians about. And I say it's pointless. Completely pointless. Why? Because they don't have a disposition that wants that. They have a disposition that doesn't want that, and so it's a mute point what they need is Christ. What they need is the gospel. What they need is the Spirit of God inside of them. They need to be born again, regenerated. That's what needs to be going on. And so those discussions are mute points. They're not going to get anywhere. Who cares if the non-Christian becomes a moralist? It's not going to change his eternal destination at all. It's just going to make him more happy on the way there to his ultimate end of destruction. And so he says this They after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. Spirit. To be carnally minded is death, to be spiritually minded is life and peace. The carnal mind is enmity against God, not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. Then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. But ye are not in the flesh. But in the Spirit. If so be it, the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. So let me break this down. Your inner man. Has three aspects to it. There is the thinking part of you, that's what you believe. There's the emotional part of you, that's how you feel, and there's the will, that's what you want. Does that make sense? Well how you think, how you feel, and what you want. And by the way, they're all interconnected. Okay? So the way that you think and the way that you feel, they're always pulling this way and that way. way, okay? And what you want is being driven by what you think and how you feel, okay? And and when people are really conflicted is when how they feel and how they think are are in opposition with one another, okay? Or what they want to do. And how they feel and what they believe, they're all disconnected. And what God ultimately wants us to do as His people is that our thinking is sound. And our emotions are led and guided by our thinking. And what we desire is being driven by right thinking and right feeling. I don't know if that makes sense or not, but that's how a person is able to live at peace. The person who's got it all over here, who's living contrary to what they believe to be right, is a very miserable person. Or the person that knows what's right, but doesn't want it. It's a very miserable person. And so in our natural state, we are completely driven by our flesh. Does not change the fact that we know there's right and wrong, but we are driven by our flesh. And our natural state, our thinking is affected by our fallen nature. Our affections are affected by our fallen nature. What we want to do is affected by our fallen nature. Our conscience is there, but it's not sound. It's not healthy. It's not vibrant. It's not godly. It's very, very, very shaky. And so in verse 5 he says, They that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. They that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. You see the contrast? Verse number seven: the carnal mind is enmity against God, not subject to his law, neither indeed can be. They that are in the flesh cannot please God. Do you see how clearly he states this? But when a person becomes a new creature in Christ, there is a renewing of the mind that begins at the moment a person becomes a new creature. Now we don't like instantly be zapped with, oh, I'm a mature Christian now. Okay? When you become a Christian, you become a baby Christian. And being a baby Christian means that you have spiritual life. It means that you can relate to God. It means that you can begin to grow. But there's growth that happens progressively over the course of our lifetime. But there's something that has changed dispositionally in you. Your thinking can be renewed. Your affections can flow from the Spirit's influence. or from the flesh's influence. And this is why sometimes people are more conflicted after they're saved than before. It's true. There are some Christians that are more conflicted after they become a Christian than they were before. And the reason is because they're living contrary to what they know to be true and right. That's not the way God wants us to live our lives. In verse 1, he says, them which are in Christ walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Verse number two the law of the spirit of life in Christ has made us free from the law of sin and death. Verses three and four. God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh condemns it in the flesh, so that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us. Who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Verse 9, you're not in the flesh, but in the spirit, as so be, that the spirit of God dwelleth in you. And so when you became a Christian, you became a new creature in Christ, who still lives in this fallen fleshly body, so you can still be influenced and motivated and affected by your flesh, but you now have a new disposition too. And you have the Holy Spirit working inside of you. And his desire is to renew your mind and to point your affections in a godly manner so that what you want to do is consistent with what God wants you to do. So you won't have a violated conscience, but in fact you'll live at an internal peace inside. That's what he wants. And so I summarize it this way: all of us have this moral sense. When the choices we make are consistent with this moral sense, we experience internal peace. When our desires conflict with this moral sense, we experience internal conflict. When we walk in contradiction to this moral sense, we experience internal conflict, both mentally and emotionally. The Holy Spirit works on the conscience to press the truth of Scripture into our minds. And to awaken us to the significance and the weight of these truths. And our affections will flow from one of two sources: either the old nature or the new man being energized by the indwelling spirit. I'm looking at my time, and I think I'm going to stop there. Because this is a lot to process. It's a lot to process, but the fact is, it's important for us to understand this. It's important when it comes to issues of evangelism. It's important when it comes to issues of raising our children. It's important when it comes to issues of listening to preaching. You know, I could be sitting in a service and I feel totally good about life and everything about it, and that preacher doesn't know anything about what's going on in my life, and at the moment that I'm sitting there, I'm not even aware of what's going on in my life apparently, because I'm not even bothered by it. And all of a sudden he touches on an issue. And inside I just go, ooh. And I just I g and it it presses on me And what's amazing is it wasn't planned. It's not like this person knows what is going on inside of you. And you weren't even aware of it the moment you sat down. But all of a sudden the Spirit of God just presses on that issue. And you don't feel good about it. And you know what? You gotta do something about that. You've got to face that reality. I'm going to talk about that at the end of one of these lessons, okay? First John chapter 1. Confess our sins. Turn to the gospel, remind yourself again what Christ has done for you. But that happens. Sometimes we are charting in a direction and we know what is right because God has clearly stated it and we don't want it. And we just kind of persist and persist and persist, and we feel guilty and miserable and frustrated, and we fight against God, and eventually we fight and we fight and we fight so much that we don't feel bad about it anymore. And pretty soon we it's like it's not giving us any trouble anymore. Why is that? Because we've desensitized our conscience. Sometimes we'll even plead with God, God, take away this terrible feeling that I have inside. He's like, well, the reason you don't feel right about it is because it's wrong. So quit asking me about some things we don't even need to pray about. Other times we have things that we feel very guilty about them, and the fact is the scripture doesn't condemn them. We've got to figure out how to work through those kinds of issues as well. Well. Sometimes we have situations with other believers and this brother or this sister over here, they're totally comfortable with this particular activity, and I'm totally not comfortable with this particular activity, and God's not really that clear about it. That particular activity. And I've got to figure out how I'm going to relate to them. We've got to learn how to do those things. There are lots and lots of situations where the conscience Comes into play. And so we need to understand what it is and how it works. So, Lord willing, next week we will talk about the fact that our conscience is not an infallible guide. Jiminy Cricket, always let your conscience be your guide is not true. Don't believe it. It's not true. Your conscience isn't supposed to be a guide It's not. It's an evidence that you're made in the image of God. Because when you do something that bothers your conscience, you already you already did something wrong. It's the truth. When you're leaning in a direction and in your conscience like this is wrong, you are you are fighting against what you know to be right. And so the conscience isn't really a guide, it's an evidence that you are stamped with his image. Very, very important. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, I pray that you'll take these things and use them to help us. My greatest desire is that we as your people would enjoy the position that we have as fully as you designed it to be enjoyed. Father, help us to be a people that understand how critical it is that we think biblically, and how critical it is that our emotions are Guided by what is true, and how important it is that we desire to do things that are consistent with what you say is right. And we turn away from things that you say are wrong. Father, help us to do what is right and to walk with you and to enjoy the communion that is available to us through Christ's Son. sacrifice on the cross. And then as we work with our children, I pray that you'd help us to communicate these things very well in practical and simple ways so that they will have a healthy way of thinking. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.