Okay, well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our second night of our revival meetings at Anchor Baptist Church. And what I'd like to do is first of all start out with an opening scripture and then we have a couple of songs we'll sing before we dismiss our children and We begin with our preaching. So James chapter 1, verse 17 is uh the passage I want to read this evening. Here's what it says: Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. Cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Of his own will begat he us by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. I think that this is a great passage for us to reflect on as we open in prayer and then as we sing songs. of praise to the Lord. And let's remember that ultimately what we need to do tonight is say, God, just open my heart to receive the word. I want to be a doer, not just a hearer, I want to be a doer of the word. I want to submit to your to your scriptures, submit to your authority. I want to do what your word tells me to do. So let's be out together for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our time this evening. Father, we are so grateful for the Word of God, its power to change us. It is the engrafted word which is able to save our souls. It's what grows us into Christ's likeness. It's what matures us. It's what strengthens us. It's what guides us. And so I pray that this evening, as the Word of God is opened, That we would be quick to hear and slow to speak and slow to wrath, that we would submit to your authority and that you would change us. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, we're going to sing several hymns together. The first is from our blue book, and that is 105 for me to live is Christ. Let's stand together and let's really sing this song out. For me to live is Christ. In my fork and I'll not share my love. I need to read it by me to be. I tried and one for me to give my voice to the past. I say no, you know his name , to go to me , you know his mighty power today , and I'm being too many. For me to give his try. Perceive me again, I tried, for each cry. Can Christ and tell you brings a peace to passion again. And you can be seen as That's a great song, isn't it? well Straight out of the Bible for me to live is Christ. The second hymn we're gonna sing is hymn 445 and And I know this is our children's favorite. They have a pack. You don't realize this, but on Sunday nights when we uh pick our favorite hymns, the the kids have this pack that one of them is going to pick this song. Alright, let's go ahead. 445, standing on the promises. The return of lady 's praise has been for a highest house, God has been, scattered on the promises of God. Standing , standing, standing on the promises of God, my stable, standing, standing, I stand. Can be on the process of God , can be standing , can be all the provinces of God, my stakeholders. And I gave all the things of God. I 'm going to be a lot of I'm promised. We're gonna say standing on the promise and standing for the last two words. Standing on the promises in the prize. Overcoming daily spirit store Standing on the front to God Spending out the promises of God , I say not scared me , scandally, I 'm standing on the promises of God. Standing on the promises I cannot fall Listing everyone in whose spirit called me in my nature as my holy law standing on the The promises of God standing, standing on the promises of God might stay on scarcely dead. The next song we're gonna sing. It's a great song for a revival meeting, and that's 527. Revive us again. And you know, when we talk about revival in the Christian life, what we're basically saying Is we're going from being in a position of complacency, perhaps rebellion, perhaps apathy, and revival is we're living the Christian life. That's the way God designed it. That's really what it comes down to. We are enjoying the position that we have in Christ. And so let's really sing this out. Revive us again. All four verses, please. We praise the God , son of my love, who Everything is now from God. I don't be out by the morning. I will be around. We praise me, oh God , for his read our life , who shows us my sky. I will be out my glory, I will be our glory , be my God for glory. Okay, and now we're going to go to a song that is a little bit more reflective, and that is Complete in the It's in our blue books, uh, complete in thee 192, and as we sing this song, let's really think about The message. And really what the message is, it's emphasizing the fact that in Christ we are complete. There is nothing for us to continue. It is entirely a work that was purchased for us. It is a gift, and we enjoy that position. And so when we come uh to that part where it says justified, sanctified, uh His blood is pardoned, bought, uh glorified, I too shall be. This is a reminder of what we have in Christ. And so let's really sing this reflectively as we think about the position that we have in Christ. Complete in thee, all four verses And for a me , but we 'll be a sin. I have all of the rain, thy voice of his members me, and thy goes and became my. . And take it by the God, I thought I thought in one be, and Lord and God, and I mean , purpose. And then when we come to the fourth verse, we're going to sing the chorus a cappella. Okay? So sing out the third verse a little more reflectively. And the fourth verse will go a cappella. Here we go. Come with me with me on the line. And go with me with me. I ask the Lord me , take us in my Come on, my show making my life, and I 'll be Give us your blessed God, and make it by salvation for thy God and God and not for me. All right, well our children can be dismissed to the back for uh their class with Mrs. Gellis. And uh Brent, uh come on up and preach the word. Look forward to what the Lord has laid on your heart. Good evening. It's great to be here. Let's look tonight at Genesis 13. Genesis 13. As we start, I want to tell you a story, an absolute true story, and many of you will know the story as soon as I start telling it. Four thousand years ago, two men stood up on a hill overlooking north and south. The older man, the uncle, said, hey, whatever way you want to go, I'll go the opposite way. Instantly you know the story. Who's the uncle? Abraham, who's the nephew? Lot. Lot. Four thousand years ago two men stood on the hill. And the older man had just come back to a place of walking with God. Even though we don't know for sure all that happened, it was clear that Egypt was not the best experience for him. And there will be lasting consequences for some of his failures of faith, but he's now back walking with God. And the text makes that plain. His nephew had experienced Egypt, and no doubt at this point in his life was uh Concerning advancement. The text says very clearly, look what it says in Genesis 13. And Lot which went with them in verse 5, and Lot which went with Abraham and had flocks and herds and tents. And the land was not able to bear them that they might dwell together, for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell together There's strife between the herdmen, the shepherds of Abraham, the shepherds of Lot. Both of the men were blessed by God exceedingly. And neither of that was a problem. So Abraham stood there and said, Lot, I don't want to be any issue between you and I. I still get together for watch the big game we get on occasion, we'll still together for Christmas and Easter and that type of deal. But you go that way and I'll take my herds this way. You go if you want to go this way, I'll take my hurts this way. Just so there's no strife between us But notice what the text says. And Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan. That it was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord like the land of Egypt as thou cometh unto Zoar I don't have textual proof for this, but I don't believe Abraham at this time was offering Lot that area. Because Abraham was walking with God. He knew what was down there. He says, no, no, no, no, no. You go this way, I'll go this way. I believe he's offering the north or the south, the plains, the upper plains. But Lot looked and he saw, wow , looks pretty good down there. You know, maybe, maybe my herds could do better down there. And the Bible says very clearly, look what it says in verse 10 He lifted up his eyes and beheld the plain of Jordan. And then look what it says in verse 11. And Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan. Lot journeyed east, and they separated themselves the one from the other. You can see that Lot here is rationalizing, hey, maybe this would be better for my economic condition. Perhaps he's even spiritualizing and maybe even justifying in his mind, well, you know, maybe uh my kids would have some uh influence in in the town. Maybe even there'd be somebody that I know there's some bad stuff down there, but maybe we could find someone for our kids to marry because Abraham hit that ain't happening here. We don't know the entire story, but it's very clear that within the matter of a few short days, Lot had his mind made up. And we know the rest of the story. Even though it's not clearly delineated in scripture that you shall not go down to the valley of Jordan, it's very clear what was down there. We say that We know that what was down there was evil, what was wicked incredibly. And God was doing a work and he leaves the story for you and I. For us to remember Lot. Tonight we're going to look at what Lot lost. Lot lost a lot. We're going to see exactly what Lot lost. I'm going to ask all of us, before we get into the text, to take a minute and just pray. I'll pray out loud, but you pray quietly. I realize that these messages always they always speak to me. And I pray and trust that the Word of God will convict, will challenge. Will encourage each and every one of us. There's parents here, there's young adults, there's teenagers. All of us need to reconsider the life of Lot. Will you pray and ask God to help you be open, be honest to truth while I pray out loud? You pray quietly while I pray out loud. Father, we need you. Lord, we've already asked for your blessing, but you would you help us tonight to understand what you're doing through your book? And Lord, would we remember the life of Lot? Would we see principles from Scripture? And I don't know details, I don't know situations, but I know my own heart, how I tend to gravitate toward worldliness. I know what I have to do in my family oftentimes, and we have to go back and reset some things and say, No, we can't do that. Well Lord, would you Would you practically help us? Would the Holy Spirit practically show us areas in each one of our lives where we are losing? And Lord, would we see the victory that you have promised and would we see the application here very clearly? Lord, I need you. Guide my heart, guide my thoughts, guide my words. And would this not just be mere moralism? Would this be genuinely pursuing holiness in every single one of our hearts and lives? We need you to do that in and through us tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen. There's a very clear scriptural principle. In fact, keep your finger here in Genesis 13 or turn over with me to the New Testament. Many of you know this verse very clearly, but look what it says in 1 Peter chapter 1. 1 Peter chapter 1, it's very clearly spelled out. In fact, we sometimes be, oh, that's the Old Testament. We're not under the law. We're under grace. We'll tell Peter that. Because here he's going to quote back from the Old Testament. He says in chapter 4 one verse fourteen, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust and your ignorance, but as he which has called you as holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. Because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. Well, that's the Old Testament. We're not under the law, we're under grace. But God commands his people everywhere at all times to be holy. And God commands you and I to be separate, to be distinct, to be unique, to be set apart. We're supposed to act, smell, think, watch, listen differently than the world does. That's not moralism. That's called following God. That's what He wants us to do. And God calls you and I specifically to be different, to be unique, to be set apart. We live in a day and age when God's people look, act, smell, rock, tattoo themselves just like the world. You can't really tell the difference. Well what's what's what's a Christian today? I don't know because the Christians that are on social media don't look any different. They live exactly like the world does. And we're supposed to be salt and light, supposed to be different. What's what makes the difference? Because God has called us to be separate. God has called you and I to be holy in all manner of conversation, every manner of lifestyle. Our entire life is supposed to be different, supposed to be unique. Now I'm not for one second advocating that we be weird. I've met my share of weirdos in the Christian faith, and I I don't think we need any more weirdos. Can I get an amen? But God does want you and I to be distinct. We don't fit in with our neighbors. If we don't fit in, if we don't get invited to everything, that's fine because this world is not our home. We're just passing through. There's another aspect to this that as we separate ourselves out, we are able to discern and know what is that good and acceptable perfect will of God. I get to speak in a lot of Christian camps and I enjoy doing that. I'll be at several this summer in the Midwest and I I enjoy speaking to teenagers. One of the questions I get frequently from teens and young adults, hey, Brother Brent, how do I know God's will for my life? It's a fair question, is it not? It's important. Oftentimes when I give them the answer, they're not really expecting me. I say it's pretty pretty simple. You just obey and read your Bible and pray. No, no, no. I want to know God's will for my life. Well, well, that is it. We know Romans 12:1, don't be conformed. But be transformed, that's Romans 12. 2. But don't be conformed, but be transformed. You know what the rest of Romans 12. 2 says? That ye may prove. What is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God? If you and I want to know God's will for our life, we're not going to be able to do it if we are plasticized to the world, if we're conformed to this world. The 1 Peter 1. 14 is obedient children, not fasting. That word fasting has the idea of plasticizing, molding, almost like taking silly putty or play-doh and fastening it to a mold. Our lives oftentimes look and act and smell and look exactly like the world. We've fashioned ourselves to this world, and God says very clearly, don't do that. And one of the consequences when we fashion ourselves to this world is we don't know the good and perfect acceptable will of God. Romans 12, too, again. Paul says Give your bodies to Christ that ye may prove, that ye may know what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Is there a young person in this room tonight who you're wanting to know God's will for your life? Well, here's how you find it out. Get out of the world, get into the word, and you will prove, you will know what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. David said clearly in Psalm 16, 11, Thou wilt show me the path of life. And you and I can know God. How do you know God's will for our life? And you buy these books, and the Christian bookstore has all these books about how to know God's perfect will. It's pretty easy, obviously. Get out of the world, get into the word, and you can know it. But if you're plasticized in this world, if you're thinking, if your life, if your music, if your education, if your entertainment is all based on the world, Friend, you're not going to know the good and perfect and acceptable will of God, period. God calls you and I to holiness. And he gives us an incredible, sad, tragic illustration in Genesis by the name of Lot. Go back with me to Genesis and we see the story here. We find that Lot beheld in chapter 13, verse 10, he chose He journeyed. He used rationalism and pragmatism. He used what works and what met the need or what fit his logic. Well, you know, I could I I'll be better off. My herd will be better down in the valley. You know, my kids may do better down there. You know, I'm not changing, but you know, we've got a compromise for the family. Uh you know, these are all excuses I've heard my friends and even ministry acquaintances say You know, we got you you know you got teenagers now, so you can't do it exactly like you used to do it. You gotta give them a little bit of allowance. You know, it may not be what grandpa and grandma grew up with, but you know, it's okay I've heard all the excuses I'm sure you have as well. I don't know exactly what was going on in the last mind, but it's clear that very soon in chapter 14, look at verse 12. He is dwelling in Sodom. He goes from pitching his tent door to looking at Sodom until very soon, within a few short months or years, he's dwelling in Sodom. And this begins the process of Lot losing. He first of all almost lost his life. You follow the story there in Genesis 14, and there's these kings and Lot is caught up with this band of roving kings that comes. and captures Lot and Abraham has to go and rescue Lot. It's pretty incredible if you read this story there because in chapter 14, verse 14 Abraham gathers three hundred and eighteen trained men servants who are born in his own house and pursues Lot and rescues him. That's a pretty big house, wouldn't you say? Three hundred and eighteen people born in your house? That's a big house. Because if you've got 318 men who can handle a sword, you've got to also have women. You put that in perspective, Abraham and Sarah probably had a thousand people in their household. Household, quote unquote. That's a big household. And Abraham goes and rescues Lot, and no doubt Lot in his conscience is thinking to himself, you know, maybe I made a mistake here. That was God chastening Lot, no doubt about it. Hey Lot, get out now. Get out now. Get out. Careful lot. This is God chasing Lot. He almost loses his life. He almost loses his possessions. But God in his mercy allows Abraham to go and rescue and bring him back. And that's where you get the story about Kizadek, the incredible story in the Bible there. Well, 22 years go between chapter 13 and look over with me at chapter 19. 22 years pass. And in chapter 18, God comes and visits Abraham. Imagine God coming and visiting you and I, talking about the depravity that's going on down in the valley. But where's Lot? He's actually in the gate of Sodom. Look what it says there in chapter 19, verse 1. And there came two angels to Sodom and even, and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom. Here's a man who had a conscience who we know from the New Testament as we'll see was a believer. I believe we will see Lot again. But he's sitting in the gate. He's sitting. He's gravitated. He's asked for a position of authority in Sodom. And he's there. And he recognizes these two men as men of God. And what does he do? Oh, you can't you can't stay here. No, no, no, no, no He's lost his conscience. He's lost his inner peace. Again, back in 2 Peter, you don't have to turn there. Many of you know this passage It said it talks about and delivered just Lot. If the Bible didn't call Lot just, I wouldn't believe he was just. But delivered just Lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked, for that right Righteous man dwelling among them and seeing and hearing vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. You we all know what it's like to be vexed. We've all heard God's name taken in such a way and a with a with a person in authority that oh man I just We all know what it's like to be just graded on and be worn down. Imagine doing that for twenty-two years. This man had lost his inner peace. He had lost all sense of knowing God and walking with him. Meanwhile, his uncle Abraham, oh, he's got he He's not doing as well financially. I'm down here making the money. I'm here. My cattle are doing great. Oh, really lot? We'll see about that in a second. But Abraham's up there in the mountain. What's Abraham doing? He's walking with God. He's enjoying inner peace. He's enjoying the blessings of God. He's enjoying the promises. He's knowing God on a personal level. But Lot has lost his inner peace. We go on, we see that Lot has completely off lost his discernment. Look with me in chapter 19. Look what it says here. Many of you know the story for appropriateness. We are not going to Go long or in detail into the story, but it is absolutely astounding. Look what it says here. The angels have entered in, and look what it says. Uh let's begin reading in verse number five. And they called unto Lot and said unto him, Where are the men which came in to thee this night? Bring them out unto us that we may know them. And Lot went out the door unto them and shut the door after him. He's like, oh , you guys stay in here. He shuts the door because he doesn't want the angels to know that he's dealing with what he's having to deal with. And he said, I pray you, brethren, brethren, what? Verse 7, do not so wickedly. Behold, now I have two daughters. Which have not known man, let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is good in your eyes, only unto these men do nothing, for therefore came they under the shadow of my roof. I got four girls. I can't imagine ever, ever, ever, ever. I'll be dead before this happens You better believe that. Never. What happened, Lot? 22 years of getting worn down. Twenty-two years of letting the world control and destroy. La has lost, he almost lost his life. He's lost his inner peace. He's vexed. He's lost his discernment. He he he's he's a losing man here. How'd that how'd that deal go when you're up on the hill with Abraham? How's it looking now, Matt? How's it looking now? How's it feeling now? Lot is losing. You go on and look at verse 16 The angels have said, we're going to destroy this place. Get out now. And look what it says here. Verse 16. And while he lingered, the men lay hold upon his hand. Hold on, hold on, Bob. What do you what What are you doing? If God sent angels through the door today and said, hey, you have to get out of this town, and he said to us, you have to get out of this town. Don't look back. Grab anything, grab your family, get in your car, and leave quickly. Leave the county. God's going to destroy the county. How many of you would stick around? Not I You would be gone pretty quickly. But here's Lot. He's hanging on to the last bit of what he thinks he has. He's lost all sense of discernment. He's lost all sense of conscience. He's lost a lot. But it doesn't stop there. He's also lost his testimony. Look what it says back in verse number twelve. And the men said unto Lot, Has thou any here besides sons-in-law and thy sons? And thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in the city, bring them out of this pla this place. For we will destroy this place, because the cry of them is waxing great before the face of the Lord, and the Lord hath sent us to destroy it. Notice verse 14. And Lot went out and spake unto his sons-in-law, which married his daughters, and said, Up Get you out of this place, for the Lord will destroy the city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons-in-law. He lost his testimony. He had no more power to say anything. It 's sad. Notice who he went after. He went after his daughters. Now the Holy Spirit has given us the word. Who else did he have that was still in the city? You can look back and you can see there. Um Middle of verse 12, he had what? He had two, at least two sons. Did he go after them? No. Again, the text isn't clear, but it's very clear that he's already lost the testimony of his sons. He thinks to himself, maybe I can go and still get my sons-in-law and daughters out of this place. It's quite possible, again, I can't prove this, it's quite possible that her sons were in the initial group that surrounded the house and was threatening. He's lost his family. He's lost his testimony. When he goes, hey, hey, God's gonna judge, they're like, yeah, right. They have no respect for God, no respect for anything. He lost his testimony, but look what else it says here in Genesis chapter 19. Counted up well, first of all, let me ask a question. Back in Genesis 18, you remember what Abraham pleaded with God about? What just tell me, shout it out. What did he plead with God? Well spare the city. Ten. Ten people. Now, look with me what the Bible says here. Okay, begin counting beginning of verse 12. They're sons. So that's at least two. You go and you have sons-in-law. That's another Two. You have daughters. That's at least two more. Then you have Lot and his wife and the daughters that are still living at home. How many is that? At least ten. Chapter earlier, Abraham's thinking to himself, yeah, certainly, certainly, oh yeah, we got God because I know Lot certainly would have his family I'm sure Lot has witnessed to his hand. I'm sure he shared truth. I'm sure he's got at least ten around there. No. Lot lost his testimony. He lost his family. How's that looking now, Lot? How how's it looking now? He finally ends up losing his dignity. I'm not going to go into the story, but you know the rest of the story, don't you? He leaves, and what happens to his wife? She turns back because her heart's back there. And instantly what happens? She becomes a pillar of salt. The story ends and all we know of Lot is he finishes his life living in a cave committing horrible acts with his daughters. Whenever you hear the name Lot, what do you think of that? Whenever you hear the name Demas, what do you think of? Do you think of a personal assistant of the Apostle Paul who saw God use him in the early church? No, we think of the man who, even though he was mentioned, he's forsaken Paul at the last. You can go on whenever you think of Judas. Do you think of an assistant of God, the man who kept the money bags, a disciple, an apostle, one of the early church? No, we think of the one who traded Christ Lot lost. And friends, you and I have to think about this. Jesus very clearly told the people of his day, remember Lot's wife. Three simple words but three powerful words of that three word sermon you can even say. Remember Lot's wife What was Lot doing? It plays itself out in the selfish attitude of both his wife and his daughters. He was consumed with himself He was a backslider. Proverbs 14, 14, the backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways. I I'll be honest, when people step away and make excuses because they love themselves. Ex that's exactly what Demas is said in Second Timothy four ten. Demoth Demas has forsaken me. What do you want to rest the phrase there? Having Love this present world. And when you and I take steps away from truth and toward the world, it's because we are filled with our own ways. We're the backslider there. And perhaps tonight God is speaking to you as a father, as or as a mom, as a parent, as a young person, as a single adult, as a teenager, because God wants your attention. He's saying, hey, wake up. The paths you've chosen , the things you're watching, the company you're keeping, the speech you're speaking Is like Lot. Oh, it's not that bad. You're making excuses now, but wait a minute, wait a minute. God gives us this story, very sad, graphic story But the downfall of Lot. Lot lost. He almost lost his life. He lost his inner peace. He lost his discernment. He lost his conscience. He lost his testimony. They mocked him. He seemed as one that mocked He lost his family. He lost his dignity. No one names their name, uh their son named Lot today. I've never met a Lot, have you? I've never met a Judas either. Maybe you have. Why is that? Because oh yeah, it's a lot. Isn't it interesting how we name people? We name a kid after a character in the Bible or a character that we know that's positive. There's a couple times where my wife would mention a name. Oh no, I got beat up by a kid in junior high by that name. We're not gonna name that name Right? Because we both grew up in different circumstances and her she likes certain names, I like certain names, and you gotta mesh them together. Oh no, throw a couple out and yeah. But we no one names their kid Lot. Right? I've never met a lot. But we all remember the story because it's pretty vivid. Lot lost. Why did Lot go down to Sodom? It could be summed up as he was seeking positions, he was seeking possessions, he was seeking prestige. And all these things he tried to keep, what happened? He lost. He lost everything. And how many of God's people through the millennia have justified in their mind, well, you know, you don't have to quite live that that That's pretty intense, Brent. I know the pastor and the church, that's what they're for, and that that's their aim, that's their goal. But we don't quite have to be that intense. You know, we can be a little bit more allowant. We're under grace That's such a misused concept in our day and age. We can do what we want to do. We can live our life. You know, we don't have to be quite so with our kids. We don't have to establish so many boundaries Let's just let's just start to go. You know, after all, we want to be we want to have a witness. We want our seven-year-old to be a witness, salt and light Hold on. Be careful. Remember lot. Lot lost. Well, you know, you know, uh Pastor, we're gonna try to back away a little bit from Sunday because you know we got this business opportunity And uh, you know, it's gonna infl we're not gonna be able to be as faithful to church, but you know, really, I think it's gonna be like a year or two and then we're gonna be back right back plugged in. But you know, this year or two, we're gonna be able to make some money and I think this is gonna be put us on a really good foundation. Ask Lot how that went. Not so good. Lot lost. Well, you know , it just 2023. Times have changed And you know, the old school, Abraham the uncle, he's kind of a little ah, you know, we we look on Instagram and TikTok and no one lives that way like Abraham does anymore. That's just That's old funny. That's the old fundamentalism stuff. We don't need to live like that. Let's let's adapt. Let's do things a few a little bit different. Ask Lot how that went. You know, friend, we can look at the story and we can talk about this, but you have the Holy Spirit. You've got the Bible. You don't need me to say specifics God perhaps is speaking to tonight. And it's very easy. Very easy. Every one of us who have one of these It's very, very, very easy for our heart, our thinking, our mind to be led away step by step, little by little. What was laughed at in the 90s has now become laws today. I remember growing up and it was it was funny to have certain characters on a show. It was humorous. There was nothing wrong with that. Now it's the law of the land. What was scorned or made fun of or made light of is now the standard. We have to separate from the world. I have just a few points of application. Philippians 4, 8. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure. Whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Whenever we're viewing whatever it is on our phones, the internet The TV. It has to pass the filter of Philippians 4 8. If it doesn't, shut it off, turn it off, do something different And I would have to say, if God's people actually live Philippians 4. 8 in a real way, it would change. First off, it would give us a lot more time to read the Bible. But it would change the way we think, it would change the way we entertain ourselves. Psalm 101:3. I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I hate the work of them that turn aside. It shall not cleave to me. Is that your attitude toward the filth that has pushed down our throats from the move from movies, media, etc. ? Think about Hebrews 13, 4. Marriage is honorable and all, and the bed undefiled, but whoremongers and adulterers, God will judge. Think about Jeremiah 10. Thus saith the Lord, learn not the way of the heathen. You know, it used to be you had to go and you had to study it. You had to go and you had to find it. Today All a young teenager has to do to get connected with alternate life living is open up their phone. Parents, I speak as one. We've got to be careful. No, we may not ourselves go be in Sodom, but Sodom comes to us through these devices right here. We have to watch out. Psalm 1. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the sea of the scornful. But his delight is where? In the law of the Lord. That's where it's at. 2 Corinthians 6. 14, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. It's clear cut. Well, I'm gonna date him because I know he's not a believer now, but I think I can win him to Christ. No, no, no, no. Well, I I heard a story, and uh you know I know somebody in the church for every story that's a positive ending There's a hundred that weren't. God's very clear. Very clear. Ask Lot how it went. Lot lost. But you know, if we ended the message right there and said, don't, don't, don't, don't, stop, stop, stop, stop, it would all be moralism. And it would just be don't, don't, don't. And there's a lot of religions, even churches around this county, that that's all it's about, moralism. Do and don'ts and do's and don'ts and do's and don'ts. But that's not what it's about. There's another narrative happening at the same time as lot over the course of these 22 years, Lot's sliding down into sin. Lot is there, he's viewing, he's looking, and then eventually he's in Sodom and he loses it all. Everything, including his possessions, his position, all of that that he thought he was going to gain, he lost. But there's another narrative happening, one which we have a spiritual heritage in. Who's that? Abraham. And while Lot was indulging himself in what he thought would bring him success, for whatever materialistic reasons, Lot allowed that to control him, and he ended in great disgrace. What do we find? Look with me what it says here in Genesis chapter 13. Look at verse 14 again. And the Lord said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from him, Lift up now thine eyes and look from the place where thou art, northward and southward, and eastward and westward, for all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it. Into thy seed forever. And then look what it says in chapter 15, verse 1. After these things the word of the Lord came unto Abraham in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. You find that the spiritual development of Abraham of what we know of him as a man takes place in these interceding chapters While Lot is going down to Sodom, that just man, his righteous soul is being vexed day by day with a filthy conversation for 20-something years. You have Abraham saying, No, I don't need the world. Living in a tent for almost a hundred years, according to Hebrews 11. Why? Because he looked for a city which hath foundations and built whose builder maker is God. And friend, perhaps tonight already the Holy Spirit has talked us some of us tonight about things that we do in our home or things that we allow on our phones or things that we watch things that we participate in that God's like, no no no no no. No. Remember lots. You're going to lose by doing that. You're going to lose by following that. Well, I just need to stop and I need to try harder. No, no, no. That's not the answer either. That's moralism. The answer is still, always has been, is walking with Jesus. Because when you taste the relationship with him, you don't want what the world has to say. You don't want what the world has to give. You want Christ. All I need is Christ. All I have is Christ. That's what we need. And friend, you can be convicted tonight and perhaps God is convicting you, but the answer is not to set up bigger fences and bigger boundaries. We're not going to do this. No, that could be self-inflicted. That could be detrimental, in fact. That could breed rebellion amongst your kids. The answer is to pray and to plead. Yes, separate yourself out from the world, but pray and to plead and say, God, would you get a hold of my kids' hearts And you personally begin to fast to pray and to walk with God yourself and say, God, I love you, I want you, I want to know you more than anything else That's the answer, and that's what we see so clearly in this passage. Abraham walked with God, a perfect man. No, absolutely not. But a man who walked with God and in doing so changed the course of human history. That's where it's at. And yet every generation, every person is faced with the same temptations as Lot. Well, maybe if I if I If I didn't like go full h boar into church, if I didn't give as much, I could maybe I could get a little bit of ahead, and then maybe in the future I could give even more Ask Lot how that worked. It didn't. Lot lost. And perhaps tonight God's speaking to some of you fathers, saying, Hey. You need to get back to Bethel like Abraham did. Get back to worship. There are certain things you need to get rid of. Certain steps of separation that need to take place. Say, no, we're not going to watch that. We're not going to live that way. We're not going to view that. We're not going to wear that. We're not going to dress that. We're not going to That But that's mere moralism by itself. What that has to come from is a heart that says, God, I want to walk with you. I want to know you. I want to live for you. And you see that so clearly in the life of Abraham. No, not a perfect man. His faults are on full display here in the text. But a man who said, God, I want to know you. I want to walk with you. Will God help us to be Abrahams? Will God help us to see when we follow the path of Lot? Because Lot lost. As we close tonight, would we all just bow our heads and close our eyes? The message tonight is very clearly to those who have placed their faith and trust in Christ. And I don't know hearts and lives, I don't I don't know needs, I don't know family situations, but I do know that this is the message that God led me to because this is where I need to be personally as a as a husband and a father. Help me say tonight, Brent, God used his word to speak, to challenge, to really maybe even awaken me. I've let things slide, I've let social media control my thinking. I've let I I I see it now. I look back to where I was five, ten years ago and I see what I think and how I view things. I know it's not biblical. And God tonight spoke God convicted, God challenged. I've let things slide. I've let channels come in. I've let apps come in. I I've let certain aspects of this world come in. And I've justified it. I've rationalized it. And I see I'm on the same progression as a lot. God spoke. God convicted. God challenged me tonight. Would you be honest enough to admit that before God? Would you just raise your hand? God spoke. God challenged. God convicted Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Many, many hands Amen. Anybody else? Haven't lifted my hand, but God spoke. Praise the Lord. My hand's up too. God speaks to me. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Amen. I would encourage you to take a few minutes while the piano plays the minute and just pray right there at your seat. Maybe it is even tonight that you need to kneel and make an altar there at your seat, or maybe kneel, move her out, and make kneel in the aisle or come. I I don't know what God's speaking you to do. Maybe it fathers, if you're sitting next to your wife, husbands and wives, you need to just say, hey, honey, we need to do this in our family I don't know how God is leading in your home, but take the steps. And remember, it's not just moralism. It's not just what we don't do. It's following God. It's walking with Him. It's walking with Jesus that motivates this. And perhaps tonight God is speaking to you because the relationship is missing. Abraham, that that life speaks to me, and I want to walk with God. I want the life of Abraham, I want the holiness of God to motivate what I separate from. However, it is that God has spoken to you, as the piano begins, take a few minutes right where you're at, or come forward, or however God's speaking, and you do business with the truth how God has spoken. I think most of us would know this chorus. Can we sing it as a prayer? I have Decided Him to follow Jesus. I had decided to follow Jesus. I have decided to follow Jesus, no turning back. The world behind me cross me glory, the world behind me the cross meeting. For me, the Lord behind me , put through me for me, the Lord behind me , the cross before me , don't turn you back. Father, when we say this truth, and I pray that you'd help us to be different. I pray that you'd help us to respond to the truth. And would we always remember the story of Lot, how that Lot lost. And for the young adults in this room tonight, especially, as they face the world that is rapidly changing. due to the influence of social media, would they remember that Lot lost and it was steps of progression toward untruth, toward toward the world? And no, they may not fit in, they may not be the most popular, but will you help them to see that walking with Jesus, walking with God like Abraham did, that's where the joy, that's where the peace, that's where the contentment, that's where the life worth living is Would you help fathers and mothers who are raising very impressionable young people in a very weird day? Would you help us to separate from the world, but not in a Moralistic sense of only pointing to what we don't do, but what Father, would we walk with you? Would we help guide and nurture our young men and women to walk with you, to love you, to know you? And Lord, we need your grace to do that because we can't. I pray that you get all of us, help us to see perhaps where we've allowed things into our life. We've started laughing at things that we shouldn't. We've started accepting things that are abhorrence to you. And Lord, would we be different because of what your word says to us? Would we not be as lot? Lord, I don't want to lose everything. Thank you for your truth. Thank you for this vivid illustration, this character in Scripture. Lord, we need you in Jesus' name. Amen. Pastor? You know, it's so very important for us when we think about the issue of sin. God doesn't tell us no because he's cruel. Tells us no because he knows what sin does to people. And when we look at the story of Lot, that's that's a real man's life. And I I I thought about this twenty-two years. I have a feeling that those girls that left Sodom with him were not even born when he made that decision. I'm I'd be pretty confident about that. Be pretty confident probably several of his children were not even bored when he made that decision. And the decisions that we make And the tr the trajectory that we choose in life, it's going to impact a long, long road for lots and lots of people. And so God gives us these lessons in scripture so that we don't have to Have to live that tragic life so that we can actually experience freedom, uh, so that we can turn to Him and we can find forgiveness and cleansing. and we can walk with him. So very, very important challenge this evening. I'd like us to close with hymn 391. I am resolved We'll sing the first and the last verses. And as I've mentioned each of our services, if you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that Want to be a help, want to be an encouragement. And sometimes we just get alone with the Lord and we deal with these issues. Sometimes we need brothers or sisters to come alongside of us and help us. us as we uh seek to walk with the Lord. So let's stand together. We're going to sing I am resolved 391, the first and the last verses together for us. Please I am resolved no longer to leave your charge I will Things that are fired, things that are no good, these have a Lord by sight , I relation to him. Greatness, I will continue. I will come to them. To the kingdom being friends may among people may be sent me to the enterprise. I will hasten to you, hasten to find free. Jesus prayed as high as I will come to me. And uh don't forget your kids in the back. Let's bow for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless uh the preaching of his word that he'll really work in our hearts. That this would not just be the end of his work, but it would be the beginning of his continued work in our lives. So let's bow together for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. It is rich. It it challenges us, it confronts us, it shows us the devastating consequences of sin. And Father, I pray that we would be sobered by that reality, that we would recognize that pain and suffering and misery. And entanglement are the things that follow compromise. And so I pray that you'd help us to turn to you in humility, to recognize that forgiveness is available through Christ's finished work. To find strength through your spirit's enabling, and I pray that we would grow into Christ's likeness day by day as your people. We ask for your blessing on this gathering and give us safety as we head to our places. We ask it It in Christ's name, Amen.