Take your Bibles, please, and turn to the book of Revelation. Revelation chapter four. How many of you have seen the television show River Monsters? Okay. Watched it a few times this week with my boys and uh my wife told me that um if they don't sleep at night, it's my fault. And I gotta get up with them and uh try to calm them down. You know, it's an interesting show because one of the things that that show River Monsters does is it introduces us to creatures that live in the ocean. That live in rivers, that live in lakes all around the world that are terrifying creatures to behold. You know, God made those creatures I mean, think about some of those fish that are swimming down in the Amazon River that literally are large enough and ferocious enough to kill a person. It's kind of an amazing thing to think about. Imagine you're, you know, outboating and you see one of these creatures. And this man, of course, decides he wants to go out into nature and he wants to catch these things. He's trying to solve a mystery. Well the truth is not everything that God has created in this universe is beautiful to behold. In fact, some things are quite terrifying. There are things that when we see them, they strike awe in us. They strike terror in us. They strike fear in us. They strike wonder in us. And when we come to this passage, Revelation chapter 4, we're going to see some creatures that really are terrifying to behold. And these creatures are going to be in the throne room of God. A lot of times we think of angels as these precious moments and those kinds of things. But let me tell you something. When the scriptures deal with the cherubim that are surrounding the throne of God, we don't see precious moments, angels. We see terrifying creatures to behold. And we're going to see about that today. What I'd like us to do tonight is I'd like us to see what the throne room of God is like. Who is there? What are they saying? What do they represent? And why in the world does John write about this particular scene at the beginning of the book of Revelation? With that in mind, let's begin in verse number one. We're going to look at the entire chapter, but it's not a long chapter. It's just a few verses. Revelation chapter 4, verses 1 and following. After this I looked, and beheld, a door was opened in heaven. And the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet, talking with me, which said, Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter. Immediately I was in the spirit, and behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on that throne. He that sat on it was to look upon like a jasper or a starting stone. And there was a rainbow round about the throne in sight like that of an emerald. And around that the throne were four and twenty seats, and round the throne were four and twenty uh excuse me, and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting clothed in white raiment. They had on their heads crowns of gold, and one of the thrones precedeth lightnings and thunders and voices. And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are in the seven which which are the seven spirits of God. And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal. And the midst of the throne around, about the throne, were four beasts full of eyes. before and behind. The first beast was like a lion, the second like a calf, the third had the face of a man, the fourth was like a flying eagle, and the And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him, and they were full of eyes within, and the r and they rest not night and day, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was and is and is to come When those beasts give glory and honor and thanks to him that sat on the throne, who liveth forever and ever, the four and twenty elders fall down before him and sat that sat on the throne and worship him, that liveth forever and ever And cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power. For thou hast created all things And for thy pleasure, they are and were created. This section of Revelation is meant to remind us once again who Christ is It's going to do that so that we will think correctly about him. And specifically, I think the reason that this passage is here is to help shape the way that we will look at the events that will unfold. during that tribulation time period. There are some folks that when they read the book of Revelation, they go, how in the world can God handle the world in the way that He's going to handle it? What right does God have to do that? Is God good? Is he just? Is he doing the right thing? But when we come into this throne room, what we're going to see is we're going to see this picture of what Christ is like in his glory. One of the things that I said this morning was that when Christ was walking on the earth, though he was fully God, he didn't lose his deity at all. That glory was clothed. And people were not able to see that glory. And there were two occasions that people were able to see the glory of Christ during his earthly ministry. The first was during that Mount of Transfiguration, and there several of the disciples were there on the mount, and they saw Christ radiating in his glory. We see another event at the end of Christ's ministry after he has been crucified and he rises from the dead, and again they're able to see the glory. of Christ. When we come to the book of Revelation, we're able to see the glory of Christ. And when we come to Revelation chapter four, we're going to see his glory as he is sit seated on his throne in the heavenly places. God wants us to humbly worship Christ, and He wants us to understand that He has the right to rule His creation. And that's really what we're going to see tonight in this particular passage of Scripture. What I'd like us to do tonight is I'd like to answer a series of questions to kind of help us understand more fully what is here in this passage. And then the last question will be, well, what's the whole point of it? What is the purpose? What are the practical implications of the things that we find in Revelation chapter 4? So that's what we're doing tonight. Let me begin with question one. What is being described? Let's look down at verses one and two and see some of the details that we find in chapter four. It says this: after this I looked And behold, a door was opened in heaven. And the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me. Which said, Come up hither, I will show thee things which must be hereafter. And immediately I was in the spirit, and behold, a throne was set in heaven There are three phrases that I want us to focus our attention on as we answer that question. The first is this, a door was open in heaven. Now you know what's really interesting? As we live in the world, we see things, but there are things that we can't see that are actually here in our midst right now. It's kind of a little weird to think about, but it's true. Let me give you an example. There was a story of a man who was looking out over a vast number of people, armies that were gathered together to fight against Israel. And this man was with God's prophet. And as that man looked out over that vast group of people, he said, We're in huge trouble. We're going to die. We have no hope. You know what's interesting? That prophet says this Lord, open his eyes that he can see Those who are defending us. And it's as if there was a realm that was there in front of this man. He wasn't able to see it. And all of a sudden God rolls back the curtain and he can see that there is an angelic force that is going to fight for God's people against their enemies. Just one little example. I think of the example of Stephen, and we see Stephen, the first martyr mentioned in the Bible. And as Stephen is being beaten, and those stones are being thrown on him, and he is about to die as a martyr for his faith, the Bible says he looks up into the heavens And he begins to say something. He says, it's as if a door was open and I can see God there and he's looking down at what's going on and he's saying, Well done, you're going to be with me. That's the idea Now, all those other people there, they weren't able to see that. The point that I'm trying to make is there is an angelic and heavenly realm. There is real spiritual warfare that goes on that you and I can't see Just because we can't see it doesn't mean that it's unreal. The fact is that we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. When he says a door was open, God rolls back the curtain, if you will, and he's able to see into the heavenly realm. And it says, immediately I was in the Spirit. And when he uses that phrase, that's the second phrase we're looking at, it has the idea of God is showing him a vision. Now the question is, is he actually seeing what the throne room of God actually looks like? Is he actually there or is he just seeing a vision or representation of that? I can't necessarily answer that question for you with a hundred percent confidence. But I can say this. What he saw was true and real, and it was meant to teach him something about what's going on in the heavenly realm. And there as he looks in, the next phrase is this, I saw a throne set in heaven. The second question I want to ask is, well, who's on the throne? The answer is it's the Lord Jesus Christ. Why is Christ on this throne? It's because he is the ruler over all things. You know, there are terrible things that go on in this world. There are good things that go on in this world. There are things that we don't understand that we can't make sense of. There are lots of things like that. You know, as a pastor, sometimes you see situations. And somebody says, why did that happen? And I look at them and I say, I have no idea. I can't answer that question. I'm not God. He hasn't revealed those things. I can show you things that God can teach you through that. I can show you ways that God can bring good out of that, but I can't answer this is why, on every single level, why God does that. But I want you to understand something. There's a God in heaven who is governing the universe that we live in. God is managing what's going on. God allows people to make decisions. God allows people to make good decisions. God allows people to make bad decisions. Many times God allows people the freedom that they go down a road for a long, long way. But that person can never go outside of what God is going to ultimately accomplish. There are times that God steps in and says, enough's enough, you're not going to go any further. And he stops that person. There are times that people shake their fist at God and they do this for years and years and years. And we say, why in the world does God give them so much patience and time? And that person is humbled and they're brought to faith in Christ. And their life is radically changed by the gospel, and all of a sudden we go, Now I see what God was doing. We see other times where the opposite happens. God deals with them very justly and very harshly. God has a reason that he does what he does. But sometimes we don't understand that. But what we do know Is that there is a God in heaven who's on his throne. The Lord Jesus Christ, the scripture says, by him were all things created, and by him all things consist. And the idea is that God is the one who not only created the universe, but he governs the universe. He holds things together. He moves them in the directions that he wants them to go. He is the sovereign, the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ is that sovereign. In Hebrews chapter 10, listen to what the scripture says. And it sheds light on who the one is that is on the throne. Hebrews 10, 9 says this. Then said he , Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second. But the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices. Which can never take away sin. But this man, speaking of Christ, after he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever, sat down at the right hand of God. From henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool. For by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. But notice that little phrase. This man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever, he sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. That is who we are looking at in this particular passage. The Lord Jesus Christ is seated on his throne. He is the ruler. He is the sovereign. He is the judge. We come to question number three. What does he look like? What is his appearance? If you could see the Lord Jesus Christ in his glory, what would you see? Listen to the way that the passage describes the appearance of Christ in his glory. It says this in verse 3, He that sap Was to look upon like jasper, a sardine stone. And there was a rainbow round about the throne in sight like unto an emerald Now let me talk about the various colors that he's talking about here. He uses the term jasper The idea of Jasper is Jasper was a bright light crystal. I want you to think about how many of you have ever been to the Museum of Natural History? Museum and Astro History. That's a really neat place. My kids have gone in there. In fact, we just went there not too long ago. And when you go in there, there are lots of different rooms that you enjoy going into. But I'll tell you one of the rooms I like going into is the one with all the crystals And the diamonds and all this neat stuff. Why is that? Because when you look at those crystals and you look at those diamonds and you look at those beautiful gems, they are beautiful to behold. You can just be dazzled by the beauty of those stones. When you see God in his glory. If you were in his presence, as John describes it, you would see something that radiates like the beauty of one of those gems, one of those stones. When he talks about the sardine stone, kind of an interesting another way to put that is the sardist stone, which was something that was blood-red colored, similar to that of a ruby. He talks about a rainbow. And when we talk about a rainbow, what we're saying is that all of the various aspects of light. You know, light is not just white. Light actually has lots of different colors that come together. And when we go out in a on a rainy day and the sun is at just the right angle, we're able to see this beautiful rainbow in the sky. And it's a glorious thing to behold, but I want to ask you a question. What was the purpose of that rainbow? It was to remind people of the faithfulness of God. God said, I'm never going to destroy the world again in a flood. I'm going to be faithful. But that doesn't mean that God will never come and deal with the world injustice. But the point that we're trying to make, and the point that John is describing, is that if you could see Christ in his glory There would be radiance. There would be beauty. This would be an amazing place to look upon. Question number four, who is surrounding him? It says this in verse number four, and round about the throne were set four and twenty seats. And those seats are actually thrones, they're places of ruling. Upon those seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment And they were on their heads crowns of gold. And out of the raiment they had on their heads crowns of gold. And out of the thrones proceeded lightning and thunder and voices. And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God. And before the throne there was a sea of glass like in a crystal. In the midst of the throne was round about four beasts full of eyes, behind and before. The first beast was like a lion, and the second beast a calf. The beast had a face of a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle. And the four beasts, each of them, six wings about him. They were full of eyes within, and they rest not night and day, saying, Holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was and is and is to come Now when you read that you probably go, I can not really have uh be quite the thing to imagine what it looks like to see these animals or these creatures. Doesn't necessarily say they're animals, but they're creatures. But I want us to notice that there are two groups. The first group was 24 elders. And it describes them a couple different ways. Number one, it says this: these 24 elders are sitting on thrones. Number two, it says that they have crowns on their heads. Number three, it says they're clothed in white raiment. And number four, it says that at the end of the section, they're going to take the crowns off their feet. They're going to get down on their knees and they're going to lay their crowns before the feet of the one sitting on the throne. I want to ask you a question. Who are those twenty-four elders? Those twenty-four elders are people. We don't know their names. We don't know what period of time they lived in. But there are twenty-four individuals. from human history, who were saved, who are found faithful, and are going to be seated in the presence of Christ. You say, are you sure? Absolutely. In fact, when we read this to Scripture and we look at other passages of Scripture, we see other passages of Scripture that speak of God's people in these kinds of terms. You say, why are they on thrones? Because they've been faithful, and God gave them that particular position. Why are they wearing a crown? Because they've been found faithful, and at the judgment seat of Christ, they were crowned as faithful individuals. Why do they take those crowns off and cast them at the feet of Christ? Because they realize apart from Christ and his grace, they would have no standing and they would have not been faithful, they could have never received those crowns. What an interesting description. These individuals are 24 people who are in the presence of God. Folks realize there's a judgment seat of Christ. I'm not going to talk about the judgment seat tonight, but I will get into this in another message. But there will be a day when I, when you and each one of us who has trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ, is going to stand before Christ and we are going to give an account for the degree to which we've been faithful in this life. The judgment seat of Christ is not about determining am I going to heaven or am I going to hell. That is determined at the great white throne judgment on the basis of whether or not someone has placed their faith in Christ. If you're a child of God and if you trusted in the finished work of Christ, you won't be found at the great white throne. You'll be at the judgment seat. You are secure in Christ. You are righteous in Christ. You're forgiven. You're cleansed. You're beloved in Christ. But that does not mean That you will not stand before Christ and give an account for how you have served him. God is going to look at what we've done in this life He's going to look at what we've been given in this life. He's going to look at what we knew in this life. He's going to look at the way that he's positioned us and what he's given us and all those things. And he's going to say, how did you manage As my servant, what I gave to you. These 24 individuals, who we don't know who they are , were people who are found faithful to such a degree that God gives them that position. And there will be degrees of position of responsibility in God's kingdom It's something that we see all throughout the New Testament. And this is an example of that. But not only do we find these individuals in that throne room where Christ is seated, But we see these awesome, fearful , terrifying creatures described as creatures that have many eyes, multiple wings. Who are these creatures? What are they doing in God's presence? You know, it's interesting if we go to the book of Ezekiel and we read Ezekiel chapter 1, we see that Ezekiel had a vision of the glory of God. And if you read Ezekiel chapter 1, what you will see is there were creatures described almost exactly like the creatures we find in this passage. Those creatures were called cherubim. Now it would not be correct to say cherubimz. Cherubim is the Hebrew plural of cherub. Okay? So a cherub is a type of an angel. It's one of those angels that is in the presence of God, that is closest to God. And when he gives the description, I believe the description kind of has two aspects to it. One is describing what they look like. And the other aspect is what they look like is representative of the kind of creatures that they are, the kind of character, the kind of disposition, the kind of abilities, the kind of responsibilities that they have. These creatures are described as having eyes before and behind. They're very knowledgeable. They're aware of everything around them. They're described as having the appearance of a lion. Now it's not saying that they're lions. It's not saying that they absolutely look like a lion. It says they are like lions in the sense that that's the creature that John most closely associates with the way that they look. But a lion is a fierce A powerful, a noble creature. These creatures, the cherubim Are fierce creatures. They are in the presence of God, and God is going to use them to accomplish his purposes during that tribulation time period. He talks about them having the appearance of a calf. You know, when a calf grows, it becomes a strong beast that can pull a heavy load. It says that they have the face like a man. They're not humans, they're cherubs, but these creatures are intelligent. They can think, they can reason, they can process, they can do what God tells them to do. And lastly, he mentions that they were like a flying eagle. An eagle is a majestic creature that is swift and able to do interesting things. The fact is that he's describing creatures That are going to do the will of God as He has intended for them to do it. They're not going to question God. They're not going to fight God. They're going to do exactly what He tells them to do And as we get into this passages dealing with the tribulation, you will see examples of angels doing God's will. And you will see that these qualities that they have will be very appropriate for the work that they will do. The fifth question I want to ask is this. What is the purpose of this section? Why does John write down, apart from the fact that obviously that's exactly what God wanted him to write, The Spirit of God moves him to write this and he sees this vision. Why does God want John to write this particular section for our benefit? Look down in verses 9 to 11, and I'll think you'll see the answer right here. In verse 9, it says this, when those beasts Give glory and honor and thanks to him that sat on the throne, who liveth forever. The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and they worship him. That liveth forever and ever. And they cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power. For thou hast created all things. And for thy pleasure, they are and were created. Let me give you a couple of very simple statements that I think that this passage teaches about the reason That we have this in our Bibles. The first one is this, because he's worthy of all our glory and all our praise. I want to ask you a question. Are you a person who lives with a God-centered worldview or a person that lives with a me -centered worldview? It's a really big difference. Every decision that a me -centered person makes, it's about me. It's about what I want to do. It's about what pleases me, it's about what advances me, it's about accomplishing my agenda. It's all about me. When things don't work out the way that I believe that they should, I get angry at those who keep it from happening the way that I think that it should. If I think God's the one who is causing me trouble, then I'm angry at him. If I think it's my wife, or I think it's my husband, or I think it's my kids, or I think it's a coworker, somebody that works for me, it's all about me. Fact is that's how most people live. Absolutely the way most people live. And I'm not just hating non-Christians. That's the way a lot of non- That's the way Christians live too It's all about me. If you analyze what you do and what you say and how you think and what you want to do and why, I ask the question, is it about you or about God? This passage tells us that our lives should be God -centered. What I do, I do because these are the things God wants me to do. The reason that I want to do it is because I want his agenda and his will and his purposes to be accomplished When things don't work out the way that I think that they should, I begin to reorient how I think something should happen to realize that God in heaven orchestrated it differently than I thought that it should. I start wanting to see his purposes and what happens, not my purposes. These creatures give glory And honor and thanks to God all the time. And when these 24 elders hear those creatures, Those terrifying cherubim, giving praise and honor and thanks to God, their response is to get down and to worship Him. To take off their crowns and place it at his feet and to say, You are worthy to receive glory and honor and praise A second reason is this. We like those elders need to realize we will one day cast down our crowns at his feet. Now I'm not saying that people in this room are going to be one of those 24 elders. I don't know. Maybe it's possible. We have no idea who they're going to be. But if you've been found faithful in what God has given you in this life, you will be crowned with a crown from Him. You will be given a position of responsibility in His kingdom. That's what the Bible teaches. But I ask this question. How do you view what you do as a Christian? I tell you, a lot of Christians serve in the church, serve in their homes, serve in their communities. For what they can get out of it. These people understand that anytime I've been faithful, it's because of him It's not about my agenda. It's not about my name. It's not about my recognition. It's about God's glory. That's what taking off that crown and putting it at his feet is saying. I received something that I didn't deserve at all. I received something that I could not have earned apart from what he did in me and through me 1 Corinthians chapter 9 says this. Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the crown, so run that ye may obtain Every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate, he's self-controlled in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown. But we an incorruptible. I therefore so run not as uncertain, so fight I not as one that beateth the air, but I keep under my body and bring it into subjection, lest that by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be a cast. Now, Paul is describing his attitude towards the Christian life. He's like the athlete who watches what he eats. He gets up every morning and he runs and he pushes himself. He hits the gym. He sweats. He trains. He disciplines himself. He doesn't allow for any laziness at all. He's a serious-minded person. If that's you as an athlete and you're crowned, what do you do? Look at me. Look what I did. Hey, let me tell you how many hours I spent in the gym over the last year. Let me tell you about the advances I made. Let me tell you about how many hours I spent running. Let me show you the way that I ate so that I could get that Sasik and I could get in that position and I could develop those skills. Let me tell you how I trained. Me, me, I, I. That's the way that's the way we tend to be. But that is not the way a faithful Christian will be on that day Take the crown, put it at his feet. I'm just glad I was found faithful. And it's because of him. Not because of me. Number three, it reminds us that He owns everything. It all exists for His Pleasure and glory. Verse 11 says, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power. For thou hast created all things for thy pleasure. They are and they were created. Your character determines what you like. Isn't that true? If you're an evil person, what you enjoy is evil. If you're a good person What you enjoy has beauty and has goodness. There is no creature in this universe None. There is no person you'll meet that is as perfect and as good as God. And you know what's amazing when God made you? He made you because he wanted to enjoy a relationship with you. He wanted you to know him. He wanted you to have fellowship with him. He wanted you to grow in a relationship. God doesn't need you. He doesn't need me, but he created us so that he could enjoy us. You know, you enjoy your kids. You enjoy hobbies. Some of you enjoy your jobs. Maybe some of you don't. The fact is that God delights in his creation. God loves what he made. He loves you. He loves me. And we are reminded in this particular passage that God owns everything And he created us so that he could enjoy us. How many of us really look at God in those terms? He wants to have a relationship with his creatures. I conclude with these thoughts. God created us all to point honor and glory to him. He needs to be the center of all our affections, our glorying. Anything good that you and I have in this world comes from the hand of God. He has sustained it. He has strengthened it. He has accomplished it in and through us. And you and I need to learn to daily rest. And his providential care in our lives. God's ways are beyond our understanding many, many times. And I and I I confess that it's true But God's ways are good. God is able to take good out of very, very bad. God is able to strengthen And use us even when we have failed him and struggled in misery. God's ways are good, and we need to be reminded of that. in this passage. The reason that John gives us this passage is to tell us, look, what you read in the rest of this book about God's ways. You need to take it down to that room and realize that he's the sovereign and he's good and he's worthy of praise and honor and glory. And that is how we need to view him and how that is how we need to live in the light of those truths. May the Lord help us to do that tonight. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father in heaven, help us. To be God-centered people, not self-centered, not living for our own agendas and purposes. But living to accomplish your will, delighting in you, learning of you, growing in you. Father, help us to be those kinds of people. Help us to be people who rest in your providence. Help us to be to be people who trust you. I pray that as we go through our week, you would draw our attention back to the throne room and we would be reminded of your majesty and your power. and your your goodness. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.