I'd like to welcome each of you tonight and hope you had a good afternoon and we're looking forward to our service tonight. And so let's bow together for a word of prayer and commit our time to the Lord and ask Him to really work in our hearts. Father, we're such a blessed people, and we are so very grateful that we can gather together. And first of all, we can open up the Word of God and you can And I pray that as uh Pastor Josh Linder opens the word that you would speak to us through your word. As we have opportunity to share testimonies of your faithfulness, I pray that the things that are said would encourage us Each of us. As we sing praise to you, I pray that our hearts would be overwhelmed with joy as we reflect on the truths that we express in song. Then I pray that you will bless our time of questions. at the end, and I pray that you will bless our fellowship and may all that is done bring glory to you and be a tool through which you encourage and uplift us as your people. We ask all of it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening. Thanks so much for joining us for worship this evening. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number five four hundred and fifty, a child of the king. We're gonna sing all four verses of hymn number four hundred and fifty. My father is wretched and houses my life. My father says a rabbit, one more man But now we 're on my way. I want to be , I shall not be , with as well as the gold, I must have been. I was in love casting on her. I was in my soul, I 'm an end But we don't have anything to do with my way. I was Alasha Lada Katie. Twitter will be the goha. I am sad. I told the cross and twice, there will be a little Oh yeah , oh no , the name of the God I must love me, I must be, I must love me. Thanks. Great singing. Please be seated as we turn back to hymn 445. Standing on the promises, we'll sing all four verses of hymn number four hundred forty-five. Standing on the front of the city. Sanding , take on the process of the I'm standing on the front of the road, standing on the promises that cannot fail, when the house on the sail By the living word of God shall prevail, standing on the promises of God. Standing, standing, standing on the promises of God might say God. Sandy, sanding I standing on the front of God, standing on the promises, the price of the Lord, bound to name eternally my lost from Lord. Overcoming daily with the spirit sword, sailing on the promises of God. Standing, standing on the premises of Karma, I say , standing I'm standing on the promises of God, standing on the promises that cannot fall, blessing every moment in the spirit call Resting and much interest by all the law, staying on the promises of God. Spending, spending , spending on the presence of God, my faith of spending, spending. Great singing. Let's turn over to him 459, leaning on the everlasting arms. 459. All three verses. Sing out great singing this evening. One more common one. Say that the Oh God, sweet shall walk in the firm when leaning on the Adam I Oh my god , they are the ever loving artists. What am I to try? What am I to give me? What the I'm a bad thing on I am as a beat when I was only cleaning on the everlasting us Willing, say Mexico, w Great singing this evening. Well on Sunday nights we'd like to take a couple of minutes to give you an opportunity Mm-hmm, että omia nimeni mä oon ilman mielestäni monin Minimum , minimum minimum, minimi, minimum, minimum, minimum , minimum , minimum , minimum minimum minimi minimum , minimum minimum minimum minimum Minima minima, minima minimum, maximum minimum , minimi , minima, minimum , minima, minima, minima, minimi, maximum. I run to Christ That 's those in the I can say it's by here, I am by We didn't know another class All right, three sixty-nine for the rip. Living fruit seeds. I haven't heard this one in years. 482 in the Red Book. Should know this one by heart by now. Let's think verse two in this one. Forty two verse two Well I mean it's pretty good from my cannot be I think we have to be a good one. I am grateful that God, and you 're not glad, I mean. I bring a brother by the world , and I think I'm Now that all the children are scared are Those are all little voices. Great job. I'm glad you guys enjoy that song. I really do. 116 in the red book. 116 In the red book. This is my father's world This man is when I was I know what I need for all day to man where I can create. Alright, we have time for a couple more. All right, great. 105 in the blue book. All right. And yes, Claire. Number one in the blue book. All right. One oh five in the blue book. For me to live Primero tenemos que ver el documental , Boy, we need to get from sporty. Alright, number one in the blue book. Let's all stand. Stretch our legs before the sermon. Number one, a servant's heart. We'll sing both verses. Make me a servant like you I call and I Give me 'm not sure. one. Here my life is fine. Give me all the Help me grow up to you, let your love not a little. Can you go like the Make me your way, make my dear So we don't know. Give me what 's everyone, give my life every part, give me the life, and we love Let the love my voice Great singing, please be seated. Well, I'm so very thankful tonight for the opportunity to have uh Josh Linder with us. And uh Josh is someone that I've known for many, many years. In fact, uh the way he and I got to know each other was back in 20 Two thousand and one. Two thousand and two. Two thousand and two. Uh we were freshmen in college, or I was a freshman, I don't know if you were freshman or sophomore. But uh we traveled together on a wrestling road trip. He was in the 125 pound weight clause. Is that right? Yeah. I was in the 165. Not anymore But on that road trip, uh he and I began to become friends, and um the Lord really used that road trip uh Um in lots of lives, lots of the guys that were on the wrestling team. And wrestling is not kind of one of those sports that you think of as like the spiritual guys on campus. They were not, I promise you. Some were, not many. The Lord used it though. And uh he and his wife actually were just getting to know each other. I don't even know if they were dating at the time, but I'm thankful that for the last twenty years. Actually it's more than The Lord has allowed us to maintain that friendship, and I am very thankful for the opportunity for him tonight to preach the word and then also for us to be able to interview him formerly as a church tonight after the service. And um he and his wife and his kids are very uh very dear people. They love the Lord. I think that will really come out uh in any interaction that you have with them It'll come out in the way that he preaches the word. And so I'm looking forward to hearing what the Lord's laid on your heart today. I got three hours. Well see, I'm thinking fellowship and QA. Okay, all right. Actually I just want to just briefly introduce myself For some of you, that's old story. I read on a flyer out in the hallway. And if you read what's actually it was probably in the bulletin, I don't know. Um but at least it's posted out there on one of the Bulletin boards. I was actually here at Anchor. We served together here at Anchor for a brief time too. I was here for about three years, about probably twelve or so years ago. And so it this morning I was greeting people that I haven't seen in a long time and other people like who are these short people? And I said, well that's a short story, but it took many years. But no my wife and I Yeah, as Joel said, we were just dating at the time. And so that is my wife, Becky. She is my wife, not one of my daughters. And uh so I've known her for a long time. She's been a dear lovely wife uh for me and next month Chad will be nineteen years for us. And she's only twenty years old, but you know, we made it things work. But so that is my wife, Becky, and she's been faithfully at my side. I could Not serve the Lord the way that I have without my wife. She's become my right hand uh in everything that we do and just a great encouragement. excellent wife and mother. And then my two daughters, Julia and Anna, uh they are both spending the summer at Servants Heart Camp in Raimi PA. And they are there for the whole summer. They just left a couple weeks ago and they'll be there I think through the first full week of August uh before uh we get reunited with them to come back. So that's where they are serving the Lord. I'm very privileged. Julia did it last year. Uh she will be serving 17 next month and Anna is 15, and so she is serving mostly in the kitchen area there, and Julia is doing a little bit with the junior counseling as well as helping out in the the kitchen and things, but both of them got to do it this summer. Julia got to do it last summer. And beside my wife is my oldest son Joshua. He is a junior. But That's Joshua. And he was actually born about twenty miles or so from laps not about twenty minutes, twenty minutes, half an hour there in Annapolis. And so he was born here. And then Daniel, which hardly anyone knows in this church. Uh he was born in Pennsylvania, and so that's my youngest Daniel, and he is ten. Oh Joshua just turned thirteen in February, so uh it's been a fun time just be getting to be a parent and go through different stages of life. I think it's helped me to be a pastor and helped me to understand just God's love towards us, his compassion, his Mercy, his grace, yet his judgment. And uh it's been a great experience being a husband and a father. So if you don't know me and my wife, we would love to visit you and get a name with a face. If it's been a long time. Come and reintroduce yourself. The names actually come back pretty quick. It's actually I've been surprised like Becky, all of a sudden I saw their faces, like their name just hit me. It was pretty incredible. So So maybe your face will hit me again too, just not too hard. It won't do a lot of hurt to this face, but it'll probably help. So that's just a brief introduction for us. And we are excited to be here at Anchor, just seeing what the Lord Lord uh is gonna do it's like anchor the sequel for Becky and I. Uh so uh the second ones can't be better than the first ones. But all that saying, we're going to open our Bibles to 1 Kings 17. 1 Kings 17. You know, the Lord is letting guide me every step of the way. Uh some men when they're they know their cr as Jesus Christ as their Savior, and it's like a couple moments later they know, Oh, I know I'm gonna be a preacher and this is what I'm gonna do. That's not how it worked for me. I just took one step of obedience and God would lead me and I would take the next step and then he would lead me and then before you know it I'm a youth pastor and people are calling me Pastor Josh and I'm like, really? That just doesn't seem so fitting to me. Uh especially early on. That was just very new. And you guys are the ones that were a big part of that. But in 1 Corinthians, I'm sorry, 1 Kings, 1 Kings 17. During all these years, I've spent the last 15 years as a youth pastor. And some people, what is a youth pastor? What does he do? do and we're going to look at the life of Elijah here and we're going to see to me this is a great example or an illustration That I have found that works, I think, for people understand what a youth pastor does. What is he? And even if you look up the word pastor in the scripture, it's only used about nine times Times, and only one of those is used in the New Testament in Ephesians 4. 11. The other eight times, I believe it's eight, are in actually Jeremiah. And so the term pastor that we use is not used very frequently in Scripture. But this illustration here that we're going to see of Elijah in verse 17, the second part, starting with verse 17. is I'm going to use as a illustration, an example of some things that I have used and have grown and have seen in the ministry. And I'll explain some of those things here in a little bit. But we'll focus our hearts and minds in 1 Corinthians. I'm sorry, I keep saying Corinthians. If I say Corinthians, I mean Kings. First Kings seventeen, starting with verse seventeen. And it came to pass after these things that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick. In his sickness was so sore that there was no breath left in him. And she said unto Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God? Thou art come unto me to call my sin to remembrance and to slay my son. And he said unto her, Give me thy son. And he took him out of her bosom, and carried him up into a loft where he abode, and laid him upon his own bed. And he cried unto the Lord and said, O Lord, my God! Hast thou also brought evil upon this widow with whom I sojourn by slaying her son? And he stretched himself upon the child three times, and cried unto the Lord and said, O Lord, my God, I pray thee Let this child's soul come into him again. And the Lord heard the Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived. And Elijah took the child and brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and delivered him unto his mother. And Elijah said, See, thy son liveth. And the woman said unto Elijah, Now by this I know that thou art a man of God, and that the word of the Lord in thy mouth is truth. Father. You've laid this passage upon my heart and my mind to share with these people who you've brought here this evening. Would you use your word in the hearts and lives of your people? That the Spirit of God would use the Word of God to change them, to conform them to whom you desire for them to be. And would we see the truth of the Word come alive this evening? And help us all to be more like our Savior and your Son, Jesus Christ. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. So I'm going to use this passage as an illustration, example as a youth pastor. I've been a youth pastor for the last 15 years. What is a youth pastor? A very unique position. But first in chapter 17, verses 17 and 18, we're going to see when challenges come. When challenges come, verse 17 and 18, here, and it came to pass after these things, the son of the woman, the mistress of the house. Fell sick, and the s and his sickness was sore that there was no breath left in him. So basically we have here, we have this widow woman, the son gets sick, he is not doing well. And eventually here it looks like he passes away. And she gets frustrated. When challenges come to us, we don't always plan our calendar. I saw in the office there just not so long ago. There's a calendar of twelve months and it's got the months and the days and you've got things planned out. We got, you know, VVS coming and there's camps up and coming. But on our calendar, we don't plan heart attack here. Financial strains here, fight with spouse, I mean discussion with spouse here. Children said things I never thought they would say. It's not like we planned those events. We have a mother here that felt very helpless. A challenge had come to her. And when challenges and difficulties come. It really is an opportunity for us to look to the Lord and allow him to refine us and to draw us closer to him. We saw this September 11th. The nation that they were started flocking to churches and people were turning them. It was but for a moment, I feel it was too short. But when challenges come, you can turn to God, or when challenges come, we can find ourselves getting upset. and blaming God for the circumstances that we were in. And I think that's where this widow was leaning here in verse 18. And she said to Elijah, What have I to do with thee, thou man of God? Thou art come to call my sin to remembrance? And to slay my son. You came here to take my son and to bring sin to remembrance. That was not the purpose. But when challenges come, we tend to blame God and get frustrated. What helps us in our life is a consistent walk with Christ. So when challenges come, we can see Christ in it and He can help us through it. Instead of being the one whom we always choose to blame, it's always God's fault when things go bad. And when things go good, I did a good job. I did wonderful. But when things go bad, we want to blame someone else. That's nothing new with us. Adam has tried it from the beginning. And then Eve followed suit. Okay, that's nothing new to the human race. We like to blame others for challenges, but here, when challenges come, and they will come, even in 2 Timothy 3. 12, yea, that all will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer. Persecution. So it will come. The question is what are we going to do when it comes? And then in James, we looked at this actually this morning in Sunday school, my brethren, count all joy when You fall into diverse temptations. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience, but let patience have her perfect work, they be perfect and attire, wanting nothing Challenges will come and here it is very little gets a mother upset as much as something happening to her child. The mother bear will come out And that's my child. And things within their child's life, it exaggerates how they can be, and we can get caught up in the emotion. If we are continually and consistently with Christ, would we see the challenges and difficulties? To refine us, to help us see God in a new way, to grow us who He wants us to be. Sometimes God just uses challenges and trials that get our attention. Because sometimes we only crowd to God when there is a problem. We don't have that consistent walk. In fact, we can treat God like a genie in a bottle, and we run to him when we want something. or we run to him when there is a challenge in our life and we've exhausted all options. Google and Siri cannot help me, so I guess I'll turn to God. So this is where the widow is at. She sees herself as there is a problem, the son whom I have. And keep in mind the context preceding this is Elijah was just used greatly To allow them to eat. And it did not cease. The crucible, it just kept on coming. But how quickly we forget the blessings of God. Here we see on an individual level with the widow. The children of Israel did it. They just saw ten plagues. They see the Egyptian army taken out at the Red Sea. They're provided manna every day, and yet they find room to complain about this God giving us food to eat and deliver us from the greatest military of the day. How quickly we forget who God is and what He's done in our life. So when challenges come And then she mentions this phrase at the end of verse 18. Thou art come unto me to call my sin to remembrance and to slay my son. I have no idea what sin she may have had in her life, but what I've seen from a youth pastor's perspective and helping parents grow teens in this world and to come alongside them. Sometimes I've seen if the teen has a struggle or challenge in their life, you know, I'll talk and encourage the parents and the teen. And I've heard this several times that parents will say, well, I did that when I was their age, and so I can't tell them no. What? Wait a minute. And I've heard this many times over the last several years. Because you did something in your childhood, and you know the common one that I hear? Is they there's as teens get older and they go from cooties to cuties, okay? You know what I'm talking about? And they they get a little more interested And they start this, you know, dating thing, and you know, sometimes things get a little more serious. And I'm telling the parents, hey, have you seen so-and-so with so-and-so? You know, they're getting a little um friendly. You know, they're definitely cuties. I'll start talking to parents like, well, you know, I can't I can't say anything. I mean I met my wife in high school and we started dating, so I can't tell them not to do that. Even though their child may be struggling or things are getting a little too close for comfort, the parents are saying, well I did that, so I can't tell them no. And you can You uh you made other mistakes in your life and yet you correct them. You don't let them run in the streets with knives. Well, hopefully not. But we learn from these mistakes and we teach them to our children. It's not, well, I did that in our search, so I can't tell them no. I think in part, I mean I don't know what her sin was. But we teach our children and that use your life as a to learn from mom and dad. You know what? I did this when I was your age, and things got a little too close for comfort. I had these challenges in my life growing up. It's okay to tell your children, you know what, I learned from my mistakes. You can too. I mean that's what the Bible is full of. I am so thankful that the Bible is full of a bunch of uh men and ladies that didn't do things right, that made mistakes, and we get to learn from them. I'm thankful mine are not in the inspired word of God for all to read forever. But But I am so thankful that we can learn. It's uh people get this misconception of the Bible, oh that's a bunch of perfect people and they have their lives figured out and you're reading about perfect people and you go to this perfect church and everything works out fine. No, we're just sinners saved by grace. That's why we go to church. But whatever the sin was in her life, she was treating it like because She had a challenge that came to her life that she wasn't expecting. It was not on the calendar. The challenge comes and she wants to blame God Don't use that excuse, especially with parents and your children. It is okay to raise your children better than you were. It's okay to correct them for things that you did when they were their age. That is okay. It really is. So in verses seventeen and eighteen, we've seen when the challenge comes. In verses 19 through 22, we're going to see caring for others' children. Caring for others' children. Once again, I'm going to do this kind of from the youth pastor's perspective. And this is where I really start seeing. The role of how I have viewed youth ministry. So in verse 19, and he said unto her, give me thy son. This word give is the idea to permit, to allow, or even deliver. What happens when we have A church and you have a youth pastor. Becky and I have never taken this lightly, but what ends up happening is you are permitting, you are allowing us to invest in the lives of your children. The children that God has blessed you with and has given to you, I now have the privilege of coming alongside the parent and investing in them and hopefully growing them spiritually. And encouraging them in the Word to know it and to study it and to make it a part of their life. Not just because mom and dad do, not just because the pastor does. But because they are learning that I'm going to be an individual that loves God on my own. So here, caring for other children, and it says to deliver them. When do you deliver to the youth, pastor? Sunday school, teen activities. Camps. You are entrusting the youth pastor, his wife, to care for your children. And I've understood that now too, that I have three in the youth group myself. I think I've treated the same for the most part, but really it does kind of change things just a little bit. But I learn to love the teens as if I would my own children. I really do. I love them. I want them to grow in the Lord. And then it says, give me thy son. So a challenge or difficulty comes. Hopefully you're just not trying to get close to the youth pastor, the pastor when you have a problem in your life. It's nice just to have good fellowship. But here the challenges come And he says, Give me thy son. And he took him out of her bosom. The idea of the bosom there is basically almost in her lap. You can just picture the scene. You have the mother there holding her son. He's lifeless, breathless. In her lap. And Elijah comes to her and says, Can I have your son? That's tough even in that moment. But what he's going to do here, he has physically kept them alive. And something I realized as a youth pastor, especially in my early many years, and then as my children got older, it helped me to see this too. But as a youth pastor, I am ultimately not responsible to raise other people's children, to feed them, to clothe them. This is the struggle I first had in youth ministry. For the first many many years. Because I I would see things and you you you want to try and fix it and you want to try and do it, but I am not the parent. I will never be your parent, your child's parent. I've got four of my own and I'm trying to train for the Lord. That's enough. Okay? But I've learned from that. But here, give me thy son so we can invest in him. spiritually, physically, and spiritually. That is your privilege as a parent. Goddess, if you have a child, you're called to be a parent. Parent the best that you can. And that's where I can come in. My wife come in. We want to help and encourage you with this. So he says, give me thy son, verse 19. nineteen. And he took him out of her bosom and carried him into the loft where he abode, and laid him upon his own bed. And he cried unto the Lord and said, O Lord my God, thou hast brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourned. By slaying her son. So he's asking God a question. You brought me here clearly, Lord. We have sustained, you have sustained us all. And now it does seem rather odd that you are choosing to take. Her son. Here he is taking from the mother and he's beseeching God on her behalf to pray for the teen, to pray for this child. Hopefully the youth pastor isn't the only one praying for your children. We can do it together, to pray one with another. And I have seen something very effective. Grandparents, parents, do you spend time as a family in God's Word and praying with your children? Church just not should be something we do on Sundays and sometimes on Wednesdays. You can play church, but the struggle that happens with teens is that they get older and they they mature mentally. socially. And they start seeing, believe it or not, my kids used to think I was tall. And I was like super dad. Because I could reach the cookies on the top shelf. I could always open the jar. Now my son's like give me that. You know, it's like I I can do it, Mom, I can do it. You know, that there's that change that takes place. But before I was super dad, I'm whopping five three with shoes on, but I was tall and I was mighty and the kids thought I was everything. But as they grow up That starts changing. They see, oh, dad made a mistake. Whoa. And I'm like, oh, they realized I'm human. I've lost my dad's superpowers. Okay. So what happens is as they go , if they see that if God is real to you, God will start becoming real to them. If you only pray with them on Wednesday nights and only spend time with them on Sunday, The ministry here at Anchor is not going to be as effective. Like I said, I used to think that real personal, be like, why do you say? But really, I cannot compete with the parents I cannot. What I can do through the Lord's help and through the Word of God is encourage the parents and encourage it. It's okay to live for God. Even in this world that is going so backwards today. I mean it's crazy to r to even think about when you have to explain people what gender they are. I mean these things are ridiculous. But it's okay to be a young man. It's okay to be a young lady. And I want to come alongside, and I have for many years with the parents and to open up the word of God and to encourage them. And parent is like on-the-job training. And each child is different. Boy have I learned that. I mean some children you can just look at and they melt. The other one you look at and they're like, I dare you. Okay. So each one is difficult and challenging, and God has given me a variety. Okay, I have two girls and I have two young men. So understanding the emotional drama of ladies and yet uh why do they waste their energy doing that stuff with the boys, okay? So I do have a limited understanding, but I've gone through that myself. But but here, caring for others' children, he says, give me thy son, deliver that. Becky and I don't take that lightly, and we'd love to do that. What would I like to do with teens? A part of what I would do with teens, a part of my philosophy, I want to see all the teams saved. Know Christ as their savior, putting their trust in him by faith alone. alone. I want to know that they're separated. They're not just living like the world, not being conformed to this world. They're being transformed by the renewing of their mind. I want them surrendered. And just because some guy thinks he's saved and he comes to me and says, hey, that Julian Anna, I would like to say to him, does your pastor know who you are? Because you serve, or does your pastor know who you are because he was always calling you and your parents? Or do you even go to church anywhere? I want them surrendered to give up their life and service to Jesus Christ and his word. I want teens to be saved, surrendered, separated, sole conscience, looking around and knowing that there are lost people all over the place. And we get so caught up thinking about myself and my iPhone, because it's about me and my selfies. Okay, the phone does work the other way. It actually has a camera on it and you can take pictures of other people, not yourself. But I want them to know that there are lost people out there And that we have the privilege and the blessing of having God's message and the truth of His word, and we can share the gospel with others. Saved, separated, surrendered, soul conscious, seeking the scriptures, like the Bereans. Searching, digging into the Bible, finding answers for themselves. And one thing that teens, I love working with teens, because they really want to know truth And that's what's unique about going from little child to no, daddy said. That works great, but they're 15 and you're saying no, daddy said, you have to be careful. Yeah, they should honor their father and mother. Yes, that is true. But as they're becoming teens and growing to be young adults, you should be taking the Bible and be like, you know what? Hopefully you're doing it before that. This is why mom and daddy believe what we do. Do. And maybe someday you will choose to do the same because we've shared the Word of God with you. And this is why we do what we do. Not just because Daddy said, because thus saith the Lord. And every time I disciplined my children, we always had a verse. Whether it's Ephesians 6:1, okay, that's the common one. That was one of the first ones they learned. But even things like in Ephesians 4, be kind one to another. Tender-hearted, forgiving one another. Or do all things without murmurings and disputings. All these things. We liked to share scripture with my children. We just didn't um spanked them because I felt like it. I didn't just send them the room because I was, you know, frustrated. That's so daddy can calm down and do it out with the right spirit. Because I know the investment can be eternal. So here I want all teens To be saved, separated, surrendered, soul conscious, seeking the scriptures and supporting the home. To have children, it's okay to love mom and dad. It's okay to spend time with mom and dad. I know there's a time where, dad, you're not cool anymore. Stop. That's embarrassing me. Okay. I know there's times of that. But in their heart of hearts, they know I love my dad. I love my mom. I want them to support the home. Satan is getting a death grip on our home today. I want our teams to be supportive of their home. I want the, and I think God desires for us to pray for our children as we see here. He is praying for them, bringing up the challenges that they have before God. Help this widowed son. Lord, this doesn't seem to make sense, but would you could you intervene to do what seems impossible for us? Has God allowed an almost impossible situation in your life? Here in the context is with the child. But are you getting angry? Are you turning from him when the challenges come? Are you turning to God? Are you turning away from him? And one thing I've learned, this has been more in the latter years of my time as a youth pastor. But you know what I've learned about what makes an effective youth pastor? To love the Lord thy God with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength. And the second glycan to it, to love my wife. To love my wife and to love my children. If I can accomplish those things, then I can invite others you can do it too. You can do it too. The most effective ministry I think I can have is to love the Lord, love my wife, and to love my children. And then before other people, I say, Why don't you come and do likewise? I can be like Paul in 1 Corinthians eleven. Follow me as I follow Christ. And your children can be effective. It's great. It's wonderful. It can be a great asset to the ministry. But I have found that to be a very effective part of the ministry. We should not separate the pastor from his wife and children. It's a part of who they are. And hopefully the pastor is training his children the way they should go. And the man of God is training children. I don't know where the Lord is going to take my children. But you can do this is what I've suggested. I'm doing it myself. I don't know what God's going to do with any of my children. But it is okay to train them to serve God. Train them to be the next pastor, pastor's wife, missionary, evangelist. Train them that way and just see what God does. If he doesn't, will the Bible knowledge, will your investment in the truth of the word of God, will that ever go to waste? Is it a waste for them to end up being a godly doctor? Dentist? In the military. That Bible knowledge would never go to waste. Train them for the ministry and ask God what he would do with his children. Because sometimes I think we get frustrated, like this widow, we really think, this is my child. Is it? Or is that God's child that He's allowing you to be a part of? What are you training those? I'm training them to love mommy daddy and to never go, I don't want them to be missionary in Africa. Why do we always choose Africa anyways? I don't know. But we do. We choose Africa. I don't I don't want to I don't want my kids to leave me. What if God calls them to serve there? Do you love your child so much that you're willing to let God take them wherever He will? I say this as a reminder for myself, because now I've got girls that are getting older. And I remind myself often, train them up in the way they should go. Train them up in the way they should to to go. They're gonna leave me someday And I have all that time and investment. And now I've got Julia who's going to be a senior. I remember the night she was born, like yesterday. It was a Friday night. It was incredible. It was amazing. I tried to get my wife to eat when she's going through contractions. That was not a good idea Oh, it's not that bad. First time father, first time father. Okay. It was rough. She did good. We must move on. So when challenges come, first we've looked at when challenges come. Second, we looked at caring for others children I did want to look at verse 22 before we go to our last point. It says, And the Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came to him again, and he revived. The idea of revive is to give life unto. And here, as I see the youth pastor, as I see the position of a youth pastor and assistant, it is to help breathe spiritual life into the next generation. That is what Elijah is doing. He took with permission some time for the child from the mother, invested in them spiritually. To bring revival, to help encourage, to bring life. And then that brings us to our third point of the children are carried back to the parents. So in verses 23 and 24, we're going to see the children are carried back to the parents. And Elijah took the child, verse 23 of 1 Kings 17, and brought him down out of the chamber into the house. And delivered him unto his mother. And Elijah said, See thy son liveth. The goal is not to replace the parents. And as a youth pastor, it really is a unique situation because I'm an extension of the pulpit ministry of the senior pastor. but also the extension of the home and the go-between of helping those. And the goal is not to Try and parent all of them, although sometimes I really do see them as this is how I would treat my own children. But returning them back to the parents. And this is where I've really seen the responsibility. It's not my responsibility. I'm not responsibility for all the teams. Now, if they're at a teen activity, that's a little bit different. You know what I mean? But I'm talking about their life and overall spirituality and feeding them and clothing them. I just have a part. I'm just a piece of the puzzle in their life to invest in them so that God can use them in the future to whatever He's going to call them to do and then return them. to the parents. I am not the parent. I'm not going to replace the parents. I like I said, I have four kids of my own that I'm trying to raise. But as a as a ministry, it's to bring them back. To invest in them and to And return them. them, not to keep them for my own. And I think here's the result here in verse 24. Not only do we see God did an amazing work, and it is God that does the work. Even as parents, we really can't take all their credit. It's by God's grace that we are who we are. It's not anything special of what I've done or what I've accomplished. It's Christ and what He has done and what our obedience to Him and how He can choose to use every single one of us. But it concludes there in verse 24. It says, And the woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know thou art a man of God. And That the word of the Lord in thy mouth is true. What is most effective in this whole situation? It is the word of God seen to be true. Can we live out the Word of God to see that it is true? And invest in that so that the children, the the teens and the younger, anyone, really everyone. These principles are not just for teenagers. These are life principles for all of us. But to see, you know what? I have seen God's word true and accurate. And when I don't understand, and when challenges come and things I don't understand, when that happens in my life, I know that I can trust in God's word. And as someone who has been through challenges and difficulties and you've seen God through the situation, and then when you see something happen to someone else, you know what, God is faithful. Stick to his word. Don't turn your back on him now. Stay faithful, and you will see the goodness and the grace of God. And the conclusion from this heart that was hurting, from this mother who just lost her child. Her conclusion is I know that the word of God is true. And my that guy I he he is the man of God, but it is the word of God and the truth in his mouth, and it's really God's word in him and through him that's effective. It's the word of God that's sharper and power. It's sharp and powerful than any two-edged sword. It is the word of God that is effective and it changes lives. God just uses people to do it. But it's not our power, it's not our work. It's ultimately the Lord that does it. So when I look at this passage, I really see this, and hopefully you can get to understand where I come from a little bit. I see this as kind of the illustration or example of what a youth pastor is. Not the senior pastor, I'm not the parent. But a unique situation, the go-between, to take the child with permission, to invest in them, whether it's Sunday school. to camps, just playing around. I love being a youth pastor. Another reason why I love working with teens, I like to save them before they're scarred with sin. Because sometimes th they they just want to seek knowledge, they just want to know things. And they they some of them, you know, they they have their little quabbles here and there and they have mistakes, but it's not not adult, if you will. understand what I'm saying. I hope you guys, I'm not gonna go into details uh with all those things, but really I want to help them to make the right decisions for the battle Are made. So we've seen Elijah, an example of a youth pastor, when challenges come, caring for others' children, and then the children are carried back to their parents. Hopefully this is encouragement and blessing to you. Father, we thank you and praise you so much for your goodness, for your grace. Hopefully this just sheds a little bit of my own heart through your word to this congregation. Hopefully all of us can recognize that challenges will come and ultimately the result can be the word of God is true. And he uses different men of God and ladies with the young ladies to invest and to help that God would be glorified and his word would be seen to be glorified. Be true and accurate, and all of us can love you the more for it, and that Jesus Christ would be glorified and the word would be exalted. And we ask you to help us and give us grace and mercy and see you Your truth through it all. In Christ's name. Amen. Tell you you can't walk away from a text like that and the truths that we looked at this evening without saying, Lord, we need you to work in the next generation. And what I love about the church is that he has taken all these unique gifts and personalities and backgrounds. And he has put us all together in this one body. And what makes it work is that there is one source of authority. It's the Word of God. And there is one source of power, and that's the Word of God. Word of God. And so when we all put our own interests and our own selves aside, and we just get into the word and we communicate the word and we serve selflessly wherever God places us. us. He's able to do incredible things through us. He does incredible things in spite of us. He does incredible things without us. But he he allows us to be a part of what he's doing. So I'm very, very thankful for that. We really need to pray for our church. We need to pray for our families. We need to pray for our young people. We need to pray that whatever role God has for us to play in the next generation Growth into Christ's likeness, that we will be willing to do it. We'll do it effectively. Let's go ahead and turn in our hymn books, please. To hymn 463. The song we're going to sing is Blessed Assurance, Jesus is mine. 463. Let's stand together. Actually, you know what? Cancel that. Let's sing channels only. I don't even know what song number that is. Channels only. What number? Alright. See what he writes. See it it's great when your kids know the hymn book by heart. 550. Let's stand together. We'll sing channel double. You'll have to use the hymn book because I decided to change on the cuff here. I love this song. I think it's a great song for us to sing. Channels only, here we go. How I praise thee, precious Savior, that thy love laid hold of me. Thou hast saved and blessed will me , Shall I thy blessed master, but with all thy longer. Well you don't know how to do it. And we caught out the mister Oh , but what do you think? Jesus love and tell me for that folded well and the screen love to make water Can I fall in for a while? Lord we through the last time for us , and we have to death. Great song, man. Can I ask the pastor? And then what we're going to do is we're going to Take a short break so you can get water, use the restroom. Parents can get children out of the nursery so that those who are in the nursery can be in here for our meeting. And we'll come back let's say seven fifteen is when we'll uh we'll get started. So you know me, I'm always on time. And so seven fifteen we'll be ready to roll. All right. I see some people Shake. I'm gonna I'm gonna do it. Seven thirteen, all right. All right. Close us in prayer, please. Father, we are so very grateful for the power of your word, for the opportunity we have had to hear it preached and taught, and I pray that your spirit would have free reign to use it to shape us and mold us. Into the image of Jesus Christ. But as we have heard tonight, I pray that you would give us a heart that is dedicated, that is committed to reaching the next generation Those that will step up and continue to produce Christ followers in our stead when we've been long gone. Well, Lord, we ask that you would uh continue to be with us this evening. Bless our uh time Together in the QA and in our fellowship to come. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.