Well, good morning. If you have your Bibles, I'd like to ask you to take them and turn with me to 1 John chapter 3. And we are back in verses 21 through 24. Yesterday we had an issue with our recording. So this is a bit of a re-recording, so if you missed the second half of our recording yesterday, this will be discussing that as well. 1 John chapter 3, verses 21 through 24. Beloved, if our hearts condemn us not, then we have confidence toward God. And whatsoever we ask or receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. And this is his commandment that we should believe on the name of the Son of God and love one another as he gave us commandment. He that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him and he in him, and hereby we know that he abideth in us by the Spirit which He hath given us I want to remind you of our summary statement from last time. John wanted his audience to have a steady confidence of their position in Christ. Therefore, he reminded them that God promised his children can have confidence. And this confidence can be strengthened when their prayers are being answered. And so this whole discussion has been about this issue of assurance of salvation, confidence. We talked about primary the primary root of our confidence being the work of Christ, and the fact that we've trusted the finished work of Christ and God who cannot lie has promised that He gives eternal life to those who trust in Him. And so when we think about our salvation, we if you ask me why, uh do you believe that you're a Christian? Why do you believe you're going to heaven? I'd simply say, well, Christ promised that those who trust in his son have eternal life. And I've trusted in the finished work of Christ. And when I see my righteousness, I realize there's no reason why God should accept me. But Christ died for my sins and he paid the penalty for my sins. And I am righteous in Christ, not in my own righteousness And so that's really the primary root source of our confidence. But there are other areas that affect how we feel about our position. And so John's been addressing those issues. Well, one of those issues, those secondary issues, but still important issues, is this issue of answered prayer. When God answers our prayer as his children, it strengthens that sense that we belong to him. And so that's really what he's been talking about. Well, when we got to this passage, one of the things that we saw is that it's a little bit of a complex passage. It's a passage that can be easily misunderstood. And so we wanted to take some very simple Bible study, uh we could say rules or principles that we apply. And we wanted to go to those things and we wanted to try to practically apply them to this text. So the first rule that we talked about was we need to get the big picture. And so we try to get the context. We're talking about this issue of assurance. The second is we need to think about the passage in the light of the rest of Scripture. And so we talked about several passages that deal with this issue of prayer. so that we would have a good understanding of what the Bible teaches about prayer and how it applies to this passage. The third rule we looked at was we needed to get the big picture And and these other passages need to help keep us on track that are clearer than the one that we're dealing with. And then the last thing we talked about was We need to realize that it will be consistent with the rest of Scripture. So as we move through those different rules or principles of Bible study, the final one we talked about was in Psalm 37. So in Psalm thirty-seven four it says, Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. And we talked about the fact that when a person walks with God, fellowships with God, is delighting in the Lord There are certain things that that walk with God will do in them that will change how they think and what they love and what they want and how they pray. And ultimately that walk with God is going to press them and channel the way that they pray in a certain direction. And that really has a lot to do with the discussion that we're having in 1 John chapter 3. When he makes this statement, whatever you ask, you will receive, that's part of what he's talking about. And I want us to get in some of the details today about that. The first thing I wanted to say is this. John's statement is an absolute statement. He says, whatsoever we ask we receive. That's an absolute statement. But I want you to realize while that statement is absolute, it's only absolute when there are certain criteria that are in place. In other words, the context kind of limits the scope of that absolute statement. Let me give you an example of what I'm talking about. In other words, there are certain conditions that apply to John's audience. Here's what he says. Those who keep his commandments. Well, does everybody keep his commandments? No. Those who do what is pleasing in his sight. Is every person living in the world today, is every Christian doing those things that are pleasing in his sight? No, not necessarily. He that keeps his commandments dwells in him and he in him. So this is a person who's walking with God. So what we need to realize is that this absolute statement is channeled in on people who are one, believers. That means that they're God's children. And two, these are believers who are walking in communion or fellowship with God. Because people who are obeying his commandments, doing what's pleasing in his sight, dwelling in him, and he in them, are people that are abiding in Christ. Another way to put it is they're delighting in the Lord. And these are the people that this passage is applying to. The second thing I want to mention is this. Fellowship with God really changes us in many ways. And I've kind of alluded to this already, but I kind of want to dig into this a little bit more. Walking with God, abiding in Christ, kind of it shapes the way that we think about things. In other words, the things that we want and don't want are shaped by a walk with God It shapes our desires. Not just what we think is right and wrong, but it actually shapes what we want, what we long for, what our heart presses toward And when we talk about prayer, we pray based on what we think we need, and we are pressed in our hearts to actually appeal to God to work in those situations. A third area is this, it it humbles our attitude toward God. As a person walks in fellowship with God, God begins to reveal things about them, part of their sin nature, the fact that they're unrighteous, they don't meet God's standard. The Christian is constantly seeing sin examined uprooted in his life, and he's going to God for forgiveness and cleansing, and he's becoming more like Christ. What does that do? Well, it causes people to have a humble disposition And the last thing is it shapes our values, what we believe actually matters. So when a person is praying, their values are being reflected in that prayer, their attitude towards God is being reflected, what they want, the way that they think, all of those things are really a part of why they pray and what they pray. And so when John talks about this absolute statement, he's talking about a group of people whose thinking, desires, attitudes, and values are being shaped by a walk with God. The ultimate results of these different qualities are going to affect how we pray. So you might ask the question, well, how do we like practically apply this? How does this have any bearing on me right now as I think about this. Well let me talk to you about it this way. The main point of this passage is to emphasize assurance of salvation. Okay, the main part of this passage is not to talk about getting our prayers answered. It's to talk about the fact that when our prayers are answered, it strengthens our confidence of our position. In other words, it's it's not going to strengthen whether or not I am saved, okay? It's not about security, but it strengthens how I feel about that position, my experience in that position, my attitude towards that position. You know, when a person sees that God is regularly answering their prayer, what does that do? It reminds them that they have a Father in heaven. who is good and who is in control and is listening to their requests and working on their behalf. And so we might ask the question, well, what about when I don't see prayer answered? What's going on there? Well, let me give you a couple of thoughts about why that might be. The first is this, it's possible that a person who prays doesn't actually know the Lord as their Savior. Now I'm not saying that having your prayers not not seeing your prayers answered means that you're not saved. I'm not suggesting that. But I'm suggesting that it's a possibility You should ask the question, do I understand the gospel? Like this is the question that we should ask whenever we have doubts. What's the root cause of those doubts? Are my doubts rooted in the fact that I really don't understand the gospel? Do I understand that Christ died for my sins? He rose from the dead. His righteousness, not my righteousness, is what gives me a standing before God. Do I understand that? Have I truly turned to Him and trusted in the finished work of Christ? If the answer is yes, then I am a Christian, and so the issue is going to be something different. A second thing is this. It might be that I'm just not praying. The truth is there are a lot of reasons why people don't take time to pray. One of the reasons that people don't pray is because they're too proud to pray. They don't feel like they need anything from God. There are some people that say You know, God helps those who helps themselves. So I'm gonna help myself and you know maybe God's part of that process. But but the truth is that one of the reasons people don't pray is because they're proud. They don't see that they need God. A second area is that they're lazy. It takes discipline to pray regularly. It takes discipline to get up in the morning, to study the word, and get on their knees before God. And lots and lots of Christians do not have that discipline established in their lives. Another reason is because people are distracted. You know, the first thing that we do when our feet hit the floor, or maybe our feet haven't even hit the floor yet, we pull up our phones and immediately we go to social media. We immediately go to the news. Immediately we go somewhere and we're we're watching videos, we're reading articles. Why are we doing that? It's because we're distracted. We are in one of the most distracted ages ever. And the truth is one of the reasons we don't pray is because of this issue. And then another reason that I could mention is that we we have doubts. We're afraid to pray because we don't really think God will answer our prayer. So when we don't see God answering prayer, that's a potential. We're really not praying. A third thing I'll mention is this. And this is really what I think most logically flows out of this passage, is that yes, we're a Christian, yes, we're praying, but we're really not abiding in Christ. We're not walking in fellowship, communion with God, and therefore the reason that we're praying and the things that we're praying for and the motive behind how we're praying about different things, it's not it's not correct. It's not what it should be. And the reason that we're not seeing God answer our prayer is because we are asking to consume it of our own lust, perhaps. It's not praying biblically. And so when we think about this issue of prayer and assurance, we need to realize that God wants us, one, to have confidence of our position, and two, he wants to answer our prayer. But if God wants us to do that, what do we need to do on our side? Well, we need to walk with Him. We need to be in His Word We need to let his spirit and his word shape our disposition and shape the way that we think and shape what we love and shape our values And if that's what's going on, then the way that we pray will be right. The things we'll ask for will be things that God wants to give us. And ultimately, what will we see? Answered prayer. And a further strengthening of that confidence of our relationship to God as our Father. If this has been an encouragement to you, I hope that you'll share a note of encouragement, perhaps share the video, and hopefully this video didn't have problems like yesterday's. And we'll look forward to seeing you the next time. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, it's been good to talk about this passage. I pray that you'd help us to think clearly through it, help us to apply it, help us to be a people who pray and see you answer prayer regularly And we ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you today, and I hope that you have a great rest of your day. Bye now.