Take your Bibles and please turn with me to Ephesians chapter 2. We are in Ephesians chapter 2 and we are looking together at verses 1 through 9. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 through 9. And I want to ask a question, and the purpose of the passage in front of us is not to answer this exact question, but it does answer this exact question. And the question is, what do we remember, what do we celebrate at the Lord's table? As we gather together this morning and as we are going to partake together of these elements, As we're going to focus all of our attention on the gospel, what do we celebrate? And I want you to realize that when we talk about the Lord's table, the Lord's table is not just a time of reflection. It's also a time of celebration. In fact, let's not forget that on that very first night that the Lord Jesus Christ was sitting with his disciples, they were partaking of not the Lord's table, but of the Passover. In fact, the Passover was a wonderful time of remembrance as they were looking back. At God's deliverance of his people out of slavery in Egypt, it was really a time of tremendous celebration And so as we think about the celebratory nature of the Passover, we need to realize that when we come to the Lord's table, we are also celebrating. In fact, when we come to the Lord's table, it's a time that we are to be overwhelmed by our sin. It's a time that we're to be overwhelmed by the grace of God and the goodness of God. It's a time where the guilt that we feel is turned and looking at the Lord Jesus Christ, we realize He took our guilt. What is that supposed to do? It's supposed to cause us to celebrate. It's supposed to cause us to rejoice. So what exactly do we celebrate at the Lord's table? Ephesians 2, verses 1 through 9. And you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses in sins Wherein in times past he walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. Among whom also we all had our conversation in times past in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us Even when we were dead in sins. Hath quickened us together with Christ, by grace ye are saved And has raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are you saved through faith, but not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast. The purpose of the passage in front of us is to remind us as God's people of the absolutely incredible blessings That we've received in Christ through the power of the gospel. Because Jesus died for our sins, because he shed his blood, because he rose triumphant from the grave, he conquered death. He crushed Satan and his kingdom, a decisive blow that will forever seal the devil's fate. Because of Christ's work of redemption, we are in a wonderful position, full of rich blessings. When we come to the Lord's table, we're not just remembering what Christ did. We're remembering why it's important. Why it's significant. And so this passage really celebrates why the gospel is significant When we read this passage, God wants us to be humbled. God wants us to worship. God wants us to praise. God wants us to be grateful. God wants us to be unified. God wants us to be humble. God wants us to be holy. God wants us to respond correctly to the gospel. Not as those who are repenting and trusting Christ to be saved, but as those who've believed and are saved and are sealed until the day of redemption, but are growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. God wants us to respond in worship to him. In fact, when we come to this text, Ephesians 1 verses 3, all the way to 3, verse 21, that entire section is full of some really long sentences. But it's really one predominant theme. It is a hymn of praise to God. It's one of the most powerful, doctrinally rich ch chapters and sections in the entire Bible, and it starts out this way. Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. And the rest of the section is, and here are those blessings. And by the end, he comes to this section, he says, it's to the praise of the glory of his grace. Wherein he's made us accepted in the beloved. And at the end he says, Now unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the praise that worketh in us Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. I don't know about you, but with those three statements Blessed be God. He's made us accepted in the beloved, and he is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we could ever ask or think. I think we need to know what he talks about in those verses. Doesn't that make sense? That's what the gospel is all about, folks. The gospel celebrates, this morning we celebrate those blessings. And so I want us to look together at some of those blessings. In fact, if we were to dig into this text and if we were to give it the kind of detail and care that really we'd love to give it, we'd be here a long time and a lot of weeks. But today we want to just get a big snapshot picture of what we have in Christ. I want to begin with the first truth and the first Truth that he expounds, and that's this. We celebrate the miracle of regeneration. We celebrate the miracle of regeneration. The word regeneration means made alive. Regeneration. You realize that the gospel is not just about forgiveness of sins, it's about those who are dead in trespasses and sins being made alive in Christ. Here's the way he puts it in verse 1. He says, You have he quickened. That word means that he's given you life, who were dead in trespasses and in sins. Wherein in times past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. Among whom also we had all our conversation in times past, and the lust of the flesh fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath. There are four aspects to the description that he's going to give us in this text about the miracle and the weight of this doctrine called regeneration. That God takes one who's spiritually dead and he gives him life. There are four things he talks about. And I want you to look at each of those. But as we look at those, I want you to think about the practical implications of having been dead spiritually and now you're alive in Christ. How does that change the person you are? How does that change the things that you love? How does that change the things that you long for? The things that you live for? The things that are important to you. How does being dead spiritually and now being alive in Christ change us? You can't even begin to fathom how much it changes us. Spiritually dead. You has he quickened. Who are dead. Folks, before our salvation, we were spiritually dead We were not able to live in obedience to God's commands. It's interesting, we have a child and we're working with a child. We don't work with a young child who's unsaved the same way we do with a young child who's now placed their faith in Christ. We are training a child who's a sinner, and for all practical purposes. They are just learning how to be trained, but they don't yet have the heart and the passion to obey as disciples of Christ. That moment of salvation when they place their faith in Christ, we're not just training the child. We're not just teaching the child. But we're helping them to understand how to channel the desires of a new nature that wants to obey God. It's a pretty amazing thing to consider. We can have a person who lives for the first 15, 20, 30, 40 years of their life, and they're in spiritual darkness, living for their flesh. And all of a sudden they become a new creature in Christ. And things that they never thought they'd ever want to do, they all of a sudden have a desire to do them. Things that they love now they hate. Why? It's a new nature. It says in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. And old things are passed away, and all things are become new. It's not just that we are spiritually alive now in Christ, but he refers to the fact that before conversion, we were walking in darkness. He says, In times past, ye walked according to the course of this world. The truth is that when a person does not know God, the Bible describes them as someone who stumbles in the darkness. Someone who is spiritually blind. They're living in this world and they're not making sense of this world. from a God perspective, a God point of view, because they don't have the eyes to see those things. And so what are the implications of that? Well people are going to live for their flesh People are going to be dominated by their passions. Their worldview is all about them. It's not about God. It's all about them. It's not about others. They do what they do because their nature is compelled to do things. That the Bible describes as according to the course of this world. We come together as a body of Christians. The truth is, if you got saved and you were a kid, Who grew up in a Christian home, praise God that you did. Because the truth is, because you had a mom and dad who disciplined you and taught you and didn't let you do all the nonsense that you would have done had you not been in that kind of a home. Your life would have been full of so much misery. But think about the person who gets saved later in life. Didn't have the same situation. That nature that has fallen, that has fallen and walking in the ways of this world has manifested itself for decades. But here's the truth. When we come to this congregation, whether you got saved as a child, whether you got saved as a teen, whether you got saved as an adult, today, you're a totally different person. It's the bottom line. A new way. A new way of thinking. A new belief system. A new nature. A new set of passions and walks. We celebrate this miracle of regeneration. We're reminded that because we have a new nature, we walk in a different way. Dominated by the loss of the flesh is what we used to be. He says we all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the desires of the flesh. Maybe another way to put it is we were slaves. To our passions. Slaves to our passions. We simply did what we did because it's all we knew. Because that's all we longed for. He says the reason that you live this way is because you were a servant, a slave to your lusts, a slave to your flesh, a slave to your passions. You know, it's interesting. Lots of people in this world think that Christianity is too restrictive. It's a life of misery and frustration. I want the freedom of not having God telling me what to do. Okay. So you know what you have? You have your belly telling you what to do. You are dominated by your flesh. And a life that's dominated by the flesh is a life of misery, a life of emptiness, a life that's going to end up in destruction. And if had it not been for God's grace and God's work through the gospel, we would continue in this life dominated by our flesh. But then he mentions a fourth thing, and he says this, we were by nature the children of wrath. It's not just that what we were doing was offensive to other people. Or self-destructive, but what we were doing was in opposition to the righteous character of God. And we were standing in opposition to God's justice. And we deserve God's legal, just, righteous wrath forever. I'm going to summarize it this way We're not just believers. We are believers, but not just believers. We are redeemed. We are regenerated. We gather to remember that the gospel gave us spiritual life that enables us to walk in newness of life. The reason that you and I can do what God called us to do It's because we have the nature and the Holy Spirit to enable us to do that. We come to a second truth. We celebrate the goodness of God. In verses 4 to 8, he puts it like this: he says, But God To me, that is the greatest little statement in the whole chapter. But God wasn't for God what he did for us. We'd continue as we were. He says, but God who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us even when we were dead in sins. hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you are saved and hath raised us up together and made us sit in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith. And that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Let me mention four aspects of God's character, his nature. that are being contrasted with what you and I were by nature before our conversion. We were people who were spiritually dead. We were people who are stumbling in the darkness. We were people who are dominated by our flesh. We were people that were under God's wrath. But God is what? Rich in mercy. In other words, when God looks down at you and me in that condition, you know how he feels toward us? Compassion. That's hard to imagine. Think about how frustrated you get when somebody treats you without respect. You know I'm talking about that person just disrespected me. I don't appreciate that. God, Creator, Sustainer, Lord, Judge, King And he looks at you and me, rebels, miserable, broken creatures, and he has compassion on us. It's pretty amazing to consider, isn't it not? He then talks about him being a lover of us. He says, for his great love, wherewith he loved us. Compassion and love. That is how God looked at us in our brokenness. He's gracious. He says he did this so that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace. We talk about grace. It's this un unmerited favor from God. It's this overflowing goodness to people that don't deserve it. God is merciful and loving and gracious. And he mentions a fourth. He says he's kind and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. When we come to the Lord's table and we think about the body that was broken , The blood that was shed, the cross where he bore the wrath of the sins of the world, we're reminded that God's kindness, God's grace, God's love, God's mercy was all on display. Isn't that incredible to think about? We're not just remembering that God saves us, but we're remembering and meditating together on the incomparable beauty and the goodness. of the God who saves us. In other words, we're not just saying, I'm so glad that I'm not going to hell. I'm so glad that I've been forgiven. We're saying, I'm glad I'm not going to hell. I'm glass and forgiven And I worship the God who saved me. I glory in him. We come to a third truth. We celebrate the bond that unites us as the people of God. This is a really incredible thing. There's a reason that we don't do the Lord's table at home by ourselves. Because one of the most integral aspects of the Lord's table is that we gather together. as one body to remember the bond that unites us. It's so important that we remember it corporately. And this text really talks a lot about the corporate nature of the gospel. God saves us as individuals, but he places us into a body where we're to grow together. Such an amazing concept. Saved individually, and we're growing together. Here's what he says in verse 11. Wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by that which is called circumcision in the flesh, made with hands. That at that time ye were without Christ, aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus. Ye who sometime were far off or made nigh by the blood of Christ, for he is our peace, who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us. Having abolished in his flesh the enity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances, for to make in himself of twain one new man. So making peace, that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby, and came and preached peace to you which were far off So that you who are nigh, so that through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. Now therefore you're no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God Now, really, there is an unbelievable amount of information for us to digest in that statement. Verses 11 to 19 But what I'd really like to do is I'd like to break it down into a threefold description before our salvation, and then a description of us now in Christ. In other words, he says it this way. Remember in times past you were. And he mentions three things. First, outside of the covenant You were Gentiles in the flesh. He's emphasizing the fact that within that congregation there were Jews and there were Gentiles, and those who were Gentile believers had been apart from the covenants of God. And when we talk about God's covenant, we're talking about the fact that he set his affection on a people and he entered into covenant with them and he said, You're my people, I'm your God, I'm going to work through you in a very special way. And so God was inviting all the peoples of the earth to come and to see him through a people. And he says, You were not a part of that people. You were Gentiles in the flesh. Their physical birth isolated them from God's Jewish people. And not only were they physically not a part of those people, Not that they couldn't have been saved, okay? Many Gentiles in the Old Testament were saved. If we sat down and we looked at all of the various Gentiles that became believers, you'd be amazed at how many you would find. So it's not saying that God didn't save Gentiles in the Old Testament, okay? But what it's saying is this, you are not a part of the covenant people. That's changed. He says you were not just outside of the covenant, but you were really viewed with disdain by the people who were part of that group. Now, I'm not saying that the Jewish people were right in the way that they viewed the Gentile nations, but it's a fact they viewed them with disdain. He says, you were called uncircumcision I want you to go back in your minds to the story of David and Goliath. You remember this story? Goliath goes out day after day, and he mocks God's people. He mocks the nation of Israel, and he mocks their God by his gods. You remember that story? And one day David comes to visit his brothers to find out how things are going. And as David is listening, he says, who is this person? Well, he was a really big guy. He was a really scary guy. He wasn't somebody that anybody wanted to go and fight. But remember how he rem how he speaks of him. Who is this uncircumcised Philistine? Why do you think David said that? He said this guy and one of us. He's not a part of the people of God. He's an idol worshiper. He's a heathen. Lots of different ways he would have described him. But I'm bringing it up to make this point. David viewed Goliath with disdain. And Paul is emphasizing to these people that you were viewed with disdain. That might make you feel uncomfortable. That's the reality. That's what he's saying. A third thing he mentions is this, you had no hope. He said, you're having no hope and without God in this world. He is drawing these Christians to reflect on the fact that before their conversion, they were isolated from God's people, they were viewed with disdain, and they had no hope of changing any of it. But is that where they stood at the moment that he writes the letter? It's not. He then says this, but now, in Christ Jesus. In other words, he is emphasizing the fact that when these Gentile Christians became Christians, something radically changed about them. They were no longer foreigners and separated from the covenants. They were no longer to be viewed with disdain, not saying that they should have been viewed with disdain, but they were being viewed with disdain. They were no longer a people that were without hope. They were described three ways that were very different than the way before. The first way he describes them is this. He says, they're at peace with God. He says, you who were far off, past, are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. Not just your peace, he's our peace. He's made both one and he's broken down the middle wall of partition between us. He's saying because of the cross, because of Christ's death, because of his shed blood, we have been brought close And we're at peace with God and at peace with one another, and we're a part of the same body. It's an amazing concept. He then goes on beyond that. He says, we're in a position of blessedness. He says that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby. came and preached peace to you which were afar off, and to them which were nigh, for through him we both have access by one spirit unto the Father. Now, when we come to the Lord's table and we take these elements, what are we doing? We're remembering what unites us. We're remembering what gives all of us equal access to the Father. We're reminded that because of his death and his resurrection, we're brought into one body. It's a pretty amazing concept, isn't it? And the last thing he mentions is this: you are a part of the people of God. He closes that little section by saying, You are of the household of God. You're his people, not just his nation. His household. That means you dwell with him. He dwells with you. It's an amazing concept We're not just celebrating that we're going to heaven and when we die, but we're remembering the incredible brokenness and helplessness of our position before we were redeemed, and the incredible blessings that we now enjoy in Christ. We see a fourth truth. And this one is extremely important. We celebrate the blessings of God's personal presence Now, you know, there might be some people, depending on your background, who when we are at the Lord's table and somebody says we celebrate the blessing of God's presence, makes you uncomfortable. I want you to realize something. God's presence is not in the elements. God's presence is in the people who partake of the elements. Do you get that? God's presence is not in the elements. God's presence is in the people who partake. In other words, we, the body, are his dwelling place. When God calls us to assemble, He says, where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I what? I'm in the midst. We celebrate the Lord's table. We are reminding ourselves that because of the death and resurrection of Christ, because his body was broken, his blood was shed, we are in the presence of God. As a body. Folks, honestly speaking, that is one of the reasons that when we talk about going to church at home on a live stream, we are not going to church on a live stream. I'm thankful that some people who cannot come are able to participate in some way through those those avenues. I'm very thankful for them. But I want you to realize you do not go to church online. God's presence is not gathered with you and his people when you say It is true that you are the temple of the living God, but when the Bible talks about God's presence and his worship, he talks about the gathered assembly. It's so critically important that we recognize that we don't just come to church because of a duty, but we come to church because God's presence is with us in a very special way. in a very sacred and holy manner. And really he's going to emphasize this in the text. And I want you to notice the way that he speaks of this In verse 20 he says, and are, meaning us, built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. And don't miss the rest. And whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto unholy what? A holy what? Temple. Now, folks, this passage is not talking about you as an individual. It's not. You cannot apply it as an individual. It is a corporate text. It's referring to the body gathered together When we think about God's people in the Old Testament, how they would go to the temple, they went to the place where God's presence met with his people. This is what made it such a special, such a sacred, such a holy time, where at different times of the year they would go up to the temple and they would worship together. God's presence dwelt in that place. Well, folks, God's presence is everywhere, okay? It is true. He is omnipresent. God dwells in the believer. That is true. The Bible talks about the believer as the temple of God. But this text is not is not emphasizing the omnipresence of God. This text is not emphasizing the fact that you as an individual house the Holy Spirit. He's saying we the body are the dwelling place of God. You cannot apply this in an individual context. It's impossible. And then he goes, in whom ye also are builded together for a habitation of God through the Spirit. Every member of the body is critically important. The regular assembling of God's people is critically important. We need to recognize that when we come to the Lord's table, we celebrate God's presence not in the elements, but in our midst as a gathered people. We are fitted together his temple. Notice how he puts it. This presence is only accessible through the gospel. It's built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. You cannot claim this apart from the gospel that was laid out once and for all. This this Christ is the center of this blessed message. Jesus Christ is the chief cornerstone. We talk about the gospel. We talk about the message presented by the apostles and the prophets. What do we see? It's all pointing to Christ. They lay the foundation and he is the cornerstone. It's all connected to him. Apart from the gospel, we do not have these blessings. We're built upon him and rooted in him as a holy temple. All the building fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord. This temple houses the very presence of God. Build it together for an holy habitation of God through the Spirit. You know, it's interesting. We will find that this kind of language and this concept is presented in 1 Peter. We'll find that Paul refers to this language in the book of Romans. We'll see that Paul refers to this kind of language in the book of 1 Corinthians. It's interesting when Jesus talks about the fact that he will build his church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. We even see some of this concept in what Jesus says in that text. We go to the book of Revelation and he talks about the church at Ephesus and all those other churches, and he talks about the golden candlesticks, and he says, I walk in the midst of the golden candlesticks. So interesting. Why do we see these texts that way? Because God emphasizes that the gathering of his people in corporate worship is extremely Extremely important. We're reminded that his presence is not just here, certainly not in the elements, but rather in the people gathered to remember the gospel that unites us. If there's anything that as a pastor I hope to emphasize when it comes to worship, it's that this is an incredible privilege. It's an incredible privilege. In fact, this Wednesday, uh, when Chris was preaching, he was going through the response of the people who had been exiled and they were in Babylon and they were being sent back to rebuild the temple and to rebuild It's interesting, at the end of that discussion, it says that the people cried And wept, and others rejoiced. And there was so much sound of the crying and the rejoicing that you couldn't discern the two. What's really interesting about that passage is it doesn't really tell us why they were crying. It doesn't tell us if they were crying because they were overflowing with joy. It doesn't tell us that they were crying because they were overwhelm uh overwhelmed by how long it had been since they'd worshiped there. We don't know if it's because they thought that the temple being built was inferior to the first. We don't know. But the reality is this, probably all three were there. There are people that said, this temple, it's not like the first. There are people that said, It's been far too long since God's people gathered in this place. And there are people that were just overwhelmed with excitement to be able to worship again. And to be very honest, we should have that sense. Probably not the first one so much, but we should have that sense. We can gather We can meet. We can worship. His presence is with us. Why is this assembly and ordinances so important? Because his presence is among us in a very unique and precious way. He meets with us and does a work in us as we gather together to worship him. This is an absolutely critical aspect of our faith. his people. I say this with strong confidence. Christians who neglect the church do not grow. I really mean that. Christians who neglect the local church do not grow. Because this right here is something that they don't have. And this right here is something that they so desperately need. You know, when when we were not allowed to gather, a lot of us said the church is essential. We did. The question is, when churching becomes inconvenient, do we really believe it's essential? I'm here to tell you it is essential. Absolutely essential. It's a vital aspect of our growth as Christians. We cannot neglect it. And as we partake of the Lord's table, we are celebrating because of his death and resurrection. We have this bond in Christ. Let's bow together for prayer and prepare harps to take the elements. Father, it is such a privilege to be called a Christian. It is such a privilege to be gathered with your people. Your presence is among us. When we partake of these elements, we remember What gives us a position before you? I pray that we would be overwhelmed by the sweetness and the greatness of what was accomplished so that we could be redeemed and brought into one body Help us not to neglect the church. Help us to recognize it's impossible to grow as a Christian. When I neglect one of the most vital elements of our worship and our faith. Father, help us to really have a singular heart this morning as we remember the death of Jesus and his resurrection. Resurrection, his body and his blood. Father, help us to be overwhelmed with gratitude, humility, and praise. I pray that this would be a very sweet time As we reflect on the blessings we enjoy in Christ, we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.