Good evening. All right, good. I think this side wins. That's good. All right. Hey, listen, it is a great joy to be able to to be here tonight. And uh usually we fly out in the afternoon, but Uh it was much better to go later on in the evening and hopefully we'll get out later tonight. But thank you, Pastor, for the opportunity just to spend a little bit of time doing some pan piano. You know, usually when you hear piano music at church You're doing other stuff, right? Like before or after the service where you're talking to people, or during the handshaking verse when you're trying to you know greet people, or maybe it's during the song when you're trying to hit the right note But for a few minutes here tonight, you can just sit back, relax, and hopefully enjoy the music and the message of the music. And I'm going to start off with one of the great anthems that brings glory to God. Crown him with many crowns. Right, and the old. All right. Well I was told not to play too loud. Or I would hurt the flutes. So I'm sorry. Okay. Alright. Good. Our purpose here tonight is not to show off. It is to glorify the Lord. And uh I'm going to do a number of songs tonight as do webs. uh with myself, but I put myself in a little box and it's back there. And if there's any any issues that come up, it's Frank's fault. Not my okay, good. Thanks, Fray. That's good. He's feverishly working back there behind the curtains. Don't pay no attention to the guy behind the curtain. That's great. Uh but uh this next one is one of those. I've used a number of different uh MIDI instruments to accompany this. We're reminded that the Bible says that what's whether therefore we eat Or drink, or whatsoever we do, do all to the glory of God. The best Why is it that there are people in this world that have absolutely everything? I mean they've got nice cars, nice houses, clothes. And they're miserable. And other people have relatively little and they're happy. How does that work? Well, the Apostle Paul said this. He said, Not that I speak in respect of want, but I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. Now, I want you to notice the verb he uses in that verse. He doesn't say, I'm just this really bubbly person that's just happy all the time. He doesn't say, well, my life is pretty easy, and so I'm content all the time. No, we we know we had a pretty difficult life. He uses this verb, for I have learned. In other words, when we go through hardships in life, we have an opportunity to learn God 's grace and contentment. None of us enjoys going through hardships in life, but we can use those as opportunities to learn contentment from God. Now I want you to think about that in light of this next song. Perhaps you're familiar with the song and even the story behind it. We sang it this morning at church. H. G. Spafford lost a lot of what he owned in the Great Chicago fire back in the early 1900s. And so he sent his wife and three little girls over to England on a ship called the Vildu Hauer. In transit The Vildu Hauer was rammed by a tanker and it sank, and with it his three little girls perished. As soon as he heard the news, he immediately got on board a ship to go to England to join his wife. And as Spafford got to the place in the Atlantic where the Vildu Hauer went down, the captain notified him, and he wrote the words of this next song. Now think about this in light of what we said. He says When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea billows roll. Whatever my lot, thou hast taught me to say, it is well. It is well with my soul. Back when I was in junior church, we used to sing a song called Do Lord, Oh, Do Lord, Oh, Do Remember Me. I see some hands nodding out there. Okay, good. My dad hated that song. He would say to me, Pete, you don't have to keep asking God to remember you. He promises to remember you And so he changed it. When we would sing it at junior church and he was at the piano, we would change it to, My Lord, oh my Lord, yes, he remembers me. Well, it really doesn't affect the way I play it. So you can listen to it however you're comfortable with. I'm gonna be playing it though with the words, my lord, oh my lord, yes, he remembers me. Many of our songs in our hymna were written out of real trial and tragedy in life, but this next song was not. Just written out of a daily walk with Jesus Christ. Robert Chisholm writes, Great is thy faithfulness, O God my Father. There's no shadow of turning with thee. Thou changest not. Thy compassions, they fail not. As thou hast been, thou forever wilt be. Great is thy faithfulness. And this will be set with Beethoven's Moonlight Sonata. Kuudet. We've probably all sung the song Jesus Loves Me, this I know. I put this in a medley with another children's song called Jesus Loves the Little Children. And in this song, I have tried to take you to a couple places in the world. Okay? So I'm going to give you a quiz right after this song. See where we went, okay? Because the word says the less the little children, all the children of the world All right. Are you ready? Quiz. Go. Asia. Okay, good. Can we be a little more specific? Austria, cool. Uh Germany, Austria has got the um papas in there. I'm sorry I didn't have a tuba to put in there, but uh yes, good, all right. And Okay, Russia. Cool. That was in there too. All right. Uh yeah. R right. Yeah. Let's go with Spain, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, yeah, you've got the uh the umbrum pum um pum m yeah we'll put them all in there, yes. And I think I heard it over here. Japan, yeah, Oriental uh up there as well. China. China, Japan, yeah, the Oriental. How about the most obvious one? Hey United States, very good. Alright, I hope you got uh all of those. This next song I'm going to play has an interesting story. It's in our hymnal. It's in uh it's page number 42 if you want to look at it and uh check up on me This song, I didn't put a whole lot of words on the screen, but this song is interesting because it was written by P. P. Bliss, the same guy who wrote It Is Well with My Soul, but the tune to It Is Well with My Soul. He wrote a number of other of the songs in our hymnal But uh at one point he was traveling from Pennsylvania to the Midwest on a train and a bridge collapsed. and the train plummeted below. It's said that he survived, but his wife was still in there. He went in after her and perished as well with her. His friend, James McGranaghan, found his trunk and found a partially finished gospel song in there And then he took it and finished it and uh performed it and publicized it often. And if you take a look at this song in your hymnal, you'll see that the core the verse is in 9-8 time. The chorus is in 12-8 time. Most songs in our hymn though do not change time signatures, but this one does, because it was a tribute. to P. P. Bliss. They sang this often in his memory. And the name of the song kind of talks about what we were looking at this morning. Jesus, our great redeemer. I will sing of my Redeemer. I'm a back pew Baptist, don't you know? To the front I just won't go, cause people might expect me to do all those things I own. Down in front I might get stirred by the things that I have heard, and that's not good for me. You see, the back row cue is best for me. Way back here, I'll fit and rest. Then I don't have to do my best. My life may not be in a card. God be badness for my Lord. Hey, yeah, it's really comfy back here, isn't it? Hey, what's going on up there? I don't I don't know, man. A singer singing way up there. I can't hear, but I don't care. There's more important things to do with others in this. back rouse when the preacher does his stuff. Very soon I've had enough and I sit Back and meditate on things that I appreciate. Way back here I'll fit at rest that I don't have to do my best. My life may not be good on the call. Lord , but I will not feel bad this for my lord. I wonder what it's like up there. Ooh, let's try this. Ooh, this feels weird. Now, one day at the front I'll be there for everyone to see It's when at last I come to die and in the casket I shall lie, then to heaven I'll surely go, for I'm staying by grace, you know. And And when I get there, I shall see the back new place in heaven for me. A way back here , I'll sit and rest, then I don't have to do my best. Light may not be in our cord , but I'll back to you, Baptist, for thy soul. I don't think they knew what to think of that, Pastor. I don't know. Actually when I did that at my church, I told the guy that always sat right there where uh Nate is. I told him I was gonna sing it that night. That night he sat right there. That's great. It was well lots of fun. Well, good stuff. Um this next song was written by a Sunday school teacher who wanted to move his kids from one place to another in an orderly fashion. So he wrote it to march them like soldiers. So when I went to arrange Onward Christian Soldiers, I wanted to give it a military feeling. So with my left hand through most of the song, I'll be playing Revelie. Which is a military theme. Now when I get to the second verse, I wanted to add some more soldier spirit to it. So with my right hand, I've added charge. And I was pretty excited because I was able to weave the two of those together. But the problem is this. On the second verse, I'm playing revelity with this hand and charged with this hand. The problem is how do I play the melody on Workers and Soldiers? Well, watch carefully. All right, now you can say you met somebody that really knows how to play the piano. Wow, that's great. If you have a Bible, that's a great segue, right? Okay. If you have a Bible, turn with me to Psalm chapter 40. Psalm chapter 40. And I just want to leave a couple thoughts with you before I play the last song before you tonight. As you're turning there, don't you like new stuff? I I mean d the smell of new carpet, a new coat of paint, a new car. I've I've actually never driven one, but if you have a new car, that's awesome. We like new stuff. Well, here's my challenge tonight. I just want to remind us of some amazing new things that God has given us. us if you know him as your Savior. Okay? Psalm chapter 40, verse 1 says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings. And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear and shall trust in the Lord. We have some new things according to the psalmist here I want to remind us of. First of all, we have a new location. A new location. Now he says there, he brought me up out of a horrible pit. Now when I read that, probably like you, I think, oh, that's kind of a hole in the ground. But let me let me describe what shepherds referred to when they would talk about Pits with my clay, okay? The shepherds in the Middle East, it was a very arid climate, but once a year there would be flooding And as the waters would subside, there would be holes that would develop over the years. And those holes turned into pits, deeper and deeper and deeper every year. And so what would fall into those pits? Well, obviously water, rain, and the floods. So it would be, it would, it would last its moisture much longer. And so, hence the word myry clay. But what else would be in there, would you guess? Okay, yeah, animals that would fall into these pits and not be able to get out. Therefore, there were dead carcasses in some of these pits. And along with dead carcasses comes maggots and all kinds of other stuff, right? This isn't just a hole in the ground. This is a horrible Stinky, rotten, miry pit. Now, here's the analogy. Before we come to Jesus, we are in a horrible situation. We are so horrible that we we will spend an eternity in hell apart from God. without Jesus Christ. That's pretty horrible. And I want to remind us this morning, if you this evening, if you know Jesus Christ as your Savior, you have been brought up out of that horrible pit. Praise the Lord. And if you're here tonight and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior, may I encourage you to consider your situation without Jesus? The Bible is clear that we've all sinned and we come short of God's glory. And the wages of our sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ. our Lord. If we will call upon the name of the Lord, we'll be saved. Pulled up out of that miry clay, that horrible pit. We have a new location. Secondly, we have a new foundation. It says there that he pulled me up out of a horrible pit and didn't just plop us back down into it. He set my feet on a rock. Aren't you thankful that we have a solid rock foundation for life? You say, what are you talking about there? Throughout scripture, you find the rock is synonymous with with Jesus Christ and the teachings of Jesus Christ and His Word. We have a firm foundation And if you haven't thought about that recently, let me encourage you the next time you're going thumbing through your social media, all that stuff that's out there, what do you believe? You know what? We have a foundation and the truth in the Word of God. We were just talking today. I was telling Pastor, I was really excited because I saw this video of this of this person swimming with a shark, petting a white, a great white shark. I thought this is really cool. And then I showed it to my daughter and she goes, Dad, that's AI. How am I supposed to know that? It didn't say don't do this at home. I mean, what how do you know what to believe? We have what to believe. right here. A solid foundation. A new location. A new foundation. But he didn't just pick us up and and plop us on a rock. Then the Bible says he established my goings. We have a new formation. We have a direction in life. And so we don't have to go bounding through life wondering what to do. We have a purpose. And I alluded to it earlier. Our purpose is to bring glory to God. And you look around us today in this world and you see people that are just waltzing around with no purpose in life and they wonder, why am I here? Others that are living for things that will not bring satisfaction and they wonder, why am I doing this? We have a purpose, a formation, a direction to go in life. A new location, a new foundation, a new formation, a direction to go. And then we have a new proclamation He didn't just lift us up, plop us on a rock, and set us going. He gave us something to say and sing along the way. And what is that? It's even praise unto our God. Now look at what the next verses say. Many shall, now he's talking about the song, right? You can put a new song in my heart, in my mouth. Many shall Now, if it was a song, you would think he'd say, many shall hear it. But he doesn't say that. He says, many shall see it. What does that mean? I believe he's not referencing the song. He's referencing the whole transformation. a changed life like we heard this morning in the life of the Apostle Paul. We have a changed life. And we have a new proclamation. And when we glorify God and bring praise to God and sing praises to God, people see it What do they see? The totally new transformation. And they will fear. And some, many will trust in the Lord. That is how we can be a witness. to the world around us by letting them know our testimony, our new location, our new foundation, our new formation, and our new proclamation. And I want to end with this at the very end of this chapter. He says this in verse 17. But I am poor and needy, yet the Lord thinketh upon me. Thou art my help and my deliverer. You know, we have a new destination as well. If you're here this evening and you know Jesus Christ as your Savior, you have heaven to look for Forward to. For my last song tonight, before I turn it back over to Pastor, I'd like to try to paint a picture of heaven. Not the grandeur or the majesty of heaven, but the beauty. The sweetness of heaven. There's a land that is fairer than day, and by faith we can see it afar, for the Father waits o'er the way to prepare us a dwelling place there.