Well, good morning. Good to see each of you today. I hope that you're having a great weekend and we're looking forward to a wonderful service this morning. Pastor Chris is going to come with a couple of announcements, and then I will also close with a few announcements before we open up in prayer. Morning once again. We got uh just a few things going on this week, particular particularly today. We got our welcomers and ushers meeting going on right after the morning service That will be held here in the auditorium on the piano side. So if you have been an Usher or you've worked at the Welcome Desk, if you're interested, if you want some information, or if I emailed you, please plan on being there. We'll be discussing some very important topics um and putting out the schedule for the next quarter. Ladies, you're busy this week as well. You got uh Mothers of Littles going on tomorrow at 10 a. m. as well as a ladies' meeting on Thursday at 7 p. m. So uh hope you guys are looking forward to to those and we also have on our calendar the Forever Be Sure service uh at 7 p. m on March 10th And I hope you guys are making plans on being there for that. We have uh cards for that that you can hand out at the welcome desk. So if you uh have time, grab a few and uh see if some folks will come out too. Okay, also I wanted to mention, I know that Mothers of Littles is mentioned, but it's a great way for moms who have small children. This would be like your nursery age babies. It's a great way to connect and to reach out. So ladies who are who have little kids like that, please invite friends to that. It's going to be a great time. And so we're thankful to be able to get that started again. I often fail to mention the Baltimore Rescue Mission, but that's always the second Tuesday night. of the new month. So on the 8th of March is when we have our next one. And if you're interested in going with us to the mission, basically we run two services. One service is in the ladies side and one is on the men's side. And it's a great way to reach out. So please, if you're interested in that, reach out, let us know, and we'll give you more details. But generally we leave here about 6. 30 and we get back around 9 o'clock. Also on the 12th we have our men's breakfast and Bible study coming up, and we had a really, really good turnout this last time. Great group of guys. And um we pretty much ran out of food, which is uh well I say I guess we we we ate as much as we needed, we'll put it that way. Uh but we really had a great group out, and so I want to encourage you men uh sign up for that so that we can and be prepared for the group that will be there. And we'd really appreciate that. I also wanted to mention that we have our spring meetings coming up later in the month of March with a Evangelist Brent Gellis and uh Brent has been here before. Uh he and I uh were good friends growing up, still are good friends, and uh he's gonna be with us uh with his family. They're gonna be here uh from Sunday through So I know that uh it's difficult, particularly in this area with travel, to get out to evening meetings during the week, but I want to encourage you um to mark that on your calendar and do the best you can to be out to those meetings. I think the Lord will really use it to be an encouragement and a blessing to you. If you could, let's take out our Bibles and we're going to do our opening scripture reading. And that is Isaiah 61. Verses 1 through 3. Again, it's Isaiah 61, verses 1 through 3. Here's what the scriptures say. This is speaking of our Savior, the Lord Jesus. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. Because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. He hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to them that are bound. To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all that mourn, to appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes and oil for joy for mourning. The garments of praise for the spirit of heaviness, that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he might be glorified This morning we're going to look at the fulfillment of that wonderful promise from God's Word. And also this morning, when we go to the Lord in prayer, I want us to spend some significant time. Remembering our missionaries that are in dangerous places right now. And we have a missionary who is serving in Eastern Europe, and he is currently in Eastern Europe. And we need to be in prayer for this dear man. And not just for him, but for the many, many believers that he has given decades to investing in the their lives and many of the pastors right now who are in harm's way, many of the congregations that are in dangerous places are people that he has personally been involved in many Entering and teaching. So let's be in prayer for this individual. And we also have other missionaries who are in places that at the moment moment are not as dangerous as that location, but in fact they are also very delicate situations as well. So let's uh go to the Lord in prayer for these matters. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together in peace. We can focus our attention on the Lord Jesus and we can celebrate the gospel and the significance. the weight of those wonderful truths of what you accomplished for us through your son going to the cross and dying and rising triumphantly. Father, I pray that this morning our hearts would be knit together in a very special I pray that our praise would uh be with a clear understanding, that our hearts would overwhelm with joy and gratitude to you, that our hearts would be humbled in your presence. I pray that this would be a very sweet day. Of remembrance and reflection and worship. A time of very sweet fellowship as a body of believers. Father, our hearts are very heavy about things that are going on in other parts of the world right now. About what's going on in Eastern Europe. We think about our missionary that serves and has served for many, many years in that location. We're thankful for his steadfastness, his faithfulness, the way he has served you in for many, many years in that location. And we thank you for his courage to want to be with the people that he has ministered to for a very long time. Father, we pray that your hand of protection would be on your people. We pray that you would uh work in ways that are beyond our ability to protect Protect your servants in that place. I pray that you would give courage. I pray that you give steadfastness. Father, we pray for protection. Father, we pray that you would bring a peaceable end to what's Going on in this location. I pray that those that are inflicting injustice and evil would be brought to face your wrath. I pray that you would deal with these individuals who are acting in such arrogance Father, I pray that you would protect your people that are meeting all around the world today, have already met and will meet later in the day as they gather together to sing your praises, to sit under the ministry of your word. And to commune as a body of believers. I pray that today would be a very sweet, Christ-centered, gospel-centered day all over the world. And I thank you that we are able to partake in this moment as our brothers and sisters around the world do as well. Father, I pray for your blessing on this service. May all that is said and done truly exalt Christ. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Both in person with us here and those on live stream. As we start the morning's service off in music, we're going to take our hymnals and turn to page six. Right before page seven, so it's page six, and we're going to sing the mighty power of God, but you can't do it sitting down. Please stand with me I sing the mighty power of God. All three verses. I sing the mighty power of God. The whole thing was on the road on day , the word is gone back, and all the star float away. I will come from the Lord and help me out in for my preacher and work and put out some God Lord God I won 't be Where had I turned my eyes And I learned for my case of Amen. Now we're gonna turn to page a hundred and seventy-seven. And sing our great Savior. Sing out, sounding great this morning. Вот он , как ты конькая , будет понять , давай будет мощный сходу , да, бегать поймут, да выражение. Brilliant Когда приедет , бежит пыль, я легкинь, вот были бы Славных догадали на плюс и здоровье , поэтому. . Amen. Go ahead and have a seat while we turn back to three hundred and thirty-six. Follow along, three thirty-six. And we're going to sing, My hope is in the Lord. My confident expectation is in the Lord But only the other one. Now we will continue with the scripture reading. Last week we were in Luke chapter 4. This week we're in Luke chapter 4. So follow along. We're going to start in verse 13 and read down to verse 21. So look on the screen or follow along with me in your Bible And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a season. And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. And there went out a fame of him through all the region round about. And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all. And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up, and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up for to read. And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captive. and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister. and sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his work. Um liquor should have And I only use bundle and then we can run back. This is you, we can Amen. You all get to follow that up with your beautiful voices now And we're going to turn to page 478. 478. And what a song to follow up with. Page 478, it is Well With My Soul. When peace like a river my way when seven. What I tell my what thou hast taught me to say. It is well, it is well where thy soul It is well with my soul, it is why. Well with my so That cry and regard my help. I can shed his blood for my soul It is well with my soul. I said of this not a small I think not in part Is jail to the heart, and I pray no more. It is well With my soul in well , in well with my glow. No a capella, no instruments. And glorpacto I may have designed the road and The trunk shall be sound, and the Lord shall be send Even so it is well worth my soul It is well with my soul It is well, it is well with my soul You all ought to be up here listening to that. Oh my goodness. Okay. Wow. We're going to go to our blue book, page 38. Page 38. Oh goodness. Great is the Lord. Please stand with me on this song. Holy name in the terror they make the land. Thank you that God will play for God. Oh God, to say the God for the world. Let the home and break this only on the land shall by God. Why we 'll worship right along the way. Amen. Please be seated. While the pre choir prepares I have some like peaceful crowd. I was like , I will make the doors of night. I will make their garden pride. And the uh you know the power of breaking a little more. I will born my beef of name. I have birth for love of them. I have I will go. I was a boy of wind and flames. I was scared of foreign plane. I was scared of evil. My hand will pay like a friend, I will go by till their heart be standing. I will give my life to them. Okay, I don't know about you, but my heart's been very, very richly blessed already. And uh it's really been good to be in the Lord's house and to sing praise together. And uh, you know, where Doug is standing, he was able to hear the choir in front of him and behind him. And uh so that's a very surround sound, unique place to be. And uh the singing this morning has been truly, truly wonderful. And so I'm thankful for that. Our children can be dismissed to the back. I know most of them already are. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to turn with me together to the book of Luke. And we're in Luke chapter 4, and this morning we're looking at verses 13 down to verse 21. Again, that's Luke chapter 4 and verses 13 down to verse 21. And the passage we're looking at is focusing on a very important question and the answer to this very important question. And the question is, what makes the gospel good news? Why is this message so good for you and for me? Why is it that this morning as we gather together, we rejoice in the gospel? Why do we praise God and we worship Him with this overflow of praise and joy? What makes the gospel good news? Well, this morning we're going to look at three aspects of what makes the gospel such tremendously good news. Let's look down in verse number 13. We'll read it together, and then we'll dig into the contents of the passage in front of us. Here's what God's Word says. When the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a season. And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. And there went out a fame of him through all the regions round about. He taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all. And he came to Nazareth, Where he had been brought up. And as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stood up for to read. And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah When he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister and sat down. And the eyes of them all that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ear. I want you to just kind of for a moment try to imagine what it would have been like to have been sitting in that synagogue on that day. When it says that Jesus went into Galilee, he went into the place where he grew up. And you know, if you talk about a city like where we live today, I mean Anorino County has, I think, almost 600,000 people living in the county. The truth is if you grew up in Anne Rundel County, uh you could get lost in this county very easily. But if you had lived in an ancient Jewish village Everybody knew you very, very well. They knew your family. They knew every story from your childhood. You had a reputation in the community where you grew up. And the Lord Jesus Christ grew up in Nazareth, and as he's getting to that age where now he's at the age where he becomes a leader in the local community, he was 30 years old That's the age when someone would have become a priest, or that's the age when someone would have begun serving in the temple if they were Levites. That's the age where a man would have stepped into that role of re of reading the scriptures in the synagogue and then beginning to expound what they found in those verses. In fact a lot of what we do as Christians in This time period, a lot of that really goes back to the style of the way that they would have met and assembled even in the synagogue in those days. Someone would get up, read the word, and then expound the word. Well the Lord Jesus did that on this particular day. But what's very interesting about what's going on is when he stepped into this role, he stepped into this role, and there were some things that he did that kind of made the people go, this is different. than anybody else that stepped into this role before. It says they brought him a book of the prophet Isaiah. And I don't know if that is a physical book like we have here, if it's more like a scroll, but they bring this document And when they get it, he opens up this document, and he doesn't just start reading right at the beginning of this particular document. He searches for a location. A very specific location, you go, why did he do that? Because it was going to be saying something about who he was And about what he was about to do. And so Christ goes to this portion and he begins reading. And what's very interesting is as he's reading, it's written in the first person. But when Jesus is reading this in the first person, he's not reading it the way that you would read it in the first person, or the way that I would read it in the first person. In fact, sometimes when we come to a scripture like that, we'll say, these are the words of Christ. And so as we read them, we understand this is what Jesus said. As Jesus is reading this, he didn't say that. He read it as if he was speaking these words for himself. On his own authority to these people at that moment. And I think as Jesus is reading these words, the people are beginning to get the sense that this is different than the way that people normally do this. Because it says when Jesus sat down, the people fastened their eyes on him and they were like, What is he about to say? He said, Today, these words are fulfilled. And your ears. All of a sudden the people realize something. He's saying that he is the fulfillment of this prophecy. That's absolutely incredible. Jesus is saying that what was written 700 years prior by the prophet Isaiah These words were being fulfilled in the midst of the people that were there that day. And you say, well, what exactly is this passage demonstrating? Well, the passage was describing the very first time that Christ is saying Here's who I am. Here's what I'm gonna do. And part of that, here's who I am, and here's what I'm gonna do. Part of that, the the main part of that If he's talking about the nature of his redemptive work, what makes the gospel in fact good news. These verses expound to us in detail why the gospel is good news. And so I want you to see that this morning. And I want you to see that because what the Lord would have us to do this morning is to appreciate with a fervency and joy in our hearts the blessings that are contained in the gospel message. And if this gospel message is not a message we have embraced by faith alone, then today we need to turn to Christ. We need to trust in his finished work, or if these are truths that we've embraced, but we have forgotten. We need to go back to these truths, and we need to reflect on these truths, and we need to allow the word of God to stir up our affections. To stir up our hearts and to strengthen us in our faith in Christ. Let me begin with a couple of introductory thoughts as we dig into the text in front of us. The first is an obvious one. We live in a broken world. We live in a fallen world. We live in a painful world. As I was thinking about how I would describe the world that we live in, it's a sinful world. It's a world that's full of enslavements to fleshly passions. It's a world in which people make self-destructive decisions. You know, this morning as we were praying for people in Eastern Europe , There is a reason that there is so much chaos and so much trauma going on in that region. It's because there are people, individuals, in very high places who are filled with greed. And pride and passion. They're not considering the well-being of other individuals. In fact, all they can do is have this lust and hubris for their own power and their own reputation and where they're gonna be in history. And we can look at that example and we can go, yes, that's an example, but the reality is within our own hearts we all have That propensity, that press toward that kind of a hubris as well. And if not for the grace of God, if we were given the opportunity, who knows what we would be capable of. This is a world full of enslavement and f fleshly passions. Sickness, poverty, pain, suffering, injustice, abuses, death. This is the world that we live in. We see this continual corruption of everything that is good. We see the emptiness of a life that seems to always fall short of the glory that every single person wants in this world. People want a utopia, isn't that what they want? They want a world that's peaceful, a place where we can prosper and enjoy life, but what they long for is not what we see on this side of eternity. We see the viciousness of a fallen world. How does the scripture describe this world? Let me give you a couple of examples. In Job 14, verse 1, it says, that man is born Man born of woman is of few days, full of trouble. He cometh forth like a flower and is cut down. He fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not. Ecclesiastes chapter 1, verse 2, it says, Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. What profit hath a man of all his work that he taketh up under the sun? One generation passeth away, another generation cometh, but the earth abideth forever. Romans chapter eight verse twenty-two says that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. Not only they But we ourselves also, which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves grown within ourselves, waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our bodies When we look at this world, we see a world that is anticipating something different, but doesn't have the power in and of itself to accomplish that kind of a world. What's amazing about the Bible is that the Bible affirms that yes, that's the world we live in, but the Bible also drives to this wonderful truth that there's a glorious reality that is coming in the future. Revelation twenty-one four to five. It says that there will be a day when God wipes away all tears from their eyes. There shall be no more death, neither sorrow, no crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. He that sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. He said, Write, for these words are true, and they are faithful. What John describes in Revelation 21 is what people want on this side of eternity. And God promises there's going to be a day that that in fact is the experience of people that are suffering in this broken and fallen world. So the question is, how does this happen? Does it happen by military might? Does it happen through education? Does it happen through advancement in medicine? Does it happen through Leagues of Nations? Does it happen through power and preeminence? How does this take place? And the answer is there's only one answer for this problem. It's not medicine. It's not science. It's not education. It's not government. It's the gospel. The gospel is the only thing that can bring what Revelation 21, 4 to 5 tells us. And this is what sustains us in a fallen world. God is going to bring this reality to pass. These verses give us how God's going to do that. It's in the person of Christ. What makes the gospel such good news is that it is the answer to the brokenness of this very miserable and fallen world. And by the way, when I say it's a miserable and fallen world, I don't mean that it's only miserable, okay? There are many, many blessings. This morning, my heart has been overflowed with joy as I think about these songs. As I listen to the singing, as we think about the choir, as we think about these scriptures, there is tremendous joy. We have blessings in our families. We have blessings in our In so many ways. While this is a broken and fallen world, there are also many ways that God demonstrates his goodness to us. But there's only one place that we find the true answer to reversing the terrible consequences of the fall. It's the gospel. So let's look at a couple of truths this morning that I hope will be encouragement to you. Truth number one, Christ's ministry was a ministry that was filled by the Holy Spirit. This is one of the reasons that the gospel is such tremendously good news. Look down in verses 13 and 14 at what it says. It says, When the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a Caesar. And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. Now let me remind you again of the flow of the verses that we're looking at. In verses 1 to 13, what we saw last week and the week before. We talked about how the temptation of Christ and the way that he responded to Satan's onslaught, his temptation, demonstrated his fitness, his qualification to go to the cross and to redeem us. Jesus was truly righteous and he demonstrated that righteousness by the way that he lived in this fallen world. He's God in flesh and he demonstrated, I am fit, I am qualified to go to the cross. and to be the second Adam and to accomplish redemption. So that's what those verses really are ultimately about, demonstrating who Jesus is. He can redeem us. Verses 14 through 21, this is basically what we're looking at this morning, demonstrate his intention to accomplish that work of redemption. It wasn't just a theory. It wasn't just that Jesus said, I can go to the cross. I'm qualified to go to the cross. These verses tell us he's going to do it. He's going to accomplish redemption. They also announced that he was enabled by the Father through the power of the Holy Spirit. He was enabled to actually go and do that. And it wasn't just talking about his enabling by the Spirit's power, but it was a sign that kind of validated his identity. It's very similar to what happened when Jesus was baptized in the Jordan River. When Jesus was baptized in the Jordan River, it said that there was a voice from heaven that said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I'm well pleased. The Father was validating the person of Christ. It says the Holy Spirit came upon him as a dove. And that was a sign to demonstrate that the Holy Spirit bears witness to the fact that Jesus is, in fact, the Messiah. These verses tell us that Jesus, the second person of the Trinity, the first and the third, have already been mentioned, but he affirms, he witnesses to his own identity. That's what these verses are all about. He did his work by the power of the Spirit. It says in verse 21 and 22 of chapter 3, when the people were baptized, the Holy Spirit descended upon him. In verse number one of chapter four, it says, Jesus was full of the Holy Ghost and returned unto Galilee. These verses show us the presence of the Holy Spirit at work in his life. His identity was validated by the Spirit's anointing. In fact, this is a really interesting topic. I can't go deeply into it for the sake of time, but when we go to the Old Testament, many times we read about people who are kings in leadership. Or people who were prophets, or people who were priests, these individuals, when they went into that role of leadership, spiritual leadership, They would anoint them with oil. You remember the story of Saul Saul of Saul being anointed as he's hiding amongst the stuff? Or do you remember the story about how David is going to be anointed to be the next king? And God sends Samuel, and Samuel looks at all of the sons of Jesse, and he says, there's still one remaining. And when David comes, he kneels down and he's anointed with oil. You say, What is that? Well, it was a picture of something. Someone who was appointed by God in the Old Testament to be a king, to be a priest. To be a prophet, there was this testimony that would come with that, and they would anoint them with oil, saying, the Holy Spirit's coming upon them to empower them to do that work It was symbolic of the authority that God gave him, the spiritual authority to function in that office. The Lord Jesus Christ functioned as prophet, proclaiming the gospel. He's functioning as priest. He stands between us and the Father. There's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. He functions as king. He rules and reigns over his creation. He's seated at the right hand of the Father, and one day he's going to rule and reign over his kingdom forever. Christ embodies all those things in himself. When Jesus walks into this place and says, the Spirit of the Lord has anointed me, he's saying, God has called me out for this very specific word. And in Isaiah chapter 11 it says it this way. There shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse. And a branch shall grow out of his roots, and the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. That's talking of Jesus His identity was validated in this moment. You say, well, who is Jesus? He's God in flesh John 1. 14, the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. Who is Jesus? He laid aside his glory and his power. In Philippians 2. 7, it says he made himself of no reputation. And took upon himself the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of man. Who is Jesus? He is the one who did his work by the power of the Spirit. 1 Timothy 3, verse 16. It says, Great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifested in the flesh, justified in the spirit. In other words, when Jesus Christ came and he did his work by the power of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit bore witness Demonstrating that in fact Jesus is the Messiah. His claim to be the Messiah was validated. It was declared to be true. That's what it's saying. Who is Jesus? He's the anointed one. And in Acts chapter 10, verse 38, it says, God appointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power. Who went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed of the devil, God was with him. He came to redeem you. And what we're going to see in these verses is he didn't just come to redeem us, but he came to comfort us on the way to that day when we will finally enjoy the full reward of our eternal inheritance. These verses show us who Jesus is. Secondly, his ministry demonstrated that God is faithful. I absolutely love this next little section because it speaks tremendous volumes. And it's very practical to us where we stand today. In verses 15 through 18, and then in verse 21, listen carefully to what it says. And he taught in their synagogue, being glorified of all. He came to Nazareth where he had been brought up, and as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up for T'Hereid. There was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah, and when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me He hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. And then at the end he says, this day, this scripture is fulfilled in your ears. Now I want to begin with this simple question. What is really the greatest question that we face in life many times? It's the question: is God really trustworthy? Is God really faithful? If he says he's going to do something, does he actually do it? Is God faithful to his word? And you know what's amazing? We see so many examples in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. Of people being tested with this question. Think about when God promised He was going to destroy the world in the flood. In the days of Noah. How long did it take Noah to build the boat? Well, it wasn't six months. It wasn't ten years. It was 120 years. He literally labored for all that time. And do you think for a moment that maybe Noah might have said, God, am I a little bit mistaken in what I heard you say to do? Am I a little bit mistaken? I'm going to get some water. My throat is a bit on the dry side here. Thank you. Am I a bit mistaken in the fact that you're actually going to do what you said you're going to do? What was God doing? He was testing Noah. Think about when God told Abram that his wife Sarah would have a child, that she who is called barren would be the mother of great nations. And then it didn't happen. And it didn't happen. It didn't happen. It didn't happen. It didn't happen. Through all that time, what does Abraham do It was very practical. When the children of Israel were slaves in Egypt, I'm reading through the book of Exodus right now. And as I read through the book of Exodus, I think about the fact that it says that God remembered his people. And God looked upon their sorrow, and he was favorable to them. But for several hundred years, the people were slaves in Egypt. And they wondered, is God faithful to his word? Think about when they were actually delivered out of Egypt. And then they're going out with a heavy hand. They have all this stuff that the Egyptians gave them. And then as they're getting close to the Red Sea, all of a sudden they realize something looking out over that desert. And you can see for miles in the desert. They see the glistening of armor. They see this dust cloud that says there's a mighty army that's coming out. And here they are backed up against the Red Sea. And they're going, Why did you lead us into the wilderness so we could be slaughtered by the Egyptian armies along the Red Sea? That's the way they felt. And they asked the question, is God faithful? When David was running for his life from Saul, God had promised he was going to be the next king. Did not appear that way. When the Babylonians were destroying the temple in Jerusalem, and God says, I'm going to one day raise up my people again, the people had to go, how in the world is this possible? We think about the day that Christ was nailed to the cross. What was going through the minds of the disciples? Yes, he said he was going to rise from the dead, but they kind of had a hard time seeing that take place. What's the point? The point is we are tested so many times With this question, is God faithful? And what's very interesting about these verses is these verses demonstrate that God is faithful God is not able to lie, it says in Titus chapter 1. Even if we doubt him, he cannot deny himself. He remains faithful, the scripture tells us in 1 Timothy. When it says he found the place and he went to Isaiah 61, you need to recognize this was written hundreds of years, 700 years before it was fulfilled. Think about all that history. Terrible history that the nation of Israel faced. Yet God was going to remain faithful to his word. What do we see? We see that God's word stands forever. And when he says I'm going to do it, he's going to do it. These verses remind us God is faithful. We could trust Him. It might be that this morning, as you sit here, you are in practical situations right now. That makes you wonder: can I trust God? And there are unbelievable different ways that this can happen. You may feel this way. Remember the children of Israel at the Red Sea. Remember Abraham when he and his wife are in that tent and God says, this time next year, she's going to have a child. And he goes, Are you sure? Just remember that. Remember the nation of Israel as they were slaves in Egypt and as they suffered intense hardship. And God was preparing Moses to send him back. God's faithful. We can trust Him. His word is full of examples. The third and final truth I want us to see today, which really is the heart of why the gospel is such good news. Is what we find in verses nineteen through twenty. And that is, it gives us the details of Christ's ministry. Listen to what it says in verse nineteen He hath anointed me to preach the gospel, and notice how he describes the people he's going to preach the gospel to, to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, to recover sight to the blind. To set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. You know what's amazing about those descriptions? Some of these descriptions are physical descriptions. Some of these could actually be physical, they could be internal, emotional. It's really hard to know what he's talking about. For instance, when he talks about someone who is poor, does he mean he's that's a person who didn't have money? Or does it mean somebody that is morally and spiritually bankrupt and they feel the weight of their guilt? Or is it maybe a combination of both? When he talks about someone who's brokenhearted, he's talking about someone whose life has been beat down and crushed by life. They've gone through the hardships of sin in a fallen world. They're feeling the weight of that. They're overwhelmed. When he talks about people who are captives, what's he talking about? Is he talking about somebody who's in a prison camp? Or is he talking about someone who's under the occupation of another nation? Or is he talking about a person that's a slave to their own sinful passions? Or is he talking about a person who's in an abusive situation? The answer is it can apply to all those things. He talks about someone who's blind. Is he talking about the physical blindness? Is he talking about spiritual blindness? What's he talking about? He talks about people who are bruised, being set at liberty. The question is: what is he referring to? I want you to realize that when we read these verses, I believe that he's talking about all of these things Because the gospel is what addresses what is fundamentally our most important series of issues, and that is our internal situation, our heart, enslavement to our passions. The sin that I deserve because I'm a sinner and I've broken God's laws and I stand before Him as one who is to be judged eternally. That is the greatest issue, but the reality is this: if you're born in this world blind And you go through this world blind, and you trust the Lord Jesus as your Savior, let me tell you something. One day you will see him face to face. You know the song I Shall Know Him? Read by Fanny Crosby? Fanny Crosby was a blind woman. She talks about how she's gonna see her Savior face to face. She was blind. How in the world could this woman say such? Because she knew in the resurrection she was going to see the Savior. Folks, the gospel addresses the greatest, most fundamental issues that you and I could ever have. It addresses the bankruptness of our souls. It addresses how we are enslaved to our own fallen passions. It talks about how when we live in a broken and fallen world, we go through horrific challenges in this world. And God is going to deliver us even from those things on that day. Even those who go through life with tremendous physical infirmities, God's going to give them a restored, whole, glorified body forever. It's all rooted in the gospel. So notice for a moment what he says to the poor, those who are spiritually and physically destitute. I think about the Sermon on the Mount. He says, Blessed are the poor in spirit. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. He's talking about a person who begins to realize the weight of his sin. He begins to realize that there's no righteousness that I have to give to God. It begins to recognize that if it's not for the work of Christ On the cross and the resurrection and the righteousness of Christ imputed to me. I have no standing before God. Poor in spirits. A person who feels the desperation of their position. He came for them. That's you and me. He came for us. To heal the brokenhearted people who live lives that are des devastated by sin. When I sin, it devastates me. And when I sin it may devastate you. And when you sin, it devastates the people around you. Sin is incredibly destructive. Sin is like a cancer in our body. And that cancer doesn't just stay in that one little location, but it begins to go into every crevice of our body. It begins to afflict us in every way. Sin is like that. The consequences of sin are devastating. And what did God do? He sent his son to heal the brokenhearted. The people who were devastated by the terrible consequences of sin. He came for them. To deliver the captives, people who live lives who've been enslaved to sin, the oppression and vicious tyranny of living in a broken world. He came For them. Recovering sight to the blind. I think about the physical blindness. I think about that man who was on the roadside one day, and Jesus healed this man. And he healed this man as a testimony to demonstrate who he was. And in fact, the disciples said, who sinned? This man or his parents said he was born blind, and Jesus said it wasn't either. It was so that the works of God could be manifested. The reality is he did heal the sight of the blind on this side. But whether he heals on this side or not, he will heal forever. For those who are his own. But then I think about those who are in spiritual darkness. The Bible says that we stumble in this darkness. And if it's not for the Holy Spirit convicting us of sin and righteousness, If it's not for the word of God being given to us, we will stay in this darkened state. God came to recover sight to the blind. To set at liberty them who are bruised, crushed by the terrible nature of sin. And I love this last statement to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. That word preach has the idea of a herald. He's going out and he's proclaiming this message. And he's basically announcing that God is coming to establish his kingdom. Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. This is what the message was. God's grace is being extended to fallen mankind through Christ. This is what he means by saying he's preaching. The acceptable year of our Lord. Why is the gospel good news? Because it addresses what is fundamentally our greatest need as people. But it doesn't just address that issue It gives us the guarantee of an eternity in perfection with Christ. I think about what it says in 1 Corinthians. Verse 15. When this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying, death is swallowed up in victory. Thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Folks, the gospel is good news. That's what this text is all about. It's good news that gives hope to a broken, suffering sinner. It's good news to someone who is suffering in the brokenness of this fallen world. It's good news. That gives us hope, and I love what Doug said this morning. It is that steadfast assurance that what God has promised He will do, that there's a hope and a comfort to those who have been crushed in this world. Folks, God wants us to appreciate with fervent joy the blessings of the gospel. And so I ask you this this morning Have you come face to face with a gospel message? Have you embraced this message, and are you trusting in this message as your one and only hope for all eternity? When you stand before God, and we are going to stand before God someday, not together, as individuals. When you stand before a holy, righteous God who knows everything that there is to know about you, and he says, On what basis should I accept you? What do you tell him? Well, I did go to church a few times over the years. I was baptized. I tried really hard to keep your commandments. I mean, can you imagine telling a holy God such things? The question is, what did you do with Christ? Did you turn to Him and trust in His finished work on Calvary's cross? Were you relying with a humbled heart like a child, depending on his death and his resurrection and his righteousness, or did you reject it? This morning, if you've never trusted Christ, I want to encourage you, I want to call you to hear what God is saying in his word. God commands all men everywhere to repent because he's fixed the day in which he will judge The world by Jesus Christ. Turn to God. Trust in what Jesus has done for you on that cross. But then ask the second question. Maybe you say, Pastor, I've trusted Christ as my Savior. And ask this question, do you glory in the gospel? As you go through the hardships of life, which they are there. Is this your rock? Is this what gives you strength and stability? I think about believers that right now are facing intense persecution and their lives are very much in danger. How can people in such a place have any joy and any comfort and any confidence? It's only if they have the gospel. And many of them can testify at this moment that they are at peace with God. And whether he rescues them on this side or he brings them into their eternal their eternal glory. No matter what he does, they're ready. Do you have such confidence? I want to encourage you. These are good truths connected to To the gospel. This is what we need today. This is the hope for our nation. It's our hope for the world. The good news of what Christ has done for us. Let's bow together in prayer and ask the Lord to work in our hearts through these things. Father in heaven, I think about this very simple message. Christ died for my sins. And he was buried and he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. We are justified freely by grace through the redemption. That's in Christ Jesus. Christ is the propitiation for our sins. Father, if even one person listening to this This message, whether here this morning physically, whether on the live stream, or maybe someone who listens down the road, if one person does not know That they have embraced this message and trusted in Christ. I pray that today would be the day that like a child they trust in Christ's finesse. Work, that you would give them that confidence that they are right with you because of Christ's work for them. And Father, I pray for every believer who's listening to this message who has been shaken and spoken. Spirit, who is beaten down, discouraged, overwhelmed , fearful I pray that we would turn to you and remember freshly again the incredible blessings that we have because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Work in our hearts as you see fit in Christ's name. Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's take out our hymn books, please. Let's turn to hymn 251 near the cross. And as you're turning there, I want to invite you, if you don't know the Lord as your Savior. You're not confident that you've trusted Christ, or if you are shaken in heart and you need to reach out, and you need to be encouraged, you need to be reminded of these truths, please don't hesitate to reach out. Just shake my hand, send me an email, send me a text, and say, Pastor, I need to speak with you. Or Pastor, I just need you to pray for me. I'm going through a hard time and I need to be reminded of these truths again. Pastor, I don't know for sure I'm saved. Can we talk about this? Reach out. Let God use his word. minister to your hearts. Let's stand together and we'll sing hymn 251 near the cross. We'll sing the first and the fourth verses together. This wonderful water. Mountain me to all healing straight who 's on count is mountain In the cross, in the cross, be my glory. Till my rapture soul shall find rest beyond the Near the cross thou watch and wait open thus be Till I reach the wood strength shall ask beyond the live In the cloud, in the cross, be my glory. Till my rapture shall find as be honor I hope that really is where your heart is firmly fixed. Mr. Jenny, can you please come up and close us in prayer? And uh hope that uh if you're available, that tonight you'll be able to join us for our evening service as we continue working our way through Old Testament passages we're gonna look at The life of Abraham. We're going to actually be in the life of Abraham for a while. And we're going to look at what wasn't one of his greatest moments, but what we can learn from that. And so So I just pray that the Lord really uses that to encourage you tonight. Mr. Jenny, close us in prayer, please. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the blessings of this day. Thank you for the privilege we had of meeting here in your house. Lord, we thank you for the freedoms that we enjoy here in In this country, Lord, compared to a lot of what Christians are going through today, I pray, Lord, that you'd be with some of our missionaries that are in very difficult, very hard places today. Lord, that you'd protect their lives, protect their testimony. be with them that they might be an encouragement to to those fellow believers that they've uh mentored over the many years. I pray, Lord, that you would just uh continue to help us as a Christian nation, Lord, to be More involved in the gospel. We pray that you would just help each one of us to want to be a better testimony and witness for you. Thank you, Lord, for the message this morning, Lord. You are a mighty powerful God and that you uh the gospel is is powerful and that it can reach into souls. Save uh the souls of men and women, boys and girls, that they might enjoy life eternal in heaven with you. Pray Lord now that you would just guide and direct us throughout the day. Uh bring us back safely again tonight, and we'll give you the praise for that in Jesus' name. Same. Amen.