Life is full of uncertainties and complex questions. Where do we go to find answers to these very difficult questions? What is my purpose? Does my life actually matter? Is there any hope in a very painful and troubling world Well the reality is there is a place that you can go to get real answers and that's the Bible. In fact for thousands of years people have gone to God's Word And they've found the answers to those very important questions. And not only they found those answers, but they've rested in those answers. And they've given them comfort and hope, not just in this life, but for all eternity. What does the Bible have to say to give me hope in an uncertain world? For the Bible teaches us that we are not the result of some random chance. We are carefully designed by a good and loving creator. And when God made the world, he made us, his creatures, in his own image. He made us unique and different from everything else in his creation. He made us in his image, and God breathed into Adam's nostrils the breath of life, and he became a living soul. People have value to God. You have value to God How do we explain all of the trouble that we have in this world? Why do I actually need hope? When God created Adam in his image, he created him with the real ability to have relationships. And with that real ability to have relationship comes the ability to choose between what is right and what is wrong. The Bible teaches us in Genesis chapter three that Adam chose to disobey God, to sin against God. And when Adam did that, there were terrible consequences that came as a result of his sin. All of us from that point forward have been born fallen creatures. We've been born with a sin nature. It says, by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin. And so death passed on all men for that all have sinned. Not only are we fallen creatures, but we are relationally separated from God. That means we can't have fellowship with him. because he is holy and he is righteous and we're not. The Bible also teaches that we deserve God's judgment on our sin. Says in Romans 6 that the wages of sin is death Well you may be asking, this doesn't sound like good news. Is there any hope for me in this situation? Maybe I can earn God's favor by doing good things. The scripture teaches us that there is nothing that we can do or nothing that we can give to God that can remove our sin debt against him. It says in Romans three that there is none righteous, no, not one. There is none who understands or seeks after God. It says that all of us have sinned and come short of the glory of God. It also tells us in Isaiah 64 That even the good things that we do, our righteousness, is like a filthy rag. It is impossible for us to remove our sin debt. We have only one hope. That hope lies in the Lord Jesus Christ. If we go back to the creation and when Adam first sinned against God, there was good news even on the very day that Adam sinned against God. That good news is that God promised to send a Redeemer. And when we read through the Bible, what we see is the story of God not just reminding people that He's going to send Redeemer. But that God actually did that. He sent the Redeemer into the world. And the Redeemer is the Lord Jesus Christ. God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. to redeem us who were under the curse of the law. The good news of the scripture is that though we have no ability to remove our sin debt and to appease God's justice against our sin. God did everything for us so that we could be redeemed to him. That's what the gospel is all about. It's the good news that the Lord Jesus Christ took our sin upon himself and was punished in our place so that we could be forgiven. It says in Isaiah 53, that the Lord laid on him The iniquity of us all, it says that he became sin for us, though he knew no sin, so that we could be made the righteousness of God in him. The simplest way that it's put in all of Scripture is that Christ died for our sins. Though we are sinners who have broken God's laws, He loves us, we have value to Him, and He sent His Son to take our sins upon Himself so that we can be redeemed. God sent his son to pay the debt that we could never pay and to conquer death by his resurrection so that we could be forgiven of our sins. How? Can those benefits that were purchased by the death of Christ, how can they become mine? How can I actually receive those wonderful benefits? The Bible tells us that when Christ went to the cross He was purchasing with his own death and resurrection, he was purchasing a gift. A gift isn't something that we earn, it's not something we pay for. It's something that we receive freely that is given to us by someone who really loves us. Christ provided the gift of eternal life through himself. This is how it's put in Ephesians 2. It says it's by grace that we are saved through faith. This is not of ourselves, it is the gift of God. It's not of works lest anyone should boast. That word grace means it's undeserved favor. Salvation is God giving us something we don't deserve. He pays for it, we receive it freely. It's not of ourselves. It's not through something that we do for God or something that we give to God. It's entirely through what He did for us. And it is not of works. What is the key to receiving the free gift of eternal life by God's grace The answer is one word, and that word is faith. We have to choose to trust in what Jesus did for us. Faith is taking God at His Word. Faith is acknowledging I'm a sinner. I've broken God's laws. There's no way I can earn his favor. It's only through what Jesus did for me on the cross I believe that that is true, and I'm willing right here, right now, to rest all of my eternity on the work of Christ, not my own works. His work for me. The scripture says it's not by works of righteousness that we've done, it's according to his mercy that he saved us. Have you received the free gift of eternal life? A gift that is provided entirely by the grace of God Have you received it? By trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible says, as many as received him, to them he gave the power to be called the children of God, even to those who believe. on his name. It says in Romans 10 that through the heart one believes unto righteousness. Right here, right now as you watch this video, you have a choice to make You have a choice to continue to rest in your own righteousness, to act as if there's no God who you're going to one day stand before, or you could say the Bible is true. What it says about me is true. I'm a sinner. I've broken God's laws, and I have no hope through anything that I do for God. It's true that Jesus Died for my sins. He took the punishment that I deserved for my sin. It's true. He rose from the dead and he conquered death. And it's true. that it's through him alone. I'm willing to place my trust in what he's done for me. If you trust in Christ today, you have the promise of God on the authority of Scripture That he will give you the gift of eternal life. He says, whoever comes to him, he will never cast out Friends, if today you choose to trust Christ, I'd like to encourage you to let us know about the decision that you made. Send us an email, give us a call, and let us show you from the Bible How you can grow in your new faith in Christ.