Well, good evening. Want to welcome you to our evening service, looking forward to our study tonight. And I think we'll forgo our song. And just get right into our lesson. But let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we'll get into our study tonight. Father, you're so kind to us, and we are reminded continually of your kindness. We thank you. Thank you for your word. And tonight as we open it up and dig into these scriptures, that we ask you would open our understanding and help us to feel the weight and the significance of these. truths and I pray that you'd help me as I as I teach through these topics to address them in a way that is extremely practical and helpful to each person who's here this evening and also those who've joined us in the last live stream. And then I pray that as we as we spend time together in prayer and as we share updates from uh issues that we as a church have been upholding in prayer for some time, I pray that these updates would really be encouraging to people. And we have many, many reminders of your answering prayer and really in remarkable ways. And we ask all this in Christ's name, amen. Okay. Well let's go ahead and turn together to the book of Romans, and we're in Romans chapter two, we're looking at A continuation of what we talked about last week. And if you remember, if you remember, I know we're in a series dealing with family issues, but a heavy part of dealing with family issues is learning how to train our children the right way. And so what we're looking at is a topic on the conscience and how important it is that we understand what the conscience is, we understand how the conscience works. And then really our focus this evening will be how do we have a healthy conscience? That's where we're driving this evening. So our text is Romans chapter 2. And I'll go ahead and read verses 11 through 16 again. I'm going to draw your attention to a couple of things, and then we're going to dig into this topic continuing tonight. Here's what it says. There is no respect of persons with God. For as many as have sinned without law shall perish without law, and as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law. For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. For when the Gentiles which have not the law do by nature the things Contained in the law, these having not the law, are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the meanwhile accusing Or else excusing one another. In that day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel. Now, if you remember from last week when we were going through this passage of Scripture, we mentioned that what Paul is ultimately doing is he's saying, whether you're a Jew or whether you're a Gentile, whether you've had the Mosaic Law or whether you've not had the Mosaic Law. You're guilty before God because you've rejected what knowledge you do have. And so if you have the law, you've rejected the knowledge of the law from God. If you don't have the law, you've rejected that internal sense of what is right and wrong because you have many, many times violated your conscience. So a person can tell you, I know that stealing's wrong And then they would have many examples over the course of their lifetime where they have violated what they know to be right. Or a person might say, I know I'm not supposed to be covetous, but when throughout the course of their life they've looked at something that another person has and they say I want that. I'm displeased with what I have. And all of a sudden they begin to plot and scheme or they become disgruntled and upset. They are violated what they know to be morally right. And so what that shows us is that every single person is morally responsible before God. Because whether they've heard thou shalt not and they said, Forget it, I'm going to do it, or whether in their heart They've done something that they know to be wrong, they're guilty. That's what he's saying. But that really drives us into this concept of conscience. Notice the statement he says that they do by nature the things contained in the law. So even though someone has not been told, Thou shalt not, they know Thou shalt not, because it's inside of them. He then goes on to say they have a law unto themselves. There is something that is governing them. The other day I was talking to my children, and we were talking about the fact that God has given us several different levels of restraint. to keep us from doing things that are very destructive. Well, one of those levels of restraint is the fact that as moral creatures we have a conscience. And then he goes on and he just states it explicitly, he says, their conscience bears witness, either accusing or excusing them. And so the summary of that passage is all people, whether religious or irreligious, whether they have the Bible or they don't have the Bible, we all have this moral sense And it cannot be ignored without severe consequence. And so yes or last week we talked about the emphasis of Scripture on this. There's a lot of scripture that talks about this topic. We talked about what the conscience is. It's that moral awareness that's within us. It's a part of us being stamped in the image of Christ. And then truth number two, we talked about how the conscience actually works. So what I'd like us to do tonight is I'd like us to dig into truth number three. Our conscience is not an infallible guide. Our conscience is not an infallible guide. Even though it is true that internally I know what is right and wrong to some degree, That sense of right and wrong is not an infallible guide. In fact, I would even argue that it was not given to us to be a guide. It is more a reflection of how we were created as image bearers. And there's actually a distinction between those two things. God didn't give us a conscience so we could figure out what is right and wrong. He gave us his word. So that we would know what is right and wrong. And our conscience, when we read what the Bible says, it bears witness to that that that those truths that we read. And so let's look again at what it says in verses eleven through sixteen, and then let me make some clarifications. Our conscience is a testimony To the nature of what we are as image bearers. It's not a guide that speaks to us. It's a reminder that we have to contend with reality. It's a moral sense Something we cannot escape. Just like our bodies in a fallen world are flawed on some level, and we are affected by corruption, in the same way, so is our conscience. And so what I want us to do tonight is I want us to see how there are many scriptures that talk about the fact that our conscience is flawed and sometimes it's severely flawed. So let's turn to several scriptures. The first one is Acts chapter 28, verse number 27. Acts chapter 28, verse 27. This is what the text says. It says, the heart of this people is waxed gross. The idea is that it's become heavy, and their ears are dull of hearing. And their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them. The picture that I think we should get in our minds is a person, maybe you've been that person. You come home from work, you're tired, you sit down in that really comfortable chair, maybe the TV is playing, I don't know, we do we still have TVs in our houses anymore? I I haven't had a TV in a house for a long, long time. When we lived overseas, we didn't have one of those. So anyway, you're sitting in your chair, the news is playing and all of a sudden your your eyes start getting kind of heavy. And all of a sudden it's like you're you're awake but you're not awake. And somebody goes, That's my dad when he comes home from work. He says, Well, that's your conscience. That's what your conscience is like. Your conscience is like a person who sits in that chair and all of a sudden they they they can't keep their eyes open. It's like you've become dull You don't hear things clearly. You don't see things clearly. That's what the conscience of someone who is an unbeliever who has rejected the truth by continually hearing it and continually rejecting it. That's what happens to that person's conscience. Another example, 1 Timothy 4, verse 2. He says, speaking lies and hypocrisies having their conscience seared with a hot iron. Anybody ever burned your hand and lost sensitivity in in a in a part of your hand. Okay? Alright. Yeah, Chad. I'm not surprised at all. So when I was when I was in high school, I remember I had an injury to one of my fingers. I was I was working with a with a with a knife, it was not a lock blade, and it closed on my hand and it it cut through the nerve, and to this day I do not have normal feeling on this side of my feet. It's the weirdest thing. This happened many, many years ago. I lost feeling. Or or maybe you you get this burn and obviously it really hurts when it first happens, but then after a period of time, it it it it it it has scar tissue and if somebody touches it, th they don't feel it. Somebody could even take a needle and stick it and you won't feel it. He says some people's consciences are like that. A normal conscience is sensitive when you violate what you know to be right or you refuse to do what you know to be wrong. Normally you don't feel good about that inside. But a person can get to the place where they have so worn down that sensibility that they they they are desensitized. He said that can happen to a person. And by the way, in both situations, the reason is because someone has access to the truth over and over and over again, and every single time they have access to the truth, they reject it, they push it away, they don't respond properly to it. Another example, Titus chapter 1, verse 15, he says, unto the pure all things are pure, but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure, even their conscience is defiled. Now I think this is talking about something that's different. Whereas one person , they are desensitized. One person has lost a sense of feeling. This person has a sense of right and wrong, but their sense of right and wrong has been turned upside down. And so what they deem to be good is actually evil. And what they deem to be evil is actually good. And so their conscience is awakened in opposition to what is true and right. You could say that this person has A mind that has become twisted, it has become debased, it has become perverse, it defiles. So do you see how the conscience is not an infallible guide? One person raised their hand to say, this doesn't bother me at all, and I'd say It's because your conscience is dull. They say, this really bothers me, so I know it's the right thing or this is the wrong thing to do. And I'd say But God actually tells in his word something completely contrary to what you are feeling right now. Why is that? It's because the conscience can get flipped upside down. That's what happens. Then we can go to the other side. These are people that don't know the Lord. Now we go to someone who's a believer and you say, well, when I become a believer, then immediately my conscience becomes perfect and whole and right and it's good and It's healthy, and the answer is no, that's not true. In fact, when you become a Christian, there's a lot of baggage, really, you you really don't realize this maybe when it happens, but you you bring this into your Christian experience. Now, there are some things that when a person becomes a Christian, God immediately gives them freedom over those things. It's an absolutely stunning thing. There are other things it's not like that. There's some things that maybe they kind of lie in the dark and it doesn't bother you for a while, and then all of a sudden it starts kind of creeping up a little bit at a time. And then all of a sudden you go, Wow, this is an issue of struggle. And so when you become a Christian, you don't just magically have this renewed mind that's perfect and whole and right. In fact, the renewal of the mind is something that is a process. that takes place progressively, and we're going to talk about that a little bit. And a healthy conscience is ultimately what's going on in the heart of someone with a renewed mind. So listen to some of these examples. For instance, a Christian who is immature in their conscience. Romans 14, 1 He says, Him that is weak in the faith, receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations. For one believeth that he may eat all things, another who is weak eateth herbs. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not, let not him that eateth not judge him that eateth. For God hath received him. Who art thou that judges another man's servant? To his own master he standeth or he falleth. Now, one of the things that I have learned interacting with Christians over the course of my life is that sometimes Christians become very conscientious about ridiculous things. Okay? Weird things. Things that you go, the Bible never addresses such an issue. But because we are conscience-driven people, very conscientious people, sometimes we become very I would even use the word burdened down by issues of conscience that are that are not even valid. So in this particular context, he's saying you have a person that believes that they cannot eat meat. Like it's morally wrong for them to eat meat. Or maybe it's morally wrong for them to eat a certain kind of meat. And and this would have made a lot of sense Because you had a Jew-Gentile controversy and some people had grown up their whole life eating pork and shellfish and shrimp and all the things that you like here in Maryland. And there are other people that had never, ever, ever eaten those things, had never been to a place where they had eaten those things. And in fact, the very thought of pork and shellfish and shrimp would have been nauseating to this person. And so this person becomes a Christian and they place their faith in Christ and they understand that they are not under the law any longer as in the Old Testament law. So they actually have the liberty to eat shrimp and pork and shellfish and bacon and all those things a lot of you in this room enjoy a lot. But sometimes this person, even though they had been taught this, and even though they truly had the liberty in this issue, their conscience, because of what they had grown up with , continue to make them feel guilty. And so if they were to eat a piece of bacon, they would feel awful about it. And so what does he say about that person? Well, they have a strong conscience because they're very conscientious. He says, no, you have a weak conscience, an immature conscience. But at the same time he says, you love a person like that. You you don't try to get them to violate their conscience. They need to grow and they need to mature. He's not saying that the person with the weak conscience has a strong conscience. He's simply acknowledging they do not know their liberty. It's sad, but that's the reality of their Christian experience. So the immature Christian's conscience. A second example is the complacent Christian's conscience, in the same way that a person who is not a Christian can become desensitized. So can a believer. Now, I would not say to the same degree, but most certainly it can happen. And so in Hebrews chapter 5, verse 11, this is what he says. He says, of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing you are dull of hearing. Let me put it to you in very simple terms. He's saying there's some things I need to tell you, but because you're immature, it's hard for me to say it to you. That's basically what he's saying. And by the way, he's not saying you've always been immature. He's saying you've gone back. You're not where you used to be in your Christian experience. You've actually declined. You're not as matured in your thinking as you used to be. And so he says there are things that I have to lay the basics with because that's what you can handle right now. You cannot handle The meat of the word and those really significant doctrinal matters. That's what he's saying. And how does the person get this way? Well, it's through complacency. A third example is the conscientious Christian's conscience. He says in Hebrews 13:18, he says, Pray for us that we would have a good conscience. In all things willing to live honestly. What's the writer of Hebrews saying? He's saying, pray that we won't have an immature conscience, an immature conscience, a complacent conscience, but a good conscience, one that is healthy, one that is where it needs to be. And by the way, I give you this example as well. In First Corinthians chapter four verse one. Paul says something fascinating. He says, Let a man account of us as of the ministers of God, stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it's required in stewards that a man be found faithful. But with me it is a small thing that I should be judged of you, or of uh judged of you, or of man's judgment. Yea, I judge not my own self, for I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified, but he that judgeth me is the Lord. This is a really fascinating statement. The Apostle Paul is saying, the way that I conduct my ministry is one where I stand before one person. You know who that is? It's God. Now, I don't think Paul's saying I could care less what you think about what I'm doing. In a cavalier sense. That's not what he's saying. But what he is saying is this. I don't get my head turned this way And that way, and that way, because of your opinion, and your opinion, and your opinion. I'm charting a straight course because I am driven and motivated by the audience of one person that is God Himself. And he says, to the very best of my ability, I am convinced in my heart that I'm doing this in good conscience. I'm doing the right thing. But here's what he says. Even though that's how I feel about it, I might be wrong. That's what he's saying. In other words, there's there's a realistic aspect here. Even though a person has a matured conscience They still do not have an infallible conscience. And so we see that the genuine Christian can have a healthy conscience. But he needs to recognize that it is not infallible. We need our conscience to be directed by the scriptures. And so we have to be very cautious that we don't abuse our conscience by the choices we make, and we desperately need to have a renewed mind. So that moves us to truth number four, and this is really the heart of where I want to go. We need a renewed mind. I think if there's anything that we take away from this study, it should be, you know what? I want to have a healthy conscience. My conscience is never going to be perfect, but I want to have a healthy conscience. And by the way, for my children, I want to help them develop a healthy conscience. So I've got to be in the right place first. If I want to help them, then I can't help them from a point of weakness, okay? I can't help them from a point of immaturity. I've got to help them from a point of strength I've got to be walking with the Lord. I've got to have a mind that's being renewed continually. I've got to be understanding how the conscience works if I'm going to help them develop in these areas. So that's why we're driving at this point. But let's talk about this issue of a renewed mind. How can you and I have a conscience that is healthy? That's the question that I want us to examine for a few minutes tonight. So the first place I want you to turn is Romans chapter 12, verse number 2. Here's what it says. Romans chapter 12, verse 2. I know we know this passage. He says, be not conformed to this world. And when he uses the word world, he's talking about a system that rejects God's authority and is living for itself. Okay? So people that don't know the Lord, that are just doing their own thing, that's what he means by the world, okay? Do not be conformed to the world, but be transformed. By the renewing of the mind. Now, transformation isn't something that we do to ourselves. Transformation is something that God does to us. Notice he doesn't say transform yourself. He says, be transformed. Okay, that's very different. Okay? It's not my job to transform myself. It's his job to transform me. But he does it through means He does it through tools. And the tools that God uses, I'm responsible to pick those tools up and actually use them. And so he says, to be transformed through or by the renewing of the mind. Now, the renewing of the mind is what I need to focus on, and the transforming is what he does to me. And so the transforming really is another way of saying, through the renewing of your mind, that's how you have a healthy conscience. And that's how you have a healthy character, and that's how you become the kind of Christian that God wants you to be. This is not a positional issue, this is a practical issue. Okay? So an immature Christian and a mature Christian are both equally saved before God, equally secured in Christ. But they're not equally living out the potential they have in the Christian experience. And so the question is, well, how is the mind renewed? The answer is through repentance. Repentance. Repentance is a thinking change. Our mind is full of so many different courses and ways that are not right. Okay? I hate to break that to you, but that's just true. Okay? That's me. That's you, that's all of us. Some some of these areas where we don't think right, they they're they're really not the end of the world. It's a problem. It's something that God addresses a little bit at a time, but they're not the kinds of things that put you away off course. Other things are huge. They're foundational matters. They're issues that if you don't get this issue straight in your thinking and start living in the light of it, it's going to put you in a totally different trajectory. It 's almost like if you were shooting a rocket off that you were trying to go to the moon. Didn't they just recently say there there's going to be a mission to the moon? I think somebody from Maryland actually is going to be on on this mission. Hasn't happened in a long time. Anybody remember the first one? Okay, all right, all right. I see some hands. I see some hands. You remember the first one, all right? It's been a long time. It's been since the nineteen sixties. Now, when that rocket is getting pointed, if it's just off by a degree or two, by the time it gets to the moon, what happens? It totally passes to moon. Okay? So when we talk about repentance, some things are up to that level. We have got to let the word of God change how we think fundamentally, or we're going to be off and left field in certain areas. And some areas are what we would say is almost minor adjustment issues along the way. But repentance is where it starts. The renewing of the mind that God uses to transform us is a matter of repentance. Repentance isn't just I repented and I'm saved. Repentance is something that happens over the course of our lives. Okay? I understand I'm a sinner. I understand Christ died for my sins. I turned to him. I place my faith in Christ. We could describe that repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. From that point on, there is a continual change in my thinking and change in my disposition and change in my character. God works it in me through the changing, the renewing of the mind. So 2 Timothy 2 is where I want to go next. Repentance is the root of that renewal of mind. Here's what it says: The servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men. This is one of those passages that as a pastor got to go to from time to time. Okay. As a parent, you need to go to this one from time to time. The servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men. Apt to teach, patient , in meekness instructing those who oppose themselves. If God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, and that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who have taken him captive at his will. Now notice some of the key statements. Apt to teach. That's what you've got to do. Patient is how you do it. You've got to move slowly and be willing to let people change because nobody changes quickly. In meekness, instructing those who oppose themselves. So if my thinking is wrong in an area, there is a downstream effect from that wrong thinking. Okay? I am living in a way based on thinking that is wrong that is hurting me as a person and hurting other people. And so what I've got to do as a server of the Lord is teach this person patiently in meekness. That means I'm not doing it in arrogance. I'm controlled in the way that I do this. so that God will give them repentance. In other words, the thinking change in the mind is something that God works in them through the Word of God. And He does it through us as instruments. And ultimately, what's the change? It's an acknowledging of the truth. And it's a person who is enslaved by Satan's devices, ultimately finding freedom from Satan's devices. That is the heart of what we do with people who are not walking with the Lord. On on every single level. It's our children, or whether it's a family member, or whether it's a coworker, or whether it's somebody that, you know, it's another believer, whatever the situation. Teach the word patiently in meekness and let God work in them. That's what it is. That's where the renewal of the mind starts. John chapter 8, verse 32. The truth shall make you free. What an amazing statement. It's true. So if I hold on to lies, guess what it does? It enslaves me. If I embrace the truth, guess what it does? It frees. Okay? The truth frees. Lies enslave. The sad thing is when I'm holding on to a lie, I think that it's my freedom and it's actually enslaving. That's what's going on. And so the Spirit of God takes the word of God, he confronts our wrong thing, he convinces us by acting on our conscience, by opening our understanding to the significance and the weight of these truths. He stirs us up internally, awakening desire to change. That's the work that God does. The ultimate end of this work is progressively being transformed through the renewing of the mind, and that's the opposite of what the world has to say. So when we talk about having a healthy conscience, that right there is the heart of it. You want to have a healthy conscience, you can't neglect the Word of God. You want the people that you're interacting with to have a healthy conscience? You've got to use the word of God patiently, meekly, consistently, accurately. You've got to get the word before people. That's what he uses. The truth is what sets people free. Number two, we need to be careful not to violate our conscience, even if it is still weak. Now I'll use this kind of an illustration. Let's say that you break a bone. I remember when I was in high school, I was wrestling and I did something in a in practice and I I broke one of my fingers. It it instantly turned purple, swelled up. It didn't look pretty. And of course the genius that I am did not go to the doctor about this. I just taped it, all right? And so I I I taped it, taped it, taped it. And just continue to do this thing. Well, after a period of time, that finger began to heal. Over a course of weeks. It didn't feel totally right, but it it was okay. And one day I'm wrestling and guess what? I did the same thing. And let me tell you, it hurt a lot worse than the first time. Okay? Well the the reason that I that I bring that up is that that that finger needed to heal completely before it was ready to go back to work. Okay? And so I damage the finger worse by not allowing it to heal properly. Well, in the same sense, when our conscience is weak, sometimes we can damage it more. by trying to force it to do things that are not healthy. And so in Romans chapter 14, verse 21, he writes the following. He says, it's good neither to eat flesh or drink wine. Nor anything whereof thy brother stumbleth or is offended or is made weak. Hast thou faith? Have it to thyself before God Happy is he that condemneth not himself in that which he alloweth. Now when he says condemneth not himself in that which he allowed, he's not talking about you're standing before God and you're going to be condemned eternally. That's not what he's discussing. He's talking about how you're going to feel inside when you violate your conscience. That's what he's saying. When you have something that in your mind you say, I shouldn't do this, I'm just going to go ahead and do it anyway. Then inside, what do you feel like? Not too good. You feel terrible. Even though that thing is something that you actually had liberty to do. Isn't that incredible? And so what he's basically saying is, don't violate your conscience in that situation. So you might say, well, hold on a second. If that is true, is it good for me to continue in this position indefinitely? And the answer is of course not. And so in the same way that let's say you have an injury, you need to go through physical therapy or something like that, and you you you gradually work that that joint that's been injured or that that bone that's been you know you just gradually work that thing out so that it heals naturally and you're stretching it a little bit but you're not damaging it in the same kind of way sometimes we have to do that with our conscience as well. And primarily, you know what it comes down to? It comes down to looking at the scriptures and saying, what does God say? Do I believe this or do I not believe it? Am I going to accept this or am I not going to accept this? The answer is not to say, oh, somebody's telling me this is okay, so I'm just going to go ahead and do it and film miserable about it. The answer is to address it on the thinking level. Very, very important. And so don't violate your conscience, even if it's still weak. Instruct your conscience so that it grows and it matures and it begins to be what it needs to be. Lastly, I'm going to say this. We need to process our sin in the light of our position in Christ and the gospel. So, no matter how much you try, you are going to break your conscience. You're going to do things that you feel guilty about. Okay? It's true. You don't become a sinlessly perfect person the moment you trust Christ as your Savior. You don't grow into sinless perfection after years and years of Christian experience. We, 20 years, 30 years, 50 years after being a Christian, are still susceptible to sin as we were on the day we trusted Christ. This does not change our position, but it affects The fellowship, the communion that is available to us in Christ, we do not seize it or enjoy it the way that we should. And the reason for that is because our conscience condemns us And our sin has to be addressed biblically so that we'll be able to enjoy communion again that's available. Well, where do we go to find the answer to how this works? The answer is in 1 John chapter 1, verses 6 to 7. 10. 1 John was not written to lost people. 1 John was written to believers. He says, I've written these things to you that you might have fellowship with us and that your joy might be full. Fellowship and joy. Okay? God created us to commune with Him, so if we do it, it brings joy. If we don't, guess what it does? It it weighs our hearts down because we're living in consistent with the design that God had for us. And so in 1 John 1, 6 to 10, he addresses what happens in the believer's heart and in their communion between them and God when they sin. Let me read it so you make a couple of comments. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, the Son, cleanseth us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. The truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar. His word is not in us. Now, let me make a couple of caveats, statements at the beginning. This passage is not talking about our position. Okay? If you want to talk about the Christian's position, go to Romans 5. Go to Romans 6. Okay? Go to those passages because they address the issue of position. This is talking about Communion. They're different. Okay? I can be a Christian and enjoy fellowship with God, or I can be a Christian and be out of fellowship with God In the same way that you can be married and you can walk into the house after a day of work and instantly have wonderful communication with your spouse, or you can come in. And just walk to another part of the house because there's not communion right there, okay? The fellowship is not there because something's between you and your spouse. Okay? The fact that you came home and you didn't sit down and have a good conversation with your wife or a good conversation with your husband because there's strain in your relationship between you, that does not mean you're not married Okay? Because if that was the case, there'd be some people that were married, not married, married, not married, married, not married. And it would just be like that all the time. Okay? Not saying it should be this way, but that's that's what it would be. You are married, but you're not enjoying The marriage the way you should. It's just the truth. And in the same way, we as Christians sometimes do not enjoy the fellowship we have with God. Our position is secure, but our experience is not healthy. This is not a Baptist version of confessional. Okay? Some people think Well, the reason we do the Lord's the Lord's table every month is because we've got to get our list of all the sins that we've committed, put them out before God, say, okay, I did that one, that one, that one, and I hope I didn't miss one And that's the mindset that we have. Or we get up in the morning and we're like, okay, I've got to like write down all these sins that I've committed over the last two days, because yesterday I didn't do this. Boy, I better get them all, because if I don't, then I won't have fellowship with God. That is not what 1 John 1 is all about. That's the way I've looked at it at times in my life, and maybe there's some people in here that have done the same. That is not the way this passage works. The first thing I'm going to say is this. Presumptuous sin breaks fellowship with God. Now here's what I mean by presumptuous sin. I know this is wrong, and I'm going to do it anyway. I know this is wrong and do it anyway. Can a person be sinning against God and still have communion with him? Absolutely. Of course they can Because if that wasn't true, nobody'd ever have fellowship with God. You think that you know every single sin that you've committed in the last day and you've been able to Bring everything before God and confess every single one. You really think that you've done that? Every single idle word, every single idle thought, every single mixed motivation, you've gotten it all. You really believe that? No It's not true. It's absolutely not true. And the text tells us it's not true. Notice what he says If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. Later on, he says, if we say that we have no sin. We deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. Think about this. He's saying if you're walking in darkness, You don't have fellowship with God. If you say that you've never sinned, you don't have fellowship with God. How does this work? Walking in darkness is presumptuous sin. I know this is wrong, and I don't care. I'm going to do it. The fact is that when we choose to sin against God, we know it, that sin is going to unsettle our conscience. And it should unsettle our conscience. And if it doesn't unsettle our conscience, that means we've been we've been pushing to the side for a long, long time. That's what we've been doing. Because we know we're resisting our authority. We know we're not living in the light of the position that we have. We know that we're living inconsistent with God's design for us as his people. But on the other side, sinless perfection is not a prerequisite for communion with God. You know what a prerequisite for communion with God is? The righteousness of Christ. The righteousness of Christ is the prerequisite. The reason that I can come into the presence of the Father isn't because I have confessed every sin in my life. It's because I have access through the Son. It's because I have access through his righteousness and his sacrifice. Not because I've gotten it all perfect in my own life I want you to realize there's a tension between these two things. I can fellowship with God and have things in my life that I am totally blind to that are clearly sin, and somebody else could be looking at me and know it's there. And I'm still enjoying communion with God. It's true. I don't see it at the moment. I may not see it for a while. One day I will see it, and when I do, that's when it comes to a head But the idea is that there are young Christians, they are enjoying this vibrant Christian experience, and there's all kinds of stuff going on in their life that they haven't quite figured out. I shouldn't be doing this, I shouldn't be doing that, and there's a lot that needs to change in me. But God still works in them. Notice what he says. If we say that we've no sin, we deceive ourselves. The truth is not in us. If we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. And don't miss this next statement. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. And you go, so why is he talking about cleansing us from sin while we're walking in the light? Well, it's because we never reach a point of sinless perfection. We never do. Nobody does. If sinless perfection was a requirement for communion with God, we would all be banished forever. It's that simple. Sadly, a lot of Christians actually think that that is the only way they can fellowship with God. And they become miserably introspective or they just redefine sin. And pretty soon, well that's not sin, it clearly is sin. But they ignore it and act as if it's not. Sinless perfection is not attainable on the side of glory. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar. And his word is not in us. Let me try to explain this praxis. I want to kind of work through this so that we can kind of understand where this is going. Even though we are positionally secured, we're going to wrestle with sin and temptation as long as we're on the side of glory. Romans 6 is in the Bible for a reason. Colossians 3 is in the Bible for a reason. Because that is the Christians' experience. Positionally secured, positionally righteous, accepted in the beloved, and still struggling with sin. In fact, when we talk about the Reformation, one of the statements that came out of the Reformation is simultaneously just and a sinner. I'm not going to say the Latin because nobody speaks Latin anymore. Okay? But simultaneously I am just and I'm a sinner. You go, How is that possible? It's because it's a positional matter. God graciously invites us into his presence and accepts us as his children, even though we are still sinners in pride. Practice. That's an amazing thing to think about. God knows everything about you, the good and the bad, the very ugly, the not as ugly, you know, all of it. He knows it all. He says, Come. That's what he does. He's not compromising his holiness because your sins dealt with at the cross The third thing I'm going to mention is this. As we walk in the light, he progressively awakens us to a deeper understanding of his purity, our unsinfulness, our unworthiness, and the weight of the cross. Now I gave this illustration a couple of weeks back. I was like thinking about this because of the lighting, okay? So in this room, the light, you know, we can see what's going on, but the lighting's not quite as bright as it is in that room over there. And if you walk out on a sunny day, it's even brighter. And the idea is that there are certain things that you will not see in this room. That are here. Okay? They didn't disappear because it's not as bright. They're there, but you don't see them. Because you don't see them, they don't bother you. Okay? They don't. But when you walk into that room, it's brighter. And some of those things that were here that you didn't see, you see them there. But you don't see all of them. And then you walk into the outside, and all of a sudden the sun is bright, and there are things that you couldn't see in here, that you couldn't see in there. And now you see all of them out there. What's the point? The point isn't that the things all of a sudden appeared The point is that you became aware of them. And the reason you became aware of them is because of how much light was there. And that's the way it works in the Christian experience. In our Christian life as young believers, there's a lot that we don't see that's there. And the fact that it that it's there isn't good, but God's not made us aware of it yet. You say, well, why doesn't He just make us aware of all those things? Would you like to endure all the things at one time that's like God just illumines all the stuff that's going on in your life that needs to change that moment? No, it's over the course of your entire lifetime. God changes you progressively, a little bit at a time. He matures you, he grows you as a person. And so as you draw closer to the Lord, you start seeing his holiness a little bit more clearly. And you start seeing your sinfulness a little bit more clearly. And all of a sudden something that you were unaware of, it comes to light. And you know what? You have a choice to make. Am I going to address that issue or I'm going to ignore that issue? Was God mistaken to bring it to my attention at the moment that he did the answers? Of course not. He did it at the right time according to his purposes. And so when I see those things, then the question is, well, what I do with that? Because all of a sudden this thing that didn't bother me at all, it bothers me a lot. That's what happens. Then, at that moment, my conscience is being affected. And I've got a choice to make. I can ignore it, I can bury it, I can reject what I now know to be true, or I can confess. It. I can acknowledge it. I can say, God, it's true. I want this to be gone. I want to walk consistent with my position. When we sin against our conscience and continue in rebellion, it unsettles us, it hinders our ability to enjoy communion with Him. The communion that's available to us in Christ. But we can respond to it. And so when we respond to it, this is ultimately what we're doing. We are turning afresh to the gospel and saying, God, this is my sin. And I'm so thankful for the cross. And I'm reminding myself that the blood of Jesus Christ has cleansed that sin. And I say, God, I don't want that anymore. I don't want anything to do with that. I want to walk consistent with who I am in Christ. And you know what happens when that happens? Is that you're reminded again of the truths that give you your position. And that fellowship that has been hindered by that internal conflict, it is it's instantly restored. That's what 1 John 1 is all is all about. It's a condition if you've got to respond correctly. Confess. You have to speak the truth about it. I gotta tell say what it is. Okay, I gotta be honest about what is here. There's an invitation to communion with him. He's faithful. He continues to hold out his hand and say, yes, I know you're struggling with this. Yes, I know you don't want to address this. You know what? You can, you should, come. I'm faithful. I'm just He's dealt with the sin at the cross. To forgive, a restoration of communion, to cleanse, to remove that feeling of guilt. From all unrighteousness. God doesn't have all these categories. He says, Okay, these are the sins that here's how you resolve them. You've got to and he goes to this whole list of penance, you know, and then these ones, well the the penance a little bit less 'cause it's it's a lesser of lesser infraction. These are just, yeah, just just say you're sorry and that's the end of it. That's not the way God is. These ones break fellowship, these ones don't. That's not the way it is. All unrighteousness. Part of having in a renewed mind is allowing the scripture to speak to us in these situations. When we ignore our sin that has come to the light, we do not have fellowship with God. Doesn't mean we stop being a Christian. It means that the communion is broken. And it's broken in our part. It's because of what we're holding on to. It's because of what we're unwilling to address. And let's just think about it practically. This is true in our own lives with other people. Okay? You have an issue between you and somebody else? Well Until you address it, you don't get a r restored friendship, a restored relationship. It doesn't happen. Why? Because the issue has to be addressed. It's there. It's standing between you. It has to be addressed And so we understand that when it comes to fellowship, we've got to deal with sin and turn to the gospel and remind ourselves again of it. So what's the conclusion? We need a healthy conscience. The way that we have a healthy conscience is through a renewed mind. We need to recognize that sin is destructive to us and the people around us. There are natural consequences that flow from it. Takes a toll on us internally, our mind, our emotions. We need to understand that because we are image bearers, sin matters. It affects us. We need to understand how the conscience works. And so I want to encourage you, ask the Lord to help you to have a renewed mind. And realize it doesn't happen like that. It happens over The rest of your life. That's how God changes us. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for the word. Take it and use it tonight. Thank you for these very practical truths. Help us to live in the light of them. And I pray that especially we would pass these things on to the next generation. We ask it in Christ's name, amen.