And we're going to continue our study that I started a couple weeks ago. We're going to open our Bibles to 1 John chapter 3. We'll get the first couple verses there. 1 John chapter 3. And we're going to take a look at what sons of God look like. What sons of God look like. 1 John 3, we'll start in verse 1 and read through verse 2. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore, the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not, beloved. Now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear We shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Father, we thank you so much for this evening where we can pause in the middle of our week. assemble together and focus upon your word that we can allow it to work in our hearts and lives as your spirit, the spirit of truth and the comforter, works. inside each one of your children, these believers here this evening, and those that may be watching online So we thank you ahead of time for what you will do in us and through us as we are sensitive to the leading of the Spirit of God as He uses His Word in our hearts and our lives. And we thank you once again through the name of your Son, our Savior of Jesus Christ, who we pray. Amen. So he starts off in chapter 3, verse 1. Behold. So we're going to look at in verse 1, behold what manner our fathers love. Behold the manner of our fathers love. And when he says behold right here, it has the idea of to know, to see something, to get our attention. It's one of those moments where you're talking to your children and you look at them and you say, no, no, look at me when I'm talking to you. This is one of those so so look at me so I can see your eyes, so I know you're not thinking about whatever show was on, so your iPad, your gaming device, or whatever, is look at me. Because I want you to understand what I'm going to tell you. That is what John is doing. He he's going to give a command here. He's commanding us. to know something. He wants us to understand is for sure. He's getting our attention as a mother to a child or even a father. So when he says behold, it's look. Pay attention so that you could know and have a full understanding of what I'm about to say. It's very important. We see this also in John 4. 29 where he says, come. see a man which told me all things ever I did. Is not this the Christ? And that was the woman at the well. And when she says, I want you to come and see this man, she's saying, I want you to understand who this guy is I mean he told me all about myself. And then she's saying, is this not the Christ? Come and see for yourself. Know and experience who he is. It's the same word there where she says, come and see a man. That word see is the same word for behold. We see it again in John 20, verse 27. Then saith Thomas, reaching hither thy finger, and behold, that's our word, behold my hands, which reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but believing. So this same word is used for Thomas who was doubting. I want to see it. I want to know it for myself. He wanted to touch Christ. He wanted to see it. He wanted to handle it. And that's where John starts in the first verse of this book. He wants to see, handle. These are things that I've seen and witness of. Well that's what the same word used in John 20 verse 7 when Thomas is talking about, behold thy hands. to see something, to have a complete understanding, to come to faith, to come to know something. So John here is used of God to use this word behold. He wants us to know and understand. He wants our complete attention. For what he's about to say. And so what's he say? Behold, I've got your attention. Look at me, son, right in my eyes. I want you to know this truth. What is this truth? What manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. We have A God who is our Father and in the way in which He loves us is incredible. He wants us to think about this. He wants us to know it. He wants us to understand this. What manner of love? This great selfless love. This is the agape love, that unconditional love. And since it's such a big deal, and I think he's trying to draw our attention with great understanding to understand this command of how the Father loves us, I want to turn to 1 John chapter 4, starting with verse 7. When I think of a love chapter, we usually think of 1 Corinthians 13, and we will go to a couple of those verses. But in 1 John 4, he later describes, I like to say how he defines what love is. So we'll just look at a couple of verses here. If we're going to look at this manner of love, we're just going to skip ahead, see how it's defined, and then come back to the passage that we're at. So what is this manner of love if we can try and define love using the Word of God? 1 John 4, let's look at verse 7. All the beloveds and the loves in this passage are that same agape love, that unconditional love that God has. Starting with verse 7. Beloved. Let us love one another. For love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God. Why? For God is love In this was manifested the love of God toward us. So God is love. How'd he make this known? How do he manifest it and show us this? In this was manifested the love of God toward us Because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. And that's obviously your mind probably runs back to John 3. 16, very similar idea there. Continuing on, verse 10, herein is love. Not that we loved God. This is the great manner by which God loves us. It's not that we love God. But that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Pastor was covering that through Isaiah 53. God had a judgment that had to come upon sin. He was angry. He had a wrath that needed to be pleased, that needed to be appeased, that needed to be cooled down, if you will, that needed to be paid for. How did that happen? Only through Christ. What he did on the cross, shedding his blood, giving freely of his own volition for us. That is demonstrating his love. What manner of love is this? We're looking at this is what is it so selfless, so giving For something we've got to do for ourselves. So he's the propitiation, pick it up back in verse 10, to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. He is demonstrating love. Now, love is not just doing what everyone else wants or desires. Love is often meeting the needs of someone else. Not just wants, not just what makes them happy. For what they need. We had a need. We had a sin debt that could not be paid. So what did God do? He took it upon himself by way of the cross and shedding of his blood. And he did that by demonstrating, manifested, making known his love for us. Because he first loved us and did that for us. So what John is saying at the beginning of this first verse in chapter 3, he wants us to understand what manner of love God had towards us. That God is love and he went out of his way to demonstrate that, to meet a need that we could not pay without him, without him doing it really of his own. So he wants us to consider this. So that's how we can see love is defined. God is love. He has manifested, demonstrated that to us. And we see it described. I want to turn quickly to 1 Corinthians 13. In 1 Corinthians 13, this is also very common, but I just want us to see it again with this thought as we're thinking about the manner of love that John wants us to know and understand. 1 Corinthians 13. Starting, I'll just for context, I'll start in verse one. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, every time we see the word charity, it's that same agape love. Every time you see the word charity in the New Testament, it is always referring to agape. It is not referring to fleo, the brotherly love. It is always, you can look up in the strongs, every time you see the word charity. So here, every time we see charity, it's that same agape love that we're seeing in 1 John 3 and 1 John 4. It's the same thing So here he's saying, pick it up in the middle of verse one, and have not charity, I am become as a sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could rem remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing. So you could give of yourself personally, you could give of yourself financially. But if you don't do it out of right love for God, what's it say? It's worthless. It says it's nothing. So let's continue and look at some other examples as we see love described. We saw it defined in 1 John 4. We're going to continue to see it described here. In 1 Corinthians 13, pick it up in verse 3. And though I bestow all my goods, there it is, your financial gain, you're giving it to someone else. All that is a good thing. So you're doing this to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. There's no benefit if you're doing it for the wrong motives, for the wrong reasons It's not being done right. Now let's continue, look more specifically at charity itself in verse 4. Charity suffereth long And is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity vaunteth not itself, and is not puffed up. Does not behave itself unseemly. Seeketh not her own. Is not easily provoked. Boy, that could be a tough one when you got little kids doing the same thing over and over again. Thinketh no evil, rejoices not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth. You know, that's I think sometimes these statements are here because these are things we struggle with. Sometimes you're struggling with something, you see someone else struggle with something, you're like, ha, it's getting them too. You almost rejoice in their struggles because it makes you feel better for the moment. That's not what love does. Continuing on. Verse seven Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth But whether there be prophecies, they shall fail, whether there shall be tongues, they shall cease, whether there shall be knowledge, it shall vanish away. Skip to the very last verse, 13. And now abideth faith, hope, charity These three, but the greatest of these is charity. Love described. That's a whole nother message in itself, but just to give us a good mental picture. Of a reminder what love is. John is calling us to know and to understand the manner of love that God has towards us. This is what he wants to understand. Going back to 1 John chapter 3, verse 1. Behold What manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. This bestowed us as idea of He's given, He's granted, He's delivered unto us. He's given it to us. So this love that he has manifested, made known and demonstrated, he's defined it. He has bestowed it upon us. Just ponder the truth of what God has done for sinners like me and like you. We are but dust. On our best day, we're filthy rags. And yet God wants us to understand through John here. To think about the love that he has for us and how he has bestowed that upon us. The idea of this bestowed, not only has he given it to us, it's already been given. But it continues to kind of carry with us where we can see it. It has continuing result to even today where we can see it. It's not just him dying on the cross, but we can continue to see his love and the benefits of that, and he's going to get to that. Here further in a little bit. Why? Look at this. How do we have continued result from the love that He's demonstrated? It's bestowed upon us, yes, on the cross. And his resurrection, but all the way to today, with continuing result, we can see in the middle verse one that we should be called the sons of God. I've had some very interesting discussions with people before. Oh well, you're saying you're a child of God. I didn't say that The Bible does. And people will get are you are you saying I'm not saying I'm equal with Christ as far as you know perfection and sinless? That's not what I'm saying. Which if you read all first John, you'll definitely know we're not sinless. That's for sure But we have a continued result. We are seen as adopted into Christ. We are recipients. of his great love, and you recognize the depth and the wickedness of our sin and the holiness of God, you can see that we can think about this and should be in awe of who he is and then that he calls us. His children, sons of God. I do want to say here though, people will also misunderstand that all people are God's children. I've heard that many times as well. Well, all people, we're all God's children. And it sounds really good. And yes, God is a God of love. Obviously we're looking at that. But because is it God is a God of love? Sin and wickedness must be punished because you have to love that which is good and right. And yes, he loves that which is Sinful, that's why he did and paid for us on the cross. But we are not all God 's children. Just because you're living, breathing, and you're human does not mean you're a child of God. You're made in the image of God, but you're not his child. Let's look at a couple verses. John says in John 1, 12, but as many as received him Death, burial, resurrection, Jesus Christ is God. You're trusting in that. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become what? The sons of God, to them that believe. So every breathing human walking around on earth is not God's child. You are not one of those. It's those that believe. But as many as received him, then gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. So it starts with receiving him. You have power to be the sons of God, and so that believe on his name. So just with that one verse, I'm going to point out a couple more, but we're not all God's children. We're not all the sons of God. In Galatians 3. 26, for you are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. So how are we God's children? It's by faith in Christ. So we can say if you do not believe in Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you are not God's child You're not. So if you hear someone say, don't pick a fight with them, oh you're wrong, just gently be kind, teach them the truth So called the sons of God. Paul points it out. Actually, let's turn to Galatians 4. There's a couple of verses here I want to look at. Galatians 4, starting in verse 3. Galatians 4. 3. We were just in Galatians 3. 26. In the next chapter, he goes a little bit more, and this is kind of understanding a little bit more about being the sons of God and the adoption here. Starting with verse 3, even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world. We are in bondage to our sin. We love sin and sin can enslave us. We were in bondage to that, and sin is enslaving, and sin can become your master. It really can. And I'm not just talking with, you know, drugs and alcohol, anything that can be There's many things that can draw us away and become addictive, if you will, where you become enslaved. Something that's enslaving our nation greatly is not just drugs and alcohol anymore. With the way of the internet pornography, it enslaves, it entraps, and it snares. Very deadly So, whatever you want to fill in there, we were in bondage under the elements of the world. But, verse 4, but when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. To redeem them that were under the law. That's us. That we might receive the adoption of sons, that we might receive it. Why does it say might? It takes faith. It's not guaranteed to everyone, it takes you believing what Christ has done Continuing on, that we might receive the adoptions of sons. And what does that mean, verse 6? And because ye are sons, were God's sons, his children, God has sent forth the Spirit of his son into your higher hearts, crying, Abba, Father. So because you believe We get the Spirit of God within us, and he cries out in us about our Abba Father. So he goes through all this To behold what manner of our Father's love had towards us. Going back to 1 John 3, verse 1. Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God. Incredible thought right there. Therefore, the world knoweth us not. You go to church on a Wednesday night? What are you thinking? And Sunday morning and Sunday night and fellowships and ADBI classes? And the Baltimore Rescue Mission. And you give your money? 10%? Minimum plus emissions? What are you thinking? Are you crazy? That's what the world they don't get it But when you pause and remember what manner of love, what can we not give to God? You give him your time, your effort, your children, your money? Yes. Because I understand what he has done for me. And I want to obey him in every area I can because he went out of his way to die in my place, shedding his blood for me. And I understand the love that God has for me, and I need to demonstrate that. In thankfulness to him and to others. The world does not know us. Let's look very quickly at how he's kind of mentioned about the world. Look with me in 1 John chapter 2. He's mentioned the world already. 1 John chapter 2. Let's look what it says about the world, starting with verse 15. Love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. Why is he saying this? Because from time to time, we love what the world can offer. We do live in this world, and we will have struggles in this world. But we're not to love it. We're not to have a desire and passion for the things that the world can offer. We're gonna look at that more here in the next verse. But if any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Why is that? They oppose each other. This world is of the Father, the devil, and he is a liar from the beginning. And if you follow the world, it's going to draw you away. from God. It's going to draw you away from his plan of salvation through Christ. You can't have both. That's what he's saying back here in John 2. 15. And let's look at verse 16. Why is this? For all that is in the world. He's going to summarize three different categories with almost two different passions here. So look at look at the three. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Verse 16. For all that is in the world Here we go. First one, the lust of the flesh. Second one, the lust of the eyes. The third one, the pride of life. Once again, it's not of the Father, but it's of this world. So three things. Yes here. You have the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. Within those three things, you get two broader categories. There's the common bond between the first and second one. It's the lust. Lust of the flesh. And then lust of the eyes, things that you can see and things that appeal pleasing to the body. But it's a lust. And I believe Pastor just said recently, lust is not always negative. Most of the time it is, but it's really just a desire, it's a passion that we have. But because we live in the world and the world's trying to lure us in, and without recognizing the love of God and pondering the truth of who he is and what he's done for us, we can more easily drift away. From him and follow the world. And then we see the second broad category: the lust of the flesh And you have a lust for the eyes, so these passions and desires, and then you have the pride of life. And we all know the center of pride. Even with the letters in here, what's the center of pride? It just happens to be I. I can do this. I can do that. And the more that we think I can do it, the more we're pushing God away. So it's not really hard for us to conclude if it's all about me and my desires and what I want for myself, that's not of the Father. His love is selfless. It's giving to the needs of others, not just that anyone can think of themselves. Anyone can please themselves. That's easy. Just try raising a kid or a toddler. Me, mine, no. This is a very natural thing for them. What happens is as toddlers we grow up. And sometimes we still like to say, me, mine, no. It's moderately cute when you're, you know, first learning to talk. It's not as cute when you're, you know, three and four. And when you're 15 and 25 and 35 and beyond, it's really not cute. Me, mine, no Free for me. Pay for you. Yes. Let's just make it a national thing. Okay. I won't go in there. There's a lot we can say there, but the challenge here is when you look at the world. The world doesn't know us Why? Going back to the end of verse one? Because they don't know him. If you don't know the God of love, how can you understand love? And I think sometimes we get so led astray on what love is or what it's not That it just draws us away and we just define it how we want instead of what Scripture says. But it's saying it doesn't know him, it doesn't understand his love, God's love, or who he is. And if we're Christ-like ones and we are trying to follow his way, they're really not going to understand us either. The world does not know us. We see this, we saw in John 2, 15 and 16, for all that is in the world, three categories, two major Passions, if you will. And then in the Gospel of John 15, 19, he says, if you were of the world, the world would love his own. I want Kenneth to think about that thought. If you have no problem in the world or you think you're not sinning much, it's probably because you're going the ways of the world. If you're struggling with sin and you have issues, God forgive me for you know I have sinned again, you're probably more in the right area. God, I need your help today. My flesh is strong, my my spirit seems weak today. I'm struggling with the lust of the flesh, the pride of life. I'm struggling with being selfish. But if you were of the world, the world would love his own. I'm not saying we go out and be mean, but if you stand on the truth of the word of God, you will naturally have people that will not like you. That's just the way it's going to work. Continuing on there in John 15, 19, but because you are not of the world, reminding us we are not of the world. We're in the world, but we're not of the world. But I have chosen you out of the world. Thank you, Christ, for sharing this with us. Therefore, the world hateth you. And then I kind of alluded to this, but in Luke 6. 32, if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye? For sinners also love them that love this. If you only love those because they love you , what thank have you that anyone can do that, as I referred to earlier? This is the scripture that goes with it, Luke 6. 32. But for us to love those who don't love them, that's how Christ loved us. We love him because he first loved us. He went out of his way to demonstrate us, even though we run from him and we despise him, and that Israel did this many times. You and I do this many times. And yet he unconditionally loves us anyways And John is reminding us, behold, pay attention. I want you to understand this love that God has for us, the one he gives us the title of the sons of God. That is an incredible, humbling thought. And then he tells us that the world doesn't know us because it doesn't know him. So don't take it personal that they're mad at you, because ultimately, really, they're not so mad at you. They might think they are, but they might be mad at your godly principles. What do you mean you're not for women's health That's just a substitute for saying murdering children in the womb. What do you mean you don't support that? Well, hey, I'm saying God is for life. And there's many different passages of scripture principles. Hey, I stand for life in the womb. So does God. It's okay, but people will think that you're they don't they don't understand it. And that's just one very obvious example. But here's another reason why. Let's look at this. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 2. They don't know the Father, so we could introduce the world to our Father. We could go to the Great Commission and many different things and we hand out flyers and tracks and things and we should. Because they don't know him God could very easily, as you're turning to 1 Corinthians chapter 2, God could very easily, the moment that someone trusts in Christ as their Savior, he could call you home. He could, that would be easier. In a lot of ways, that'd be great. I trusted Christ as my Savior by faith alone, by his grace, and I'm on my way to heaven. And he could just take us up right there and there. That would be very sweet But in his wisdom and his love for others to know, he chooses to keep us here for as long as he chooses. So let's let the world know about our loving Father, but we also need to understand this about them. Look at 1 Corinthians 2, starting at verse 9. But it is written, quoting out of Isaiah, I hath not seen nor e heard, neither have entered into the heart of men the things which God hath prepared for them that love him But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit. For the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man, which is in him, even so the things of God knoweth no man but the spirit of God Now we have received not the spirit of the world. This is where it starts really tying in. But the spirit which is of God, that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. We don't have to earn 'em, pay for it. Okay, it's given freely. Which things also we speak, not in words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. But here's where the challenge for us comes in. This is why if they don't know our Heavenly Father, we can show them and introduce them or at least try and demonstrate and share it through words and actions. Verse 14, but the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, because they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them. Because they are spiritually discerned. You will have people that will try and read the Word of God. I don't get it. It doesn't make sense. This is a pathetic, crazy book that religious people do to make themselves feel better. Without the Spirit of God, that's how one can view it. That's what 1 Corinthians 2 is saying. They won't get it. They don't have the Spirit of God, the truth, the one who convicts us of righteousness. and judgment. The one who shows us and enlighten us of the truths of scripture. So without you can try and share things of the Bible, and I've been caught by this so many times. They're trying to answer questions. the people at their door, they have questions and they they'll get you distracted with how many angels can dance on the you know Ivan needle and all this crazy stuff and you're like things that don't matter. Can God make a rock so big he can't you know build and carry it and all this stuff in your What they need is Christ. What they need is understand their sin and God who has demonstrated his love for us and has sent his son in their place when they start understanding who they're not and who God is. And when they make that decision to trust in Christ, then the moment they trust in Christ, they get the Spirit of God that indwells them, then they can start understanding Scripture. Until then, you're just gonna be beating your head against the wall with some people. You'll go round and round in circles and crazy questions. And if you've got time, it's okay to answer some questions, but you've got to bring it around to the gospel because it's foolishness to them. They won't get it, nor will they, until they trust in Christ. So, because they don't know our Father, we, you and I, as believers and as assembly that God has put together in this local area, can introduce them to our Father. Share the Word of God. Share Jesus Christ. And we have a perfect opportunity and one of the biggest weekends upcoming where people will visit churches the most. Christmas and Easter. People will just visit just because it's Easter, it's a religious thing to do. Would we get them from a religion doing it just because it's right occasionally to understand that they can have a relationship with the Savior of the world, Jesus Christ? And they won't get that far unless they see they have a need for their sin to be paid for. So going back to 1 John chapter 3. Verse one. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Then we get to verse two. And we're going to see how the beloved are now the sons of God. The beloved are now Right now, the sons of God. Let's look at it. Verse 2. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what shall be But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Let's just pick it up with the beloved. This is written to believers. Fellow Christians, brothers and sisters, those following Christ. When we come to the scripture, sometimes we try and take the Bible and use it as evangelistic in every single nook and cranny when really the Bible is written to believers. Like we said, if you're trying to answer their questions, and it's okay to answer questions, but just don't get bogged down if they're not believing Christ, because it'll be foolish to them, or they just won't get it. You gotta get them back to Christ. But the word of God is written to believers Think of the Old Testament. Who is the Old Testament primarily written to? Israel? Then a divided kingdom. You can sprinkle in some Nineveh and things in there But really, it's written to believers, to the Jews. Even by the time you get to the book of Romans, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. The New Testament. Who's the New Testament written to? Primarily churches, individuals, they're already believers. The Word of God is most beneficial and is written for believers. Because if you're not a believer, it's just black and red words on a white page. It's not the very power of God, it's not the wisdom of God, it's not the very word of God we're reading. It's just another book. In fact, a book that's broken up into 66 books And two major divisions. It's just a book. It's not the very living word of God that can change lives in eternities. And right churches and have godly families. So, beloved, now Are we sons of God? Emphasizing the present over the future. Why do I say that He's emphasizing the here and now because it's good to understand our position right now. We think we're saved, and a lot of times we think, okay, good, I got my fire insurance, I'm going to heaven someday, and God's a God of grace and love, so I can do what I want. He wants to focus on the now. We love God now so we keep his commandments and so we could know certain things. You look through 1 John, you're gonna know a lot. He says that know this and know this and know this He wants us to love him and to keep his commandments, and we're going to keep his word. He wants us to have a life right now that benefits. Why? That men may see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven. Good works aren't going to give us the heaven. But we will show that we're not of this world. We're different. We might be people of principle. And to them, we might be almost a little odd sometimes. But now, right now, we are in a position as God's children. The question is, do we live like it? Are we acting like it? Do we go places where God would go? Do we talk about things as if Christ were right beside us? Are we acting like we are a child of God? And then look at this. I think he further emphasizes this because he says, and doth not it yet appear what we shall be? He says, well what are we going to be like? I was just pondering some questions and things in here. But are what are we going to look like? Are we going to be able to walk through walls? When we get a new body? Are we gonna be able to go through locked doors? What are we gonna eat? Will I have to count calories? How old will I look? Why I look young? Why I look old? Because you identify people with how you know them. Well for some people I've only known them as a grandpa. But some people may only recognize them when they were in their twenties. How will we know to identify them in heaven? I know. Everyone's gonna be 33. Why do you pick that? I just picked a number out of the air. No, I mean, maybe that's because Christ is thirty-three and he died? I don't know. I'm just throwing stuff out there. But the point he's making here is like I think it's kind of fun. He says, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. Did do we know what we're gonna actually be like? We're gonna have wings. No, we can fly without the wings. We'll have to take my robe off to so my wings so I can't fly. But what what he's saying here is this look at this. He says, I don't know. But this I do know. This is one thing we can know. He says, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. Amen. Do we need to know anything else more than that? I don't think so. We're going to be like him when he comes. And this corruption is going to put on incorruption. This mortal is going to put on immortality. And I that new body will be able to laugh for live forever, just as Christ will. Do we need to know any more than that? That's what we say is emphasize, live for now And the future things, they'll work themselves out, but we do know we're going to be like him. That's great. That's enough for me right now. That is as wonderful. So he's emphasizing the present. And if you look at 1 John 5:1, he says, Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. And just because we don't always obey God or we, you know, sin from time to time, doesn't mean we're no longer his son. So yeah, what we do now, and we look forward to the future, but don't let a current failure or struggle stop you from serving God. And I like to use this illustration, and I use John 3. 16 being born-again illustration. What can you do to unborn yourself from your parents? I know. You can move to the far corner of the world, change your name, and do everything your parents told you not to do. And then you wouldn't be their child, right? I'd love to share this association with teenagers. They're like, well, no, you're weird, Pastor Josh. I know. But if you do those things, does that change the fact that you're born into their family? No. I like that illustration of John 3. You are born again. Now just because you make mistakes, so we're living for here and now, and he's emphasizing living, obeying, and keeping God's commandments and the rest of 1 John, but just because you make a mistake doesn't mean it's game over. Ask for forgiveness. You go back to verse 1. 9. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just forgive us our sins that cleanse us from all unrighteousness. A just man falls seven times and rises up again. Don't let Satan think you're not a child of God. Even now, you can't be a son of God. Look, you made a mistake. Don't let him hold it over your head. Get it right. Ask for forgiveness, make it right with others if necessary, and continue living as the Son of God you're called to be. Here and now. Don't let Satan drag us down with this. And then John 10, I like this passage too, because sometimes we don't feel like we're a son of God. Here and now I'm a living, I'm doing the best I can, and sometimes we will just have a doubt. Am I really still God's son? Am I a child of God? I've sinned, I've messed up, and I keep struggling with this sin, so God doesn't want to use me. I want to remind us of this passage in John 10. Starting with verse 24. Then came the Jews round about him and said unto him, How long dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. So Jesus answers them in verse 25, I told you, and ye believed not. The works I do in my Father's name, Christ, claiming that God is directly his Father. Which they want to son him for that in chapter 8. This is John 10. He says, They bear witness of me, but ye believe it not. He's like, how much more do I have to tell you? What more? I do signs, I heal The lame walk, the blind see, the dead are raised, given life. I'm telling you I'm God's son. You go to stone me, and then today you're saying tell us plainly? He says, I've told you, I can't tell you anymore plainly. You just don't believe it Why am I saying all this? To get to our confidence and our position that we are now the sons of God, it continues. But because they believe not, he says, You are not of my sheep, as I said unto you. But my sheep, in verse 27, my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. Are we acting as a child of God, as one of his sheep, if you will, as him as our great shepherd that we are to follow as he leads. And what does he do? He gives unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. This means if I sinner make a mistake It doesn't mean I'm not going to heaven anymore. It's not based off what I do. It's based off him and what he's done. Pastor did a great job explaining that. That was wonderful It's what he has done. He went to the cross. He shed his blood. He rose from the dead. I just need to believe it. These guys didn't. We're here today. I'm assuming everyone does. That's our position. Our position is the child of God. Don't let Satan cause doubt. Don't let the world tell you that it's not true. Because he gives unto them eternal life. They shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. I use illustration a lot with teens too. You know if I have a little kit and my kids aren't as little as I used to be, but I could have something in my hand, there's no way they're getting it out I mean, you know, two-year-old getting something of marble or whatever, trying to swallow it. I take that from he's not getting it out of my why. I'm bigger, stronger than they are. They're not getting it out. Well, who is greater and stronger than God? Nobody. Our position is secure. We are right now children of God that will not change. We're born again, known as stronger than God. It is our position, our unchanging permanent position. Now, because of this, beloved, ye are now in John 3. 2, the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when you shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. What does it look like to be a son of God? One who understands the love of God. One who understands more of their calling as God's child, as a child of God. We know that we're on the way to heaven. We are confident in this because we understand our position now. We know that we are not of this world. We should not get lured away. By the ways of this world, by the lusts and the pride of it, we should look more like our Savior Jesus Christ. And when we don't, don't let that drag you down. Don't let the weights of this world continue to drag you down like you are not what we are. We're not perfect, but we can make it right with the one who's faithful and just to forgive us of those sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Not based off your works, but who he is and understanding what he's done, would that motivate us to understand who we are in him and live like he has called us to be? A son of God. Father, we thank you and praise you for this word that you've given to us this evening. May it be encouraging and challenging wherever necessary to these. Christians, these believers. These are your children. Father, we need your discernment, wisdom. May we ponder the truth of your love towards us, the manner by which you have loved us, to motivate us to want to live for you. To recognize that the world will try and draw us away from you, and to recognize that we have a permanent position as your child that can motivate us to live like we should We should, by your grace and through your strength, and of the Spirit who is truth, would you help us live to live like your children? Because we are now the sons of God. We thank you for this truth and ask you to be with your people in Christ's name. Amen