Well good morning. It's great to see each of you today and I hope that you had a great weekend. And uh we had a very busy weekend here at Anchor and just had a great time, had a teen conference. And we had 15 churches here from, I believe it was either five or six states once I added it all up and uh just had a great time. And uh just thankful for the work that the Lord did in the hearts of our young people and not just the teens, really, I think the sponsors were very encouraged as well. And so you're going to get a little bit of a taste of that this morning because we still have the Marinatha guys here with us and they'll also be with us tonight. We also have Rand here this morning. morning and so we're really excited about that. I wanted to mention a couple of details in our bulletin just to to keep us uh remembering that we have a lot of activities this month. First of all on the 12th that's next Sunday We have our Christmas program and that will be our morning worship service and the the choir has several specials that they will be doing. The message will be gospel-centered. We have a lot planned, and so we're really looking forward to that. It's a great time to invite friends and family. people from the community. We do have invitation cards that are in the lobby area, and so we want to encourage you to pick those up. And we also have invitation cards for our Christmas Eve service, which will be at seven o'clock on Christmas Eve. Christmas Eve. So please pick those up if you can. Uh in preparation for that on Saturday at nine o'clock we have a rehearsal. So all of those who are involved with that, please do come to that. And uh we usually have some sweets for the kids. kids and the ones that bring them. So uh hope that you guys uh don't forget about that. Um also there's a ladies meeting coming up on the ninth and then our annual budget meeting, our our annual business meeting is December the 12th, and we have a lot of important information we're going to go through at that meeting. In fact, I'm going to preach a shorter, condensed message And some of you might be like, well then it's gonna be a normal Sunday night, right? No, it's gonna be a much shorter uh sermon so that we can really focus on the business that we have. There are a lot of really neat things that we're going to be able to report on from this past year. God's blessings have been very rich in there in our church. And I think it'll be a really important meeting for you to come to. So if you're if you're a member, please do make sure that you You come Sunday night, December the 12th for our business meeting. Also, several other details that are here in our calendar of events. So please make a note of that. Also, there's a nursery workers meeting this after uh right after the morning service, so uh please make sure that you are uh able to come to that as well if you're Involved in the nursery. If you could, let's take out our Bibles and we're going to be reading Isaiah 7, verses 13 and 14 for our scripture reading. Again, that's Isaiah 7 verses 13. Here's what the scriptures say. And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David , is it a small thing for you to be weary, men? But will ye weary my God also? Therefore the Lord Himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. And when we see the Matthew 7 passage, we see that that word means God with us. And this entire season is a celebration of the incremental the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, the significant of significance of that event, and really all of the theological implications that are connected to that. This is a wonderful season. Let's bow together in prayer and ask the Lord to bless our service as we focus on the miracle of the incarnation. of Christ. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you so much for the privilege of gathering together as a body of believers. Thank you for each person that is here physically this morning. And also those who've joined us by live stream. I pray that this morning the Lord Jesus Christ would be lifted up and exalted. I pray that as we sit under the ministry, Of the scriptures, that our hearts would be pricked in conscience, that our hearts would be encouraged where we need to be uplifted. I pray that our response would be one of worship. I pray that we would truly adore you because Because you are a God who is worthy of all praise and adoration. We think of your grace, we think of your loving kindness and mercy. We think of your power and we think of the way you've displayed your personal care in our lives by the way that you work as a sovereign God. I pray that you would be exalted properly this morning. And we would express worship to you as we ought. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, good morning. Can't thank you enough for choosing to worship with us here at Anchor Baptist Church. Hope that you will continue all this wondrous energy as we celebrate the Incarnation of Jesus Christ. We'll open our hymn books to hymn number two hundred twenty-nine. Let's all stand as we sing O come, O come, Emmanuel. We'll sing all three verses of hymn number two hundred twenty-nine. Oh come all come never. And it's all in Swai. Oh come thou may come here as merch by thy coming in. The rest of my night, and that 's our Shall God say me what is right Organtami arrepää , and a peanut. Big thing on women, and so that green We do know we know Some Great singing. Let's turn just a few pages back to hymn number two hundred one. Oh come, all ye faithful, sing out as we sing all three verses of this Christmas carol. Oh God , on your own. Sake by the sun. Oh God , I saw that. Great singing. Please be seated as we continue our singing. We'll turn to hymn number 196. Hymn number 196, angels we have heard on high. We'll sing all four verses. Sing out this morning. Angels we had a mind, swing facing all the place, and the man report. And it says this day Maybe shepherds my best to me why yours or your space. Stay one way , I think me with my Come to Bert Ramansi Have for the thing, come on , or Christ thou king Ele exerciste And we like stakeholding Jesus Lord of Angela. Mary just and many when I say I think of her. Formia , en mäksnäcisten, lotu anota. Great singing this morning. Let's open our Bibles to the Gospel of Luke. The Gospel of Luke chapter 1, and we'll read verses 68 through 79. Luke chapter 1, verses 68 through 79. The scriptures say, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed his people. and hath raised up an horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, as he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began. That we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all that hate us, to perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. The oath which he swear to our father Abraham, that he would grant unto us that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemy might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. And thou, child Shalt be called the prophet of the highest, for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways. to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins, through the tender mercy of our God, whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us. To give light to them that sit in darkness, and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. M number two hundred three, Oh Holy Night, the stars are bright Oh, holy night, the stars are brightly shining It is the night of my dear Savior 's birth. Only the one that sent an ability of man And I thought that was where we were before For your breaks, under went for your fall, but on your When Christ was on, oh my people. Well by the mind of eggs of relief We're blowing bars, by this great I'll be so Slow led by lights of a store so sweetly clean , can came the wise back from But King of King's Doc Way and Loly Major and all us wanted to be your friend Be body before and worthy man We all kill, we bought them only. Truly, he taught us in love. This one is love and this has to be So he shall keep praying for the water and in his name all of us are season. And grateful for his praise which blend all winning us praises for the name Christ. Great singing. Let's all stand once more as we sing our song for the month of December. It'll be in the blue book, number 105. For me to live is Christ. Christ is the reason for the singing and for this season. 105 in the blue book, all four verses. In life or death I'm not despair, my hope and hair of all this Sir , turn as Christ your diet came, I seek to back then Find his things for me to live is price, for me to live For say we have my highest price for me to live He came to earth and served for to bear across the same thought storm. This mind of price to make my own to sleep with humble heart alone for me to live is Christ For me to live it's price , personal my highest price, for me to live. To know my Lord surpasses all, to press for him by single To know his victory on the grave, to love his mighty power to save for me to live as Christ For me to let this rise , Pursuit cam by high as price, for me to let this cry So door in Christ and ever seized, and run to him, he breaks May it all be strengthened by his praise for me to live Price for me to let this prize for serving him by his price For me to live this promise. Great singing, please be seated. We've been singing a number of wonderful hymns this morning about the incarnation of Jesus Christ. And I don't know about you, but I've been thinking about a text like John chapter 1, where the Bible tells us that in the beginning was the word, and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. What a wonderful Wonderful thought to consider that the King of the universe came down in human form to dwell with us and to rescue us from our sins. And you expect a the arrival of arrival of a king to bring a great celebration and a lot of festivity around uh that that arrival, that birth. But when you read the account uh like Luke two and uh Luke three, and you see how Jesus came in a very humble manner. Oh, there wasn't a great parade, there wasn't great festivity that night. Oh yeah, out in the fields there wasn't Where the angels came, but not where Jesus was. He was born in a stable. He had a humble arrival. And really the song that we'd like to sing kind of highlights that that truth. It was a silent night. It was a holy night. There was a stillness and there was a calmness to the arrival of a majestic, powerful king. And in the second verse, you would hear us thing this morning, we're going to talk about how our response to that should be hallelujah to join with the angels in praising that great king who has come to earth to save us. So let not All in spray Virgin mother and child Holy infinit sounder and mild Sleep in house and sleep. Sleeping Silent night holy night Wonder so land thy light With the angels was sing On reste Christus' Savior is both Christ, the savior is Well, it's been a real privilege for us to be able to have uh the guys from Marinatha and also Brother Rand Hummel with us. us this weekend and uh I've not only enjoyed getting to hear him preach the word and uh just seeing how effectively he communicates with teenagers But I've just enjoyed getting to interact with him personally, and uh he has been an encouragement to me, and I know uh all of you who have been able to interact with him personally. to Our children who are in the junior church age can be dismissed to the back. I see you've already done that. Good job, guys. 'Cause I would have forgotten. Um but uh looking forward to have having Brother Rand preach the word. I also did want to mention that uh in the back there is a section of uh books that he has brought and These are books that are, some of them are excellent devotional guides. One of the things that's a big emphasis when he has taught, both in our Sunday school time and also during the time when I've heard him teach in the teens, is the importance of reading scripture and meditating on scripture. And those are excellent resources to help you to develop those disciplines of not Not just reading, but studying, meditating, digging into the content of those passages and understanding what God's Word says. So please do stop by and take a look at that. And uh brother, come on up and preach And a special good morning to you. Good morning. Turn to the person next to you and say good morning. And then ask him this question, don't you wish you looked as good as I do today? Good. I'd love to see you smile. And your singing was great. And the Marinatha guys, oh, what a blessing. Peter on the piano, a little practice, and he might get good, you know. And I I had to turn around and watch some of you while he was playing. You were just smiling from ear to ear like Is that real or not? Isn't it great to see people? Take the gifts that God gave them and use them for his glory. That is a wonderful, wonderful thing I do want to thank uh your pastor. Uh I did have a special privilege to where I was sitting. I got to sit right in front of uh let's see, one, two, three, four, four and a half of your kids, I guess, right? And uh Just to hear him sing out. It was just precious. It really, really was. But just all the work you guys did to bring a hundred or maybe a hundred and six 60 in for the Lick Conference. I've had the privilege to be at the very first one, however many years ago that was, and uh basically get to come every other year, and so I always enjoy coming back. Why don't you turn your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 5, please, okay? Ephesians chapter 5. And we're going to look at one verse today. One verse. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 1. The Bible says, be therefore followers of God as dear children. Say it with me. Be therefore followers of God as dear children. Say it again. Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children. Turn to the person next to you and whisper it to them. Go. Be therefore followers of God. Nine words. You can say it in about six seconds. Your teams could text it in about four seconds. Nine words that totally can change our life. Be, be something. Don't be satisfied to be nothing. Be being. Be active. Be praying. Be serving. Be giving. Be witnessing. Be godly. Be loving. Be Too many of us kind of look into Christian life and say, well, it could be for the younger ones or for the super talented ones or whatever. B Be everything that God wants you to be, everything that He has empowered you to be and gifted you to be. Be a godly Christian. When you're a be Christian, an active Christian, zealous, you you don't even really know how to spell the word apathy, okay? As I mentioned earlier this morning in our Sunday school class, you know, teens, I'm always telling, being asked, how do you deal with apathetic teens? Well, you know, they are unique. Okay, and teams are wonderful. They really are. Junior High Boys are my favorite. I call them pre people. And and when junior high boys they come to the wilds of New England They're like, Brother Ann, Brother Ann, they're all so excited, you know? And they come back as ninth graders, Brother Ann, tenth graders, brother Ann. Eleventh graders, Rand. Twelfth graders It's like they transformed from like Tigger to Eeyore in six years, you know? And and everything is wonderful to bounce off the wall and then whatever. They lose that that passion, that action to be And that act that actually is contagious from you, mom and dad. So be. Be ye. Now, as you know, ye is the plural form. Of you. And when God asked Paul to write this verse, get this. He did not let one of us in this room, any age, any giftedness, any job, there's not one of us in this room. They can say this verse doesn't apply to us. Be ye plural. Now, I had the privilege to be at the Wilds in North Carolina for thirty years, and then I moved to New England. We started a camp up there about thirteen years ago. ago or fourteen years ago. And so at this point I am bilingual. Okay? I am. I go to Bahava, y'all, okay? So I and in the South the plural form of ye is all y'all. Say it with me. All y'all. So when you say good morning, how are you? It's all y'all doing right, son? Okay, but it's the same thing, it's just a different language. But this whole plural thing. Why is it we think that the real living for God is only for certain people? Or why do we put an age limit on it? It doesn't really make a lot of sense, does it? Because those of you who are like my age and above, seniors, you will be able to interact with other seniors that the teens might never meet. And those of you who are teens or in your twenties, you have interaction with people that need to Need Jesus that the others will never meet. We all have our responsibility before God. So be ye What's the next word? Say with me. Therefore. And I'm sure your pastors taught you, whenever you see a therefore, you always got to look back to see what it is. Therefore, yes. And the book of Ephesians is no different. If you think about how God often orchestrates the writing of the Bible, he often puts the doctrine, what we need to know, before the application. what we need to do. And you can't do one without the other. If you emphasize one the other, you get a big head and a shallow life. You emphasize the other one, you have a shallow life and do things in that you won't understand. Like you take Romans chapter 1, 2, and 3, man ruined his life with sin. Chapters 4 through 11, God's remedy is Jesus. Chapter 12 to the end of the book, how can I spend the rest of my life? Thanking God for what He's done for me. First Peter is the same, chapter one and two, Ephesians, chapter one, two, and three, in Christ, chapters four, five, and six, like Christ. So as we are in Christ, when you start digging into this, therefore. Wow, it's it's like a treasure chest, unless you're a little tiny kid. And it's like a toy box. You start digging in, you find something that makes you excited, find something else. Like chapter one, verse seven, the forgiveness of sins. Aren't you glad your sins are forgiven today? I mean, seriously, none of us deserve that. But yet our wonderful Lord and what we sang about today came down to this earth on that silent night. He was born to die. And our Bible tells us to remember his death. The world remembers his birth, but they like to ignore his death. He died because he loves us. He died because we are sinners. And it was the only way that our sin could be separated from us. And then chapter 2, obviously in Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, we are saved by the wonderful grace of God. Undeserving. You can't add to it, you don't work for it. Being empowered by his Spirit in chapter 3. I mean it just goes on and on and on. And Paul is saying here, now that you have all these wonderful things, now that you know you are in Christ with all these gifts. Be ye therefore followers of God. The word follower could be translated imitators. Mimites is the word that means to mimic or to imitate. And as you know, there's good imitations and bad imitations, you know. Uh probably the only one I really know about, the only soft drink I've heard that we're gonna drink in heaven is Dr. Pepper, that's what I've been told, okay? My wife says it tastes like carbonated prune juice. But anyway, so you got these imitations like, what do you call it, Mr. Piv? He's not even a doctor yet. I mean, I don't understand it. He's not a good imitation. To be a really good imitation, you gotta really study what you're gonna imitate. And if it's a person, you've got to study how they think and how they talk, how they walk, everything about them. So if we are to be imitators of God , We have to really, really know him well, don't we? We got to study his precious word to find out how he thinks and how he speaks. how he walks, how he talks. Um I was on a plane in Manchester, New Hampshire, where I live, close to where I live, heading to Detroit to go somewhere to preach. And I remember sitting there and I was working on some staff training stuff and man we sat there a long time. Finally I asked one of the flight attendance, so we're gonna leave soon. And she said, Well we have a problem because we have a runaway. I said, What do you mean? She said, We have a kid who ran away from home. She's fifteen and the police have her. Sh they just brought her into the airport. They're gonna put her on the plane when we get to Detroit, you're gonna have to wait there too until the police come and get her off the plane. So it wasn't a real big plane, but there were two empty seats in front of me and there was one right next to me. So I quick moved her and said, Lord have her sit by me So she came in with an attitude. I mean really attitude. She looked at the one empty seat, the next one, she looked at me and seat plopped right down next to me Said, how you doing? Whatever. I said, Okay, okay. She was really upset. So I pretended to ignore her. I really did. And I had a yellow tab, and again I was working on some staff trainings. stuff and and I actually drew I can't draw at all, but this is what I was trying to draw, and I drew a tree and put all the little apples on it, you know, and and we just put 'em in. She's looking over and thinking what this guy is really weird, really strange. And then very, very slowly, very carefully, I just started putting little call-outs like Hurt. And unloved and lonely, fearful and unforgivable, depressed, guilty, angry, bitter, hopeless, suicidal Just one at a time that I'd think a little bit, and one at a time stuff that I know kids struggle with. And I just kept writing these down, writing them down. And finally she looked over and she said, What's that? I said, it's a tree. I really did. She said, no, really? What is that? I said, really, it's a tree. I know I can't draw. Then I asked her this, what does it look like to you? She said, Looks like me. So I was at camp. Kid was brought to camp and she had tried to commit suicide three times. The last time she ended up in a hospital, she was seventeen. Some kids from a nearby church heard about it and went to the hospital and visited her, invited her to their youth group. She came to church. she trusted Christ. And I'm telling you, teens, you got to invite your friends. Because they're going to come here, they're going to hear the gospel and they're going to get saved, okay? So she comes to camp because of the suicide attempts. They wanted me to s spend some time walking or talking to her. And and I I did. I showed her the same thing. And I asked her, Now what does this look like? And she said the same thing. It looks like me. And then I got a call. I was actually just doing some plowing. It was winter time. And I get a call from this family said our daughter is freaking out out in rebellion. We don't know what to do. She does love the camp but she won't listen. We literally threw her in the car and we're on our way to camp. We hope you're there. So I quick got down to my office when I got in there's the mom was already there. I said, Where's your daughter? She won't talk to you She's locked herself in the car. And I said, Well, who has the keys? She goes, Oh, I didn't think of that. And so she gave me the keys. I went down, hit that little button, sat down behind the the steering wheel. I still remember looking over and go, Oh brother And at this point I had exactly what you're looking at on my computer. And I said I just pushed it over in front of her. I said, what does this look like? She said the same thing. She said, Looks like me. Now, the sad thing about this is I am preaching to people who have been in church, some of you most of your life. Some of you guys have been Christian and faithful in church for 20 and 30 years. And still you can look up at this and go, but Rand. Looks like me. Because I do. I struggle with anger all the time. And I don't want to be bitter, but I feel like I am. I'm often scared because I feel lonely. Unloved, depressed. Yeah, this is me. If this is the fruit in your life If you are serious when you're all by yourself examining your heart, the inner you, and and one of these after another, you say, yeah, not all of them, but many of them. then I already know something about your theology. In other words, I already know some of the things you believe about about God if this is true in your life. Like what? You believe that God doesn't love me. And I know he loves other people, especially the good people, you know. But Why would he love me? Or God would never ever forgive me. You say, Ren, you don't know what I've done. I don't But God does. But Rand, I'm such a mess. You realize over half of the Bible is written by a murderer who is changed by the power of God, like Moses and David and Paul. Some of you would say, I'm all alone. There's no reason to live, and God doesn't care, and I just want to die, and God is too busy to mess with me. And God Is a thousand miles away. Why do we believe, get this, why do we believe these lies? Because every single one of them are a definite lie. Satan has never changed his battle plan. From the Garden of Eden till today, he spends his time organizing whatever he can to try to get us to doubt that God truly is who he says he is. That's what he's doing. So you have to ask, what is he orchestrated in your life that causes you to doubt his power? What is in your life that makes you think that God does not love you anymore? And if you really struggle with these things, I'm trying to encourage you to understand that you're believing a lie. And you can't go to life and start picking the fruits and throw them away or even try to polish them because you know what they're gonna do tomorrow, they're gonna grow right back. Until you deal with the root system of your True belief in God. I wish I had the privilege to grow up like many of you, or as I'm watching the pastor's kids. Wonderful. Wonderful. I grew up in a very abusive situation, terrible. As a kid, I'd hold the pillow of my head so I didn't hear mom scream when dad beat her. And this I thought every kid in the world grew up this way. And then it was the next three or four years I was raised, my mom left us and raised my grandparents and And my my grandma was cool. She was a Polish lady, hard worker. She's only about four eleven, both ways, and she was just wonderful. Grandad was a heavy drinker and it was tough. It was tough, I'll just say that. that. So when you're a kid, never heard the words I love you ever growing up, I just assumed that God loved you good people that went to church all the time. I never doubted that God was a God of love. I just knew that He didn't love me. Why would He? Nobody else does. I don't love me. I really struggle with this So I was a plumber getting through college, and that's what I was going to do with my life. Play guitar, I play a trumpet, and I had my life all figured out. I'm going to Chile South America and I'm I don't even have to raise support. I'm going as a plumber. And I love to do that. That was my that's why I went to college. That was my whole purpose in life. When I get there with college, God kind of shut the door. And we said, what are we going to do? And then they heard about this camp called the Wilds, and they needed maintenance. So I went to work maintenance back in 19 And then they asked if maybe we would stay another year, and we stayed one more year because I enjoyed working hard. And if you go to camp, camp's hard work, okay? Then we had our son Josh, and then we had a little boy that died at birth. He's buried in a cemetery, not far from the wilds there. And then Amber came back from the hospital. We were expecting our third. She was crying, I said, What's wrong? She said, We're gonna lose this one too. I lost it. I totally did. I lost it with God. I st Still remember saying, God, come on. Give my life to you. I'm working as many hours as I can. Why? Why are you so angry with me? I remember just so upset, I just went for a walk and argued with God, and then finally I got home and Amber was sitting on the couch crying, and I plopped down the chair. I said, God's mad about something. She said, No, he's not. He doesn't care. He's a thousand miles away. Amber said that. I'm thinking, Oh, Rant, how Foolish. I was so blinded to my problem, and it wasn't until Amber said that that I realized what was going on in our lives. We were already graduates of a Bible college work in maintenance. A wonderful camp. And we were Christians. But I looked at Amber and says, We don't know God. I wasn't saying we were not saved. I said, We don't know God. We believe the For me, I grew up with an angry dad, so God God was always mad at me. For Amber, some teenager had her put in foster care, adopted out of that. And when her when she was only seven Her daddy died, and her mom never ever got married again. So for her, God is a thousand miles away. I'm not trying to be harsh or mean, but where do our kids get their concept of God? From you, Dad. And for some of you guys, that is wonderful. That's great. For some it's not. Some of your kids are going to leave home thinking God's mad at them or doesn't care. Yeah And our problem is we we do, we will live believing these lies about God. But I want you to understand that honestly, a wrong and improper view of God produces bad fruit. You don't just try to fix the fruit. That's you might as well go to a psychological Psychologist or a psychiatrist for that. That's behaviorism. You change and grow in your knowledge of God. And then As Peter told us, look at everything he'll start adding to your life. But I want you to know that that girl on the plane wasn't the only tree I showed her. had another one. And this one looked a little bit different. In fact, I showed all three of those girls hundreds of teams since then. Loving and happy and unselfish and joyful and content, secure and kind, peaceful, self-controlled, patient, respectful And when I showed all three of those girls, you know what all three said? They go, Rand, that's that's what I want to be. Could you imagine, mom? You raise your daughter and she loves God and you send her off to Maranatha or one of the Christian colleges. And she's in her dorm room, and all of a sudden everybody starts talking about their mom and dad. And your daughter says, Oh, you should meet my mom. She is the most loving, joyful, happy person ever I know. Are your son going off to the military? Guys start talking about their dads, and the guy says, Oh, your son says Oh my dad. Oh, I have never met a more peaceful, patient, kind man in all my life How do we get this fruit in our lives? Where does this come from? Again, it comes from your theology. That you really believe that God promises to forgive me, that God loves me, and God is always there for me. I have a purpose in life. God really does care. God helps me. God is in control of my life and God wants the best for my life. I I I can just say that I actually believe this. I believe that God loves me. I mean, you guys have been saying it since you're little. Can you sing it with me? Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me. See, you know it! Then why do we start doubting God when the cancer comes and the miscarriage? Why is it when kids run away from God we doubt God's power? It really does not make sense. And we walk through this life knowing about things but not knowing them in an experiential way. Because we don't know know our God. We just know about Him. When this happened in our lives, I just assumed I struggled terribly. Anger. It was raised that way. I I assumed that once the wild saw what I was really like, they'd get rid of me really, really quick. Scared that the Ember would leave me. Why wouldn't she? How do you live with an angry man? Okay. It was tough. God totally broke us. We were desperate. And I remember going to Ken saying, I I I probably should just leave He said, no, you just get to need to get to know God. And I was so broken and so scared. Academically I struggled all the way Through life, really did. Barely made it through college. I was raised working on the farm and working, and I just didn't think I could do well with all that. So you know what I did? I took my Bible and a blank notebook. And I was so scared I got up exceedingly early and I spent from 5 30 to 7. 30 with God every morning before I went to work at 8 o'clock. Only in the book of Psalms. Take one Psalm, sometimes just one verse at a time. I wrote, God is my blank, or my God is blank. God is my shepherd, God is my high tower, God is my Delight, my God is kind, my God is everlasting, my God is patient. Whoa. Really God with me I'm telling you, I would write the verse and then write a little paragraph like a journal. My life started to change. Morning after morning I'd get up and spend more time with my God. After about six months, even my wife said, Rand, there's something different about you. Took me 18 months to get through the book of Psalms. I'm telling you, I'm a totally changed person. When you're raised in a tough home, you don't laugh a lot, you don't cry a lot. Some of you understand. Now that God's changed me, I mean I get choked up at supermarket openings. I mean everything is totally changed. I'm not an angry man. I look back at that and think, as the Bible calls it, it's so f Foolish this anger that dwells in the heart of fools. So what is the difference here? Once again, just like we saw on the negative tree a positive tree, a right and proper view of God produces good fruit. So you spend your life pursuing your knowledge of God. You spend your life as a parent teaching your kids how wonderful God really is. That's what we do. And when you know God is all-wise and all-loving and all-forgiving, you think I'm a bum, but he loves me anyway. Oh, and then you smile through that. It is amazing how what you believe about God totally transforms your life. So, therefore, because you're a believer, be an imitator of God. Teach the people you love how wonderful your God is by taking his wonderful attributes and doing by his grace the best you can to live them out in a home. You be loving, you be wise, you be holy, you be pure. You imitate God. Be ye, therefore, imitators, followers. of God. Say the last three words with me. As dear children. It actually means as dearly loved children. You know, kids are cool. They r I love kids. Kids I I they're just so cool, you know, they really are. And they're huggable and they laugh and and if you wonder what is the best age in all the world, I'm I'm saying second grade. I personally believe that once you leave second grade, it's downhill from that point on, okay? And I mentioned that one time and the teacher sent me this she said I had my kids in class write some um thank you notes to God dear God he's wrong all second graders. I didn't think orange went well with purple until I saw the sunset you made on Tuesday. That was cool. Dear God, maybe Kane and Naval would not have killed each other if they had their own rooms. That's what my mom did for me and my brother. Dear God, uh I bet it's really hard to love everybody in the whole world. There's only four people in our family and I'm having a hard time loving all of them. Dear God, did you mean for the giraffe to look like that or was that an accident? Dear God, I went to this wedding and they kissed right in the church. Is that okay? Dear God, of all the people who work for you, I like Noah and David the best. Dear God, I think about you sometimes, even when I'm not praying. Dear God, thank you for my baby brother, but I think you got confused because what I prayed for was a puppy. Why can kids do this? Why can kids write notes like this to God? I'll tell you why, because they still believe He is everything He He says he is. Without faith, Hebrews tells us it is impossible to please God. For he that comes to God must believe that he what? He is. He is loving, he is forgiving, he is holy, he is just, he's a wonderful God. And he's a rewarder of them who what? Make a lot of money? Become popular, make a name for themselves? No. He's a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. You give your life getting to know your wonderful God. Be ye, therefore, followers, imitators of God as dearly loved children. Let's bow our heads in prayer, please. My prayer is that this is not a miss message to listen to, but a life principle that please you live regardless of your age. I was 27 when God brought me Broke me. Headed for trouble and wow. Just getting to know him totally transformed my life. And I know, I know, we dads, we do, we mess up and we blow it. But we do have a forgiving father. And we need to do all we can to let our kids know how wonderful God is. And that He never messes up. But He always Loves us, forgives us. He does. So many of you have trusted Christ as your Savior. And maybe it has been something where I don't know, the busyness of life for some reason. You've been doubting God's goodness and his power, his love for you What do you do? You commit in your heart that you turn, you change. The word is repent. You turn around and get back in the word and get to Now there might be someone here who says, Rand, wow, I've been visiting here, but I've never trusted Christ as myself I've heard about this, and I know the people here and the pastor and his dear wife. I I I can tell that they really believe this, but I'm not sure. If I were to die this coming year, I have absolutely no uh assurance that I would ever even go to heaven. If if that's true in your life, you say, Rand, I'm not sure I'm a Christian. And I'd love for you to pray that God would give me the courage that I could get to somebody real soon and get this taken care of. I'm not sure that my Sins are forgiven that I'm a Christian. I'll pray for you. I don't know your name, but I'll pray as I close. Could you raise your hand high so I can see it? I'm not sure I'm a believer. Please pray for me. Please pray for me. You know, I don't see any hands. In one way that is wonderful, and in another way it's not You guys want to see people, your friends, your neighbors say, You got to invite them to this place. And every single one of us know unbelievers. And again, I'm your friend. I'm not trying to be harsh. But we have a world that's crying because they're hurt and they feel unloved and don't feel forgiven. And we have the truth. To share with them. Why wouldn't we? And I encourage you this coming year be recommitted to invite just one family or individual to church every week. I know most of them won't come. I understand that. But at least we're trying and encouraging them to come. Start a Bible study with them. them at Starbucks on a Tuesday night until they get so hungry they want to come and learn more. Do whatever you can to help them know this wonderful, wonderful God we have. I'm not going to ask for a raise of hands on those of us Need to increase in our knowledge of God because the answer is yes. Every single one of us of every age, we need to grow in our knowledge of God. We really, really do. So Pastor's going to come in a minute, but before that, I'm going to ask if the piano would just quietly play. So would you talk to God, asking to forgive you for maybe getting so busy in life that you haven't spent time getting to know him. And then ask him, Lord, please. Reveal yourself to me. Show me your love, your power, your glory, your forgiveness, how gracious you are, how forgiving. I want my relationship with you to be like a second grader who by faith can write a note, truly believing that you are who you say you are. So Father, please. I'm asking you to work in our hearts. Help us to get to know you. So in your heart, talk to God. Ask him to help you to change and increase in your knowledge of God. Well Well , You know that. That word therefore is really the hinge of the entire passage. You cannot walk as a dear child of God, as a disciple of Christ, if it's not for the Those first four chapters. You can't do it. It's impossible. And so I am so thankful for the gospel that gives us forgiveness of sins, that gives us a righteousness. Position in Christ, thankful for God's grace. We don't deserve that position at all. It is all by the work of Christ, his redemptive work, his righteousness. His resurrection from the dead. So I really want to encourage you to think deeply about what we have heard this morning and to focus in On really what is the key to that entire verse, and that is the word therefore. All of that foundation is what makes it possible, and it's what motivates us and drives us. to walk as imitators of God as beloved children. And so let's let's keep that in our heart this afternoon as we go home. It may be Just because someone didn't raise their hand doesn't mean that we don't have someone here today that does not know the Lord as their Savior. And I want to encourage you, if you are uncertain of yourself Salvation. If you don't understand the gospel, it wasn't explained in in depth and detail, but it was mentioned a lot. If you don't know for certain that you're saved, when you walk through those doors. Just say, hey Pastor, can I talk to you about that issue? I'm not I'm not confident that I'm saved. I don't understand the gospel. What are you talking about? We would be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can be saved. So please do not leave without settling that matter. And you can always send an email. You can reach out lots of different ways. There are lots of folks that I meet with during the week that they reach out as a result of a message. They say, I need to talk to you about this issue. I have these questions. I need this explained. And so let the Lord Work in your heart and don't hesitate to reach out. Let's go ahead and stand together, and we're going to sing our closing hymn this morning, and that is hymn 227, who is here. and yonder stone and ask if Brother Rand you can stand out in the lobby area and we're gonna sing the first, the fourth, and the first, fourth, and fifth verses together before we close Here we go. Who is he in yonder stall at whose feet the shepherds fall? Who is he That distress, fasting in the wilderness, chance of Lord of Wanderstorm Tis the Lord, the king of for me, and it 's mean me from me fall. Crown him, crown him, Lord of all on the fourth Lo at midnight, who is he? Praising dark Samani, who is he in yonder tree Dies in deep and agony, tis the Lord of unrest story, Tis the Lord, the king of glory At his feed me from before Crown him, crown him for the ball, sing it out at the last Who is he that from the rain comes to heal and help and save? Who is he that from his throne rules through all the world alone? Tis the Lord me, tis the Lord. The king of glory at his feet be complete for him, crown him for the board. Amen. Aren't you thankful for the Savior? Brother Bruce Hutchison, can you please come and uh close us in prayer? And and why don't you come up to this mic? Because I don't know if If any of those are on. And uh I hope that you'll be able to make it back tonight. And the Marinatha guys will still be with us, be in prayer for Rand as he uh will be traveling. And uh don't forget a lot of the activities that are coming. Coming on this week. And also don't forget that we have a nursery workers meeting after the service. That's for anyone that is involved in the nursery. Either you're sending kids or you're in there washing kids. So put us in prayer, please. Lord, we thank you for uh the weekend that we've had here at Anchor, for the ministry we've had to the team. and learning about a life of wisdom. We thank you for the impact that the gentlemen from Maranetha had and their singing and testimony. Thank you for Peter's playing and just makes us sing louder and uh hearing that. We do pray for our man 's ministry and the wilds uh as a group. Thank you for the impact it's had on uh my kids and the people at Anchor. We do pray for uh those uh that have had uh to deal with uh these different fruits and how they've uh Overcome them through your grace and through your power. You empower us To be followers. In Christ's name, amen. Thank you, Lord. Amen