I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 11. Hebrews chapter 11. Over the last many, many weeks on Sunday night, we've been discussing and looking at some important concepts related to the gospel And last week we talked about a very important topic, and that topic was repentance. And we answered the question, what is repentance? Why is repentance such an important part to our response to the gospel. And what we saw is that unless we repent Unless our thinking is changed about some very fundamentally important truths that relate to the gospel, it's impossible for us to be saved. You cannot place your faith in Christ alone if there's not repentance in your heart leading you to that faith in Christ. Well, after talking about this topic of repentance, we now come to the other side of repentance, and that's faith Just because a person's thinking has been changed on those issues, that doesn't necessarily mean that they're now depending on the finished work of Christ. If you will, repentance and faith are kind of like two sides of a coin. If you look at this side of the coin, you're looking at that thinking change that takes place in order for someone to be able to turn to Christ. and place their faith in his finished work. If you look at the other side of the coin, what you're seeing is faith and dependence on the finished work of Christ. So this evening we're going to ask the question, what is faith unto salvation? What is faith unto salvation? And to answer that question, we're going to go to Hebrews chapter 11, and we will look at verses 1 to 6. Hebrews 11, 1 to 6. Now, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. For by it the elders obtained a good report. Through faith, we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. So that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. And then look down in verse 6. It says this. Without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is. and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. I know we've already spent a good bit of time in prayer this evening. But I'd like us to ask the Lord to bless specifically this study from Hebrews eleven as we talk about faith, what it is, and how it relates to salvation. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Father, again, we come into your presence and we ask that you might help us to understand the significance and the weight of this very important topic of faith. Father, I'm very convinced that in our generation there is a misunderstanding of what faith actually is A lot of people that view it as purely an emotional, irrational leap into the darkness. And I pray that as we open up the text of Scripture and as we look at this very important topic, We will recognize that faith is something that is very deliberate. It's something that comes as a result of a careful evaluation of facts and evidence. Faith is a decision that involves the mind, the heart, and the will. And I pray that as we look at this text, we would understand that it is God in heaven. who through his word gives us understanding of truth and draws us to place our trust in the credible, finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ. We ask for your blessing. We ask for you to work in hearts. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. As we come to Hebrews chapter 11, I like to always try to give a little summary of what's going on in the passage. I would summarize the Hebrews 11 text this way. The writer of Hebrews has been laying out a detailed argument to convince these Christians that they should reject a certain temptation. A temptation to compromise and go back into Judaism. And this section stands as a major portion of that argument. One of the things that I think that we misunderstand about faith is that a lot of people view faith as a personal feeling that people have. Or they view faith as maybe a leap into the darkness. There's nothing credible, there's nothing significant, there's nothing substantial. I'm just accepting something blindly. In fact, perhaps you've seen an illustration at a camp where you have a bunch of kids that are lined up and somebody stands with their back to that audience and they say, Do you believe that these kids can catch you and the person says, of course. And I say, okay, well just lean back and fall into them. You ever seen any illustration like that? And so what people kind of get the idea is that what faith is It's closing my eyes and jumping into the unknown. Well, I want you to understand something. That is not what faith actually is. Faith is something that is rooted and grounded in facts. In fact, when we talk about the Christian faith, we need to understand that God does not call us to faith without evidence. without reasoning, without debates, without argument, without clear, concrete evidence for why we should embrace and believe what he says we should believe In fact, God wants us to respond to him in wholehearted trust in the gospel if we're not saved. and wholehearted trust in his ability to strengthen and guide us and work in our lives if we are indeed believers. So, how exactly can we do that today? Well, I'd like us to begin by looking at a couple of sections and then a couple of concepts that relate to faith. Section one is understanding the text that's right in front of us. There are five important phrases that are mentioned in the text, and I'm going to read them, and then we're going to talk about what those phrases actually mean. The first phrase is faith is. The reason that he makes this statement is he's going to explain to us the content and the substance and the heart of this thing that we call faith. The second phrase is this. It is the substance of things that are hoped for. Now faith is not something that's material. It's something that's internal. It's something that's inside of us. It's something that goes on in my head and in my heart and in my will. There's nothing material that you can hold in your hands when we talk about faith. It goes on inside of us. The third phrase is this. It's the evidence of things that are not seen. The fourth is this: through faith we understand. And the fifth is this, faith, without faith, it's impossible to please God. So let's go ahead and take each of those phrases and let's try to understand what their meaning and what they are kind of laying out to us about this very important topic, faith. The first phrase, substance of things hoped for, has this idea. It's something that we have a firm conviction about about something that we expect to happen, but something we have not yet already seen. Now it's kind of interesting That phrase having a firm conviction means that it takes time for us to come to that place. We don't just immediately believe something. We have to be convinced of it. And the question is, who is the convincer? Well, it's God Himself. How does he convince us of this truth? Well, it's through circumstance, but primarily through the word of God. The Holy Spirit takes the word and he begins to press upon our heart the significance and the weight and the truth of those things. And he convinces us Of the truth of those realities. What does the Bible say in Romans chapter ten? It says, faith comes by Hearing the word of God. If you do not have God's word being presented and being expounded, you cannot, you will not have faith. That is the source of the faith that we have. The conviction that we have in our soul that this is true and our willingness to embrace it and rely on it is something that God burns in us through the word. You know, if you're concerned about someone's soul, you've got to give them the scriptures because that is how God brings them to faith. If the scriptures are not being presented, if the scriptures are not being expounded, there's no authority. There is no source for them to have biblical faith unto salvation. You know, one of the things that really concerns me is a lot of us when we present our gospel, we don't actually really use the Word of God very much We don't lay out arguments for why this is true. We actually take away the means that God uses to bring somebody. to embrace and to be convicted and convinced of the truth of the gospel so that they can believe it. Faith, when he says is the substance of things hoped for, it has the idea of a firm conviction. It's something that takes time. It's something that finds its source and its root and something outside of itself. We then have another third phrase, the evidence Of things that are not seen. That little phrase has the idea of being convinced by testing what we have not seen. Convinced by testing. One of the things that I'm going to bring out later on in this message is that when we read our Bibles, you would be amazed at how much logic is used in the Word of God. The book of Romans is an exposition that is very orderly in its presentation to convince people of gospel truth. The book of John is an excellent example. John lays out chapter after chapter, example after example. He presents a case like a legal argument that basically says, here is the reason Why you should believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And if you will embrace that message, if you'll believe on that message, then you will have eternal life He doesn't just say, if you want to go to heaven, then trust Christ. If you want to go to hell, reject him. And that's all he says. He lays out twenty-plus chapters of argumentation as to why we should believe Jesus is the Christ. Luke does the exact same thing. He lays out a multitude of arguments to convince us of the reality and the weight and the truthfulness of the gospel in the Christian faith. We see the concept of conviction, the concept of being convinced by testing. And then we have this statement through faith we understand. This is kind of interesting. Our ability to understand the value and the beauty and the glory of the Christian faith is not something we can have fully until we choose to trust in it. In fact, maybe you've experienced this. When you were a child, or when you were a teenager, or when you were a young adult, you were presented with gospel facts. And I don't know how long it took you to come to embrace the gospel message. Maybe it was very quick. Maybe it was many, many months, maybe it was years. I don't know your situation. But God, through his work and through his word, brought you to faith in Christ. And as you came to that point of trust in Christ, it's amazing how you began to have a much clearer and a much deeper and a much more glorious understanding of the Christian faith after conversion. Not before conversion. And there are reasons for that. We can't understand spiritual truths unless we are new creatures in Christ. That's a major factor in that. But another factor is once we've believed what God has revealed. Then we began to understand with greater clarity what He has not yet been able to show us through His Word. And so faith is something that precedes understanding. And then lastly, we see that faith is something that we cannot please God unless we have faith. He states, without faith we cannot please him. He that cometh to God must believe that he is, that he is a reward of them that diligently seek him. So when we talk about this section, we see that faith is something that involves testing. It involves coming to a conviction of the reality of something that we've not yet seen. It's true, but we cannot always see it with our eyes. We come to our second section, and that's this. How does faith and salvation relate to one another? How do faith and salvation relate to one another? I want to go through a series of truths that are connected to this. The first truth is this. We are justified by faith alone. We're not justified by our deeds. We're not justified by going to church, reading our Bibles, prayer, giving our tithes, treating people kindly and respectfully, believing in God in a very general sense. We are justified by faith alone in the finished work of Christ. Romans chapter 3 says this. We conclude a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law Galatians 2. 16 says, A man is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified Salvation is something that comes by faith alone. A second truth that's very important: this faith is not just a leap Into the darkness. It's not like we cover our eyes and say, okay, I'm going to give this a chance and see what happens. Faith, as we saw in the Hebrews text, is something that involves a conviction. We've become convinced by argumentation, scriptural argumentation. A second element is that there's an evaluation of evidence. You know, I love the story of someone like Josh McDowell. Josh McDowell was not a believer. When he was in college, he was probably more or less an agnostic. And he set out to study the Christian faith, not as somebody who wanted to embrace it necessarily, but as someone who was a great doubter. There are many stories of people who went out and their whole point was to disprove the Christian faith. But as they started to evaluate history, As they started to read the Bible, as they started to think about the radical change in the lives of people like the Apostle Paul And they started to look at the lives of the apostles who were trembling in fear and after the resurrection were hiding, and then just some few weeks later they are out proclaiming without any fear. that Jesus died and rose from the dead. When they see the connection between the Old Testament and the New Testament and how Paul so powerfully lays it out in his epistles Those things began to lay a foundation to convince the skeptic this is truth. When I look at what it says, I know it rings true with what is going on inside You know, one of the things that you will hear someone say who's evaluating a case is they ask the question, does this ring true? Does this ring true? They listen to the evidence, and it's repeatedly laid out before them, and they start realizing as they see the case being built, this is true. This is true. And the conviction in their heart that this case is correct and this case is true becomes stronger and stronger and stronger, and eventually it comes to a place Where it is so convincing and so overwhelming that their heart cannot help but embrace what is there. And that has been the situation for many a skeptic. Who has come to the Bible? Faith is not a leap in the dark. It involves conviction that may very well come over time by evaluating the evidence of Scripture. And it's an essential element to us being able to understand better. You know, one of the things that I think we should keep in our minds when we are evaluating the Bible and what it has to say. Is that God's word is laid out in so many places as a case, logical reasoning, many, many times. And what's the point of that? It's to convince us of truth. Let me give you a couple of examples. And I kind of briefly mention them, but I want to actually read them so you can hear from these men what they're saying. Look at John's approach to faith in John chapter 20. He says this. Many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples. That are not written in this book. These are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ. The Son of God, and that by believing he might have life through his name. You know, I think we do ourselves a disservice sometimes in how we study the Bible and sometimes how we teach the Bible. We'll go to the Gospels. We'll take one little section of the Gospel. We'll preach it or teach it and look at it independently of all the rest of the book. We'll look at it for some moral application that has nothing to do with the argument of the book. And we fail to realize that when Luke or John sat down, they had a whole host of material in front of them They had seen as eyewitnesses the life and ministry of Christ. They had heard the teaching. They had seen the miracles. And they sat down and they said, I want to prove a point of truth. Which of these many, many details am I going to put down on paper to show people that this is a faith they should embrace? That's what John's saying. I sat down, and obviously the Holy Spirit guided him, so he writes down the words of God. But basically, what he's saying is, I'm writing down for you a record So that you'll be convinced to believe on Christ. John is basically a gospel tract. I mean a 20-plus chapter gospel tract, nonetheless. But you know what's interesting? If you read it as a book and you look at it with the intent for which John gave it, you will see that that's exactly the case. And you will see the logic of his arguments, how he's building a case and he's driving to a climax saying, believe this message. The Christian faith. Involves evidence, evaluation, conviction. We see the same thing in Luke chapter 1. Listen to what Luke writes. For as much as many have taken in hand to set in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us. Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministries of the word, it seemed good to me also. having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know, listen to what he says. the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. Are you catching what he's saying Luke was a medical doctor, highly intelligent individual. He's a historian. He's a credible man writing as an eyewitness who interviewed eyewitnesses and he's taking all of this information and he's laying out a case. Please, when you read your Bible Make sure that you understand that the book you're reading is a book that is laid out the way that it is for reason. From the beginning to the end of the book of Luke, Luke is trying to go somewhere. These aren't just random stories connected for no reason. He has an argument. He has something he's trying to convince people of When it comes to the book of Acts, the exact same thing. This is not just something we find in one or two books of the Bible. This is how the Bible is written, folks. It's written to convince the naysayer this is truth. Listen to what he says in Acts 17,2. Or look at how Paul approaches this issue of preaching the gospel. Acts 17 2 it says this Paul, as his manner was, went in unto them, and three Sabbath days. Reasoned with them out of the scriptures. Paul was not a hobby horse preacher, folks. He didn't get up and crack a bunch of jokes. He didn't get up and entertain a crowd. He was a deep, heavy preacher of truth. He goes to the Old Testament, he builds a logical, legal case. for why they should be convinced that Jesus of Nazareth, the guy that they just crucified, who rose from the dead, he's the Messiah. Acts 18. 4. He reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. Acts 18, 19. He came to Ephesus and he left them there, but he himself entered in the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews. Acts twenty-four, twenty-five, as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembles and answered, Go thy way for this time, when I have a convenient season, I'll call for thee I'm trying to make a point. The Christian faith is not a leaf in the dark, folks. It's built on fact. It's built on evidence. A lot of people in our culture think that Christians are narrow-minded, mentally weak, looking for a crutch Going through life with their eyes shut, not looking at reality. Folks, let me tell you, it's the exact opposite. The world around us is walking around and interpreting everything they see through an unbelievable bias. Sticking their head in the sand constantly, ignoring the reality about what they are inside, what everybody around them is inside. What's really the problem with the world that we live in? The world around us is blind and walking into the darkness, and they don't care. And if they don't come to the gospel, they won't see life as it really is. We as Christians have truth. When we pick up our Bibles, it rings true. It calls me what I am. My conscience, it rings true. I know because I know what I am, and I know what you are, and we know what each other is And we see the situations going on in our world. And when we read our Bibles, we say, this book is true. What it says about me, what it says about you, what it says about the universe, it's true. It rings clear. And Paul was reasoning when he preached the gospel. Not only does faith involve the mind, but folks, faith involves the heart. That word conviction means that we are being pressed internally. You know what I mean when I say I'm being pressed internally? There's something that is motivating me to act on something. There's this internal pressure, a compulsion saying you need to do this. Faith is something that once we become convinced, it presses on our heart. It convinces us of reality. But you know what's interesting? The Bible is a book that talks about moral truth And our heart is biased against moral truth. You know what I'm saying? You say, I'm not biased, I'm a totally unbiased person. Do you have a hard time telling somebody that you did wrong? I mean really. Do you have a hard time? You know, you you get caught doing something, saying something, and somebody says, you are wrong, and you know it's true. And I know it's true. But we can't speak it. Because of pride. You know what that is? That's moral bias. I know for a fact what I said, what I did, what I thought, how I handled, it was wrong. But because of this moral bias and pride, I want to admit it. Faith is not just mental, folks, it's the heart. We have to be pressed and responded, and we have to move in the heart, be moved in our hearts. 1 Corinthians 2. 14 says the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, their foolishness unto him, neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. There is a reason that the world sticks their head in the sand and ignores reality. about human nature, about the universe that we live in, about the problems that we deal with in our world. There's a reason they stick their head in the sand. They don't want to come to grips with reality. There's a reason that people run from the light because they don't want their deeds to be exposed. We have a moral bias as unsaved individuals. And so faith involves my mind being convinced of the reality and the truthfulness of what the Bible is saying. And faith also involves the heart. I am bending towards the truth. I'm embracing it. I'm being warmed by it. I'm being pressed by the truth. There's a third aspect to faith, and that's the will. You have to make a choice. Now, folks, when you know something is true, and you are convinced that it's true, and your heart is being pressed by something that is true. Can you still reject it? Great question, isn't it? Well, look at this man Felix. It says in Acts 22 that Paul reasoned with this man of righteousness and temperance and judgment to come. And Felix. Trembled. Why do you think Felix trembled? Because this man knew for a fact what Paul was saying was true. He trembled. He was physically seen to be resisting and rejecting the very obvious conclusions he should be coming to. This is why we pray for people to be saved. Because the truth is that when truth is presented and it is laid out in the most logical and reasonable and clearly convincing way, somebody's heart can resist it And it is God in heaven who opens the heart, who humbles the heart to embrace truth. And that's why we pray for God to save people in the way that we do. The fact is, it's not just the mind, it's the heart, and it's the will that are involved in faith. Mark 1, verse 15 says this. Jesus, or sorry, John the Baptist was preaching. He said, the time is fulfilled. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent. And believe in the gospel. This is a command. He's saying you need to respond in repentance and trust. Acts 17, 30, Paul preaches this. The time of ignorance God winked at, but he now commands all men everywhere to repent. Repentance and faith are a command. And a command means I've got to bend my will and say, this is true, I submit to it, I embrace it, I depend on it. That is what faith is. It involves the minds, the hearts, and the will. Faith's not a leap in the dark, folks. It involves a conviction that God brings us to through His Word. I come to a third truth, and that's this. Faith that is connected to salvation is not dead. Faith that is connected to salvation is not dead You say, what do you mean by faith is not dead? The Bible is very clear that we are not justified by the works of the law. We don't come to God and say, Look what I've done, look what I am, accept me because I'm doing these things. We don't come to God and say, I believe in your son, and I'm doing these things, so I am being saved on the basis of what Christ did and what I'm doing, and we blend those two together and we're accepted on those terms. That's not how we're saved We are saved by depending alone on what Christ did for us. It is faith alone and Christ alone. It's not by the deeds of the law in any part, not in part or the whole. It's all based on what Christ has done for us. But let me tell you something. The same Bible that teaches that Scripture, or that salvation is by faith alone, teaches that that faith will not be alone. Do you understand the difference? There's a big difference between saying faith alone and faith that is alone. What I'm basically saying is this, salvation does not leave you as you are, it changes you fundamentally in so many ways. Just the fact that we have a different belief changes what we do. For instance, Luke chapter 6, verse 45, it says this, a good man, by the way, is anybody good? No, okay, so it's an interesting statement. A good man, maybe we could put it this way, a redeemed man. A man who's been justified, a man who's been saved, a man who the Spirit of God is changing and maturing and growing. That's what he's talking about. Not somebody who's naturally good. There's nobody naturally good. Just talking about a believer here. A good man out of the good treasures of his heart bringeth forth that which is good. Why? Because what's inside, what he believes. What he loves, the way he thinks, it's good, it's wholesome, it's right, it's being guided by God. Because of what's inside of him, what comes out is good. On the other side An evil man, out of the evil treasures of his heart, bringeth forth that which is evil. For out of the abundance of the heart, his mouth speaketh Folks, this is really simple. What you believe is the foundation for what you do. If you want to know what a person really is , It's not what he's doing right now. It's what he is inside right now. Because what he is inside right now is the predictor of what he will do down the road. What's inside may not manifest itself immediately, but eventually what's inside will manifest itself If a person comes to faith in Christ, if there was no such thing as conversion and regeneration and a new creature in Christ, which there is, by the way, but if there was none If all it was was a change of belief, your actions would change simply because there's a different fundamental principle inside of you. But there's even more to that. Something called regeneration. Folks, when I trust Christ, I become a new creature in Christ. It's not just that my belief system has changed. It has changed. But there's more to it than that I'm now a new creature. Old things pass away. Behold, all things have become new. What I am internally is different than it was before my conversion This is why James says in James chapter 2, Faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. He is in no way suggesting that we get saved by doing good deeds. Not in the least, but When we study that passage, you'll understand. That's not what he's saying. What he's saying is this. You can see that a person is saved by what he does. If a person says, I'm a believer, and there's absolutely no evidence of it, why should you believe that? His faith is dead. His profession is empty. It's not genuine. It's not real. If he's truly saved, you will see the evidence of that. Not all equally. But you'll see the evidence of it. Second Corinthians five seventeen. A new creature has old things passed away, and all things have become new. But this is one of the most wonderful passages. that I can think of when I think of this issue of conversion and regeneration and how it changes us. Galatians 5. 24, Paul writes this. They that are Christ Have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. Isn't that an interesting statement? If you're a Christian There's something fundamental that has changed inside of you. Not just that you have a new belief system, but that you are a new creature. There's a new way of looking at life. There's a new way of looking at your affections and your desires. And you begin to recognize this is sinful. I don't want to embrace this. God begins to change who we are. The fact is this, faith alone is not faith that is alone. They're different. You say, Pastor Joel, what is faith? Faith is something that involves both the mind, the heart, and the will When we call someone to embrace the gospel, we are calling them to respond on the convincing truths that God's Word lays out line by line as the Holy Spirit presses their mind. and their heart to embrace the truth. The truth about who Jesus is. The truth about who they are. The truths about their inability to come to God and stand in their own righteousness. The truths about Christ's death and resurrection. The truths that salvation is through Jesus alone and not through some other means or system Faith in Christ involves being convinced of these things, being pressed in the heart, and responding in the will to trust alone in the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to give you a little illustration of faith. It's a simple one, but it's really important. Got a chair here. And what I'm going to tell you, I don't want any of our little any of our kids to think it's funny. I hope they never do this. Okay. This chair has the ability to hold me up, right? Strong. Oh, we think. Somebody was sitting in it earlier. I'm sure they're not heavier than me, so we don't know. It's not been tested yet. Hey folks, God doesn't save you because you have faith. He doesn't. Your faith, if it's in the wrong source and the wrong object, is completely worthless. Okay? Faith has no value if it's in a source that cannot save. Just like If this chair was a piece of plastic that was weak and could not support my whatever I weigh frame Just like me deciding to sit in it, it has no value. I remember when I was in Ghana, I was sitting in one of these chairs. They're you know really cheap chairs, they cost like five bucks And I'm sitting in this chair and all of a sudden, boom, it just cracked and I'm falling on the floor. Okay. I was trusting the chair to hold me up, wasn't I? But guess what? My faith can't make up for the weakness of the chair. Just can't do it. Alright? Another example. I remember when I was a kid, one time we were in a class. I stand up and I'm, I don't know, quoting something, and some really smart, not so nice kid behind me decided to take my chair , just pull it back to there Being the good child that I am, I was, you know, I was done and I just sat straight down. Guess what? There was no chair there. Faith misplaced. I'm just, it's a very simple thing. Faith in an object that's not strong, it's worthless. Faith that that it's in an object that's not real, it's worthless Faith in something that is sure is sure. The reason that God saves us is not because we have faith, it's because our faith is in the Lord Jesus Christ. Because he's in the person who died for our sins and rose from the dead and is accepted by the Father. And this is my question: Have you placed your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? Is your faith in something that's not sure? Something that's worthless? Something that's an invention of your imagination? Or is your faith in the sure finished work of Christ? How do we need to respond to this? Folks, faith is not a mystical, emotional, weak state of the mind. There are people that like to characterize Christians that way. Late night shows, comedians , news commentators, folks teaching in classes and universities, maybe some of your high school teachers That's the way they characterize Christianity, folks. That's not true. Faith is something that is far more than a mystical, emotional, weak state of the mind. It's not a crutch God commands you to repent and believe. It's not a suggestion, it's a command. I ask you this question: Have you placed your faith in the finished work of Christ? You say, I don't know. I don't know if I really can trust the Bible. Well, if you're not sure, you need to investigate. You might say, I know I can't trust the Bible. Then I ask why. Why can't you trust the Bible? You know, a lot of people say, I can't trust the Bible, and you ask them, well, how much of it have you read? And they say, well, okay. So then Maybe you should pull that back and have a little evaluation. I'm a fair-minded person, are you? What we will find is a lot of times we don't really want to know the truth. Sometimes we just bury our heads in the sand and would rather ignore what is in front of us. I want to encourage you if you've never trusted Christ to make that decision. I want to encourage you, if you're not sure, if you can embrace the gospel message, spend time diligently searching the scriptures. I want to encourage you, if you're saved and you're confident that you're saved, to realize that you need to be thoroughly understanding the Word of God so you can sit down and reason with somebody out of the Bible Not to convince them of your position, but to point them to the wonderful truths laid out verse by verse in the Word of God. May God help us to be people who understand what faith actually is and what it's not. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father, as we think about this text of Scripture, I hope that folks would be uh be convinced in their hearts. That faith's not a crutch, it's not a weak state of the mind, it's not a leap into the dark. But it's something that begins with the mind, it begins with reason. It begins with looking at a case that has been laid out for us by God Himself through men like Paul and Luke and John. Father, help us to see the wonderful depth and the truth of God's word. Convince us and convict us and press our hearts And may we respond in our wills to trust in what Christ has done for us if we've not. May we respond in our wills to trust in your sustaining grace if we're saved but struggling in our walk with you. And may we always point people to place their faith in Christ. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.