Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today is a bonus episode. We're going to be talking about a topic that is off topic, and we just finished our Luke 7 passage. In fact, this coming Sunday we're going to be in Luke chapter 8. But today I'd like to uh uh deal with a very important topic, and that topic is what is revival? And you might say, well, Pastor, why are we asking a question about revival? Well, the reason that I want to talk about this topic is because of a story that's been in the news for Uh for a little bit now and that's a story about uh a spontaneous revival that's going on at Asbury University in Kentucky And I've had a lot of people ask me, you know, have you heard about this? What do you know about it? Is this genuine? Is this a mighty moving of God? And what I'd like to do today is I'd like to kind of address this issue of of revival. Not to critique the Ashbury revival necessarily, but to give us a good solid framework to think about on this issue And to say, God, do this in our time. We want to see you moving and working in our midst. So in order to do that, I want to begin with a couple of preliminary thoughts, and we're going to look at a passage That is a I think the clearest of all the biblical examples on this issue of revival. First of all, let me make a statement to those of us who tend to be more optimistic about this. We hear a story in the news, and the very first response is Man, this is awesome. God is doing something I've been praying for for all these years. And we uh we immediately rush to validate what's going on as a a second Great Awakening, or maybe we say a third Great Awakening. God is moving like He did at other times before the United States became a nation, or like the Welsh Revivals, or something like that. Well well the truth is there's a lot we don't know about this. And there's a lot of time that hasn't actually gone by yet. So I but think that before we rush to validate something We've got to pause and think about it critically. The second group that I'd like to mention are those who tend to be more pessimistic. And the idea is that rather than rushing to judgment to validate, we rush to judgment to dis discount or to condemn and say, oh, there's no way that this is a true moving of God. Again, don't rush to judgment. Let the person that's going to make a judgment get all the facts before they do it. We want to be discerning about So in order to be discerning about these issues, we need to first of all think about what revival is and what it isn't and how God actually works to revive his people. So let me make this distinction first of all. There is a difference between what we call regeneration and revival. When we talk about regeneration, we're talking about a person who's spiritually dead. They're not a believer They're separated from God. They hear the gospel being preached. They come under the conviction of their sin. They recognize there's nothing that I can give. to God or do for God that can give me uh a righteous standing and forgiveness of my sins. And they turn to Christ humbly and like a child, they place their faith in the finished work of Christ. Regeneration is what happens when the Spirit of God makes someone who's spiritually dead alive in Christ. And this happens the moment that a person believes on the gospel message. Revival is different than regeneration. While regeneration is talking about evangelism, revival is talking about something that happens in God's people. You have to be spiritually alive in order to become spiritually alive revived. And so revival is talking about a person who is no longer in a healthy state as a Christian. Now his position is in no way questioned. He is a child of God. He understands the gospel. He's placed his faith in Christ, but he's not living a vibrant Christian life I'll give you an example of this. Hebrews chapter 5. He talks about these believers, and he says, you should be teachers, but you need people to Teach you again the first principles, and you have become those who need milk rather than meat. What's he saying? He's saying you're alive, you should have the ability to teach, but you have forgotten the basics. And so you need to get back to the basics so that you're back to a healthy vibrant Christian experience. Now this is not the way that people often think of revival in our day. They don't think of revival uh as an awakening or they they they tend to think of revival as kind of just a purely emotional experience. We have all these people and we have this long drawn out meeting and it becomes a two-day meeting and then a ten-day meeting and then a two-month meeting and all these people are frocking to this place because they want to be able to experience something that's going on in this location. And that's the way people often think of revival. Well the fact is that that's not what biblical revival is. Biblical revival is saved people who are not walking in a healthy Christian manner. Getting back to the basics. It's about Christians getting back to normal, healthy, vibrant Christian living. That's what revival is all about. It's about getting back to where God wants us to be in our daily lives. And there are two examples, two passages that come to mind. The first is in 2 Kings 22 and 23 And that's not the one I want to focus in on though. I want to focus in on the Nehemiah passage because the Nehemiah passage breaks down what ultimately is the root cause of God's reviving of his people, because that's very significant to the talk that we're having this morning. So if you have your scriptures, I want you to turn to Nehemiah chapter 8. I'm not going to read all the verses, but I'm going to hit the highlights so that we can kind of get the thrust of this passage and what is ultimately at the heart of revival. Nehemiah chapter 8 verse 1 it says this All the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street before the water gate And they spake unto Ezra the scribe to, here's the key, to bring the book of the law of Moses, which God had commended to the people. Verse number two, it says, Ezra and the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and women and all that could hear with understanding. Verse number three, it says, He read therein before the street that was before the water gate from the morning until the midday Now there are people that they they get frustrated if I preached a 55-minute sermon. Imagine sitting in uh in the heat or standing actually in the heat of the day And listening to the word of God being read. But there's a reason that those people were willing to stand up in the sun and listen to the word of God being read. It's because they were in a place of spiritual apathy and darkness and ignorance of the truth, and all of a sudden they have an opportunity to hear the word of God read. And there's something that's motivating them to want to hear it. But that's not the end of the story. That's not where the revival actually takes place. This is, you might say, preparatory that leads to what God ultimately uses. Then we continue on. Verse number four. He says, Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood. Verse number five, he opened the book in the sight of the people, and all the people stood up. Verse number six, Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God, and all the people answered, Amen and Amen, and lifted up their hands, and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. Verse number eight, here's where it gets very, very focused. It says, so they read the book of the law of God distinctly. That's a very important statement. That word distinctly has the idea of they were interpreting the scriptures or they were rightly dividing the word of truth. That's terminology that you hear in another passage of scripture in the New Testament. It's possible that they were translating it because some of the people there did not speak Hebrew as their first language, their heart language, because this is a post-exilic Israel. They've come out of exile and now they're back in the land of Israel. But What he's doing is he's preaching the word that's been read, and he's helping the people to understand correctly the intent of the scriptures that they've just heard read Then it says next. It says, and they gave the sense. So not only is he interpreting it or rightly dividing it. But he's expounding the truth. He's taking what has been properly explained and he's expanding it. And then he goes from expounding the text that's been read to application, to explain the implications of this, it says, and not only did they read it distinctly and give the sense, but he caused them to understand the reading. Do you know what we're hearing here? We're we are looking at expositional preaching. Okay, not just reading the Bible, not just teaching the Bible, preaching the Word of God. They're reading the Word They're explaining the word, they're expounding the word, they're illustrating the word, they're applying the word, and it's all consistent with the intent of the scriptures. Ezra's not getting up there and just preaching his own opinions. He's not telling a bunch of stories. He's not making the people laugh. He is simply reading and preaching the word of God That's the most authoritative thing that the man can do. He's letting the word of God speak for itself. And you know where revival starts? It doesn't start with singing and it doesn't start with laughter and it doesn't start with trying to be relevant. Revival starts with the word of God being expounded and applied in the Spirit of God taking his word and pressing it upon the hearts of people. And you know what's amazing about these verses is that as we read what is going on Then we see the response of the people. It says in verse 9, it says, all the people wept when they heard the word of the Lord. And then the Levites and Ezra and Nehemiah have to actually go amongst the people and they have to have personal interaction with individuals. about their response to the word of God to help them understand this more thoroughly. Really what we're looking at is an example of people not just hearing the word Preached, read, applied, but they're responding and they're needing further clarification. It's almost like they need counseling. And I say counseling. They need someone to sit down one-on-one with them. and talk about the personal implications of what's going on. That's what happens when revival takes place. You know what's amazing about this? As those individuals go around and they begin explaining the scriptures to these people, here's what it says in verse 12. The people go their way, they eat and they drink, and they sent portions to make great mirth because they had understood The word of the Lord that was declared unto them. So, what was the cause of the reviving of God's people? It was the preaching of God's word. You say, well, well, Pastor, that's just an ordinary thing. I mean, that's what we do in our church every Sunday. That's what brings revival? Yes. That's what brings revival. You say, well what's the difference between what happened here and just an ordinary church service on a Sunday? The difference is God moved in a way that in his providence was different than he does on an average Sunday And you know what? It's in the will of God to do this if He chooses to. This is something that we should be praying for. This is something we should be desiring. And let me say this. I believe As a pastor who handles the word of God week in and week out, I believe that we do see, on a regular basis, a degree of this kind of thing taking place. You know why I say that? Because there are many, many times when I preach and teach the Word of God that somebody will send me an email the next week or somebody will give me a call or they'll send me a text. They'll say, Pastor, I'd really like to talk to you about the message. And we sit down in my office or we have a conversation over the phone. We have a conversation on Wednesday night, things like that. And what ends up happening is There is evidence that the Spirit of God has been working in their heart about what they've heard, what they've heard read and what they've heard explained and expounded and applied And they have been chewing on it, and it's been troubling them, or it's been encouraging them, it's been comforting them, and they need further clarification, they need someone to help them work through the issue so that the word of God can really take root in their heart That is what happens in a revival. In a revival, this doesn't just happen in one-on-one, but it happens in mass because God moves through the Word. But here's the key here. Ezra and Nehemiah didn't didn't pray for this. They didn't say, let's see if we can figure out how to how to host a revival, make it make it happen. They didn't do that. This was something that was entirely spontaneous. It is a result of God's work. But God did it through the means he's appointed to change people, and that's his work. So you say, well, what was going on? Very simple. Reading the scriptures, explaining the scriptures, applying the scriptures No music, no attempts to create an atmosphere. There was no emotional manipulation. They didn't even give a comfort invitation. People were gripped by the truth because the Spirit of God pressed it on their hearts. That's what a revival is. That's what happens when God moves. Folks, that's what we need to be praying God does in our personal lives, in the churches that we attend, in our land. That's what we desperately, desperately need. So the question comes back to what about the whole Asbury thing in Kentucky? Is this a real revival? What's going on? Well, first thing I'm going to say is this. If it's a real revival, It's got to be connected back to the scriptures. If it's a real revival, it's going to go back to the gospel. If it's a real revival, then people are not manipulating and they're not trying to create an atmosphere. It's all about the truth taking root in people's hearts. If it's a real revival, there's going to be lasting fruit that impacts that community and other places that are directly resulting. They are a direct result of the truth of God gripping people's souls and changing them as individuals and the trajectory of their life. If it's a real revival Those things are going to happen. If it's a real revival, lost people are going to be drawn to the church because they're going to say God's doing something in his people and we want to see what it is So the answer is I don't know if that's what's going on or not, because we've had not had enough time to really let the facts come to the surface and to let the situation play out. But I can tell you this Seeing all the stories in the news reminds me of this very simple fact that there are times in history that God does this. And we should desire that He does it. We should pray that He does it. We should anticipate that he will do it. And you know what? There's absolutely no way for us to neglect the tools that he has appointed to do this and then pray for it. Don't pray that God brings revival and then sit under the ministry of a preacher who basically r destroys His explanation of the scripture week in and week out. Somebody is going to get up in the pulpit and tell a bunch of jokes and basically manipulate people Go to a church that preaches the truth, that expounds the word of God, that rightly divides the word of God. If you're a pastor Don't embrace gimmicks. You don't need to adopt the church to the culture. You need to just preach the word of God. Just teach it straightforward and let the Spirit of God do his work. He can take the word and impress it. Even when we stumble in our present presentation of the word. And by the way, you know, when somebody preaches the word of God, you know, a hundred and fifty times in In a in a in a in a year, okay? Three times a week. If you pre if if a pastor preaches Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday, he's preaching a hundred and fifty times in the year. If you preach that many times, there are going to be some sermons that were very well thought out and they were easy to follow and it was clear and it was consistent with the text and God God can God can really use that and then there were other times that the truth is that you really stumbled I really stumbled. I look back and I go, man, you know, I really, I really missed a concept in that text. I did not communicate it well. But if you're expounding the truth consistently, God's going to bless that. That's what revival is all about. So here are my final thoughts. Let the situation play out. Pray that God will revive his church. Be committed to the ordinary means that God uses to revive. his church. God blesses his word. The gospel changes broken lives. The gospel still works. Let's be committed to what God uses Let's not give in to the manipulative impulses that are going on in our churches today. Have nothing to do with it. Don't give in to those compromises. Get back to the basics. That's the encouragement that I have for all of us today. And be concerned about revival in your life, not your wife's life, or your husband's life, or your neighbor's life, your life Be concerned about God working in your heart. That's my challenge for the day. I hope that you have a great weekend and I hope that this bonus episode was an encouragement, gave you some things to think about. And uh, Lord willing, we'll uh see many of you on Sunday, and uh some of you won't see you in Sunday. You'll be in your churches, and that's great. Uh, but we'll see you, Lord willing, next week. Have a great weekend. Bye now.