Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our service tonight. And uh some of you came and it was dry, and some of you came and you thought you needed an arc. I mean it was really, really coming down. So Um it's dry right now. We'll see what happens in the next hour. But um looking forward to a great service and uh looking forward to opportunity to share testimonies and Uh just hear the word of God preached. Let's bow together for prayer, and then we'll get started tonight. Lord, we thank you for your faithfulness, and we thank you so much that We can gather together and serve a risen Savior as a redeemed people. We are so thankful for Christ's sacrifice, the resurrection, and the righteousness of Christ imputed to us. I pray that tonight As we have opportunity to share testimony, as we have opportunity to sing praise to you, I pray that you would take everything that is done tonight and strengthen us as your people and point honor and glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. And we ask all this in Christ's name, Amen. Good evening. We're going to start the services out this evening by turning to page 587. Page 587, please stand with me as we sing all three verses of victory in Jesus. I heard an old glory, I would make a road glory, I made my word me. I very loud growing, I read one, and I remain all my link and one of the wings See we will break that we got we ever We can walk in a great victory , but we look here, I will believe, and the Watch me on the forest now. I heard about the Amen. Go ahead and have a seat as we turn to page 522. Page 522, since I have been redeemed. All four verses. Bellingard Every day I was wondering my day and a glory with my I will worry about your name. Amen. Turn back to page 495. Page 495. Count your blessings. Instead of saying all four verses or all three verses, let's just sing until we can't sing anymore. So we'll just sing until the song ends. Count your blessings. This time we'll have our missions moment. Brack, Brother Braxton. Here's the one we haven't seen in a while, page 507. Page 507. Do you believe in miracles? Amen? I do. Stand with me. Page 507. I believe in miracles. We'll sing the first and the last. You always have my heart with thrown on the sea when I Yeah, yeah, it's a cat eyes. Jesus burning place, you only feel my arm I will trust in you. Trust in you. I will trust you. Trust in you. And you let the things say all I am strong in the strings of the law. Thank you, Peterson ladies. Appreciate that very much. It's an excellent opportunity to be here this evening. We braved the mini flood, the local variety, and we get to come here this evening, worship together. and to enjoy celebrating the birth week of our nation. What an exciting time. And tonight we're gonna read Proverbs 14, 34, as you look through it, ponder some truths with it, and really digest this verse tonight. Proverbs 14, 34, as we're going to look at the question, what makes a nation righteous? What makes a nation righteous? Proverbs 14, 34. Righteousness exalteth a nation. But sin is a reproach to any people. It's a short verse, I'll just read again. Righteousness exalteth a nation. But sin is a reproach to any people. Father, we are privileged to be in your house this evening. That we can assemble here together within this county, within this state, in this country, and just be thankful for your creation and how you have just ordered everything. Even to be here this evening with those that are here physically, those that are watching. And yet we are blessed to have a God who is interested in our lives and who will guide and direct. And may we seek him this evening through his word. May the Spirit of God speak to each one of us as he uses the Word of God by the Spirit of God. And we just thank you ahead of time for what will take place this day, throughout the day, and even this evening, for the honor, for the glory, for the exaltation of your Son, our Savior Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. In the book of Proverbs, it starts out, the first seven chapters is dedicated a lot. You see the phrase, my son. He's like, my son, my son, he gives instruction, and he talks about the fear of the Lord and all these many different things. Verse 8, you have wisdom being personified. And then next several chapters, which leads us to chapter 14. It's almost like the general theme kind of branches out from a father to a son. Now the big picture is a father to a son, yes. But it seems to broaden out a little bit more to a bigger picture of this principles, practical ways of living our lives that are a little more broad in nature. And so that's what we see. So when we get to chapter 14, that is exactly what we see here, with he is talking very general about righteousness exalting a nation. And then he says, but sin is reproached to any people. Notice he's saying, exalt a nation, and it ends with to any people. So it's very general, very generic. This is not like picturing Solomon talking to his son and you could almost picture like David talking to Solomon so he's passing on some of these thoughts. This verse here it really backs up, really gets broad, and that's what we see here. But this question, though, it's a short verse. I just want to dig into a little bit because I think it's something that as individuals and as a nation that we can really ponder and dig in here a little bit as we consider this week. the birth week of our nation and look at what the scripture says about particularly righteousness. So I'm going to start out, the first point is really another question. So who determines what is righteous? Who determines what is righteous? And why does this matter? Because the who determines what's righteous will define what is right and what is wrong. And individual people, if we ask. . . Several individuals tonight, families, whatever, on the street, doesn't matter. What is right, what is wrong, what do you think is the best way of doing things, you'll get all kinds of opinions And when you have a bunch of opinions for different people, what ends up happening is you start talking to this person and you realize that, you know what, their opinion has the same weight as my opinion. So then you come back to, well then who's right? And I have had this debate. I've been knocked many, many doors all over the place, all over the country. And Sometimes, just based on situation, you have to go really slow. Some people you can get really aggressive with the word of God. Some people you're thinking, I just hope they keep the door open. So all kinds of situations. But really what you have to remind yourself is, hey, they have an opinion, I have an opinion, so what makes the difference? Oh, I see some visitors here We'll catch you guys later. So what makes the difference? What makes the difference is when you are at someone's door, for example And you have to share with them the word of God. That is what makes a difference because the who is God and his righteousness. So, like you and me, if a man determines righteousness like you and me, it is just a matter of opinion, and we're getting nowhere. So some verses goes with this. First in Isaiah 64, 6. It says, But all we, but we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousness is as filthy rags. This is a popular go-to message. Our righteousness So if you and I are trying to determine what's right, what's wrong, what's righteous, well we have to remind ourselves what the Bible says, our righteousness is a filthy rag, so we're not getting off to a very good start. So his righteousness, filthy rags, my righteousness, filthy rags. Another one, Romans 3. 9. What then? Are we better than they? No, in no wise. For we have before proved, both Jews and Gentiles, that they are under sin. And then the common verse, Romans 3:10, as it is written, there are none righteous No, not one. So if man is trying to determine righteousness, if man is trying to settle right from wrong, we're in a big mess. How are we going to do this? It continues on, the last book in the Old Testament there, Malachi 3. 18. Then shall he return and discern between the righteous and and the wicked between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not. So this verse gives us a little bit of hint here. Man in his righteousness, it's filthy rags. There is no one in himself who is actually righteous. But here in Malachi 3. 18 it says, between him that serveth God and him that serveth not, before it talks about discerning what is right and what is wrong. So if we're going to determine in our families, in our church, in your state, or as a country, what is right, what is wrong. We need to recognize, and we really need to admit that God is the one who is righteous So who determines what is righteous? Hopefully it's not man. If it is man, we are in a bad way and things are not going to go well. So that leads us to the next point. We must see or admit that God is righteous. If man is not righteous, someone has to be righteous because how would we know right and wrong? Well, I'm thankful that we have the Lord and His Word to look to. Going back to Genesis 18, 25. That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked, and that the righteous should be as the wicked. For be far from thee, shall not the judge of all the earth do right? So what is Genesis referring to? It's referring to God who is a judge, and that he is a righteous judge because he will do that which is right. Determining what is wrong, what is right. And so we have a God who is a judge, and he will do righteously. So going back to the original verse If righteousness exalts a , nation, we need to say what is righteous? Well, we know God is righteous and he can determine right and wrong, so we must have God. We must admit, we must recognize I am not righteous in myself. And if I just have a different opinion, that's evil, but or that is equal with anyone else, but God is the one. We see this again in Daniel 9. 16. O Lord, according to all thy righteousness, I beseech thee, and the verse continues. But Daniel here is referring to God is righteous. Again, let's look at 2 Timothy 4, 8, looking at the fact that God is the one who is righteous. We read in the Word of God, henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me. That day, and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing. Once again you have Paul writing to Timothy, his young son in the faith. And reminding him here, towards the end of his book of this last epistle that he's writing to him, that God is a righteous judge. He can determine right and wrong. So if you're talking to an individual, you can argue your opinion all you want, they could argue their opinion all you want, and unless you get to the gospel, unless you take them to the Word of God. What you say and what they say is equal. You must have the word of God. So what makes the difference in righteousness, it's who it comes from. It must come from God. And he gives us an order of importance. In Matthew 6. 33, it says, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added unto you. So we're supposed to seek God first in his kingdom and his righteousness, what he determines right. And boy, could we use more of God's righteousness today? That's going to lead us to our next one. We're going to go flying through here really quick. So we've seen under who determines what is righteous, that if you and I determine righteousness, it is not going to be good. We are not righteous. We must admit and see that God is righteous. And also that God's righteousness is how men and a nation ought to live. If that's what's right, don't you want to do what's right? Shouldn't we as individuals, shouldn't we as families, you're raising your kids, you're helping with your grandchildren? You want people to do right. You want to do right, you want right done to you. So shouldn't we do this? The parallel verse that we just read out of Matthew 6 is in Luke 12. And I like how this is worded in comparison to that. It says in Luke 12, starting with verse 29. And seek not ye what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of a doubtful mind. For all these things do the nations of the world seek after They're seeking for things here and now. They're just thinking for pleasures here on earth. And he continues, and your father knoweth that you have need of these things. But rather seek the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. What's he saying here? Other nations, other people will focus on these earthly needs as first and foremost. They're not looking at the spiritual needs. They're not looking at teaching necessarily the next generation the word of God and of salvation through Jesus Christ. They're getting distracted. They're looking at the here and the now. Men ought to See God's righteousness, and then do our best to do what he has said is right and to live it out. In Ephesians 4, 24. And that ye put on the new man. Which, after God is created, in righteousness and true holiness. So it's not just a matter of what I'm trying to do with these next several verses here that we've been reading is Recognizing I am not righteous in myself. God is the one who is righteous. And because it is a right thing to be like the righteous one Christ, the righteous judge Shouldn't we do what is right and live out what he says is right and what he says is wrong, admit that it's wrong? And to do our best to take these understandings that we know from the Word of God and live them out. Well if we don't live them and we just read them, what good are they? What good is it? And I believe Pastor referred to this verse this morning as well, 2 Corinthians 5, 21. For if he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be the righteousness of God in him. So Christ took our sin upon himself. That way we before God can be righteous. Which leads us right into the next point for us. Which is the only way that we can be right or that we know that we're right is if we agree with God and recognize our need for Christ's righteousness. Because we're not righteous, God is. We must recognize this. We must see that man ought to live out. If God says it's right, it's right. If man says it's wrong, It's wrong. If God says it's wrong, it's wrong. And this starts with recognizing Jesus Christ is the righteous one. And we all it's not a matter of I'm being proud and arrogant and I'm right just because I said it. Well no, that's going back to the opinion. It's understanding what God has said, and he is the righteous one that we need to follow, and that starts with Jesus Christ. And you think about even with salvation. We need to admit that there is a God. He has a purpose for us, but we have been separated from God due to our own sin. That is why Jesus Christ had to become a man. Put on flesh, dwell among us, with the perfect, sinless life that you and I cannot. And so therefore, when he went to the cross, he was offering himself as a perfect, spotless, righteous lamb. Perfect before a holy God. And in doing so, He is our substitute. And if we don't recognize things, we won't be justified. We can't even be declared righteous. We will be yet be paying for our sin on our own. So we're going to look here at another couple verses. In Deuteronomy 6, 24, and the Lord commanded to do all of these statutes, to fear the Lord our God. For our good always, that He might preserve us alive as it is unto this day, as it shall be our righteousness if we observe to do all these commandments before the Lord our God, as He has commanded us. When we recognize that Jesus Christ is righteous and we look at and this is and these things are pointing to Christ, when we look at the Old Testament, I just had a conversation with Josh about this for church. In the Old Testament, a lot of these things are a picture, it's a shadow, it's pointing towards Jesus Christ to come So when you have things like this, we're reminded of that. And then when now in our New Testament mindset, we are looking back at the Jesus Christ who came. This is going to be all the more important because we're going to get into Romans and Galatians here with Abraham. But God is commanding us to be righteous and to live it out. And especially with Israel, they were to be different than other nations. They were to only worship one God. They had an outward sign or token of circumcision. It was just an outward display that we are different than the world. We're not to bow down to other gods. We are to live out these differences. We're not to be the same as other nations. We're to be different. We're to be set apart. We're supposed to live out the righteousness and the good things that God has asked us to do, and then refrain and flee from and keep ourselves separated from that which He would call sin or evil. That's what we need for any nation. Because if righteousness exalts a nation, we need to determine what is righteous. How do we become righteous? And are we going to do our best to live it out? So let's continue looking at this even further. In Romans 3, some common verses. Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. So once again we see that the righteousness of God, but now it is by faith in Jesus Christ. We're not going to God on our own righteousness. We're not saying, God, I am so great. I am so handsome, tall, and full of hair. I mean some of us don't have a chance, okay? We cannot go to God with our intelligence, with our talent. That is not an we try and compare ourselves to others. I tell teens all the time, I said if you want to have a you know terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day, compare yourself better to someone else. And you'll feel like you have a bad day 'cause they're so much better. I can never be like her. I can never be like him. And we're sorry if you want to have, you know, a good day, you compare yourself with oh, I'm way better than that person If my neighbor could ever get this stuff figured out, man, I mean you can't even cut his grass. I mean, he should have looked at whether or not. I mean, you know, you compare yourselves and you can puff yourself up. The problem is other people aren't the standard. It's by faith in Jesus Christ because our righteousness before God is no good. We have to come to God through Jesus Christ, and it's by faith we have God's righteousness. Jesus Christ's righteous, his robes for mine. He is righteous on our behalf, and it's our faith in him. And if we can do this on an individual level, if we can start doing this in families, as a church. You can make it bigger to a state or a country, recognizing the righteousness that we need from Christ. And it is then we can start recognizing it is this righteousness. If we want to be exalted, if we want to be lifted up at all, it does take humility, but it's recognizing the humility is going, I cannot do it on my own. Romans 3, 22 and 23 are telling us that we come short. And some of us are better at coming short than others. I've always been pretty good at that. I was the one in kindergarten. You know how those short little chairs? My feet were the ones always dangling. I just couldn't win. Romans 4-3. What saith the scripture? Abraham believes God, and it was encountered unto him for righteousness. Now, when I first started reading this verse, and I've read Galatians 3. 6, I'll read it. Even as Abraham believed God and has encountered it unto him for righteousness. When I first started reading these long ago, I was probably college because that's when I first started reading. reading the Bible on my own. I thought, oh, Abraham is righteousness. You know what my mind would always run to? I don't know why, but it did. When you're thinking of Abraham and you're thinking of like a righteous act, you know, you think, oh, he's about to slay his son. You know, that's what made him a hero. But here, when you read these verses, it's not that Abraham was necessarily just going to kill a son. Look at this again. I'll read them again. For what saith the scripture? Abraham Abraham believed God as a count on him for righteousness. Galatians 3. 6. Even as Abraham believed God. It was accounted unto him for righteousness. It's his belief in God. Now his belief led him to do what he was going to do, believing that his son would be raised from the dead, we know from Hebrews. But it was his belief in God. We need to believe that God has sent his son Jesus Christ and our righteousness is only through Christ. It is not of myself. It is nothing I can do. I can never be good enough. Christ has done everything that needs to take place. And it is his righteousness that is upon us. And these two verses go back to Genesis 15, 6. And he believed the Lord and was accounted unto him for righteousness. And this word for accounted that we've been reading. reading. It literally means to charge to the account of. You put things on a credit card and it gets charged to your account. And things get minus out of your bank account quicker than they can go in sometimes. And inflation keeps going up and you're thinking, what is going on? And my wife looks at me and is like, Am I spending more on groceries? Well, I guess, but getting the same amount, just less pieces. And he believed the Lord and it was accounted unto him for righteousness. What's been placed, our sin debt has been charged. has been paid for by Christ. His shed blood on the cross and in his righteousness because of our faith, not our good works, not because I'm so great and grand, not because I go to a certain church, not because I put so much money in offering, not because of anything of myself. It is this and Jesus Christ's righteousness that this happens. So what makes a nation righteous? It is recognizing That you and I are not righteous. We need to admit and believe that God is the righteous one. Then we have to do our best to live out what he has said to do To agree with God that we need Jesus Christ's righteousness for us. And then we're going to look at man's obedience. to God's righteousness through faith, which we've been hinting at, through faith in Jesus Christ, is what exalts a nation. So I've hinted at this, but we're going to look at the bigger picture. Man's obedience to God's righteousness through faith in Jesus Christ is what can exalt a nation. So we're going to go back, look at Proverbs 14, 34, and it says, righteousness exalteth a nation. But sin is a reproach to any people. So here we are. We're the birth week of our country. I love this time of year. You cut me open, I'll read I'll bleed red, white, and blue. I love our country. I love our God, and what I've recognized is if you love God, I think we'll love man recognizes his sin and need of a savior And you can't help but love a country that God has placed you in where we have the freedom, the blessing to enjoy what we are right here and right now. It's incredible. The fact that we have been here, if you are in Sunday school, Sunday morning, and Sunday night, we are in a country that allows you, and it's been this way from the very beginning. I want to read this one verse and I'm going to get some practical little things regarding more of our nation. But in Proverbs 29:2, it says, When the righteous are in authority, The people rejoice. Yeah, because they're doing what's right. They're being fair. But when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn. Because when we think about this verse and everything we've already covered, when the wicked beareth rule, what does the wicked think about? His own self, his own power, his wealth, his wisdom, his wants, his desire for more land to conquer, to show that he has the greatest army I dare you to stand in my way. And the people don't like that. Taxes get raised. Innocent life can get taken when the wicked bear rule. But when the righteous are in authority, people rejoice because he's fair, because it's right. The bigger picture that is, aren't you so thankful, regardless of what happens in this country or on this world, that God is the one who's on the throne and he is the one that's the righteous judge I just love that. No matter if you're having a bad day, God, I'm so thankful that you are the one in charge. Man's obedience to God's righteousness through faith in Jesus Christ is what exalts the nations. Now let's look at this. This is why I'm so thankful for. Not only are you and I have the privilege, of being a citizen of heaven. But while a citizen of heaven, God for whatever reason, and for a multitude of them For all those individuals, he has chosen you and me to be born and to be raised in this country And we are going to be celebrating independence, hopefully you are this week. But as I thought about that, we're going to celebrate independence as a country. But if nothing else, could you and I, as an individual, recognize that we are dependent upon God? So though we are an independent nation, hopefully that allows us to be dependent upon God. And here's just some thoughts I have with us with the founding of our country. We're going to go back a little shy of 250 years ago. I'm just going to read a couple excerpts, and hopefully this will stand out a little bit more after looking at what the Bible says about righteousness and our need for Jesus Christ and realize the privilege that we have It was of no choosing of your own that you were born in this country or that you're living here now You probably didn't have much say in that matter. I didn't choose who my parents were. I didn't tell them where I should be born. It was out in Washington State and that left coast, but I had no say in that. I just want to read a couple things, and just remind us some things to ponder this week. As we've looked at the light of God's Word and what makes a nation righteous, here's some thoughts. I'm going to read a couple things here. This was written on July 4, 1776. The unanimous declaration of the 13 United States of America. When the course of human events it becomes necessary for one people to solve the political bands which have connected with them with another, to assume among the powers of the earth the separate and equal station to which the laws of nature and of nature's God entitle them. This is the first of four direct references in the founding of our country to the God that we serve. To the laws of nature and of nature's God. One thing in God's nature, yes, he's holy, and like we look at tonight , righteous. God is righteous, and he is a judge, and he will do that which is right. along with his righteousness is that wickedness must be punished. Sin is evil and wicked This is a statement that America was founded on. And keep in mind, I'm going to read three more of these. When they wrote this They are putting their lives on the line. They knew they were about to go to war. And they are making an appeal candid to the world, but appealing to God. And as we'll see there. And recognizing that God was a part of their decision to be taken from their families, to have a lot of lives lost. The second of the four that I will just briefly read. We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, and that they are endowed by their creator, capital C All men are created equal. Where'd they get that idea? Does man on his own just think that we're equal? No, because man left out of his own with his own righteousness. We enslave one another. We take advantage of one another. We're trying to build ourselves up and do what I want and what pleases me, myself, and I. Those are the things that we do. When these guys, if you're gonna start birth a new nation, you recognize it has to go beyond just what man thinks is right. We've tried that for thousands of years. It doesn't work very well if man does it on his own. But they recognize that all men are created equal. And we're endowed by a creator. He created things to be good and right. The third one we will look at. This is later towards the end. It says, appealing to the supreme judge of the world. Who would be the supreme judge of the world? I highly don't think it was Buddha or Muhammad or one of the men that's signing this document. No, they're appealing to God because they are making their statements known. And this is after like 30 some grievances or whatever it was about They're making it known. We think we're doing what's right, and we are trying to do what God would have to do. God wants us to be able to worship Him, to assemble together, to share our faith, and to live for God. And how is all this made possible? I love how it concludes here. And for the support of this declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine province. We mutually pledge each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honors. The point I'm pointing out here is this line: a firm reliance on the protection of divine. Providence. They, because they believe that God has created all things, because they're appealing to God who is righteous and his laws always work and he is right, and they're appealing to him to judge between us and them. Which is the right thing to do. God, would you help me determine right and wrong? Maybe I've done wrong in this situation. What they're saying is, we believe we're doing what's right. We've made many appeals. We're trying to do this before the Lord and the rest of the world. And then at the end they're saying, we're asking for God's protection. That is how this nation was started. This is why men went to die. Because they recognized we need something beyond just human understanding. We need something bigger and greater. And the big appeal at the end is we need God to protect us. Yes, difficulty has come. War is going to happen. But they believe God is righteous and he can help us prevent us. Because only God and His righteousness can exalt and lift up a nation. If we want to be lifted up and we want to be exalted, what should a nation do? And this isn't just a secret for America. That's what I'm saying. When you look at Proverbs in the bigger picture, it starts out, my son, my son, a lot in the first seven chapters. Then it slowly kind of broadens a little bit. And then you have verses like this. Righteousness exalteth a nation, but it can't just be what a nation thinks is right. It has to be what God thinks is right And what God says is right is right. What he says is wrong, it's wrong. And then it ends with, but sin is a reproach to any people. Sin brings shame, sin brings separation. We need to be separated from our sin through our faith in Christ to get God's righteousness. Recognizing that we cannot do it on our own, we cannot get to God, we cannot be righteous. And it kind of makes sense when you think about it. If you want to be exalted, if you want God to be exalting anything, wouldn't you have to be like Him? Because what's more perfect than God? Righteousness exalts nation, but the opposite sin. It's a reproach and shame to any person. It's not a respecter of persons. Sin doesn't care what your name is, who your family is, what country you're from. How bad or how good you think your sins are? Sin is not a respecter of persons and it must be dealt with. Sin is a reproach to any people, to anyone. Will it start with you and I and this church recognizing we need, we are desperate for God's righteousness, and by faith we can have it through Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ's righteousness, that we can be seen right before God. Then as that happens with you and I and this church Good things can happen. Bad things can happen. But we're relying on Jesus Christ and His righteousness. And we look at a verse like this. And as we think about our independence we have, what are we using our independence for? Are we using it to be dependent upon God? Or independent in it's my way or the highway, because righteousness exalteth the nation, but sin truly is a reproach to any people. So I go back to our question: what makes a nation? righteous. And what are you and I going to do about it? And who are you going to be righteous through? Father, I thank you so much for the blessing of being here this evening. We are truly in a unique situation with we have the privilege. of knowing Christ as our Savior for many that are here. Most would understand that we are only righteous before you because of what your son has done for us. And yet we have the privilege of not only be a citizen of heaven, but the blessing and the opportunity to live a country that allows it. We could brag on ourselves on great military and success, but Lord, all that is only done because of your grace And that your goodness, and as man desires to obey you, we got off, I think, to a pretty decent start even as a country. Would we be thankful for that? And would we not be ashamed to both serve our Savior with where he has placed us? And that we would live out as citizens of heaven while here on earth, as citizens of our country. And would we do this? To point people to the righteousness of Jesus Christ and do our best to live it out, that they may see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven. We thank you and praise you for all this. And come to you through the righteous, glorious name of your Son, our Savior, Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. I think it's always important when we think about the time we're living in, the nation that we're living in, that We've really been entrusted with a great trust, and we are responsible to be godly people. We are responsible to walk with the Lord. Understanding that we are saved and we are to live in l in the light of the position that we have in Christ. And the most profitable thing you and I are able to do, raise our families right. It really is. Give your kids the gospel, teach them how to walk with God, and teach them how to work and be responsible, godly citizens. The truth is that wherever God plants these young people, the investment of our time and energy will not be wasted. And God can use that, that light. and that salt to do pretty amazing things in the places that he plants them. So you have no idea what God will do through the lives of our young people. And so when I think about our country, I I think my greatest burden is that we'd be godly fathers and mothers, and that our children will be godly fathers and mothers. When God brings them to that season of life. And so may God help us to do that, to be those kinds of people. We are salt and light We need to pray for our land. We need to pray that we will not waste the opportunities that we are given and that he'll use us in that way. Please let's go ahead and take out our hymn books and turn for our closing hymn. Which is like a river glorious. 483, like a river glorious. Please let's stand together and we will sing each of the three verses together, please. My God is all the wall in the I don't know what to cry and I want to come in and all that. In this season of our lives, we need to remember that the rock that we should stand on is Christ. His peace is available, and so no matter what is going on around us, Christians should be the most stable and courageous people that have ever lived. And the reason is because we're standing on truth And the rest of the world is standing on assumptions. We're standing on truth. And we know where we're going for eternity. And so we should be a stable and strong people. And so let's ask the Lord to help us to be that way. Let's bow for prayer. And I'd like to ask if, Chad, you can come, close us in prayer, please, and then we'll be dismissed. Father, thank you for this day. Thank you for this opportunity to come once again to your house and thank you for the rain and And the memories they cause and thank you for all you do for us and the many blessings that you shower upon us that we take for granted each day, like the air we breathe and the the freedoms we have. Lord, I pray that you continue to watch over us and protect us and keep us well and healthy until the next appointed time. In Jesus' name. Amen.