Turn to the book of First Kings, and we are in First Kings chapter 19 tonight. And on Sunday nights we have been working our way through The entire story of the Old Testament. Isn't that exciting? And uh we are now in a portion of the Old Testament that's focusing in primarily on the life of Elijah. And out of all of Israel's prophets, Elijah is one of the most well-known, most well-beloved, well-respected of all of the prophets. In fact, when we look at the story of the transfiguration, And the Lord Jesus Christ is up there on the mountain. There are two figures that are there on the mountain, two individuals. One is Moses, and the other is Elijah. And these two people are so significant because Moses really represents the law and Elijah the prophets. And so there are these two great men who are there on the mountain with the Lord Jesus Christ. His glory is being revealed. And a few disciples get the opportunity to see this. They didn't quite understand why they were getting the opportunity to do that. But what that shows you Is how great a man this man Elijah was. And when I think of Elijah, I think of someone who was strong Someone who was bold, uh someone who was fearless, someone who was very rugged. Um I think of someone who was uh kind of a John the Baptist kind of a figure. Don't you get that picture in your mind when you think about Elijah? But here's what's amazing. Tonight, as we look at Elijah, we're not going to see a man who's strong. We're not going to see a man who is bold and fearless. We're going to see a man who feels so, so broken that he says, God, I don't want to live anymore. I want you to take me. I'm done doing what you have called me to do. It's a pretty fascinating thing to see It's really shocking. It's almost something that we go, really? Out of all the things to put in the Bible, you're going to put that? Why not just give us this rosy picture of Elijah? about his strength and his triumphs. Why do you give us this information about him at one of his lowest moments? Well the answer is because we need to learn about God in these moments. We need to learn about people in these moments, and we need to understand how God looks at us and how God deals with us when we get into very low places. So let's go ahead and read in our Bibles, 1 Kings chapter 19. And we're going to pick up in verse number one. We're going to look at what happens when godly people experience emotional breakdown. Here's what God's word says. And Elijah told Jezebel all that , excuse me, and Ahab, not Elijah, Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done. And withal how he had slain all the prophets with the sword, then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying So let the gods do to me and more also, if I make not thy life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time. What's she saying? You're gonna be dead tomorrow. And when he saw that, he arose and went for his life. He said, I know that when this woman says she's gonna kill somebody, she means it And so he runs. It says, he came to Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah, and left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness. And came and sat down under a juniper tree, and he requested for himself that he might die. And said, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life. I am not better than my father's As he lay and slept under a juniper tree, behold, then an angel touched him and said unto him, Arise and eat. And he looked, and behold, there was a cake baked of coals and a cruise of water at his head. And he did eat and drink and laid him down again, and the angel of the Lord came again the second time, and touched him, and said, Arise and eat Because the journey is too great for thee. And he arose and did eat and drink and went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb, the mount of God. He came hither unto a cave and lodged there, and behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, and he said unto him, What doest thou here, Elijah? He said, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenants and thrown down thine altars And slain thy prophets with the sword, and I even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we read your word, I pray that you would minister very richly to our souls. Help us to see the great transparency of this passage. Help us to see what it says about some of the strongest and most vibrant men who have ever walked this earth, some of the most diligent and faithful servants who have ever served under your leadership. And help us to realize that if they can stumble in such a way, we had better take note in our own lives that we walk very soberly. And Father, as we see how you cared for this man, whom you love dearly, I pray that we would see that you have the same heart of compassion toward us when we are in very low places. I pray that the things that are presented from your word would minister richly to our heart, and that ultimately you would get the glory and we would be encouraged by it. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I'd summarize the passage in front of us the following way. God does not abandon his servants when they stumble. Do you believe that? Do you believe that when you are at a low point and you're not thinking clearly and you're like done with whatever you have been doing, and you tell God that? That when he looks at you, he looks at you with compassion. And he looks at you and says, I'm not done with you. I'm not going to kick you to the curb. I'm not going to throw you by the wayside. In fact, no. I love you dearly and I'm still going to work in your life. Do you believe that? I'm convinced actually a lot of Christians don't believe that. I really am. You know why I say that? Because I know how Christians think. I'm a pastor. I think of all the different conversations over the many, many different years that I've had. I think about some of the things that have been expressed, and what I see is that in our low moments we don't think clearly about God. We think of him as being very harsh. We think of him as someone who is done with us if we fall short. And the reality is that when we read the scriptures, we see over and over and over again that God is a very patient God. And God looks at us in our frailty and our weakness, and his heart is moved with compassion toward us. And in fact, when he sees us in those places, he is very wise. And he is very patient with how he ministers to us. So as we look at this passage, I think the text would drive us to a very simple conclusion. We need to be humbled by our weakness and rejoice in God's grace. So with that in mind, I'm going to answer a series of questions to kind of help us understand what is going on in these verses. And so the first question is a very simple one. What's going on in the passage in front of us? So to kind of help us set the tone of what's going on, and I know we've been working our way through the story of Elijah, but what's going on is Elijah is probably the most prominent of all of the prophets during this period. He's very well respected. When we think about Moses and Elijah, we think of the two great prophets of the Old Testament era. When the Bible describes him, he describes him as a very rugged man. This is a guy who for several years lived by a brook and he ate the food that was provided by ravens. Most of us would be grossed out if a raven brought us food every single day. We'd be like, nah, that's okay, I'm not real interested in that But this guy, he was okay with that. In fact, when God called him to go and talk to Elijah, or uh go go to Ahab, and if we think about Jezebel, she was a very, very evil woman He went into the presence of Ahab and I mean he pointed his finger at this guy and he said, God says, and this is what's going to happen. Well, we think about the fact that when when the brook dries up, he goes to Zarephath, and we learned about Zarephath. This is actually the hometown of Jezebel. This is the Gentile community, and he goes to this woman who is starving. She's about to die, and she basically says, I'm going to make my last meal and I'm going to eat it, and my son's going to eat, we're going to die. And Elijah's like, well, give me some food first. And she's like, what? That's what he did. He's a pretty bold guy. He's a pretty fearless guy. He walked by faith. He's a tremendous example of faithfulness. In the book of James, when he's talking about persevering in the way that we should pray, who does he talk about? He talks about Elijah. In fact, Elijah was coming off of one of the most triumphant moments in his prophetic ministry. Remember what we talked about a couple weeks ago, 1 Kings 18? It says in verse 21, Elijah came unto all the people and said, How long hold ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him. If Baal, follow him, and the people answered him not a word. Have you ever had a time when you felt like you needed to pray and you you were afraid to ask God for something because you almost were afraid that he might answer the opposite direction? Has anybody ever been in that situation? Well, if I pray this way, then God's going to be mean to me. He's just going to give me the exact opposite of that. Well, here's this guy who he has people right in front of him and he says, I'm going to put God to the test. Either it's Baal or it's God. And so let's choose which God we're going to serve, but let's have a test first. And he puts God to the test. And then by the end of that story in verses 37 to 39 it says that it records his prayer, and this is the way that he prays. He says, Hear me, O Lord, hear me. That this people may know that thou art the Lord God, that thou hast turned their heart back again, and the fire of the Lord fell and consumed the burnt sacrifice and the wood and the stones and the dust. And looked up the water that was in the trench. When all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and they said, The Lord, He is the God. The Lord, He is the God. And we know what happened after that. All of those prophets of Baal, who were false prophets, they were killed on that mountain. And then God sends rain, and it hadn't rained for over three years, and Elijah runs ahead of that rain. But one of the things that we don't think about is the tremendous emotional pressure that Elijah would have felt during that time period. For three and a half years he's hiding. For three and a half years he knows that Ahab wants to kill him. Jezebel wants to kill him. He believes that there is no one who is faithful to the Lord in Israel. He's wrong about that, but he believes he's the only one. He goes and he's fed by a raven, then he goes and he's there fed by a widow. And the truth is that this man had been dealing with a long duration of emotional pressure And so, yes, this is a high point, but it is also, we could say, the climax of this tremendous emotional pressure. Think about what happens when people end the school year in college. They get home and what do they do? They sleep for three days. Is that not true? You know your kids come home from college and they they sleep and they sleep and they sleep. Why is that? Well, because all the emotional pressure of the end of the semester is just pushing them, and then they stop and they sleep and sleep and sleep. You know what also happens a lot of times? People get sick. I remember when I was a kid, I I did not miss one day of school from the time I was in elementary school all the way high school. That's true And that's not because I uh was always healthy. But that is true. I did not miss a day of school. And probably some of the kids around me, their parents weren't happy about that. But I can tell you what happened every single Christmas break Christmas break, we get in the car to go drive and see my grandparents, and guess who was very sick? Right here. Now, why is that? Why is it that we get sick at the end of the semester? Why is it we get sick when we have all these things pressing on us? It's because our bodies are exhausted. Our emotions are fried. That's a normal part of life. You realize that? That happened to Elijah. What you would think would be like the climax of his ministry, the highest point of all these points. is a time when he is completely exhausted and broken. And then he runs from Mount Carmel to Jezreel. Do you realize that that was essentially the equivalent of running a marathon 20 to 30 miles? And then after that, when Jezebel threatens to kill him, he runs and flees an additional 100 to 120 miles. And so by the end of this story in chapter 19, verses 2 to 3, Jezebel sends messengers to Elijah. She says, I'm going to kill you. He gets up, he runs for his life. He has traveled multiple days. And he is completely exhausted. And then in verse 4, he goes an additional day's journey from Bertheva into the wilderness. And this is where we pick up this story in front of us here. Now, why do I take the time to give you all those details? I give you those details because if you really want to appreciate what he says And why he says it, there's a lot of context that leads up to that. And sometimes when you and I get into really dark and really low places and we feel like I'm just done with whatever I'm doing. A lot of times that is actually the result of a lot of cumulative pressure that has built up on us and it finally comes to a head, and that's why we get exhausted and we get sick And we are in a very broken condition. So what's going on? Elijah is ready to quit. And the reason is because he has been pushed to the limits and he can't go any further. Second question I have tonight is this. What do we learn about people in these verses? Well the first thing I'll say is this, there is no such thing as an invincible human. None of us are invincible. None of us are immune to human frailty. We are all made of the same stuff. Now it is true that in this room there are some people that can they can manage on a little bit less sleep than others. It is true that some people have stronger the immune systems than others, at least for a period of their lives. It's true that there are some people they can push more weight and they can run a little bit faster and they can run a little bit longer. And so there is some level of inequality when it comes to the physical strength, the emotional strength of various individuals. But the bottom line is this, there's no such thing as a person who is immune to physical and emotional weakness. I mean, of all the specimens in Scripture, I would say that this guy is like one of the top, Elijah. We're all frail. If we push ourselves to our limits, we will have a complete physical and emotional breakdown. And the result of that is we won't think clearly and we will despair. And so I want to give you some examples of some of the greatest figures in all of the Old Testament. Every single one of them ended up in a very similar situation. Think about Moses. Was Moses a weak man? He was 80 years old when he led the children of Israel out of Egypt. Can you imagine an eight-year-old man doing that? We got a couple guys in their 80s. Would you like to lead the children of Israel out of Egypt to the promised land? The answer is, no, I wouldn't want to do that. But Moses did. He was a strong guy. He was tough. He was rugged. Yet listen to what we read about Moses in Numbers chapter 11, verse 14. He says, I am not able to bear all this people alone. It is too heavy for me And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of the hand, if I have found favor in thy sight, and let me not see my wretchedness. What? What in the world? He's like, God, just kill me. I don't want to see what's going on. I am so miserable dealing with these people. The Lord said unto Moses, gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be elders of the people and officers over them. Bring them unto the tabernacle of the congregation, that they may stand there with thee, and I will come down and talk with thee there, and will take of the spirit which is upon thee, and will put it on them, and they shall bear the burden of this people with thee. and that that thou bear it not thyself alone. God could have been like, all right, you want to die, you're 80 something years old. All right, it's your time. He didn't do that. He didn't argue with them. He didn't have a conversation with him. He just said, here's what you need to do. Go get the elders, and then I'll show you what's next. Why does God handle them that way? Because God's a very gracious God I'll give you another example. The second is David. Who was more valiant a warrior than David? I mean, think about that story of David and Goliath. Here's Goliath. He's been there in that valley and he's been shouting against the children of Israel. And here are their valiant soldiers. They're running and they're hiding. And David's like, what's your guy's problem? Let's go let's go take care of this guy. And they're like, uh, sure, go ahead. Have at it. He's like, all right, I'll do it. And he goes out there and he kills Goliath He's not a weak and fearful person. He is a strong and valiant warrior. Yet listen to what it says about David in 1 Samuel 30, verse 6. David was greatly distressed, for the people spake of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man of his sons for his daughters. But David encouraged himself from the Lord his God. Or listen to Psalm 42. Why art thou cast down, O my soul Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God. I should yet praise him who is the help of his countenance. One of the things that has become more and more prominent in my thinking as I read through the Psalms is how many of the Psalms are written by someone who's in a very low place. Very discouraged, very fearful, very anxious, very broken. Someone who feels like they can't even stand up. And many of those Psalms are written by David, a great and valiant warrior. What about Jeremiah? Someone says, man, I want to serve the Lord like Jeremiah. All right. Well, listen to what he had to say in Jeremiah chapter 20, verse 7. This is actually kind of shocking. It's almost a little bit shocking to read it, but I'll just go ahead and read it because this is what he said. He says, Oh Lord, thou hast deceived me. Is God tricking him? Well he just said that to God. He said, Thou hast deceived me. I was deceived. Thou art stronger than I and hast prevailed. I am in derision daily. Everyone mocketh me. Cursed be the day wherein I was born. Let not the day wherein my mother bear me be blessed. Cursed be the man that brought tidings to my father, saying, A man-child was born unto thee, making him very glad. Do you think that he was in a really dark place when he said that to God? He was. Or think about Jonah. Jonah chapter 4 verse 1. It displeased Jonah exceedingly. He was very angry. And he prayed unto the Lord and said, I praise thee, O Lord. Was not this my saying when I was yet in my country? Therefore I fled into Tarshus, I knew that thou art a gracious God, merciful, slow to anger, of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. Therefore now, Lord, take I beseech thee my life from me. It is better for me to die than to live. Now I have a question. Is it possible that there are times in our lives that we sound like these men? Aren't you glad that your words aren't recorded in scripture for thousands of years for people to read? But theirs were, and they were recorded for a reason. Because God wants to teach us about how he graciously relates to his servants when they get into places like this. That leads me to a third question. What do we learn about God in these verses? There are two passages that come to mind before we actually start working our way through the very specific things that God does in the life of Elijah. The first is Lamentations 3. 22. Here's what it says: It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. Now, whether I understand at the time or I feel that this is true, whether I'm in a position where I'm actually willing to verbalize it, it is true. It is of God's mercies that we are not consumed. His compassions do not fail. They are new every single morning. His faithfulness Is great. That is true about God, no matter how we feel about him in those moments. No matter what we say to him or what we say about him. That's true because God says it's true. Or Psalm 103, verse 13, like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame, and he remembereth that we are dust. So every single one of these men, Moses, Elijah, David, Jonah, Jeremiah, when they were in this position of great despair, God didn't look at them and go, Where did I come from? He goes, I understand that you are made of dust And I have pity and I have compassion and I have mercy towards you in that situation. It's very important that we see that in fact this is true about God. And now I want you to see from the text how it actually plays out in a very practical way, because there's a lot of insight we can gain from this. First thing I want you to notice is that his care is demonstrated. by how he ministers first to Elijah in his physical frailty. Before he talks to Elijah, he takes care of his body. Now this is something that's important for us to realize. Sometimes our emotional state is directly connected to our physical weakness. You know, if a person doesn't get enough rest and they go long enough in that situation, guess what? It's going to begin to affect their mind. It's going to begin to affect their emotions. Why is that? Because we're not just bodies and we're not just brains and we're not just emotions. We are this blend of body, mind, and spirit. And we are united in that way so that when we are physically weak, it affects how we think about things. And when we think about things the wrong way, it begins to affect us emotionally. And sometimes our emotions are what drive our thinking There is this interconnection between these pieces of who we are. And so before he has anything to say to this man Elijah, you know what he does? He lets him sleep. It's pretty amazing. He gives him food. Notice what it says in verses five and six. It says, as he lay and slept under the juniper juniper tree, behold, an angel touched him. And said unto him, Arise and eat. And he looked, and behold, there was cake, based, and coals, and a cruise of water at his head. He did eat and drink, and laid him down again Now, he could have said, let's have a conversation. Why are you saying the things that you're saying? Why are you thinking the things that you're saying? That's not what he did. He woke him up and he said, Hey, eat some food. And he falls asleep again. And that was kind of the end of it. And then in verses 7 and 8 it says, and the angel of the Lord came the second time and touched him and said, Arise and eat. He touched him, he said, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great for thee. And he arose and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb the mount of God. So before we get into any conversation, any responsibilities, any duties, he gives him food and he lets him sleep. And that's really important. We have to take care of our bodies. If we don't take care of our bodies, it's going to affect us. In every single level. There's a reason that God in six days created the heavens and the earth on the seventh day he rested. And that reason wasn't because he was tired. It's because he knew we need a day of rest. There's a reason that it gets dark at night, unless you live in Alaska in the winter or in the summer. That gets dark at night because our bodies need to rest. We need to sleep. There's a reason sometimes that we get sick. It's almost as if it's God's way of saying you have pushed your body too hard and now you're going to have to take a rest because you can't push any further. He does that. So what's very interesting about this is that he ministers to him physically before he ever addresses the spiritual problem. That's not to say that there wasn't a spiritual dynamic to what was going on. Not to say there wasn't a thinking problem of what was going on, but he dealt with the physical first because the physical was affecting how he thought. And it was affecting how he felt. It was affecting how he was relating to God. There's also another piece that I don't want you to miss. In verse 5 it says, an angel touched him. In verse 7 it says, the angel of the Lord came again. That's different. Who is the angel of the Lord? We read the Old Testament, the angel of the Lord is often I'm not going to use the word exclusive, but it's very, very regularly a reference to the pre-incarnate Christ. It's almost as if what we're looking at is God says, an angel's going to go and take care of you. Now I'm going to go. And I'm going to minister directly to Elijah in his weakness. Isn't that an amazing and comforting thought? God went to him. Second thing we see is that he ministered to his soul. In verse 9, he asks him a question. It says, The word of the Lord came to him, and he said unto him, What doest thou here, Elijah? He just asked the question. Verses eleven and twelve, it says that God gives this display of his power. It says, He said, Go forth, stand up on the mountain of the Lord. And behold the Lord passed by with great and strong wind, and he rent the mountain, and he break in pieces the rocks before the Lord, and the Lord was not in the wind, and after the wind an earthquake, and the Lord was not in an earthquake, after the earthquake The fire but the Lord was not in the fire So this is very interesting. He asks him a question. He doesn't get into a dialogue. He just asks the question. He leaves it. In fact, he asks the question twice And then he gives him a display of his power. He sees the terror and the might and the strength of God. But there's a very important statement at the end of this all. But the Lord was not in the fire. It's not God's power that was going to be most impactful to Elijah in that moment. You say, what was going to be the most impactful thing to Elijah in that moment? It was God's word. It says in verses 11 through 13, after the fire, a still small voice Which said, Behold, this voice came and said, What doest thou here, Elijah? One of the things that God does to us when we are in these moments is he asks us questions so that we will verbalize what's going on inside. And he just lets us talk. And not only does he ask those questions that will verbalize what's going on inside and let us talk, but in this text he does not argue. He does not argue with a logic. He had every right to do it. It's very interesting. By the way, go back to the story of Moses. Does God argue with Moses in that moment? The answer is no. He has something for him to do, and he's going to tell him what to do. But he doesn't answer all of his questions, answer all of his objections. He asks him a question, he lets him verbalize it, and then he says, all right, here's what you're going to do. It's very, very interesting, isn't it? That's how God dealt with these people. But it's not the display of his power that was most helpful to Elijah. It was God's word. God 's word is what will minister to us more than anything else in our moments of great difficulty. When you are struggling, you know what you need? You need to read the Word of God about some very specific issues. And don't argue with it. Just read it. And think about it and reflect on it and say, God said it, it's true, God help me to actually rest in that. And that is ultimately what we see in these moments. God gives truth, and he gives truth and he gives truth and he lets the word of God take root in our hearts in these moments. The third thing we see is not just that he ministered to his body and he ministered to his soul, but he gave him a purpose when he was down. Look at verses 15 and 16. The Lord said unto him, Go and return on thy way to the wilderness of Damascus. When thou comest, anoint Haziel to be king over Syria. And Jehu the son of Nimshai shalt thou anoint to be king over Israel. And Elisha the son of Shaphat of, his name is very difficult, shalt thou anoint to be prophet in thy room. So what does God do? He lets him get rest. He ministers to his body. He asks him a question. He reminds him of his power. He speaks to him and he gives him something he can do that is manageable. All you need to do is go anoint these three people. Two guys who are going to be kings, one guy who's going to be your replacement. And part of that is him also giving a helper. And a friend who he can invest his life in. In verse 16 it says, Elisha the son of Shaphat shalt thou anoint to be prophet in thy room. What's going to happen after this is when Elisha is anointed to be uh to basically take his place down the road. He's going to become his assistant and he's going to come alongside and he's going to move with him. He's going to see everything that Elisha does or Elijah does. He's going to have conversations with Elijah. He's going to be there with him. He's going to be like his shadow. He's going to be mentored. And what's going to happen in that relationship is that Elijah is going to be investing in someone who's coming behind him. Elisha is going to be invested in preparing him for what he's going to do. And what's ultimately happening is that this man Elijah is able to have some of the pressure lifted off of his shoulders. And he's focusing in on what he is capable of doing in that moment. What he's capable of doing is anointing three people and then having a guy he's going to pour his life into. And one of the things that we have to be careful about when we get into these low places is that we don't withdraw from everyone. And kind of suck back into this little corner and have this pity party. But the reality is there are some things we can do. And what we can do, we need to invest in. And one of the most helpful things that a person can do when they're in a very weary place is what little they can give, they give to someone around them. God can really use that. God can use the ministry to others as something that actually lifts us up and encourages us. You know, when people are very lonely, what does he do? He gives them a companion. When people feel like they have no purpose, he gives them something to do. And this is one of the things that God does for us. He gives us a purpose. Think about the story of Peter. You know, Peter was one of those guys who was real bold, and he was a fisherman, and he was the guy who always spoke up in all the situations. And when the Lord Jesus Christ is getting ready to go to the cross, he says, here's what's going to happen. And Peter's like, no way, that's not going to happen. I die for you. And Jesus says, well, actually, you'll deny me three times. When it comes to this moment, and Peter says, not a chance. Jesus said, okay. Guess what? It's exactly what he did He denied the Lord. And he was broken. And he was in misery. And the next thing that we read after the crucifixion, the resurrection. Peter knows that Christ has risen from the dead, but what does Peter do at the end of the book of John? He goes back to fishing. Why do you think he did that? Because fishing is therapeutic? Well, for some people it is. For some people fishing is one of the most frustrating things you do, all right? If you don't catch anything, right? And that's what happened to him. He didn't catch anything. And there as he's in that boat, what does Jesus do? He goes to the shoreside and he he he builds a fire and he gets some food cooking and he says, Hey, did you guys catch anything? And Peter realizes it's the Lord. He dives into that water. He swims up to the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, sit down, let's eat. Let's have a meal. In the middle of that meal, three times he says, Peter, do you love me? More than these. Peter's like, well, you know, Lord. What does he say? Feed my sheep. Three times. Why does he do that? He does that three times to remind Peter, yes, it's true you denied me, but it doesn't change the fact that I'm still purposed to work through you. Nothing has changed. Get up and move forward. That's what it's all about. The Bible is filled. with people who are in those particular situations. Elijah was like that in this particular text. And in verse 18 he reminds him you're not alone. He says, I have left me 7,000 of Israel, all the knees which have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him. He says, Elijah, the one thing God says to Elijah, beyond, here's what you need to do, is you're actually wrong about your assessment of the land. There are other people serving me. And you just don't know them. The final question I want to ask tonight is this, how do you apply the text in front of us? I want to give you some practical pointers, I hope, and then kind of develop them slightly. The first is this, we need to be honest about our personal limitations. It is important in life that we pace ourselves. I feel like a hypocrite saying that. But this is true. We do need to pace ourselves. We need to rest. We need to step away from our labors. We are not machines that can work indefinitely. We cannot deal with the pressures of life without taking breaks from them. In fact, even machines break down and have to be rebuilt and maintained. We've got to pace ourselves. We need to learn how to manage those levels of stress in our lives. And the truth is that when it comes to the regular patterns of life, we need to establish good, healthy patterns of life. Sometimes we need people to help us with that. But that's an important part of life. But there's another piece to this. Sometimes you need to realize that there are situations that are unavoidable. Let's say that you're a young parent. Can you tell your child who is waking up every two hours to nurse that, well, that's just tough. You're just going to have to sleep for ten hours and I'm not going to feed you. Can you do that? If you're a good parent, you can't. Your job is to take care of that child. There are times that our in our in our jobs that we're doing, a crisis comes up and we can't say, sorry, I'm off the clock. I can't help you today. You're just gonna be on your own. You can't do that. As a pastor, if someone calls me with a crisis, I can't be like, well, you know, I just I don't have time to talk to you today. That's just too bad. You know, I can't do that. The truth is that we need healthy patterns of life, but sometimes those patterns are interrupted. And we have to engage in situations that are going to involve a lot of stress. And a lot of giving of ourselves, and we have to be willing to do that in those moments. But here's what we need to realize in those moments. We have to rely entirely on the grace of God. And we cannot live our lives every single day in those crisis modes. But in fact, we have to when the crisis subsides. get back into a healthy, sustainable pattern of life. We have to be honest about our personal limitations. Some of the greatest men in the Old Testament are testimonies to the fact that we all physically, mentally, and emotionally break down in life. Second thing I want to say is this. We should take great comfort and God's kind wisdom toward us in these moments. To me, that's one of the greatest takeaways from this text of Scripture. It's not just that we are feeble people and we need God's strength. That's all there. But what really is prominent in this text of scripture is how good God is, how patient, how wise he is in these the scriptures. He is good and kind and wise and it comes out through every single detail about how he deals with Elijah The gospel is the foremost example of his attitude towards us as his children. Now I know the purpose of this text isn't to expound the gospel, but if you ever doubt that God loves you and that he's good towards you, And that in fact he's a God of grace and mercy, then remind yourself of what Christ has done for you. And remind yourself that that's true for you. Christ died for your sins. Not just that he died, but it's for your sins. It's for my sins. The gospel is the greatest example of God's kindness and grace. When we are down, we see that God in fact goes to us. As we read the text of Scripture, we constantly see this. When people sin, they pull away from God. When people sin, they pull away from God's people. When people are down and they are discouraged. I mean look at the very first sin in the Bible. Did Adam say, hey God, where are you? I want to talk to you. No, no, no, no, no. God is looking for him and he says, Hey Adam, where are you? Why are you hiding? Why are you covering yourself? Why are you feeling this way? God goes to him. He doesn't go to him. Go to God. And we see this over and over and over again in Scripture. What does that show you? God is the initiator. God is the one who extends the hand of grace over and over and over again. We know exactly, he knows exactly how to address us. There are many times that we address hurting people the wrong way. Has anybody ever done that? Yeah, we have. You say something and immediately you're like, oh, I can't believe I just did that. It's like a like a young pastor. Say something and you're just like, oh no, I just made a huge mess. And this person extends grace upon grace to you in those moments. We've all done that. God doesn't do that. He knows exactly what to say, how to say it, when to say it. He initiates it. That's the way God works in the lives of his children. He reminds us of his wisdom in the pattern of rest that he has given us every single week. He invites us to come to him. When we are weary and heavy laden, and what does it say? He says, Come unto me all you who weary and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. Take my yoke on you, learn of me, I'm meek and lowly in heart. You'll find rest unto your souls. My yoke is easy, my burden is light. That's what God says to his church. We got a little book in the bookstore called Gentle and Lowly. It's all built on that one little statement. I am meek and I am lowly in heart. I am gentle and I am lowly. And that's true about God. And Scripture gives us comfort. He constantly calls us back to Him. There's another side to this, and that is we need to reflect on His kindness toward us. When others fall, we need to be in a position to reach out to them. You say, well, how do we do it? We follow God's example. We need to be there to be willing to shoulder the burdens of hurting people. We need to be willing to come alongside people in the same way that God does for us. We need to point them to Him in the same way that God goes to us and points us to Himself. We need to be patient with people in the same way that God is patient with us. All of those things are true. That is what we must do. I'm also going to mention another piece as well. I think we need to realize what it looks like when a person gets into such a place. The truth is when we look at the story of Elijah and we think about what he's saying and how he's thinking, it is completely irrational. Look at the text and think about what he says. Who is the hero of the story? Is it God? No, it's Elijah. Look at all things I'm doing for you. I'm the only one that's standing there. I'm the only one doing this. I guess what? When we get in these places, we think we're the hero It's true. We do. You know what's also interesting? He sees himself as the victim. Well, God, these people that I'm ministering to, none of them are listening to me. Hey God, if you're putting me in a tough place, it's not right. Just let me die. I'm the victim I'm the victim of the people I'm ministering to. I'm the victim of the God who sent me. I am the victim. And I'm the here at the same time. They're like, it's either this or this. It's not both. But that's how he sees it. Notice how irrational it is and how he's thinking. Here's this guy running for his life, and he says Kill me. But does that make any sense? I just stop and think about it. If he wanted to die a lot uh uh uh basically Jezebel was ready to help him out. She was. He was running for his life Didn't make any sense. He he had had for three and a half years this this group of people is basically completely following the prophets of Baal. And here he is at Mount Carmel. And now all the prophets of Baal are dead. And God has just demonstrated his power. This is like the high point of his ministry. And he's like, all right, now I'm going to go ahead and quit. And God's like, well, hold a second. Didn't you win the contest? Didn't you kill all the prophets of Baal? Why quit now? That's not the time to quit. That's the time to step into the fray. That doesn't make any sense. He says, I'm the only person that's serving you. And God says, that's not true. Don't forget that Obadiah hid a hundred prophets of the Lord. And so it's true that Elijah knew about his own ministry, but there were another hundred people who God was ready to send into the nation And to work in the lives of the people. He thinks he's the only believer, yet there's seven thousand that have never bowed the knee to Baal. And so one of the things that's also a great takeaway is if we were to step back And we were to evaluate the mindset of Elijah at this time. It doesn't make sense. He sees himself as a victim. He's lifted himself up as the hero. God is against him. None of those things are true. The way he sees the dynamics at that time, they're not true. If he could step back and see it from God's perspective, he would see things very clearly But here's the problem. Until he starts talking, he doesn't see it. And you know what? We get like that too. One of the reasons that I really encourage people when they're in a very low place, I say, tell God what's on your heart. Like get on your knees alone and tell God exactly how you feel. And he's not gonna be caught off guard by it. He's not gonna go, oh no, what's going on here? I mean, he knows what's in your heart, he knows what's there. But sometimes as we verbalize this, as we express this to God One of the things that it does is it allows us to get all that bent-up pressure inside and get out, but it also helps us think about what we're saying. And sometimes as we think about what we're saying, God goes, is that really true? No. Is that really true about me? No. Is that really true about you? No. Is that really true about your circumstances? No. Is that really a balanced and appropriate way to look at this? And all of a sudden, as we verbalize it, we start realizing this is wrong And in those moments we turn to God, and what does he do? He ministers truth to us. As we read through this passage of Scripture, I think there is tremendous wisdom for us. To see ourselves, to see God, and to see how we should relate to other people. May God help us. If we're in a place like this , To trust God to minister to us in the very best way possible. And if we have people around us who have gotten to a place like this, that we will be as compassionate toward them as God is toward us. That we will follow this pattern of wisdom. That we will ask those questions, let them talk, remind them of God's power. Remind them of the truths of Scripture. Don't argue. Don't debate. Minister to their physical condition, not just to what's going on in their head. They need to be ministered to entirely as a person. May God help us to do that. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, as we think about your word, may you help us to not get over how kind and good a God you are. May we be a people who reflect that to others. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.