Okay, well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our evening service. Hope that you had a good, uh restful afternoon and uh looking forward to our service this evening. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we will get started. Father, thank you for the opportunity tonight to gather again. And I pray that as the word is opened, you'll speak to our hearts. As we have opportunity to share testimonies this evening, I pray that we'd have the opportunity to just testify to your goodness, how you've sustained us and how you've blessed us. I pray that our fellowship tonight would be very sweet. And as we sing these hymns of praise to you, I pray that we would think about the significance of the truth we'll express. We ask all of it in Christ's name. Amen. It is. I'll second that motion. All right. Well good evening, Anchor Baptist Church. As we start off our music. Tonight we're going to turn to Page 548 in the hymnal, or follow along with me on the screen. We're going to sing both verses of Servant's Heart. So stand with me. Please sing out tonight Well I don't know what 's on that either. Okay. Now over a couple pages to page five. Hundred and fifty. And we'll sing all three verses of channels only. Page five hundred and fifty How I pray all the way. I think you're going to be a very good thing. Let's see, we're gonna stay in the five hundreds, but turn back to five hundred and twenty-seven. Page five hundred and twenty-seven , all four verses of Revive Us again. Bueno, bueno, vamos a dejar el robo que me han dado ayuda. This time we'll have some testimonies specials. Eighty five. All right. Save your like a shepherd lead us So then you go to one of my Do you want to remember anyone like they were on the other? Alright, now page ninety-three in the blue book. Okay. That's not the song I thought it was gonna be I was thinking of ninety two, but bow to me, page ninety three in the blue book. Now hundred and ninety-two in the blue book. Maybe that's the one I was thinking of. Okay. Okay now, fifty two women. Fifty two Thine be the glory. Five twenty nine Fifty five in the blue books. Tim. 251. Red book? 251. Okay, we're gonna probably call that a good. Let me see. see what uh what is two fifty one okay good okay five hundred and twenty nine what's that five forty nine oh good good ears My sinuses have been quite cantankerous today. 549 for God's God so love the world. Alright, this this sounds like a solo. Huh? It's around. Okay. Okay, hopeful. We're gonna do this as a round. One, two, three. You guys sing with the third, okay? I think that's what we hit. But it has four. Okay, well if you're gonna be the first one and then that's actually the second. Okay. No no no, we have four seconds. Yeah, but we've only got a couple over here. I didn't want to put that Okay. Okay. All right. Well I'll do well. I like it. I'll do the first, you guys do the second, third, and you guys all do the fourth, okay? All right, yeah, very good. That was that was fun. We'll have to practice that one some more Alright, that was four five forty-nine. Now we're going to go to five fifty-five in the blue book. Fifty five. I it says fifty five right there. I don't know where clean my glasses off here. My sinuses are affecting my eye teeth, I think. Can't see what I'm saying. Page 55. Endless mercies. Play through this one for me. The words don't look familiar, but that too ensure does. Let's try it. Okay? Give us an intro. I'm burdening my sin. God in mercy pardons me, cleansing in. Okay. We're gonna go two hundred and fifty one right before the message Page 251. And y'all look like you need to stand up, stretch your legs, get some blood circulating. Been sitting too long, so let's sing the first and last of Near the Cross. Because you were like communicated with the middle of the world or yeah, but I don't really know how to They all shall be on the Okay, well let's go ahead and take our Bibles and please turn to the eighty-fourth Psalm tonight. Psalm 84, and as you're turning there, this is one of those passages that has uh really meant a lot to me over the years The very first time that I really began to understand this passage was actually many, many years ago when I was a graduate assistant in seminary. And I had two jobs as a graduate assistant. One was I was a high school wrestling coach at our high school. And the second job that I had was that I was a research assistant for a pastor. And so what he would do is he would give me all of the the passages he was going to be preaching for the next several months. And my job was to go and to actually put together a research package for my pastor to work through so that he could use that as one of the tools that he would use when he was preaching. And so part of that was reading tons and tons of commentaries, doing uh study in the language in the biblical languages, and uh listening to messages, uh reading messages, looking at illustrations. And this is the very first passage that I was assigned as a research assistant. And so I worked and worked and worked on this passage. I was all excited. In fact, I actually wrote a manuscripted message out. And I got a call on a Saturday night from a Sunday school teacher that said, I'm going to be sick. Can you cover for me tomorrow in our sophomore men's class? And so I said, okay, no problem. Well what am I going to do? I'm going to I'm going to go ahead and do Psalm 84, which just happened to be the same message that the pastor preached that Sunday morning. Not only was it the same message that he preached, but he quoted verbatim from blocks of my manuscripts. And it was a very embarrassing moment for Pastor Joel. Maybe more for him, I don't know, because I'm the one who taught it first, but Psalm 84 has meant a lot to me, not just because of that story, but as I had the time to dig into this passage of Scripture I saw that there's some very rich, rich nuggets of truth that are found in this passage. And as I look back after Really, over a decade and a half has passed since that time. A lot of those nuggets God has driven home in practical life experience. Psalm 84, verse number one says the following. How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts! My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth, for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God. Ye the sparrow hath found and housed the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young even thine altars. O Lord of hosts, my King and my God, blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They will be still praising thee. Selah. Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee, and whose heart are the ways of them, who passing through the valley of Baca maketh a well, the rain also filleth pools. They go from strength to strength, every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. The Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer. Give ear, O God of Jacob, Selah. Behold, O God, our shield, look upon the face of thine anointed. For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God. than to dwell in the tents of wickedness, for the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. Now I am sure at some point in your Christian experience You have either committed to memory or you have had someone share with you or you have shared with someone one of those final verses that we read. The Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. That's a wonderful truth, is it not? That's a wonderful verse from the Word of God. But I will tell you, it is far more wonderful the more you understand about the context in which that verse is given. That verse tells us that God protects us. That verse tells us that when God gives us something, it's for our good. And when God withholds something, that is also for our good. But I want you to understand who was writing these verses. And I want you to understand what was going on in their hearts before they actually penned those words. that we've gone to so many times, more than likely, and we have found encouragement when we experience disappointment. Psalm 84 reminds us that we must continually submit our desires. to God's sovereign purposes. And this this evening I'd like us to look at that concept for just a few minutes tonight. First of all, I'd like us to look at the first section. By the way, when you're reading through Psalm 84, you can kind of understand the progression of the Psalm because there's a little word at the end of each section, that word sila means stop and pause and reflect on what I've just said. So you can kind of understand what the progression of this psalm is. And I'm going to kind of follow that progression tonight. as we look at the context. But the first section of these verses is verses 1 through 4. And in those verses we see that the psalmist, and by the way It's not an individual, but it's individuals. And ver in the at the beginning of the psalm it says, it is for the chief musician upon Giddeth, a psalm for the sons of Korah. So this is a group of men who their job in the temple was to sing praise to God. So this was actually written for those individuals as they were singing. What was the longing of these individuals. Well in verses 1 through 4, here's what it says. How amiable, and that word amiable means how lovely are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts. My soul longeth, even feigneth, for the courts of our God. He says down in verse number three and four, A sparrow has found an house to swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O Lord of hosts, my king and my God Now there are three things that these sons of Kura say are on their heart as they begin to write this psalm. As this is a psalm that they would have sung regularly. The first of those things is that they loved the dwelling place of God. Now it wasn't that the dwelling place of God had some kind of aura to it in and of itself at the time that they're writing these things and that they're seeing this this is not a temple. This is a tent. This is a tabernacle. But what they longed for wasn't the tent, but it's what was inside the tent. The very presence of God, the Shekinah glory was housed within this location that they're talking about. And so in verse 1, when it says, How amiable are your tabernacles, how lovely are your tabernacles, they're saying The place where God's presence dwells is a beautiful place. We long to be there. In verse 2, he says, I long for your courts. My soul longeth. And faineth, my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God. Now when you read those verses, you might say, Well, if you love the courts of God so much, then why won't you just go there? Doesn't that kind of make sense? I mean if there's a place that you want to go and you have access to that place, why not just go there? Well what you don't know is they didn't have access to that place. We'll come to that in just a few more minutes. This is one of the reasons that they longed so much for the courts. The third of those things that they say is that they think often about what it would be like to have access to the courts. And the way that they do it, the way that they describe this is a really fascinating way. He says Yea, the sparrow hath found in house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young. Even thine altars, O Lord God of hosts. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. Now I don't know if you have ever had a little place maybe on your your front porch or on your back porch where you had maybe a basket with flowers in it, but we had one of those in the front of our house. And every single spring I have this problem. That a little bird will come and fly into those flowers and they'll they'll they'll put a nest right there in those flowers and every time I walk through those doors that that little bird will fly off. And that bird will nest right there. And we try as as best as possible not to disturb the little bird in the nest. Well, I want you to keep that picture in your mind. As these sons of Korah are talking about how much they love the courts of God and the altars of God and the place where God's presence dwells, they're saying, here we want to be in this place. And there's a bird that flies into the tabernacle and flies into the holy place and into the holy of holies, this place where the presence of God and the Shekinah glory dwells. And that little bird makes a nest right there in the altar of God. You know what they're saying? It's not fair. It's not fair that we have to stand at the gates of the temple or the tabernacle. And sing praise to God while everybody goes into the temple or into the tabernacle to bring all of their sacrifices. And the priest who are Levites just like we are are from the same stock, just a different part of the Levitical family They get to work in the holy place. Some of them at certain times of the year get to go into the Holy of Holies. And here are these little birds. They fly into your courts and they make a nest right there in that place. And I'm forbidden I can't go there. Are you getting the sense of what's going on? The psalmist is longing to be there, but it's not allowed. Now, the question is this, is it a good or bad thing for them to want to be having access, direct access to the presence of God? Is that a good or bad thing? I mean, it's a good thing, okay? You should want to go into the presence of God. And by the way, may I say something for just a moment? What they long for, you and I have access to all the time. You realize that The reason that they could not enter into this place was because Christ's sacrifice had not yet come. And we know the story of Matthew 25 when Jesus is nailed to the cross. And he dies. The Bible says the veil of the temple was ripped in twain from top to bottom, and the earth did quake and the rocks rent and it was basically a picture to say, God has made a way that you can enter into his direct presence. 1 Timothy chapter 2 verse 5. There's one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, Hebrews 4. 16. We're invited to come boldly into the throne of grace. and obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. So what's really amazing about this psalm is that these individuals long to enter into the very presence of God. They couldn't, as even as Levites, as priests. We, because of Christ's sacrifice, have access into the throne room of God. Just a small detail I wanted to add. Second thing I want us to notice tonight, Is the internal reflection that's going on in this Psalm. Verses 5 through 8 talk about this. It says, Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee, and whose heart are the ways of them. Who passing through the valley of Bacha make it a well. The rain also filleth the pools. They go from strength to strength, every one of them in Zion. appeareth before God. O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer, give ear, O God of Jacob, Selah. Now the first section of the psalm is then saying, we long to be able to get into God's presence. to enter into this portion of the tabernacle that is ultimately forbidden for us. And now we're going to kind of get a picture, a glimpse of how they processed what's going on. They talk about how blessed a person is who finds his strength in the Lord. Now, question: How do people get into a place where they find their strength in the Lord? They have to go through weakness. They have to go through times where they recognize that their own strength doesn't rise to the level of being able to take them through those circumstances. And so they abandon their own strengths. And the resilience that they have in and of themselves, and all of a sudden they cast themselves on the strength that God enables them to have. And that's really what the psalmist is talking about in these verses, but the way that he communicates it is absolutely fascinating. He talks about a location called the Valley of Baca, and he talks about the Valley of Baca becoming a well, a valley that's full of water. And you go, what in the world are these people talking about? Well, in order to appreciate what they're saying, I want to give you an illustration that I think kind of ties in to what they're talking about. I remember when we first moved to Ghana, we moved in the month of March. Now March is kind of a cold month here in Maryland. Well sometimes it starts cold and then it ends warmer, it starts warmer and then it's cold. We know how that goes. But the idea is that in the States a lot of times when a missionary is thinking about moving to a country like Ghana, they kind of make the decision of the timing based on how much it costs to fly there. And what you will find out is that in the month of March, it cost half what it cost to fly there in June. So, you know, not understanding why it cost half. We made the tremendous decision of deciding to move in the month of March. On March the first, we flew over to Ghana And I remember we got there, we remembered it being a little bit hot, but we didn't quite remember it being as hot as it actually was. I can remember nights Where my wife and I would go into the room at the corner of our upstairs flat and there were two windows. This was the room where where Joel was staying at the time. And we would like lie on the floor Because it was so hot and the floor was like the coolest place we could find. And we go into that room because we were trying to get breeze to blow in. Say, well, what does that have to do with this passage? What it has to do with this passage is that in Ghana, from November until almost the middle of May, it doesn't rain at all. Now I'm not saying the whole country, I'm saying where we lived in Ghana. It just doesn't rain. It might get dark and cloudy like it's gonna rain, but it doesn't do it. And what happens is when it doesn't rain month after month after month, it gets hotter. and hotter and hotter. And it gets drier and drier and drier. And by the end of that dry season You don't find puddles of water anywhere. All the rivers are down to almost nothing. And everywhere you go, it's just hot. And it's oppressive. I remember laying in our room and turning on our you know our our AC and it would say 93 degrees. 93 degrees in my bedroom. It was that hot. At night it would get down to 85. You say, well what is the point? Here's the point. Around the middle to end of May, the weather would change. And you'd start noticing that clouds would build in the afternoon. And one day, it would go from blistering hot To a sudden and torrential downpour. And when those rains came, the temperature would drop 15 degrees in probably 10 minutes. And let me tell you, a 15-degree temperature drop in the tropics is really big. And all of a sudden it goes from hot to almost cold. And it's pouring down rain. And once it gets dark, it's refreshing and it's cool at night. So literally, you go from dying of heat to cool refreshment. And what you and I don't realize is that that is really the sense of what the psalmist is talking about in these verses. Every year there were certain times of the year that the Jewish people were required to go up to Jerusalem for festivo occasions. And some of those festivations were during the rainier portion of the year. March, when the when the year starts and they would go up For the Passover, it would be a lot cooler and it would be a lot wetter. But as they went later and later into the year, getting into July and then to August, September, and then into October, it was the hottest Driest time in a very dry climate. In the month of October, they celebrated two festivals. One was the Day of Atonement, Yom Kippur. The other was the Feast of Booths. And what they would actually do is they would make these tents. And they would sit in under these tents, and it was supposed to remind them of what their ancestors had experienced when they left the land of Egypt where they had been slaves. And they traveled through the wilderness and they suffered during that time. And what's so amazing about that time period is that as they would have been traveling to Jerusalem to celebrate the feast of booze, it would have been the hottest and most miserable time of the year. But then right around that time, depending on the year, that's when the rains would come. And that's when the water would begin to fill into these pools and these these little streams that were just dry basins. And so when he talks about the valley of Baca being filled with a pool of water, what he's basically saying is Here are these pilgrims. They're going up to Jerusalem and they're going to celebrate this festive occasion. They're going to be in these little tabernacles, these little tents. And as they're getting there, they're getting closer and they get to this location called the Valley of Baca, a place called the Valley of Weeping, and it's dry and it's desolate. And it's hot and it's oppressive. And as they're getting weary and they're getting discouraged and they're getting frustrated, all of a sudden the weather turns. The rain comes and all of a sudden this place that was barren and desolate and dry is filled with water and the heat is gone and it's cool and it's refreshing. Say, why is he talking about this? He's saying that's the way that God strengthens people. When we are wearied and we feel like we can't go on, And we've all been there, and we're all going to be there at times. And it comes through every season of life, it comes through all kinds of different circumstances. Bless is the man who finds his strength in thee. He's like the person who's going through the wilderness and all of a sudden God says, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to strengthen and refresh you. Isn't that how God does it? It is. He does it all the time. Our back is up against the wall. We feel like there's nothing that we can do. We have no answers. We don't know where to go. And all of a sudden God steps in when we are at our limit and he gives us what we need. And that's what the psalmist is saying. That's what God is like. And you say, wow, well I'm glad that they've cleared it up. They want to go into the tabernacle, they're not allowed to, but they know that God strengthens them, and so they're okay. But that's not how this little section ends. At the end of this section, he says, O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer, give ear, O God of Jacob. In other words, he's crying out to God, in spite of what he knows to be true, he's still crying out to God for strength. And the question is, why? Why is he crying out to God for this strength? It's because he still longs for that place that he cannot go. And so the third thing that I'd like you to see from this passage is that the psalmist needed to refocus his affections on his God-given purpose. In verses nine through twelve, this is the way that he puts it. He says, Behold, O God, our shield. Look upon the face of thine anointed. A day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. The Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in him. The heart of what we're reading in these verses is that the people that longed to be in the tabernacle, serving in a capacity that was good and acceptable, were not allowed to go there. And you say, well, how do you know that they were not allowed to go there? Well in verse number 10 he says, a day in your courts is better than a thousand. But the way that we know is what we read about the people that are singing this hymn. Now, how many of you remember the story in the Old Testament of the sons of Korh? Raise your hand. Were they good guys or was Korra a good guy or a bad guy? A lot a lot of people are laughing. Did did Korra live to be a long time old man or did something very bad happen to him? Some my son said he's gonna tell me the story. Just hold off, hold off. Korah was caught up in a very serious rebellion against God. And in the midst of that rebellion, in fact, we're going to look at it in just a second, this man, Korah, was cut off. He was killed. And not just Korah, but everybody that was involved in this rebellion against God. In fact, to see that, I'd like to uh just I w I won't ask you to turn there, but you can go to Numbers chapter 16 and you can see this. And number sixteen one it says, Now Korah rose up before Moses with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation, men of renown. They gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron and said You take too much upon you. Seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them, wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord. Basically, what the sons or what Korah and the people with them are saying is, Moses, we think that you have put yourself into a position that you don't belong in. We believe that we should have the same amount of authority that you have. Now, Moses didn't seize the authority. God gave him the role. And so ultimately their issue wasn't with Moses. As much as it was with God who put Moses in a role that was unique to him, and he put Korah and the princes in a role that was unique to them And by the end of that story, what we see is that God demonstrates that his plan is right and good, and their rebellion was going to be dealt with. And God destroyed these princes who stood with Korah. But there's a very interesting detail in the book of Numbers. A lot of times as we're reading through the Old Testament, we just miss these things. But it's important to what we're talking about in Psalm 84. In Numbers 26 and verse 9 it says, And the sons which were famous in the congregation who strove against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah. When they strove against the Lord, the earth opened her mouth, swallowed them up together with Korah, when the company died. What time the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men? They became a sign. And then there's just a little detail that's very important. Notwithstanding, the children of Korah died not. So the reason that there's a psalm that is for the sons of Korah is because in Numbers chapter 16, though Korah died, his sons didn't. In other words, he continued to have offspring. Now that's a really important detail in this story. Because if we go to the book of 1 Chronicles, what we're going to see is the role that God assigned to the sons of Korah. In the tabernacle, and then ultimately what would be in the temple. In 1 Chronicles chapter 6, verse 31, here's what it says. These are they whom David said over the service of song in the house of the Lord, after the ark had rest. They ministered before the dwelling place of the tabernacle of the congregation with singing until Solomon had built the house of the Lord in Jerusalem, and then they waited on their office according to their order. First Chronicles nine nineteen says, The sons of Korah and his And his brethren of the house of his father of the Korites were over the work of the service keepers of the gate of the tabernacle, their fathers being over the hosts of the Lord were keepers of the entry. So what was the job that God assigned to the sons of Korah who survived? Their assignment was keep the door. And when you keep the door, in other words, you're you're standing watch at the door, you're supposed to be singing praise to God. That's why this is a song for the sons of Korah So as Tepa would have come into the tabernacle and then into the temple, they would have met the sons of Korah singing psalms like this one, and that was their job. They weren't permitted to go into the tabernacle and Do the work of some of their other Levite bret brethren. They weren't allowed to go into the Holy of Holies. That was their job assignment. Now here's the question. Was that a glamorous job? Just keeping the door? The answer is no. But was it necessary? The answer is no Yes. Was it important to God? The answer is yes. And do you know what the ultimate problem with Kora was? Koura did not accept what God assigned him. And the way that he didn't accept what God assigned him was to go after Moses. Moses just happened to be like in the middle of the mix. It wasn't really about Moses. It was ultimately about, I don't like what God assigned me. His sons who survived, they weren't like him. And so when he says, I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God Than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. What these men are seeing is: we don't want to be like our Father, who God made an example of. That's ultimately what they're saying. We want to accept with gratitude and appreciation the role that God has given us. And we're not going to chafe at that role. Yes, we long internally to have a different role. Yes, we see the little bird fly, and then we go, it's not fair. But as we process all of these things, deep down our heart, we know that what God has given us is what we're supposed to do. And what God has given us and we're supposed to do, we're going to give all of our heart to that great work All of a sudden, these statements like the Lord God is a son and shield, he'll give grace and glory, no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly, all of a sudden it takes a little bit different light, doesn't it? Because what they're basically saying is, you know what? While we'd love to do this, God has assigned us this, and that being withheld is not for us. We can leave it there and we can embrace what we're called to do. In fact, I think that the heart of this psalm is ultimately saying, look There is a time in life that though we may have good and noble desires, we have to be willing to submit to what God gives us in life. That's a really hard lesson. By the way, that that goes into so many practical areas. So if we're talking about little kids, they can't wait to be in junior high Oh man. Junior High is a rough life. I don't know why they'd want to be in junior high, but they can't wait to get in the youth group, be in the junior high. And in the junior high kid, they can't wait to be in the high school. and the high school kid wait can't wait to get into college and the college kid can't wait to get married and you know life just kind of keeps going this way like we're always looking at the next season of life and going I can't wait and then all of a sudden we start going, wow the next season of life doesn't look so nice. Maybe maybe I'd like to go back to the way it used to be. And meanwhile, what are we doing? We are wanting and longing something that's not given to us. And we're missing what's in front of us. And by the way, it's not just seasons of life. It comes into the jobs that we're given, the occupation, all kinds of different issues that we can deal with. You just ask the Lord to ask to help you to understand where maybe in your life you're dealing with this. But but the very simple reality is there are times in life that God assigns us and plants us into a location and gives us an assignment to do And we know it's important, but that looks better, and we're dissatisfied. And what do we do? We stop doing what we're supposed to do because we're longing for something that's not given to us. I think one of the most valuable lessons that we can learn in life is to put our whole heart into what God has given us to do. Not what our neighbors given us to do, not what we wanted to do and we can't do. What he's given us to do. And the way that he puts it is, he gives grace and he gives glory He is a shield and he is a sun. And that that illustration of a sun, like I gotta be honest with you, I really struggle with what he's trying to communicate there. But I think his point is that that the sun is something that warms and gives life. Just like water gives life and food gives life, the sun gives life. You take away the sun, it's gonna get real cold or everything's gonna die, okay? God is the sustainer of life. He's a shield. He's the protector of his people. He gives grace. That means he strengthens us in what we're going to do. He gives glory. He gives purpose to what he assigns. That's really important. He gives purpose to what is assigned. And there is no good thing that he'll withhold from them that walk uprightly. I'll give you an example of this that is so very practical. And that's in 1 Chronicles 17. In fact, I read this to my kids the other night for our family devotions. In 1 Corinthians 17, David has just finished building his house, and his house is a beautiful house. And he looks at his house and he looks at the tabernacle where he worships God and he says, This isn't right. I live in this beautiful home, and the presence of the creator of the universe dwells in a tent. This isn't right. And you know, there's a sense in which David was thinking correctly here. That doesn't make sense. And so he goes to the prophet Nathan. He says, Nathan, I want to build God a house like he has given me a house. It's not right for me to live in this beautiful home and his presence dwells in a tent. You know what Nathan says? Go for it, David If it's on your heart, do it. And by the way, I think that that is very good and practical counsel in most situations. When a person has a good and noble desire to do something and they come to me and say, Pastor, should I do it? I say, go for it. I mean, God's put that in your heart. You're equipped to do it. The opportunity is available to you. Take it. Take it by the horns and do it. That's exactly what Nathan's doing. And Nathan wasn't sinning by telling David, go for it. But God was not going to permit David to do it. And so that night God comes to Nathan and he says, Nathan, go back to David and tell him he cannot build me a house. And tell him why. And by the way, the reasons that he did were, you know, they were a little bit humbling, to be totally honest. He says, You're a man of war He said, But your son, who is going to be someone who is a man of peace, and I'm going to establish him and strengthen him, your son is going to have the opportunity to do that. And by the way, David, I'm going to build you a house. I'm not talking about a physical building. I'm talking about a household. He actually gives them messianic promises. It's an absolutely amazing passage of scripture. So God says, what you want to do, I'm not going to allow you to do it. Your son's going to do it instead. And I have some wonderful promises, some good things I'm going to allow you to do that are different. That's what he tells them Well, you know, David, when he got that message from Nathan, could have said, Nathan, I don't agree with God. I think he's wrong. I mean that's that's what we do sometimes, isn't it? I mean we don't say that, but that's the way that we respond by moping around and acting like, oh, I can't believe God won't let me do this. David didn't do that. David embraced what God gave him. And he said, if my son's gonna build a house, then I'm gonna do everything that I can to help him to get ready. And that's what he did. David took all of his energy and all of his focus into preparing his son to do what he longed to do. In other words, David seized the opportunity that God gave him. He wasn't bitter towards his son because he had an opportunity that he wasn't going to get. He wasn't bitter against God. He embraced it. He said, okay, this is what you've given me. I'm going to put my whole heart into it. That is the sense of the psalm in front of us. This psalm is saying, when God says no, embrace what he gives you. Live your life, not frustrated about what is denied, but embracing what is given. That's a great lesson for us to take into the new year, isn't it? I need it. You need it. We may need it more than we realize in the coming days. Hopefully not, but maybe so. So what's the application? You know, God is good in all he is and in all he does. We should be hardly motivated to give him our very best in all that we do. We must learn to humbly hold our desires even those that are good gently. We must submit To his hand of providence, even when it frustrates us. It takes what we want. It disrupts what we planned, delays our timing. We need to trust his good hand when his ways confuse us. And sometimes they do. We must pour our hearts into whatever He gives us. My challenge is very simple. May God help us to do that this year. Psalm 84 is a rich psalm. There's more than I could have said, but I'll just leave it there. It's a really rich psalm. May the Lord help us to do this. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I think about the text in front of us and the lessons that it demonstrates. It shows how we sometimes have great desires that you don't allow to come to fruition. Sometimes the things that we really want get forbidden. It causes us to get frustrated. It reminds us that you you strengthen us and pour grace into our lives when we are just at our breaking point. It reminds us that there's no good thing that you'll withhold from those who walk uprightly. Help us in this new year to live in the light of this truth. Help us to hold our desires very, very gently. Help us to submit our wills to your will Father, help us to give our hearts entirely to what you've given us, not what we wish you'd given us. Father, help us to live every single day with a robust desire to glorify you fully. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could, let's turn together to hymn three hundred and ninety-one for a closing hymn. Song I Am Resolved I am resolved. We sing all four verses together, and let's stand, please, and sing this song. I am all good for me , I mean, and God means. I don't know when you don't need a What's been doing is the each of you today. Please be in prayer for a lot of folks in our uh church family who have traveled this week and uh a lot of folks who are sick. Um also be in prayer for Kaylee Pridgin. Uh she is, I believe, right now in surgery. removing her appendix. So that just uh happened today. So please be in prayer. So that's two young people that we know in the last couple weeks that have lost their appendix. So if you start getting some I don't know if it's right side or left side, but go read about it online and if you start feeling pain, like the trend's moving in the wrong direction, you better get that checked out. So uh Man, it's been been kind of brutal for this stuff. Uh but be in prayer for her that uh pray that that'll go as smoothly as possible. And thankfully this is something they're catching really quick as opposed to the other situation that was a that was a long time um that she was with a rupture appendix so please be in prayer for her. Pastor Chris, can you close us in prayer? And uh good to see each of you tonight, and I hope that you have a great start to your new year and uh 2023. Wow, that's crazy, isn't it? Um let's pray for God's strength and wisdom as we navigate every challenge. And as we enjoy every blessing this year, Pastor Chris. Father, we've enjoyed being in your house today. The start of the new year and We look forward to it with all that it has in store for us. Lord, whatever you have in store for us, we we look forward to seeing how you're going to use us. in ministry and the lives of people around us, in our church, in our workplaces, in our families. And Father, we hope that today is a is a waypoint, a renewed renewing point where you can see see how we can serve you with a vision of what you hope to accomplish. That's seeing souls saved and seeing lives Turn toward Christ. Lord, be with us as we go our separate ways tonight and be with us throughout this week. To your glory's sake and for your glory's sake. Amen.