That was like the quietest. Good evening. All right. Uh good to see each of you. And I know it's been a weird day, is like pouring down rain, sun comes out. Pouring down rain, sun comes out. Hopefully it's uh not pouring down rain when we're leaving. So uh well anyway, tonight's gonna be a little bit different. Uh we're gonna make it kind of a singeration and uh it's a farewell fellowship. We are gonna have a message But we want to take uh a lot of your favorite songs and we're gonna give priority uh to the Macaulay kids, wherever they're sitting, uh to give them an opportunity to pick some of their favorites. So uh tonight we will not have uh structured, planned out songs. Uh we're just gonna go ahead and take your favorites. And somewhere in the middle of that, we're gonna just pause and give people an opportunity to share testimonies. We won't go extremely long with that, but we want to give you an opportunity to Just share blessings that God has uh has demonstrated this week, and then we'll head over to the back and uh have food and fellowship and The game room will be chaotic as usual. And just looking forward to a really uh wonderful time together as a church family. Let's bow for prayer, and then we'll get started this evening. Father, you're so good to us, and we're so grateful that we can gather, we can fellowship, we can sing praise to you, we can share testimonies of your faithfulness. And we can sit under the ministry of the Word, and I pray that just every aspect of our time together tonight would be very sweet and encouraging. Bless the time of fellowship we'll have in the back at the end, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Thanks so much for choosing to worship with us this evening. We're gonna get started. with we'll do four at a time and we'll do one verse of each and move on to my and go. Alright. Let's start. Yes, Kylie. One hundred forty-six in the blue book. All right. Yes, sir. Forget your name. Two sixty five and the red book. Any others? Yes. Yeah you think about I'll come back to you. Yes. Two fifty one and the red book Yeah. Did you figure out which one you wanted? Ninety-three in the blue. book. Alright, so let's do this. Let's start with the red book. Two sixty five in the red book Christ arose Lo in the great hill, Jesus my Savior, waiting the coming day. Jesus my Lord, up from the grave he arose with a mighty fire for it. He awoke a victor from the dark domain, and he lives forever with the nature. He already price arose. Alright, 251 in the Red Book. Two fifty one near the cross She doesn't give me that cross their press. Flows from Kavry Latam and the cross, and the cross with my glory. Rust be of the re 146 in the blue book. 146. Christ is the first I know this one. Can we play it through once? Here we go. Nothing that I could make a break, nothing I'll do can take it away. I have one more In life and death, I have been quote and price rises down Christ is the best work , faith, be at my faith. Father and Christ is in off my servant friend. Ninety-three in the blue book. Ninety-three. Bow the knee What a privilege to come into God's presence. Just to linger with the one who set me free As I lift my eyes and see his awesome glory I remember who he is and bow the knee, bow the knee, bow the knee, he is king of all the age and bow the knee. God alone on his throne. See him by him lift it up and bow the knee May be for him. All adore him as you live to love him more bow the knee. Alright, let's take four more. Yes, ma'am. 84 in the blue book. Alright. Yes. Uh I forget your name, friend, but it's not looking so alright, Tim. Tim, go ahead. Yep. Three eighty-two. That'll be in the red book. All right. Yes, ma'am. Two eight in the round of which one six twenty eight. Six twenty-eight. All right. And Janelle. Six in the red book. Alright, we have a lot in the red book. Let's stay in the blue book. Let's do number eighty-four in the blue book. I will praise him, yep. When I saw the cleansing fountain , oh friend, wipe all my sin. I obey the spirit war in When he said, Wilt thou be clean? I will pray him, I will pray them , praise the laugh for sin explain Give him glory, all ye people, for his blood can wash away. All right, three eighty two in the red book. Nearer, still nearer. Nera still near close to thy hearts Draw me my step of some passage. Fold me up me Qual to by brass, Sami, and that break Shall and I love six twenty-eight in the red book Jesus loves me Jesus loves me this I know for the Bible tells me so Let all once do them belong They are weak, but he is strong. Yes, it's a blood free, yes, Jesus. And number six in the red book I sing the mighty power of God. I think the mighty power of God that makes a mouth and voice Fast friends of war, wings are brought and built up the skies I sing thou wisdom that for day , the day, thou signs for life is common and all the stuff. Great singing, six testimonies. Yeah, and the McCall's one of the No? All right. Uh yes. You Huh? All right, and Joel. What was that? One twenty two the blue book. All right. Yes. Three seventy-four in the red book. And yes, ma'am. 252 in the red book. All right, let's see where this gets us. We've got some in the blue book, so let's just go there. 87 in the blue book. Amazing grace. Amazing great The sound that things are rats like me I was lost lost, but now I'm found was Line but now I see one twenty two in the blue book. One twenty-two we'll see the second Second verse of one twenty two. So we You're my friend and you are my brother even though you are a king I love you more than any other so much. more than anything you all over my sacrifice will you alone my spirit Alright, we'll go back to the red book Three seventy-four in the red book. Three seventy-four Be thou my vision Be thou my design old Lord of my mind Not be all elsewhere that my birth by your bhy waking 252 in the red book. 252 Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can wash up when I stand? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make Me forget nothing but the blood Jesus. Oh past that That makes me wide as my oh no other by no Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Alright, let's grab four more. Christopher. Two oh seven in the blue book. Uh yes ma'am, Miss Janice. Yeah. Blessed be the tie that binds. That's in the fly leaf. Yeah. All right. All right. Uh yes. Ninety one in the red book. All right, one more All right, Mr. Taylor. 247. Red book. Alright. Let's do number 207 in the blue book. We'll play through it once it's not familiar. On that verse. We once were not your people, and you were not our God, like sea without the supper Not knowing we were lost, we wandered through dark valleys Our pattern songs were weak when you came on a mission to Raskiss Caturge You will be our God, and you are God along. We will be your people that you will not deserve. You will be our God, and you were God alone. We will be your people and you are God Al Alright, red book. We'll go to the fly leaf, the very back of the book. It'll be the first one. Blessed be the tie that binds Bless be the time that finds our hearts in question love the fellow ship. Up can bread like to that pop on When we are under pause, it gives us in what pain But we shall still be joined in heart and hold to me again Men. Ninety one in the red book. Ninety one. The steps of a good man. You said we're stopping at six thirty, Pastor? Okay. Ninety one. Though dark be the night, and more be the dead Lord, make me follow in thy perfect way. The famous sorrow, the great be my faith. Lord, make me serve thee. If not thou try already, not thou a good man covered by the Lord. And be like that then 's when the we all must be of the wake up For the Lord, for the Lord, for the Lord upon the temple. All right, two forty-seven in the red book. Two forty-seven. The old rugged cross. On a hill, far away, stood in old rugged cross The emblem of suffering and send, and I love that old past, where thy dearest and past For our world of pastiles was lend, so ought to be all game So much hopefully that blessed I lay down. I will clean to the old rugged rock and exchange it someday for a crown. Alright, we'll do a few more. If there are any families that have not yet picked, please raise your hand. So I wanna wanna get each family if we can. Yes, Marshall. Five ninety-five. Red book. Alright, yes, Ian. Tim, didn't I already pick you? I did pick you, cheater. Yes, ma'am. Twenty-two in the blue book Alright, did I get oh I Maya or Joanna, whoever. 348. Alright, and we'll conclude with these. Oh, alright, go ahead. Yes. Yes. Five ninety-nine. All right, Monica, we'll squeeze you in there too. Quite. What's one? 265. Alright. So we're gonna have to sing all of these cut time, alright? Uh 265 in a red book, correct? I don't think The blue book goes that high. All right. Uh let's do the blue book first. Oh, just twenty two in the blue book. Twenty-two Turn your eyes upon Jesus Also are you weary and trouble? No light in the darkness you see There 's life for a look at the light for abundance and free Turn your eyes upon Jesus , but bow and wonderful things And the things of it will grow strangely down in the light of his glory and grace. Alright, let's go. Back to the red book. Five ninety five and the red book. Six is the same as a couple, right, Pastor? Said a couple more. My country tis of thee My country is of the sweet land of liberty of thee, I sing. Blend when my father 's side, when the pride, from every mountain side, let freedom ring. Alright, one sixteen. This is my father's world. This is my father's walk, and to my missing All nature sings and round me rings the music of the swings. This is my father won I was seeing the farms, of rocks and trees, of skies and seas, is and the water thoughts. Alright, uh three forty-eight. Tell me the old old story. Tell me the old story Advancing things up Jesus and story of Jesus and Tell me the story simply as to other For I am weak and wick. And help bless and default. Tell me the old story. Tell me the old story Tell me the old story of Jesus and his blood. All right. Uh five ninety-nine. Five ninety-nine is America the beautiful Oh beautiful, for spacious skies, for amber waves of prank , for powerful mountain majesties above. Of the birds and place America, America, God 's head has grace on me, I'm proud my good will. Father from sea to signing sea. Alright, let's stand, stretch our legs before the preaching. 265 in the red book. 265 Did we sing this one already? We did sing this one already. We did. We'll sing the second verse, a third verse. The last verse, verse three. Verse three That cannot be praying. She was my Savior, he 's father 's away. Jesus my Lord, up from the grave he arrives, with a monarchy triumph for across He above. Be a bone, be your ball Hey man, great singing. Please be seated. If I missed you, come find me afterwards and I'll give you priority next week. Okay, well tonight I'd like to take a couple of minutes to look at a very intriguing passage of scripture, and so I want to ask you to turn in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 32. Genesis chapter 32, we've been talking about the life of Jacob, and before we get into this uh passage of Scripture, I want you to think about a time, and I don't maybe don't think too hard about one of these times, but think about a time where You made a decision, and after things started going a certain direction, you got this really heavy feeling like, wow, I can't believe I did that. Like let me help you out some of you young boys. Like one of those times that your dad said, Go to your room and wait for me. Now what you don't know is that the reason that your dad says, go to your room and wait for me, is so that you don't die ten minutes later. You think that it's because he wants you to think for 15 or 20 minutes about what you did. And that sometimes really works, but what it ends up doing is it kind of calms dad down, makes you think a little bit, and then it's a productive interaction. Well, there's a situation that I encountered many, many years ago. This was my wife and I were dating, where we went fishing. And we were fishing, watching the sunset. It was a really great time. And uh I was casting my line out, and when I cast my line out, my wife said, Why did you hit me in the head? I said, what? And I turned around and my wife had three quarter inch jig sticking in the side of her head. And I could not pull it out. And so we had to go to uh one of those uh emergency care doctor's places And it just so happened that that was the night before my final exams and the end of the semester. And I just remember driving over there and thinking, I can't believe I did that. I hope that she doesn't break up with me because of this very bad decision. Well, as you can see, it didn't happen. But it was one of those times where you go, what have I done? The truth is some of these situations where we have those what have I done moments, they're a lot more significant than that. And the story we're going to look at this evening, it was one of those what have I done. In fact, this person was so terrified, they believed that they were going to die the next morning. And they did everything in their power to keep that from happening, but they still were not convinced they'd survived. And the story is about Jacob. Jacob in Genesis chapter 32, this is what it tells us In verse 24, it says, And Jacob was left alone, and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. When he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint. As he wrestled with him, he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go except thou bless me. He said unto him, What is thy name? He said, Jacob. He said, Thy name shall no more be called Jacob but Israel, for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed. And Jacob asked him and said, Tell me, I pray thee thy name. He said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there. And Jacob called the name of the place Paniel. For I've seen God face to face. My life is preserved. Now you may ask, what in the world is going on in these verses, and why does Moses take the time to actually record these details for us? Well You may not think about this when you're reading the book of Genesis, but the book of Genesis was written to prepare the nation of Israel to enter into the promised land. And so what God did is he moved Moses to record very important details from Israel's history so that they would kind of understand where they came from. where they were going, why it mattered, why God was dealing with the Canaanites the way that he was. And it was also to remind them of the nature of their history as a people. More than anything, the book of Genesis was about encouraging them to enter into the promised land and to be victorious. And what God does in these verses is he reminds them that their forefather Jacob, before he was called Israel, Prince with God, he was a man who was known as a restless doubting kind of a person whose name Jacob means a trickster. In fact, when we look through the life of Jacob, it seems like in every single situation He's wrestling with someone, not physically wrestling with them, but he is figuratively, he's playing chess with Laban, and he's playing chess with his brother. He's essentially manipulating and conniving and he's working behind the scenes to always get ahead. That's the kind of person that Jacob was. And so when people said that's Jacob, it was their way of saying That's the guy who always works behind the scenes to get ahead of people. He's a manipulative person. He's a trickster. He's a troublesome person. That was his reputation. What's very interesting about the pastors though is on this night, his identity is going to change. And it's not going to change because he decided I'm going to start telling people I've got a different name. It was going to change because God said, I am by my grace going to call you a different person. And then I'm going to work in the light of that. When we look at these verses, what God really wants us to see is how important it is to trust Him in every single area of life. And so for us to understand that, I want to give you a couple of simple thoughts to think about tonight that I hope will help you to understand this passage, what's going on, and then how to apply it. The first thing I want you to see from these verses is that Jacob was a restless and fearful person. Now, a lot of times when people talk about Jacob, they talk about Jacob's life at the end of his life when he was really he was a very great man. But for the vast majority of his life, he was a person who was constantly doubting God. And I have cataloged many, many, many examples of this. But we see this most clearly in verse number twenty-two. It says that Jacob rose up in the night, he took his two wives and his and his two women servants and and his eleven sons, and he passed them over the ford of Jabuk. And he took them and sent them over the brook, and he sent them that he had, and Jacob was left alone. What exactly is going on in these verses? Well, I want you to kind of understand it in the storyline itself. So 20 years have come and gone since the last time that Jacob saw his brother. The reason it's been 20 years since he saw his brother is because he was running for his life. And his brother had vowed, I'm going to kill my brother. And the reason he wanted to kill him is because he hated him. because of how he had tricked and how he had manipulated him into major issues in his life. He stole his birthright and he stole through manipulation And through dishonesty, he stole the the blessing that was rightfully supposed to go to the oldest person. And so for twenty years, this little thing has been kind of haunting Jacob. He knows there's going to be a day, he's going to meet his brother again. And now that day has come. And so there in the middle of the night, Jacob gets up. He obviously cannot sleep. There's a reason he rose up in the night. He tells his family, he says, cross over the river. Esau's on the other side. And instead of Jacob going with his family, he pulls back. on the other side of the river and it's like he's pacing restlessly in the night. He is so worked up about what's about to happen. You know, in every single situation, Jacob's been able to manipulate and twist the situation. He's been able to get away with that. This one seems different. This huge group of men are coming with Esau. He knows Esau hates him, despises him, is angry with him. He's had 20 years to boil and disease about this. And all that Jacob can think of is tomorrow I'm going to die. And there, as he is on the other side of the river, somebody shows up I don't know about you, but if you're by yourself in the middle of the night, you're afraid for your life, and somebody shows up, you're gonna go, What in the world is going on? Does this kind of make sense? That 'll be a little bit scary. But you know what kind of a person Jacob was? Jacob wasn't the kind of person that usually ran. He would make his move and then he would fight. That's the kind of man he was. And so Jacob decides to wrestle with this person. But there is a lot that is unstated in these verses that I think helps us to understand something about the person that he's wrestling with. I am just going to say this. I believe that Jacob knew who he was dealing with that night. And the reason that I believe he knew it, he certainly knew that by the end of the story. But I believe that he knew that because he had met this person previously many years before in his life. Jacob had met the angel of the Lord. God had appeared to Jacob multiple times over the course of his life. God had appeared to Abraham, he'd appeared to Isaac, he appeared to Hagar, he appeared to several different people throughout the Old Testament narratives in Genesis. And so when he sees this person in the night, He's aware of who this person is. There's a reason that he was wrestling with this person. There's a reason that he was saying, bless me. He was afraid and he was very, very concerned he was going to die that night. But there's also another thing that's an important part of understanding the story. Jacob's prevailing attitude throughout that 20-year period was not one of God has blessed me, he is my God, I'm going to serve him. It was one of you prove yourself to me and at the end of it all, if I survive, then I'm going to make you my God. We see that because we go all the way back to Genesis chapter 28, and this is what it says. He says, this is at Bethel, he says, if God will be with me, and God has already said he would be. If he will keep me in this way, so that I come back to my father's house in peace, then shall the Lord be my God. Did you catch what he's saying? Hey God, I'm making a deal with you. You promised me that you're going to be with me, you're going to protect me, you're going to be bring me back to this land. You're going to make me a great nation. You've made all those promises. I don't believe you But I'll make a deal with you. If you keep your side of the bargain, then on that day, then I'm gonna go ahead and I'm gonna serve you. Anybody ever thought like that? Okay? I'll go make a deal with you, God. Is God under any obligation to make deals with people? The answer is of course not. But God was really patient for this man God had chosen, I'm going to work through this man. It's all of his grace. It's all of his goodness, all of his kindness, all of his mercy. This doubtful man is going to experience God's blessing. And it's not because he twists God's arm. It's not because of some manipulative move that he makes. He's not going to survive the next day because he made the right move at the right time. You're going to see by the end why he survives the next day. Even in his prayer of desperation in Genesis 32, he says, O God of my father Abraham, O God of my Father Isaac, the God who said unto me, Return unto thy country and to thy kindred. Notice he doesn't say my God. He says, You're Abraham's God. You're Isaac's God. You made some promises to me. You said that you're going to do all these things. Are you going to do it or not? He's still in a doubtful position, even as he's praying in desperation in Genesis chapter 32. And in Genesis chapter 32, verse 20. After that prayer of desperation, he says, I will appease Esau with the present that goes before me. Afterward I will see his face, peradventure he will accept me. There is nothing about these verses that leads me to believe that Jacob was convinced he would survive because of God's goodness. Nothing. He's afraid. He wants God to give him some kind of sign in the moment. And so there that night, he is wrestling With this person, the angel of the Lord, someone who had appeared to him many, many years before and said, God is with you. I'm gonna bless you. I'm gonna keep you. You're gonna go back to this land. I'm gonna make you a great nation. All these promises that I've made to Abraham and to Isaac, and now to you, I'm going to follow through with them. But the second thing I want you to see here is that Christ met him with a purpose that was full of grace. There was a reason that the angel of the Lord, and I'm going to say the pre-incarnate Christ, based on lots and lots of examinations of passages referring to the angel of the Lord in the Old Testament. Christ came to meet him for a purpose. And that purpose was all of God 's grace. Jacob is alone, he's troubled, he's afraid, and as we read through the the through the Old Testament scriptures, what we're gonna see is that in every single situation where the angel of the Lord appears, To one of the patriarchs, there's some things in common. Let me give you some examples. Six times we see the angel of the Lord coming and meeting the patriarchs. Abraham, when he lied in Genesis 12, about Sarah being his sister. You remember that story? After all the dust kind of settles, then God comes to Abraham and he says, hey, I'm still going to keep those promises. We go to Genesis chapter 17. Genesis chapter 17 is a story about Ishmael's birth. Why was Ishmael born to Abraham? Well, it's because Abraham doubted God. And so Abraham and Sarah said, let's go ahead and let's work around God's ways, and let's go ahead and you can have a son by Hagar. And after all that mess, you know what God does? He comes to Abraham in Genesis 17. And Genesis 18, the next chapter, when God says that he is going to give a child to Abraham through Sarah. That's the example where Sarah laughs and says, ha, yeah, right. And then and then the angel of the Lord says, why are you laughing? She says, I didn't laugh. He says, you sure did And I made a promise and I'm going to keep the promise. That's essentially what happens in Genesis chapter 18. Genesis 26, when Isaac lies in Gerar. It's exactly what Abraham did when he told the people there, hey Sarah's my sister. Isaac did the same thing with Rebecca. And after the dust settles in that particular situation, guess what? The angel of the Lord appears. to him again and he reaffirms those promises. Genesis 28, when Jacob is running for his life from Esau When Jacob is manipulating Laban in Genesis chapter 31, in each of those situations, the angel of the Lord appeared to them, either physically or in a vision. And when he did that, it's the same thing that we see over and over doubts by the patriarchs, them attempting to work things out in their own strength, them dealing with the consequences that are not good. And God comforting them and reaffirming, I am going to keep my promises. Isn't it amazing that those situations have that similar thing in all of them? The failure, the doubts, the problems, God's comfort. I asked this question. Isn't that how God deals with us? When we start drifting, you know what he does? It's in the moment when we fall. It's in the moment when we are most discouraged and weird. That's when he comes alongside and he says, hey, let me remind you of some wonderful promises. He does that. That. Just like he did that for Abraham, just like he did that for Sarah, just like he did that for Isaac, just like he did that for Jacob, he does it for us. But there is something that is different about this situation from all the others. Let me read to you what it says in verse 24 of chapter 32. He says, There wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. When he saw that he prevailed not, he touched the hollowest thigh. I'm going to comment on that in just a minute. He wrestled with him, his thigh was out of joint, and he said, Let me go for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not except thou bless me. You know what's the same about this situation, all the others? In all of these situations, the patriarch has trouble. And all of them, the patriarch is trying hard to work things out in his own strength. In all these situations, they have problems because they don't trust God. But in all but this one, the angel of the Lord comes with a comfort. And this one he's quiet. Think about this. From whatever time in the night this person shows up till the day dawns, you're talking probably, I'm just gonna say maybe five, six hours. There is this wrestling match, and the angel of the Lord doesn't say a word. Think about that. He's quiet. And why is Jacob wrestling? Because he wants to hear some comfort from him, and he won't do it. And he grabs a hold of him and he's wrestling and he's wrestling. He's like, you know what? Okay, Jacob. Time to end this match. And he touched him. Now when it says he touched him, if you go and you look at that word, the idea is he forcibly put a blow to his leg so that it became dislocated. I was gonna have Pastor Chris come up here and I was gonna show you what he did, but then I wouldn't want him to be maimed the rest of his life. So I decided not to do that. But the idea is that he he grabs a hold of him and he forcibly throws him to the ground and his hip pops out of joint. For the rest of his life. Jacob is hobbled because of this moment. And what's amazing about it is even as he is limping, he's still grabbing a hold of this man. He won't let him go. He says, what's your problem? Let me go. He says, bless me. The angel of the Lord said, okay. But I need to ask you a question. By the way, he didn't say, I'm gonna bless you, but let me ask you a question first. He said, Let me ask you a question. What's your name? What's your name? It's Jacob. Okay. Why does that matter? I want you to think about this for a minute. He physically crippled Jacob. And he said, tell me your name. Because the name Jacob wasn't something Jacob chose. It was the identity people gave him because of who he was. I don't know if that makes sense or not. But the fact is, because Jacob was a dishonest person, because Jacob was a manipulative person, because Jacob wrestled with everybody. People said, that's Jacob. He said, tell me who you are. I'm Jacob. And then he says, that's not what you're going to be called anymore. It's kind of interesting, isn't it? He says, thy name shall no more be called Jacob, but Israel. Say, well, what does Israel mean? Jacob means trickster. Israel means God prevails. That's a really neat name, isn't it? God prevails. Here's this guy who he's lived his whole life fighting everybody. He fought his dad, he fought his brother, he fought his broth his father-in-law. He fought his wives, he fought his kids, he constantly was in turmoil with people. He amazingly came out on top many, many times And you say that's how you've lived your life. But tonight you will prevail, but it's not because of you. You're going to prevail because of me. God prevails. In other words, the reason that Jacob was going to survive that night and the next morning is because God promised and God is faithful. It's not because Jacob sent his family in the right sequence and he sent the right amount of uh right number of animals And Esau's like, wow, thank you for all these animals, and it's nice to meet all your kids. You know, I was ready to kill you, but after I saw, you know, twelve kids come and and all these different people and all these animals, I said, you know I'm going to let you live today. I'll give you a big hug because I love you. Now that's not why he did that. Because God prevails And God needed to get the attention of this man, Jacob, so that when he did prevail, he'd understand something. He didn't prevail because he made the right moves. That's the way he always prevailed That's how he got ahead of of Laban. That's how he got ahead of all these different people. It's because he always made the right move. He said, tonight, you need to learn something. And you're going to limp through the rest of your life because you will not survive because you made the right move You'll survive because I've chosen to let you live. It's an amazing concept, isn't it? He says, as a prince Hast thou prevailed with God and man, our power with God and men. That word power means that you have wrestled with everybody. Tomorrow you're going to survive. I'll boil it down to one very simple thought. His survival the next day was about the fulfillment of a promise. It was about God's grace. And so when we read these verses, it's not like, hey, you know, Jacob, he got what he wanted because he wrestled with the Lord. And he was tough enough to stay with him for six hours. That's not what it's all about. It's all about God saying, you wrestle with me for six hours, and in this one moment, boom, I knocked you down. I changed your name. And I'm telling you, tomorrow you're going to survive because of me, not because of you. Say, well, Pastor, what do we have to learn from this? Now, I think there's some really neat lessons for us to learn here. God wants us to learn from the way he dealt with him. The first thing I'm going to say is this. Wrestling and doubting is a part of human nature. We all do it. Some of us are more inclined to it than others. It's true, if you're strong, you rely on strength. If you're not strong, you don't understand that. If you're trying to become stronger, we all have a tendency to do this. Some of us do it more than others. You know what God has to do? He has to humble us. He has to break us down. He has to remove the things that we have as pillars we depend on. That's what he does. So resting and doubting is a part of human nature, but some of us, we really need God to root that out of us. A second thing is this: God patiently walks with us while we struggle with Him and with others. For 20 years, while Jacob looks at God and says, if, if, if then, God said, I know. I'm still going to let you live. I'm still going to bless you. I'm still going to be kind to you. I'm still going to reaffirm those promises to you. At the end of it all, you'll look back and you'll realize I was with you. What's the point? The point is that God walks patiently with us while we are restless. Another thing is that he does this because he loves us. He doesn't leave us the way we are. He goes to us. He confronts our wrong thinking and our distrust. He roots it out. So that we won't depend on something that's vain and empty, but that will depend on him. He does that. God has so many different tools at his disposal, and he uses them at the right time in the very best way possible. He beats Jacob at Jacob's game. Jacob was a wrestler, Jacob was a conniver, he'd sent all these animals across. He'd had it all planned out. He was terrified. He wrestles with the angel and he says in one blow I'm going to remind you that you have nothing to say. Folks, growth doesn't happen unless we are confronted and we are humbled. One of the most important lessons that we will learn in life is the lesson that Jacob had to learn that night. When we are strong in our own strength, we are resting in something that can just fall apart at any moment. Our physical strength, our opportunities, our financial strength, so many different things. They can just they can go away like that God confronts us, and sometimes this confrontation is painful, but I want to remind you of this. He always has a good purpose. Do you know why why the Lord met Jacob that night? It wasn't because he just wanted to watch him live through life. is because he wanted to change how he thought about himself and about God. Proverbs 3:5-3-8 says this. He says, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not unto thine own understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him. He shall direct thy paths. Be not wise in thy own eyes. Fear the Lord. And depart from evil. It shall be health to thy navel and marrow to thy bones. When we are not trusting the Lord with all our heart, you know what he does? He goes to the thing that we're trusting in and he says, Let me show you why that doesn't work. Sometimes when he does it, it hurts. Sometimes when he does it, it's a little bit fearful. But he does it because he loves us. Let me ask you this question this evening. Are you willing to trust him in all areas? Do you see yourself in Jacob's story? God is kind. He doesn't kick you to the side. He walks with you. He's patient with you. And at the right time in the right way, he steps in. He teaches that lesson because he wants to draw you close to himself. May the Lord do that in our lives. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you for this text of Scripture There's so many unique elements to it, but at the core of it is that you humble people for their own good You want us to depend entirely on you. You don't want us to take credit for our successes You want us to acknowledge your grace. Father, help us when we are like Jacob, wrestling with you and wrestling with others. Help us to humble ourselves. Help us to turn to you. Help us to rest in your power and your strength and your love and your goodness. Father, I pray that this lesson is a lesson that we would learn early in life. It's a lesson that we would remind ourselves often of. And it's a lesson that we would live in the light of. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, well we have some food in the back. Looking forward to a time of fellowship. I'd like us to close him with hymn number 587, Victory in Jesus. And then what we'll do is we'll close in prayer, thank God for the food. And I want to dismiss the Macaulay family first. And we'll let all your kids devour the food and then we'll let the rest of us come in. Just have a good time of fellowship. Um Christian fellowship is such a sweet, sweet blessing. Let's all stand together and sing 587. Victory in Jesus. We'll sing the first and the last verses, please. Savior came from Gorye, how he gave his life on Calvary to save a wretch like me I heard about his groaning on this precious glutatoning Then I repented of my sin and wonder victory for victory in Jesus My savior forever. He sought me and bought me with his redeeming blood He loved the air I knew him, and all my love is knew him He flung me to victory , beneath the cleansing flood on the last. I heard about a mansion he has built for me in glory And I heard about streets of gold beyond the crystal sea, about the angel singing. And the old dam 's story, and some sweet day I'll sing up there the song of victory. Victory in Jesus, my Savior forever. He sought me and bought me With his redeeming God, he loved me ere I knew him And all my love is due. He plunged me to victory beneath the cleansing flood All right, well let's go ahead and uh let's bow for a word of prayer. Uh thank God for the food and then uh Macaulay's you guys can head to the back and then we'll all make our way back there and uh Hope we have a great time of fellowship together. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so grateful for your tender compassion, your patience. Your patience is absolutely mind-blowing. How you know exactly what we need and when we need it, and you have a perfect way of addressing Our sin and our distrust of you, our self-confidence, so that we ultimately rely upon you alone. Father, I pray that you'd help us to live in the light of that. Thank you for the Macaulay family. I thank you for the time that you've brought them here to be a part of our church family, for the friendships we've been able to make. uh for their opportunity to grow into Christ's likeness, to serve and to be served. I pray that you'll strengthen them as they as they move down south, and I pray that you would really strengthen them as they look for a church family. I pray that you would provide uh just a great fit, a place where they can grow and serve and a place where they they will uh be a blessing and be blessed. I pray you bless the food that we'll enjoy, uh help us to uh have great fellowship together, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right.