Well, good evening. Good to see each of you tonight and uh hope that you had a restful afternoon. Um I took a nap, a really nice long nap, and then took a walk. So I feel invigorated and ready to go today. I hope that uh you had a good afternoon. Uh since we didn't go through our announcements really this morning, I'd like to go through a couple of those things tonight. just to highlight them so that you're thinking about them. First of all, I wanted to mention we do have our Christmas tracks out in the back. And so we have two different tracks. I hope that You'll take an opportunity to get some of those Christmas tracks and pass them around. This is a great time of the year to talk about the birth of Christ and the significance of the birth of Christ. And the truth is that this has been a really hard year for people, and this might be a great time to be able to get them connected with um with uh some of the things that we're doing here during the church season. By the way, you know, have encourage people to watch the service from this morning. It was a great gospel presentation. Also want to mention that we still have our cards out there, and these cards really the purpose of that is to get people connected to our live stream. There are a lot of folks that may feel uncomfortable coming to a church service, especially if they've not been in church for years. So this might not be the best time to get them to come to a physical service. But to have them uh join on the live stream would be would be a great opportunity. So I want to remind you of those things. Uh there in the back. Also we have a lot of books from what we use at the Lit Conference. And so if you're interested in resources for Christmas, for Kids, family members, for your spouse, I don't know. Uh, for yourself, your own personal uh reading. There's some really great resources out there. Want to mention that. Also did want to remind you that on Wednesday night, weather dependent, we're going to have the children will have the Christmas market if we do cancel services midweek. They're going to do that on Sunday night while we're having our normal services. They'll be in the back doing truth trackers. Also on the 20th of December, there's a teen parent meeting. So teen parents, please. We're going to talk a little bit about just what we're doing with teen activities in the upcoming year and a little bit about the scheduling and things like that. I do want to mention this It's something that a lot of times gets forgotten, but um we are required um by the county to clean in between services. And so I want to encourage you to consider helping out with that. It's really easy to forget about that. We were really good about it early on, and everyone thinks about it, but as time goes on and we've I don't know, been doing this for four or five months. We don't think about the cleaning routine, but I do want to encourage you if you can help out with that. Sign up and just pick a tape a time, say, hey, this will be my service that I do it And after that service, have that be the time that you do that. There are also some other announcements that are on the uh in the bulletin. Look those things over. I wanted to mention that in the coming year. We're going to start doing a men's group that meets on Saturday mornings where we'll have uh donuts and coffee. We're going to do a Bible study and it'll be a time to just encourage men to be accountable to one another and uh just really put Christ in the center of everything in their lives. So I wanted to mention that that is something that's going to start up in January. And you'll hear me talking about that a little bit as time goes on. But I want to mention that as well. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we'll sing our our uh congregational songs. Father, thank you for the opportunity to focus in on the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ and the significance of His birth, I pray that you'd help us to be gospel-centered in our thinking, help us to be reflective, and help us to be worshipful as we think about the wonderful blessings we have in Christ. Because he was willing to come to earth, take on flesh, and die on the cross for our sins. I pray that you'll bless every aspect of our service this evening. May you be exalted, and may we be encouraged as your people. We ask it in Christ's name. All right, let's remove the mask and begin our song services this evening. We'll turn to page 193 or look up on the uh uh screen We'll start off with three verses of Angels from the Realms of Glory. Please stand with me. Page 193 Angels from the realm of glory wing your blight or hobby Give her sanctuary story now proclaim Messiah 's word. Come and worship, come and worship Worship Christ the newborn king , expert in the field abiding, watching for your parts my night God with man is now residing under shall Come and worship, come and worship, worship by God. A new born king sangly for the big one with World is in the people. Soviet worship, God and worship, worship Christ under. Now just a couple pages over to page 198. Born to Die. Three verses I was born just before very good boy. Never had me at the I When he came, he was not boring, he could feel my day. Verything with I all Or to the Delay Albert Buddhist and the thing. More than die upon the brain , because it I must make my impression I take all my will and to be born. I am going to bring in the God blind for game. Boy , what you're paying You will Go ahead and have a And was it me or are we on a couple of separate verses there? I was looking at the wrong verse, I think, but No? Okay. That's all right. We'll go to page 203 then. Good. Page 203? Oh, holy night, all grievers Oh record the rightly delight in the Happy and the law of this world I threw up the weary will be joy. For your new and glorious joy all on your knee. Et tu vois , oh non , non. Oh night me paradox , well it 's a good one. I guess I don't like the sweeping wings. Here came the wild and for glory of the king of the lay of the In all our idols going to be my friend , those are new. Are wing nothing after the king? And his last for the flame will further and in it. All oppression shall be sweet and such a joy and grateful borders great. Praise his holy name , praise along. How many folks, that's the first time you've sang all three verses. It's been a while for me to do that. Those are wonderful, wonderful messages. How about Oh goodness. Let's go to page two oh eight. Two oh eight. Uh how b everybody know ring the bells? Ring the bells? I like that one. Brass had been practicing that, and so maybe if you come to this Christmas Eve service You'll hear a special uh presentation of Ring the Bells. Stand with me. Page 208 in your in your red book, right before the special and the service, both verses Yes it does. Okay. It's kind of confusing looking, I'm so sorry. That's not good for you? Uh I'm just trying to figure out what Where where the introduction potential side related or theme? The bell drink the bell , but the whole world dawned in my own. Born to die that men like this came to earth with life again, born a very born a year ago. The farmer gave it one, waving lovely lovely wine , and again alright , the bring the night in the birth ring. The bells bring the bells, let the whole try the men your day, as it did so long ago. Oh, ring the bells, ring the bells, what a glorious wall and worship. Only on Calvary , Lord is that in Locke , I am Calvin. That 's the whole Christ and then go on the day. Amen. That's good singing. Please receive it. Jesus, joy of the highest heaven, born as a little babe. Baby under a wonder star like us crying, he takes his first breath, held by his mother, helped. Close to her beating hearts Jesus laid in a lowly manger Facing all worlds of dangers Come to turn me a stranger into a child of God Jesus, King of the highest heaven, learning to take his first steps. That he might bring us life like us knowing our smiles and sorrows. He showed the way to follow, a way that is true and right. Jesus, take away every darkness Steady my simple footsteps that I might in your goodness live as a child of God. Jesus, take away every darkness. Steady my simple footsteps that I might in your goodness. Live as a child of God I've so enjoyed the music today and I just love Christmas music, don't you? We'll be in Ezra chapter 9 tonight. Ezra chapter 9. We're actually going to be finishing up Ezra, looking at the last two chapters. Ezra chapter nine. Tonight we're going to conclude the book of Ezra. And These last two chapters, they present one of the most challenging moments recorded in all of Israel's history Not just challenging the fact that this was a very difficult moment in time, but it's a very challenging portion of scripture to think through and To look at and to read and to understand what God's purpose in recording it is. In order to fully understand and draw an application from these chapters. I'd like for us to bring in some mandates, some principles from the Mosaic Law and from the New Testament to to really draw help us to to get into these chapters and draw those in to understand them. I'll go ahead and summarize chapters 9 and 10. What happened in this this time in history. Well someone comes up to Ezra. They had just celebrated the renewing of the temple. uh they've been charged to to keep the the commandments they brought uh they brought this this new group from babylon To Jerusalem. And everything's going great. But then someone comes up to Ezra and says, listen, some of the people, some of the rulers, some of the priests. They've married pagan wives and they are committing the abominations of the people. The same idolatry that originally led Israel, led Judah into captivity. These people were now committing. And so what did Ezra do after much deliberation, after much painstaking thought? Ezra had those Israelites divorce their pagan wives and then send them away with young children that had resulted from those marriages. This is a very, very challenging passage. In order to think through this passage, we we need to start with an understanding. First of all, That the Mosaic law in Deuteronomy explicitly forbade the marrying of pagans , especially those that are named in Ezra 9. 1. The Mosaic Law forbade it. It also commanded Israel to separate themselves from pagan worship, especially the pagan worship of the land. Another aspect of the Mosaic Law that we sometimes don't associate with the rest of the law is in Genesis. Where we see God designed marriage to be a permanent covenant between one man and one woman until death. You find it in Genesis 1, and you see it reiterated by Jesus Christ in Matthew 19. God , another thing we need to understand is that God despises divorce. and calls any divorce save for one unique cultural context that we read about in Matthew 19. He calls That adultery, an act of adultery , Fifth, scripture records historical events wherein godly people make terrible, even sinful decisions. that aren't explicitly condemned in Scripture. I put some examples there. We remember Abraham and Hagar That wicked act that a godly man Abraham committed. We think about Lot living in Sodom And we understand that Sodom was a wicked place. Lot should have never ever pitched his tents toward Sodom. And 2 Peter reminds us that Lot was a righteous man who was daily vexed by the wickedness that was there. It's a foolish decision. We think about King David marrying multiple wives throughout 1 and 2 Samuel. Even though Deuteronomy 17, 17 commands the kings of Israel not to multiply their wives. But we don't see David condemned for it. Nevertheless, we can understand that that was sin. It was wrong. Sixth, in Israel, idolatry and paganism was punishable by death or exile. You find that there in Deuteronomy. And finally, and we can understand this from many, many passages and just from life, sin always has consequences. And often, if not always, those consequences involve and result in complex no-win situations. So understanding those truths should lead us to conclude this. Ezra had a very difficult decision to make. But although he started right, as we'll see in chapter 9, he made a very grave mistake in chapter 10. From this mostly negative example, we need to see that God wants you and I To respond biblically in the face of complex dilemmas created by sinful decisions. We do so by taking three biblical steps toward resolving those complex dilemmas. And the way I'm using dilemma tonight is really it's a no-win situation. You choose to do one thing or another, it's not going to end well. Or so it may seem. Nevertheless, the first biblical step you need to take, you need to approach any dilemma with brokenness. This is where Ezra got it right. Notice in chapter 9 and verse 1. Now when these things were done, after they had gotten to Jerusalem, and after they had brought out the sacrifice and they had worshiped together, now after these things were done. The princes came unto me, saying, The people of Israel and the priests and the Levites have not separated themselves from the people of the lands, doing according to their abominations. Even of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites. For they have taken of their daughters for themselves and for their sons, so that the holy seed may have mingled themselves with the people of those lands. Yea, the hand of the princes and rulers hath been chief in this trespass. And when I heard this thing, I rent my garment and my mantle and plucked off the hair of my head and of my beard and sat down asanid. Then were assembled unto me every one that trembled at the words of the God of Israel, because of the transgression of those that had been carried away. And I sat astonished. until the evening service. Sacrifice. You must approach dilemmas with brokenness. This entire chapter, chapter nine Talks about Ezra being broken and ashamed of the sin that had been committed. He first of all recognized the sin. You see that in verses 1 and 2. He was told about what happened, and he was able to examine and point out what the sin was. And what was it? I'll say this. Israel's sin was not that they married Gentiles. What is it that's that it says in verse 1? The people of Israel and the priests, look at it. The people of Israel and the priests and the Levites have not separated themselves from the people of the lands. Doing according to their abominations. Their sin was that they married people who were not a part of the covenant nation of Israel. There's a very fine, distinct difference there. In other words, these people that they married, they were not worshipers of Jehovah. To bring in New Testament terminology, they were non-believers. They were patents. pagans. And what did that result in? It resulted in these Israelites, these Jews worshiping other gods. That was their sin. We know that there are examples of Gentiles marrying Hebrews in correct ways. You can think of Rahab, you can think of Ruth. Rahab being a Canaanite, Ruth being a Moabitus, two groups that were very pagan But these two women had trusted in Jehovah God and trusted in the God of Israel, and they were accepted among the nation of Israel. Now I will say this. For the Jews of the time, it's likely that they were also concerned with ethnicity. They were also concerned about ethnicity. And that's because ethnicity is very intertwined, at least especially this time, was very intertwined with religion. You know, their concern was probably like, if I looked at my son Jonathan and said, don't marry a northerner You know, why would I say that? It's because if I was a very deeply ingrained Southerner, I would not want those values brought into my son's life. You know, like sweet grits or something. But you understand that that was that was likely a part of the concern that the Jews had. It's foolish. But they were also very seriously concerned, rightly so , with pagan worship infiltrating these homes of Hebrews and their children So they recognized the sin. They also mourned over the sin. We saw when when Ezra in verse 3 heard this thing. He rent his garment. He tore his mantle. He pulled the hair from his head and from his beard. He was astonished at this sin. This is the right place to be. And I ask you, when was the last time that you anguished over your own sin? The last time I sat and grieved over the sin in my own life. The fact is, sin is sin. And Ezra recognized that, and he was broken, and he mourned over it. But after he recognized and mourned over the sin. He confessed it. Notice in verse 6 of chapter 9. Look at it there. We're starting in verse 5. It says, And at the evening sacrifice I arose up. from my heaviness, and having rent my garment and my mantle, I fell upon my knees and spread out my hands unto the Lord, my God, and said, O my God, I am ashamed and blushed to lift up my face to thee, my God. For our iniquities are increased over our head, and our trespasses grown up into the heavens. Since the day of our fathers have we been in a great trespass. unto this day, and for our iniquities have we, our kings and our priests, been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, and to spoil, and to confusion of face, as it is this day. And now, for a little space, grace hath been showed from the Lord our God to leave us a remnant to escape. And to give us a nail in his holy place, that our God may lighten our eyes and give us a little reviving in our bondage. For we were bondmen, yet our God hath not forsaken us in our bondage, but hath extended mercy unto us in the sight of the kings of Persia. To give us reviving, to set up the house of our God, and to repair the desolations thereof, and to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem. And now, oh our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken thy commandments, which thou hast commanded by the servants of the prophets, saying, The land unto which ye go to possess it is an unclean land, with the filthiness of the people of the lands. With their abominations, which have filled it from one end to another with their uncleanness. Now therefore, now he's speaking to Israel. Now therefore, give not your daughters unto their sons, neither take their daughters unto your sons, nor seek their peace or their wealth forever that ye may be strong and eat the good of the land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children forever. And after all that has come upon us for our evil deeds And for our great trespass, seeing that our God hath punished us less than our iniquities deserved, and has given us such deliverance as this. Should we again break thy commandments and join in affinity with the people of these abominations? Wouldest not thou be angry with us? Till thou hast consumed us, so that there should be no remnant nor escaping. O Lord God of Israel, Thou art righteous. For we remain yet escaped, as it is this day. Behold, we are before thee in our trespasses, for we cannot stand before thee. Because of this, Ezra very articulately defined the sin that they had He looked at their history, he looked at God's grace, and said, You've been good to us, and yet we still continue in this sin. This was an important step. Because the reality is if you don't confess sin to God Just recognizing your sin, just being able to say, this is sin, creates a cynical mindset. Yes, you can point out sin, but what do you do with it? And just mourning over sin really makes you ineffectual. If you spent all your time just mourning over your sin and not confessing it, Then that's all you're doing, is mourning. You need to articulate to God that what was done that was in direct contradiction to his word and to his character. So, to respond biblically in the face of complex dilemmas, your first step is to approach dilemmas with brokenness. Ezra did that. But in chapter 10, we need to understand that you and I must approach dilemmas with Scripture And this is where Ezra falls short. Notice in verse 1 of chapter 10. Now when Ezra had prayed, and when he had confessed, weeping and casting himself down before the house of God. There assembled unto him out of Israel a very great congregation of men and women and children, for the people wept very sore. And Shechemiah, the son of Jehil, one of the sons of Elam, answered and said unto Ezra, We have trespassed against our God. and have taken strange wives of the people of the land. Yet now there is hope in Israel concerning this thing. What kind of hope? Notice in verse 3. Now therefore, let us make a covenant with our God to put away all the wives, and such as are born of them, according to the counsel of my Lord. Notice lowercase L. According to the counsel of my Lord, and of those that tremble at the commandment of our God, and let it be done according to the law. What's interesting here, and I hope you noticed it, is that what follows is that Ezra listened to his peer. Before going to Scripture. Even though we see Ezra appropriately mourning over sin Being broken over sin. We don't see him seeking or quoting scripture at any point. Now in the previous chapter you do see him coming to conclusions. from Scripture, right conclusions that they had sent. But at no point does he come up with a solution from Scripture. He instead listened to his peers' advice before going. to Scripture. Listen, Scripture should be your immediate source of direction when you're facing any dilemma caused by sin. When you have found yourself in a very difficult position, your first go-to should be the Word of God. Not someone else, not your spouse, not not even pastor. God's word should be your ultimate or your first destination. That's not to say you can't get peers advice. But this would be your priority. This is your first stop Now it's interesting. Had Ezra gone to Scripture, he probably would have noticed some things. Now , we know that a contemporary prophet of this time was Malachi. And we know from Malachi that God directly condemned divorce in that book. But it's more likely that Malachi 's preaching came after this event. And before that, there is really little direct teaching against divorce. In the Mosaic Law. But what is there in Genesis 1, as you recall, God defined marriage. Man shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one, and what and they shall live in as one until death. Divorce was not on the table The other thing he probably would have caught in the Old Testament, in the Mosaic Law, was that idolatry was capital offense. These Jews weren't didn't just marry pagan wives. They married pagan wives and they were committing abominations according to their religion. They were committing idolatry. It was a capital offense. They could have been stoned under the Mosaic Law. Now, it is possible that Persian law could have prevented them from carrying out capital punishment, just like under uh the Roman law in the New Testament. That's possible. But we'll see w what the alternative could have been Because Ezra really followed his peer's advice before going to Scripture. After that, he rushed into his peer's advice without Scripture Notice in verse 5. Then arose Ezra and made the chief priests, the Levites, and all Israel to swear that they should do according to this word, and they swear. Then Ezra rose up from before the house of God and went into the chamber of Johannin, the son of Eliasheb. And when he came And when he came thither, he did not eat no bread, nor drink water, for he mourned because of the transgression of them that had been carried away. And they made proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem unto all the children of the captivity that they should gather themselves together unto Jerusalem. and that whosoever would not come within three days, according to the counsel of the princes and the elders, all his substance should be forfeited, and himself separated from the congregation of those that had been carried away. When Shechaniah said, arise in verse 4, what did Ezra do? Hold on, we need to look at the law. No. In verse 5, he rose up. And he went to the people and said, we need to do this, and they swore to do it. Had Ezra taken some time to examine Scripture, he would have come across Ecclesiastes 5. 2. Be not rash with thine mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to utter anything before God. For God is in heaven and thou upon earth. Therefore let thy words be few. In other words, don't say you're going to do something without taking time to think it through. Now I know I'm being very hard on Ezra here. We have an advantage that Ezra did not have. We have 1 Corinthians 7. When these Israelites were facing this this dilemma, they were married to pagan, non-God-worshiping wives. They were essentially married to unbelievers. Hold your place in Ezra and turn over to 1 Corinthians 7. And listen to what it has to say there. Verse twelve, and ver First Corinthians seven says Wherefore the law is holy and commandeth com and the commandment is holy and just and good. Oh, am I in the wrong? No, that's what Romans, sorry. First Corinthians seven. Not Romans. Romans might be a good good place to go later. 1 Corinthians 7. But to the rest speak I, not the Lord. So Paul is saying, listen, there's no direct commandment against or with this. Prior to me saying this. He's not saying this is just my advice. He's saying, now there's a commandment. What does he say in verse 12? If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away. And the woman which hath an husband that believeth not, if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Else were your children unclean, but now they are they holy. So essentially what it's saying is don't seek to divorce an unbelieving spouse. Why? Because it's possible that that's the only chance they're going to get to be exposed to God. You think about a broken home, and I've seen them where there's a believer and a non-believer. How often is that non-believing spouse going to come back to church because of what their believing spouse did to them? Why would they want to? It creates far more challenges. Ezra, though, even though he didn't have 1 Corinthians 7, He did know what God defined as marriage. One man, one woman, one lifetime. Ezra listened to his peers before listening to Scripture. He rushed into his peers' advice without Scripture. And then back in Ezra chapter 10, in verses 9 through 12, we see Ezra pushed his peer's advice, ignoring Scripture. Ezra pushed his peer's advice. And in verse 9 he says, Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered themselves together into Jerusalem within three days. It was the ninth month on the twelfth twentieth day of the month, and all the people sat in the street of the house of God trembling because of this matter and for the great rain. Why does it tell us the days? Because this was in the the beginning of winter. Very cold, rainy winter months. Think about that as we read on. In verse ten. And Ezra the priest stood up and said unto them, Ye have transgressed and have taken strange wives to increase the trespass of Israel. Now therefore make confession unto the Lord God of your fathers, and do his pleasure, and separate yourselves from the people of the land, and from the strange wives. Then all the can congregation answered and said with a loud voice, As thou hast said, so must we do. But the people were many, and it is a time of much rain, and we are not able to stand without or outside. Neither is this a work of one day or two, for we are many, and many have transgressed in this thing. Now And we'll continue on from there. But what you saw there, Ezra pushed that advice all the while ignoring Scripture. He took the time to gather the people, but there's little to no indication that Ezra took any time to examine the scripture. To examine the law for any scriptural guidance. You know, once the people were gathered, and once he presented his solution, he pushed it. And really what he based it on was their national history and some very unbiblical logic. He said, we've done this before. We've fallen into idolatry before. We've been punished for our idolatry before. So what do we need to do? Oh, we just need to get rid of the problem, which seems to be these pagan wives, and start all over. Listen, that does not solve the problem. Trying to wipe the slate clean in a very unbiblical way really creates more problems. And we see that. Because facing complex dilemmas brought about by sin really requires us to respond. Biblically. And that begins with approaching dilemmas with brokenness and with scripture. And what Ezra failed to do also is here in this final step. Ezra failed to resolve this dilemma with consideration. He failed to resolve the dilemma with consideration That's what we need to do. When we've been broken over the sin and we've examined this dilemma with Scripture, we need to resolve it. But take consideration. In verse 13, the people are many, and it is a time of much rain. We are not able to stand outside, neither is this work of one day or two, for we are many that transgressed in this thing. Let now our rulers In verse fourteen, let now our rulers of the congregation stand and let all of them which have taken strange wives in our cities come at appointed times, and with them the elders of every city and the judges thereof, until the fierce wrath of our God for this matter be turned from us. And then verse 16. The children of the captivity did so. And as were the priests with certain chief of the fathers after the house of their fathers, and all of them by their names were separated, and sat down on the first day of the tenth month to examine the matter, and they made an end with all the men that had taken strange wives by the first day of the first month. Month. Ezra failed first to consider his influence. What happened there in verses 12 through 17? Ezra presented his solution and the people went with it. Why? It's because Ezra was a godly man He was. I'm not trying to paint Ezra as this this bigoted this arrogant person Ezra made a huge mistake here, but he was a biblical or a God-fearing, Bible-loving man. And the people had every right to trust him. But what Ezra failed to do was consider that his influence would have an enormous impact on these people. And where he had blind spots, where he made a mistake, it caused many, many, many people. To make that same mistake. Ezra 's failure to take Scripture into account led to those people blindly following a very godly but a fallible leader. And Nasha reminds us that people of influence, even the godliest of people, they have blind spots. And those blind spots, as they did with Ezra, can lead to some very harmful results. Ezra 's blind spots led to hundreds, if not thousands, of wives and children being thrown out by their husbands. They were thrown out by their husbands. It wasn't just Ezra that failed to take consideration. It's also the people. The people failed to consider the alternative. When we see that in verses 18 through 44, we won't read all those names, but notice in verse 19. And they gave their hands that they would put away their wives, and being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their trespasses. This is a very interesting verse. Why? Because while the rest of the chapter details all the people that had committed these sins, the the sin of marrying pagan wives, of of falling into idolatry. Verse 19 can be taken one of two ways, if not both. It seems that they sought forgiveness for the original sin of marrying those pagan wives and falling into idolatry. But the way it's worded, notice again, verse 19, and they gave their hands that they would be, that they would put away their wives, and being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their trespass. It can also be taken as seeking forgiveness for this very unnecessary divorce. If that's the case, these people knew they were doing wrong. And really, they failed to consider any alternative. The Mosaic Law, even though it never specifically addresses whether Hebrews could divorce unbelieving spouses It's still taught that God had created marriage to be a permanent, sanctified covenant. They should have come to an alternative solution. There's two alternatives that they could have taken. Two alternatives that they could have taken. The first is the leaders of the captives really could have executed those guilty parties. Under the Mosaic Law, they could have executed them. It's happened before. Now, the nuance there is Persian law could have forbade them from doing that. And that it would be fair to s to assume that that could have been an issue. I have up there some New Testament verses where under the Romans the Jews were not allowed to execute individuals. They were to obey the government above them. But what they really should have done, in my opinion, and I think scripture supports me on this. Hebrew men should have forsaken the abominations of the people of the land and should have led their families to worship the God of Israel. They shouldn't have divorced their wives and sent their children away to fend for themselves in a dark and sinful world. They should have been beacons of hope within their homes. They should have been men of God. They failed to take that alternative. And what ended up happening? A horrible result. And that's the final failure when it came into resolving this dilemma with consideration. All fail to consider the result. A large number of women and children, even though they were able to wait until the end of the winter, oh that's great, we won't be outside freezing. Instead, they're just going to be outside. No homes to go to, no way of supporting themselves. This this wasn't 2020 America. This was the ancient world. When a woman was on the streets, she had no hope. She had nowhere to go. And with children, she had mouths to feed. She was in a desperate, dark situation. How unmerciful, how unkind, how contrary to the character and the love of God That's why I believe Malachi was preaching directly to this action. Go there with me. We'll close there in Malachi chapter 2, right there at the end of your Old Testament. Malachi chapter two. Malachi said, Have we not all one father Hath not one God created us? Why do we deal treacherously every man against his brother by profaning the covenant of our fathers? Keep reading. Judah hath dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah hath profaned the holiness of the Lord which he loved. and hath married the daughter of a strange God. Does that sound familiar? Notice in verse twelve. The Lord will cut off the man that doeth this, the master and the scholar out of the tabernacles of Jacob, and him that offereth an offering unto the Lord of hosts. And this have ye done again, covering the altar of the Lord with tears, and with weeping, with crying out, insomuch that he regardeth not the offering any more, or receiveth it with good will at your hand. Yet ye say Wherefore? Why? Why won't you accept our offering? Notice, because the Lord hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously. Yet is she thy comanion, companion, and the wife of thy covenant. And did he not make one? Yet had he residue of the Spirit, and wherefore one That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore take heed of your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. For the Lord the God of Israel saith that he hateth putting away For one covers violence with his garment, saith the Lord of hosts. Therefore take heed to your spirit that ye deal not treacherously God condemned the Jews for their idolatry, of course, but also for divorcing their wives. This is a very negative example, I understand. But God wants you to respond Biblically in the face of complex dilemmas brought about by sin. From Ezra 9 and 10, that when we approach dilemmas, we ought to approach them with brokenness and by seeking scripture. And then once we've done that, then we can resolve these dilemmas while taking consideration of the results If you're facing a dilemma brought about by sin, take it seriously. And take Scripture seriously. And then consider seriously. the influence and the alternatives to the resolution you intend on taking That's Ezra 9 and 10. We finish Ezra. Ezra, we've looked at getting back to normal. And for these Jews, I don't know that they ever really got there. And you know what? You might be looking at 2020 wondering, are we back to normal yet? And you're probably saying, no. But maybe during the study in Ezra you realized getting back to normal really meant doing things differently than you had done them before. Perhaps the reality is that you've never really understood what normal is. Listen, normal is knowing Christ and living in obedience to Him. And if one of those two realities aren't a part of your life, I'm going to encourage you to do that tonight. By knowing Christ as Savior and by living in obedience to his word, only then will you understand what it means to get back to normal. These Jews, because of the dilemma and the way they resolved it, they were anywhere from normal. But we can get back to normalcy. Let's heed God's word. Let's follow Christ. And let's live for Him. Father, thank you for the tremendous book and the study we've had in Ezra. Lord, thank you for giving us this very challenging portion of Scripture and for allowing us through great study and through great thought to know What do you intend for us to understand from it? Where I've fallen short in communicating this Allow your Holy Spirit to point out the power of Scripture above all, how it is our guide and our direction in the face of great dilemmas. That are brought on by our sin or by the sins of others. Help us to heed your word. And to seek it first, first in Christ's name. Amen. First thing I'll say is, aren't you glad you weren't preaching that text tonight? Hey, let me tell you that preaching verse by verse through the Bible is going to take you to text of scripture like that one. And the truth is that Chris handled it very well. He presented that the truth is Ezra did not handle himself well in the situation. We tend to think that when we read an example in Scripture, that it must be some grand example and we're supposed to follow it. The reality is that God speaks the truth about what people do. And God speaks the truth about when we make good decisions, and He speaks the truth about when we make bad decisions. And it's very easy for us to look at the passage and say, well God never condemned what Ezra did. But then we go to Malachi and we say, you know what? He sure did. In fact, he was brutal in his assessment of how the nation of Israel was conducting themselves. And the truth is a lot of times we find ourselves in tough places and it's because we've made very bad decisions And we think, you know, I'm just gonna clean it up and I'm gonna start over. And we don't think about the incredible hurt and harm that we do to other people. The reality is what Ezra decided to do I mean, it was a horrific thing. They sent away women and children to basically fend for themselves because these men weren't willing to just leave their homes. And he listened to the pressure of the men that were encouraging him to do this. And what's really interesting is the men that encouraged him to do it may have actually been some of the very men that took foreign wives to their hus to their sons. And so really what we see is an example of people saying, oops, I messed up. I'm going to clean this out my way. And the result was a terrible thing. And it reminds me of in Numbers 14 where the nation of Israel r refused to go into the promised land because They said, you know, we can't take the land. And God said, Okay, then you're gonna wander for forty years. And they said, Oh hold on, correction. We can take the land. We're gonna go right now and we're gonna do it. And God said, Don't do that. You made your decision. You go into the land, I'm not with you. And if we read in Romans, or excuse me, in Numbers 14, the people presumed against God. And they went into the land and they were they were whooped up pretty bad. I'll just put it that way. Lots and lots of those men that went into battle died. And God said, You have to live with your decision now. And you're gonna have to make the best of it. And the truth is that these men could have been responsible dads and they could have led their homes and seen many of these idolatrous families be turned to Servants of the Lord. They could have seen that. And uh if they'd have been patient and if they'd been responsible and if they'd been willing to just do what's right. That could have been story. Instead, they chose the easy and the very harsh way. So when we study the scriptures, we need to make sure that we rightly divide the word of truth and we're very cautious. about the way that we go to it. And we don't just say that every single example is prescriptive of what we should do. Sometimes it's a description of what we shouldn't do. And that's what this is. Okay, let's go ahead and let's turn together to our closing hymn. That's hymn 212, Go Tell It on the Mountain. And I love this song. And let's go ahead and stand together. We're going to sing the first, the second, and the third verses. Let's really sing it out. Go tell it on the mountain, over the hills and everywhere. Go tell it on the mountain that Jesus Christ is for. While shepherds kept there watching For silent fox finite Behold throughout the heavens is sure. No we are go tell it on the mountain over the hills and everywhere Go tell it on the mountain. That Jesus Christ is born on the second. Twas in a humble manger that Jesus Christ was born. God of our creation became a child and Go tell it on the mountain, over the hills and everywhere. Go tell it on the mountain that Jesus Christ is. Born on the last. He came to die for sinners, to take away our sin, that we may know salvation, and be Go tell it on the mountain over the hills and everywhere. Go tell it on the mountain. From the mountain that Jesus Christ is hold. I want to encourage you to grab a couple of Christmas tracks I don't know of any mountains around here, but pass out some. Invite people to come to our Christmas Eve service. And if they can't come physically, invite them to join us on the live stream. Share it on your Facebook feeds. Because I think that just like this morning we had a great gospel focus, we're going to have the same thing in our Christmas Eve candlelight service. So let's keep that in our minds. And uh Sean, can you close us in prayer tonight? And uh hope that you have a great week. I hope we get a lot of snow this week. It's been a it's been like an entire year or two since we've had a real snow, so maybe it'll happen this year on this warm winter. So go ahead. Thank you for the opportunity we had to come here tonight and uh and fellowship together in person. And I pray that we would uh not take that not take that uh privilege for granted I thank you for the message we heard tonight from Pastor Chris, and I just pray that we would not just come and listen, but that we would apply it to our hearts and to our lives. and uh that it would make a difference in the way that we live. I thank you for the service this morning and I pray that that someone was here who uh maybe didn't hear the who didn't know the gospel or maybe someone heard it online. I just pray that um That the gospel was clear to them and that you'd work in their heart and and that they would eventually come to know you as their savior. And I just ask that we would use this time where we remember uh you coming down to earth in the flesh and and how you died for our sins, that we would use that to um to uh reflect ourselves but also to share that with our friends and family and those who don't know know you. And I just thank you for all that you do for us. I pray that we just have a good, safe drive home and good rest of the week and we come back Sunday ready for more fellowship and more preaching. In Jesus' name. Amen.