First Thessalonians three six to thirteen. Here's what the scripture says. But now when Timotheus came from you unto us and brought us good tidings of your faith and charity, and that you have good remembrance of us always. Desiring greatly to see us, as we also desire to see you. Therefore, brethren, we are comforted over you in all our affliction and distress by your faith. For now we live, if ye stand in the fasting of the Lord. What thanks can we render to God again for you, for all the joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before our God? Night and day, praying exceedingly that we might see your face and might perfect that which is lacking in your faith. Now God Himself and our Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. Direct our ways unto you. And the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another, and toward all men, even as we do toward you. To the end that ye may establish your heart unblamable in holiness before God, even our Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, with all his saints. You know, when I read this passage, 1 Thessalonians 3, 6 to 13, I find it to be an incredibly encouraging passage. And so what I'd like to do is kind of begin with a summary statement and then just dig into A couple of reasons why this is such a powerful and encouraging passage. Paul wanted the church to know that their faith and love in the midst of sufferings had encouraged his heart. And that he continued to want to see them grow into Christ's likeness. Now if you remember back to our last study when Paul was uh writing to them, he said, you know, I was very concerned. In fact, I was deeply troubled. Because I know you're going through a lot of difficulty, you're going through struggles, and I'm concerned that that you are getting shaken in your faith. And so I sent Timothy to be with you because of how uh how concerned I was about you. Now he's basically saying, not only did I send Timothy back, but I want you to know what happened when I got to talk to him when he came back to see me. And I want you to know how encouraging uh it was when he shared the report of what took place. So that's really what this little section is all about. It's about Paul expressing how encouraged he was when Timothy came back to him. and told him about what was going on in Thessalonica. So here are a couple of things I observed this morning as I was reading the passage. The first thing is that Paul was troubled about their well-being But Timothy's good report brought him tremendous encouragement. Look down at what it says in verses six and seven. He says, When Timotheus came from you unto us. and brought us good tidings of your faith and charity, and that ye have good remembrance of us always, desiring greatly to see us, as we also see you. We were comforted over you in all our affliction and distress by your faith. In other words, Paul was like, I was really overwhelmed with anxiety, if you want to put it that way, as I thought about the situation that was going on in Thessalonica And my mind went all these different places about how bad it could be and how Satan was using this as an opportunity to really attack you as a Christian and to cause you to be unstable in your faith. And when Timothy came back, And he shared with me your faith and how strong it was and your love for one another, your love for me, and how you're burdened about me and you're praying for me in my situations that I'm dealing with. He said, I was overwhelmed with thanks. I couldn't believe how encouraging that was. That's basically what he's saying. He says that in verse 8 he says Now we live if you stand fast in the Lord. Basically saying I was so overwhelmed with care that I was discouraged. And when I got this report, it was like a breath of fresh air. That's basically what Paul was saying And when I think about what Paul's saying, it it kind of reminds me of something that I'd I've experienced as a pastor. You know, as a pastor, I love preaching and teaching. And one of the things that I like about preaching and teaching is that when you go into the pulpit You have studied the text, you hopefully hopefully know what it says, you know what you're trying to communicate, you know about how much time you want to spend dealing with that, and so you're working logically through a passage of scripture It's very planned, it's very scripted, you know where you're going, you know what you're trying to communicate. But when you go to visit somebody, At a hospital, at their house, and they're going through a major health crisis, a family crisis, it's very unpredictable. You have no idea what's going to be said You have no idea what kind of questions are going to be asked. You have no idea how the situation could change in a moment. And to be very frank, that is unsettling. That is a very difficult place to be in And when we're in a place like that, it can be a place of anxiety on some level. And I say anxiety, I don't mean like overwhelming anxiety, but it can be quite unsettling. And one of the things that I've experienced as a pastor is that there are times that I will go to visit somebody, to meet with them. And I am very uncomfortable about how this conversation could go and what might be said or what questions might be asked, and I don't know what I'm going to say And just pray that the Lord will give me wisdom and grace. I've walked away from situations like that, having been richly encouraged by the person that I went to minister to. In other words, that person's going through suffering in a way that I've never experienced, and I'm concerned about them, and I'm trying to encourage them when I walk away. I see that because of their stability, their strength, the fact that their faith is steadfast. the the warmth and the love that is flowing from them. It clearly uh the the the love of Christ is is flowing through this individual. I walk away being humbled. I walk away being encouraged. I walk away being strengthened through that time of ministry. I think that's what Paul's saying here. A second observation is that Paul wanted them to continue to grow. He says in verse 9, What thanks can we render to God again for you, for all the joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before God, night and day, praying exceedingly that we might see your face. might perfect that which is lacking in your faith. And the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another and toward all men even as we do toward you. I see in this verse, in these verses, that Paul wanted them to grow. Paul was deeply burdened that these Christians would continue to grow into Christ's likeness. And so though he was very excited about the report that he got, he was refreshed, he was encouraged by that report. There was still a part of him that said, but you still need to grow. The faith that is strong and has encouraged me, the love and the joy that has flowed through you, an evidence of the Spirit's work in and through you. That needs to continue to develop. It needs to continue to grow. Though he was encouraged and thankful, he still saw areas where these young Christians needed to grow, and he prayed that they would continue to grow in those areas. A third observation that really stood out as I was thinking about this passage is in verse 13. Paul always kept his eyes fixed on that final day. When he was going to stand before Christ and when they were going to stand before Christ. He always looked ahead with anticipation to the judgment seat of Christ. Notice what he says in verse 13. to the end that he may establish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even our Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. You know, Paul always wanted those Christians to be looking ahead to the day they stood before Christ. He always wanted them to be anticipating that day. He wanted them to be living in light of eternity. And so this is something that was always on Paul's heart. He was encouraged deeply by the report that he got. But he wanted them to continue to grow. And he wanted them to be found faithful at the judgment seat of Christ. So as we read this passage and think about it, what are some practical things that we should take to heart in the applications that flow from this text Well, here are a couple of things that I jotted down that I'm going to meditate on today, and I want to encourage you to meditate on. The first is this, we need to minister to hurting people. And sometimes that can take us to uncomfortable and unpredictable places. You know, as a pastor, I get called into very unusual circumstances sometimes. times. When I was a missionary, I got called into very unusual circumstances. And I remember reflecting on some of those things saying, there was no way that I could have been mentally prepared for that conversation, that situation. But you can't let the unpredictable keep you from doing what you need to do. People who are hurting need people to come alongside of them. And so we have to be willing to step into those situations and let God use us as instruments in their lives. A second thought is this, things are not always as bad as we've worked up ourselves to believe that they are. You know, sometimes we think the absolute worst about what could be, and we're not even close to what actually is. You know, Paul's praying for these people, he's burdened for them, he's concerned about their their well-being, and actually they were doing pretty well. And so we need to not let our our fears and our emotions and what we think might happen, our imagination. We didn't just go do the right thing and let God use us. A third thought. God often ministers to us through those to whom we are ministering. The truth is that if you don't make the call, if you don't make the visit, if you don't reach out when God wants you to do that, You actually are going to miss an opportunity that He has presented to you, that He has appointed for you, where not only will you be ministering to a friend, a person in need, but they will be ministering back to you And so we need to realize that God often ministers to our hearts through our faithfulness. Fourth, we should never be content to stay where we are today in our growth into Christ's likeness. The standard is perfection, Christ's righteousness, Christ's character, true godliness. There's nobody in this side of eternity that reaches that level of maturity. And so where I am today is not where I should be tomorrow. And I should always want to be growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. Till the day I die, till God takes me out of this world. I need to continue to grow, and so do you And lastly, we should live every day with an anticipation of the judgment seat of Christ. There's going to be a day that I stand before Christ. There's going to be a day that you stand before Christ And yes, I've trusted in the finished work of Jesus, and there's no condemnation because I'm in Christ. But that doesn't mean that I won't stand before Him and be evaluated for how faithful I was with the gifts and opportunities that he gave me. Was I a good steward of the good gifts of God? I didn't anticipate that day. I need to be living in light of that day, and so do you. And so I want to encourage you with those thoughts. Let's be added together for a word of prayer. And I hope that this was an encouraging time in God's Word today. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study the Bible. Thank you for this encouraging text of Scripture. Help us to live in the light of these truths Father, help us to be willing to go into unsettling and uncomfortable places so that we can minister to people in time of need. Father, help us to be obedient to you. And I pray that we would be in a position where you can minister back to us through those people. Father, help us to live each day with an anticipation of the judgment seat of Christ. Help us to continue to grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. It's been good to see each of you this morning. I had some small technical difficulties, so I'm just going to upload the video a little bit later. But I hope you have a wonderful day, and it's been good to see you. Bye now.