Well, good evening. Good to see each of you. Hope that your week's going well and uh looking forward to our study tonight. Let's go ahead and uh bow for a word of prayer and then we will Turn to the passage we're going to look at this evening. Let's bow for prayer. Father, you are so kind to us and we are so appreciative of how you work in our lives, and we're thankful for The opportunity tonight to open the word, and I pray that you'll speak to us. Help me as I dig into a passage that is very practical and Uh we find ourselves in places like this a lot. I pray that you would uh guide my thoughts and help me to be able to communicate the scriptures well. And I pray that we'd have hearts that are ready to receive the word, and that Ultimately, we would walk in wisdom and in love toward one another, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, the passage that we're in tonight is 1 Corinthians chapter 8. First Corinthians chapter eight, we've been dealing with the conscience for quite a while. And tonight what we're going to do is we're going to dig into how we are supposed to deal with issues of conscience where uh issues of count conscience sometimes create debatable matters and sometimes they create conflict. And so these are some of the most practical things that we can work through when it comes to this topic. So the passage that we're going to read is a little bit lengthy and I'm going to just work my way through it. And then I want us to look at three important questions that the text is answering. And I want us to talk about how to practically apply it. So 1 Corinthians chapter 8, we're going to begin in verse 1. Here's what it says. Now as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth. If any man think that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing Yet as he ought to know. But if any man love God, the same is known of him. As concerning, therefore, the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world. There is none other but God. For though there be uh there are there be some that are called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as there be God's many and Lord's many, But to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in Him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things. And we by him. How be it, there is not in every man that knowledge. Some, with conscience of an idol, unto this hour, eat it as a thing offered unto an idol. Their conscience being weak is defiled. But meat commendeth us not to God. For neither if we eat are we any better, neither if we eat not are we any worse. But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. For if any man see that which hath knowledge and sit at meat in the idol's temple Shall not the conscience of him that is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols? I through thy knowledge and through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish for whom Christ died But we when ye sin so against the brother and wound their weak conscience, ye sin against Christ. Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend I will not eat flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. Now some of you tonight might be going, Well, I'm so glad we don't have to deal with situations like this And uh at the moment that is true. We do not seem to have uh equivalent scenarios where uh there are people that are going into an idol temple. and uh they are making sacrifices to idols or when we go to the grocery store, you go to the safe way or go to the Costco, you don't go, oh, there's the meat that's been offered to idols. I'll not buy that meat. I'll go to the meat that's not offered idols. Maybe maybe today we'd say, is that is that the meat with the growth hormones or not with the growth hormones? Sorry, that that's a whole nother topic. But but the idea is that in some ways we sit down and we say, do we even have parallel scenarios? But one of the things that we notice about scripture Is that many times when God gives a law, he gives a law that is a case scenario. And when he gives that case scenario, there'll be certain principles that are timeless. that are going to be applied in the application of that particular case scenario. And so this would be an example of this. So we could be in a culture where we would never actually deal with this exact same situation. Whether or not we should eat meat that's been offered to idols. Yet all of the principles that are being applied by the Apostle Paul in this text, they apply in our kinds of situations. And by the way, there are a lot of situations that we encounter as Christians today that fall into these categories And these are debatable matters. These are areas that are not fundamental to the Christian's uh faith. In other words, if you get it wrong on this issue, you're still a Christian, okay? Uh it's not a a matter of the deity of Christ or a matter of uh the way that we're saved or the work of Christ, it's it's not on that foundational level, but these issues still are important. And so it's important for us to dig into this topic this evening. So I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts that I hope will help get us moving in the right direction. I want to start with this statement. We as people who believe in the gospel are people that believe in objective truth. We do not believe that the truth is just relative, okay? We believe that there is one way of salvation. Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. And no one can come to the Father except through him. That is an objective reality, okay? So we're not saying that Jesus is a way and one of the truths. He is the way and the truth. Okay? And as Christians, we think in these terms a lot. At least we're supposed to. We try to Well, part of what that means is that we believe pretty strongly the things that we believe. It's just the truth. And I'm not saying that that's bad. I think that's actually a good thing. However, not everything that we believe we can hold as dogmatically because maybe the scripture isn't as clear about certain situations. And also, it is possible for us to not necessarily hold on to something so dogmatically, but in our heart we feel compelled to do something because of the way that we grew up, the way that we were raised, uh maybe something that we believed and held to for many, many years. And as time goes on and as we mature and we grow, we begin to realize that our understanding was wrong on that issue. And we we have these kinds of things that we deal with. I deal with them, you deal with them. And so what this means is that as believers, our lives need to be built on something that is sure. We believe that our lives are built on the truth. We have a strong sense of moral right and moral wrong, and that's a good thing. But our sense of what is right and wrong is not infallible. That means sometimes we get it wrong. That means sometimes we get into a conversation with somebody and they ask us a question and all of a sudden we realize I've never considered that. It's true. Maybe I need to actually take a step back and look at this issue again. There are situations that are like that. Sometimes we ask a person, why do you hold that particular viewpoint? And they have no idea why they hold it Or they may present to you why they hold it and you've never even considered that. It's not even something you've ever thought of. And so the point is that having a sense of right and wrong is good, but we have to recognize we're not infallible in our sense of right and wrong. We all bring history, baggage, which ultimately bring potential conflicts. We all have blind spots when we study the Bible I can tell you, uh, having lived in another culture, there are times where I would be reading through scripture in my own personal reading, and I would see something in the text of scripture that's always been there. And because I was living in a different culture, I all of a sudden understood it when formerly I did not understand it. It's true. It's because living in another context all of a sudden makes you understand what is being communicated better. We grow over the course of our lives. That means the things that we believe, some of them we become stronger and firmer and more uh unshakable in those things. And I hope that when it comes to issues of the the doctrines of the faith that you become stronger and more firmly rooted and grounded as you get older. But there are also things as we get older we start realizing you know what That is a debatable matter. That is a conscience issue. That is a secondary issue. And some of those kinds of issues we actually hold less dogmatically and more gently, and we show greater deference in those areas as we get older. That's part of maturing. God has placed this into a body. And in that body, we all come from different backgrounds. And you know what? That's what God wants. When you walk into a church and everybody looks the exact same, that's called a cult. It's true. The fact is when you walk into the church, you should be able to recognize, you know what? What's holding these people together Is the doctrine of the gospel. It's not the fact that they're from the same walks of life. It's not the fact that they've lived the same story and they've got everything on the on the superficial level the exact same. It's actually what's at the core, it's what's at the heart, it's at the foundation. That is what unites them. That is what biblical Christianity Christianity does. So within this context, there is unity at the foundation, but diversity and secondary issues. This unity at the foundation, diversity on the secondary matters, is a very healthy and necessary thing to help us all grow into Christ. slightness. We need humility and a love for truth that constantly points us back to God's authority, not our own opinions. So that's where we're going to start this evening. There are two key texts of Scripture that address the issue of conscience. in a very thorough manner. The first one is the one we're going to look at tonight. And I don't know if we will finish it tonight, but we're going to dig into it tonight. And then the second one we're going to get into is in Romans chapter 13, and it's going to move all the way through chapter 14 and get a little bit into chapter 15. Now in Romans or 1 Corinthians chapter 8, it's primarily dealing with issues of conscience between individuals. And in Romans chapter 13, 14, and 15 It's dealing primarily with issues of conscience within a body context, within the local church context. And most certainly the local church context is affected by what we're going to talk about in 1 Corinthians. But that's not the primary focus or the primary emphasis. So I wanted to start with it on the personal level first. And it's also the shorter passage. So, in order for us to appreciate and understand this text, there are three areas of interest that we're going to examine here that the Apostle Paul is emphasizing when he talks about this issue of conscience. Here is the first area, and it's a question. The question is, what makes something evil? That's a pretty great question, isn't it? What makes something evil? You know, there might be some people that say, well, books are evil All books are evil? Well no, just some books are evil. Okay, yes, some books are evil. The internet is evil. Everything on the internet is evil? No, but a lot on the internet is evil. Language is evil. All language is evil? No. But there's plenty of language that's that's being used for evil. The idea is that something like the internet, something like media, something like a telephone, something like a television, something like a book, something like words and language They're all moral. What makes them good or bad is what you put them together to communicate, okay? And so what we're going to see is that there was a debate about stuff that was meat that you could eat. It would smell the same if you were to cook it, okay, you'd you'd smell the aromas, but it had been offered to an idol before you bought it in the market and before you went to eat it. And the question we should ask is, was that meat defiled when it was offered to an idol? This is a pretty interesting question, isn't it? In fact, if I was to ask an opinion poll, I guarantee you we wouldn't all answer it the same way. Is that piece of meat defiled? Does it become evil the moment that somebody offered it to an idol? That's a great question. Well, let's see what the Apostle Paul has to say about it. Well, the first thing is this: he put the heavy emphasis on what the most doctrinally grounded members of the church knew. And notice what he says. Verse number one, he says, We know that we all have knowledge. Now, sometimes people will take this statement and they'll rip it out of context and they'll say, Knowledge makes people arrogant. Well There's a context with this particular statement, okay? These people know something about idols and meats And their knowledge is affecting their attitude towards other Christians that don't understand this as clearly as they do. That's the context of what's going on. So in verse one he says, We know that we all have knowledge. Verse number two, if any man thinks that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know. That little statement at the end is important. as he ought to know. What he knows, he doesn't hold it the way he's supposed to. That's what he's saying. He then is emphasizing to them That it's not just what you know, but how you hold the truth. This is a really important concept. Let me give you an example Okay. Within our homes, there are many, many times that a husband or a wife or a child or a parent does something that's uh it's not good. Okay And you can make a point of that in a way that communicates some kind of uh attack, or you can communicate it in a way that Indicates that you love this person and they were wrong and you need to bring this up so that it can be resolved, but it's not the same way. Isn't that true? Okay You can communicate the exact same message in a different way, and it's taken as an attack, or it's taken as something that's productive and helpful. It's true. In fact, one of the things that's so hard about when we're texting people, when we're writing emails, is that we read something and we don't have the ability to look at someone's demeanor and and hear their intonation. Because sometimes when you read something without seeing it sad, seeing it, you know, the intonation, hearing the intonation and seeing the body language, sometimes it just communicates totally different. We understand this concept. So notice in verse 2, he says this. He knoweth nothing as he ought to know it. So, what Paul is going to emphasize in these verses is that it's not just enough to know this situation clearly, but it's to know it and then to respond to a person in love. for their good. That's what he's saying. So what they're showing us is that there is a sense where deference is needed. In other words, I can know that somebody's wrong and I can still defer to them in certain areas. Not in all areas. Not in all areas. But in certain areas. This is a very important principle for us to learn if we want to get along with people. Get along with people that you work with, get along with the person you're married to, get along with your siblings, get along with other people in the church. You don't have to correct everybody's wrongdoings, alright? You don't As a pastor, I don't have to do that. I don't address every single problem that I see in people's lives. If I did that, I would fall apart. If you did that with your own children, you'd fall apart. We're not under obligation to address every single issue. There are certain issues that we are, and God brings things to a head so that we are. But the idea that He's going to bring up is you hold the truth in a certain way. That's where he's going with this. And you'll see the application as we move through it. The third thing. Here's this specific case that's dividing the church. He says, this is concerning the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols. So let me put it simply. At the church of Corinth, some people would go to the market and they made no discrimination between the kinds of meat that were being sold. Some people saw that there was a chunk of meat that had been sold that had been offered to an idol and they said, I'll buy it without any problem. And I'll take it home and I'll marinate it and I'll cook it up and I'll eat it to the glory of God and feel totally fine about it. It's true. There were other people that when they went to the market, they had to ask, can you tell me, did you offer this meat to an idol? Now by the way, in a pagan meat market, how many people do you think didn't do this? Not too many. Not too many. Okay? Let me give you a modern equivalent. Going to the grocery store and asking them what their personal views are about certain areas before you go and you buy your Skittles there. No, I'm serious. That's really what it comes down to. It's absolutely no different. So some people could not in good conscience eat meat that had been offered to idols, and others had no problem with it at all. And here's the question, who was right? Believe it or not, it was the person that could eat meat that had been offered to an idol. That's who was right. You say, well, why is that? As a pastor, you should not believe in idols, right? You should be against idols. I am against idols. Trust me, I'm against idols. But I want you to notice what Paul says here. Very, very important. Verse number four. We know that an idol is nothing in the world. Oh, so they don't exist. No, that's not what he's saying. He's not saying they don't exist. He's not saying that people don't believe in their power or that people are not dominated by idolatry. He's not saying that at all. He's saying an idol has no power. It has ears that don't hear. It has eyes that don't see. You can put food in front of that idol and you can leave it there for a month, for a year, for a decade, and that idol will not eat it. It's a piece of wood, it's a piece of stone, it's a piece of metal, has no power, so why does this bother you? That's what he's saying. Though there be some that are called gods, whether in heaven or earth, as there be gods many and lords many, but to us there is but one God. The Father of whom are all things, and we in him, and one Lord Jesus Christ by whom are all things, and we by him. So, Paul is saying that if I go into the market and I see a piece of meat that's been offered to an idol, who cares? It doesn't matter at all. Because that idol has no power. That idol didn't change anything in the meat. It's just as much a piece of meat now as it was before that happened. So it's totally legitimate for me to eat it. I can go and eat it. It's just meat. That's what he's saying. However, not everybody in the church has such a liberty of conscience. Okay? Not everybody has the ability to walk into that market and buy that meat and go home and cook it and smell it and eat it. And praise the Lord as they thank God for that food. They don't have the ability to do that. It's because their conscience is not healthy. That's what he's saying. So I know my job is to go and to prove to them their conscience is wrong, and then I need to help them get over this. It's not what he says. It's not what he says. The next thing, some Christians don't have this understanding of the issue yet. And verse number seven, howbeit there is not in every man that knowledge. So this is what he says. When they eat the meat, it condemns them in their conscience. Some with conscience of the idol, unto this hour eat it as a thing offered unto an idol. And their conscience being weak is defiled. Remember what we said the other week that our conscience is not an infallible guide. The fact that I feel liberated to do something doesn't necessarily mean it's okay. And the fact that my conscience is bothered by a thing doesn't necessarily mean that it's wrong. Doesn't mean I should violate my conscience. It simply means my conscience has not grown and matured yet. And so this is what Paul is talking about. Let me just put it in simple terms. Some Christians in the Corinthian church could eat the meat with a clear conscience, and others could not. Those who could eat it with a clear conscience, according to Scripture, were technically correct, and those who could not were technically deficient in their thinking on this issue. Meat is neither morally evil nor morally good because it's just meat. The meat did it become morally evil because it was previously used in an evil practice Eating the meat after it had been previously used as an evil practice was not technically condoning or participating in an evil practice. Let me read that again. Eating the meat after it had been previously used in an evil practice was not technically condoning or participating in an evil practice. Now that principle is extremely helpful for you and for me when it comes to making decisions today. Are there some corporations in America that hold views very publicly and very loudly that are very much antagonistic to the Bible? Yes. So what would happen in the United States if every single company that did business in this country got to the point where they had a very loud and public attacking attitude towards the Bible. Does that mean we can't go buy milk and eggs anymore and we can't buy bread and we can't fuel up and get gas and we can't buy shoes and we can't buy clothes? Because if we're giving money to those organizations Who hate God at the top, then ultimately we are condoning their viewpoints. Is that true? I would say it's not true. Okay? I think that's a very parallel scenario. Now, don't get me wrong, we live in a capitalistic society, we have options. Okay? So if I have a company that is very openly attached antagonistic to the Bible, and I have one that If not, well, I I'd rather do business with this guy. Just to be totally honest, I would. But there are times when you don't have that option. And the fact that someone may be comfortable going and buying clothes from this organization or shoes from this organization or food from this organization does not mean that they are condoning those viewpoints or that they hold those viewpoints and believe in those things. Do you see how this issue of conscience is so practical? Because here's what happens. In a family Husband and wife might not see this the same way. It's true. And I'm not going to predict which one would hold which view, because every family could be a little different. Within a church context. Friend families might not hold views the same way. And that's okay. That's absolutely okay. We should be able to love one another and still get along when we have difference of opinions in these kinds of areas. Okay? This is not an issue of is Jesus God in flesh. This is not an issue of did he physically literally die on the cross as the propitiation for our sins? Did he literally rise from the dead? This is not on the same level. There are secondary levels of doctrine. It's true. We have to recognize this. There are certain areas that are not as clear. And so the Apostle Paul is clearly addressing such an issue. Lastly, we have to acknowledge the reality that some Christians who love Christ cannot make this distinction in their minds. And by the way, I'll even go this far to say they may never be able to. Does not make them less of a Christian than you or some other Christian. The fact that a believer never gets to the point In Corinth, that he can go to the go to the meat market and buy meat that's been offered to idol. The fact that he lives his entire life being unable to do that doesn't matter. It doesn't matter with his position in Christ. It doesn't matter with his ability to commune with God through the Lord Jesus Christ, through the with the Father, through the Lord Jesus Christ. It doesn't change anything. Is he wrong? Yes. Is it healthy? No. But he may not grow through it. And that's okay. That's okay Let me give you some illustration of this. Theological works. If you were to walk into my uh into my office and you're to go through every single book. You would find that uh I have some authors in there that you might not like their theology in certain areas. Okay. The fact that I have a book that's been written by A classic theologian who holds different viewpoints than I do doesn't mean that I agree with him in everything. It doesn't. Is it morally wrong to have that book on my shelf? Of course not. Can it be a tremendous help? Of course it can. But would I take that book off my shelf and give it to any person in the church and say, here, go ahead and read this? The answer is no. I wouldn't do that. Why? Because I understand that that particular book or that particular author may very well be a stumbling block to a brother or sister in Christ. And so, as someone who's going to recommend something to another person, I want to be very cautious about the downstream effect of that recommendation. Very, very practical scenario. What about Christian ministers and sermons? So as a pastor, I love you know posting, you know, here's a sermon I heard online, this and that. And one of the things that pops in my head sometimes is I go, that was an outstanding sermon, but I don't want somebody to get in their head that because I posted this sermon, but I agree with this, this, this, and this. Okay. I have a pastor friend who said I don't recommend books unless the author's dead, because then I know there's nothing more they can mess up in life. Although that's a pretty interesting way to approach things. But this is the point that he was making. I put a book in somebody's hand, and ten years later, this person becomes an apostate. And now somebody turns around and says, Pastor, why'd you give me that book? Now listen. Whatever decisions the guy makes 10, 20 years from now, if what he wrote today is good, it doesn't change it because of what he does 20 years from now. But it might change your willingness to read that book or my willingness to recommend that book. And so when it comes to theological works, Christian ministers, I'll give you another example, such a hot bad issue, an issue like music. There are certain artists that they write good, solid, theologically rich music. And then they'll go and they'll link up with somebody who I'm like, what in the world are you doing? And in my mind, I just don't understand it. Does the fact that they've made that connection with that person compromise the value of what they've written? I would say no, it does not. But it does affect some believers' ability to use such music. Because in their mind, they're not able to look at the words And the content of what is being communicated in their mind is saying, but I know this association that is very, very serious. it problematic and troubling or I read this uh uh this book that this person wrote or I listened to this interview and some of the things that they said just shocked me and I was like, I can't use that work. And you know what? This is an issue of conscience. Believe it or not, within our if we were to pull out our hymn book, anybody like Battle Hymn of the Republic? Do you know who wrote that? Do you know they were a Unitarian minister? It's true. Do you know why they wrote that? It's it was the whole slavery debate. when it was written. The Wesley brothers. I'm not a Methodist. By the way, I love the Wesleys Isaac Watts, I'm not a Puritan. Okay? So we've got to understand that sometimes we judge the content of a thing simply by the content of a thing. But at the same time, when it comes into a local church context, or when it comes to our relationship with other people, we have to consider: am I going to cause stumbling to my brother or my sister? by including them or forcing on them this particular issue. That's really what we're getting at. The second area that is looked at here is what gives us standing with God. Now this is extremely important. I am convinced and I would say concerned that one of the reasons that we become so agitated about issues of conscience And we are so unwilling to lovingly relate to other brethren about this is because deep down in our minds, though we know that we are justified by faith alone and Christ alone, it is his righteousness, not our righteousness. It's his sacrifice, not our sacrifice. We somehow infuse into the equation, and I get all these things right as well, and they get all these things right as well. And so we can be friends. They don't get all these things right. So we cannot be friends. That is sometimes the way that I think we think about these things. And so the Apostle Paul goes into this question of what gives us standing with God? Because this is a valid question for us to ask when we consider about this issue. Because if standing before God is about me getting it right in all these areas , Well then I'm gonna have to hold a really tight rein. And when I disagree with you, we can't communicate in fellowship with one another because you're wrong and I'm right, I have standing with God, and you don't have standing with God. And that's the mindset that we'll have. So notice what it says in verse number eight. He says, meat commendeth us not to God. That's a really great statement. Important statement. Me commendeth us not to God. For neither if we eat are we any better, neither if we eat not are we any worse. Did you catch that? What Paul is saying is where you come down on this issue does not matter as it relates to your position in Christ. Not saying it doesn't matter at all. That's not what he's saying. But it does not matter on the most fundamentally important issue that you deal with, and that is your relationship to God. He's saying where you draw the line on this matter does nothing to your position. Your position is rooted in Christ and his finished work alone. And I believe that this should liberate us. Now, let me give you a little bit of a, but hold on a second. Okay. This liberty should not lead us to a casual flippancy towards areas of conscience I don't want to give you the impression that, okay, you know what, it doesn't matter at all, so I can just do anything that I want. It doesn't matter. I mean, I'm secured in Christ, and so the decisions I make don't matter. That's not what he's saying. But he's saying that there's a priority. There's a priority. This shouldn't embolden us to sin presumptuously against this grace that we enjoy. God wants us to walk in wisdom. Because when you sin there's consequence. Okay? There's natural consequence God wants us to have a healthy, vibrant walk. He wants us to walk in a sober and orderly manner. And so we need to approach these issues in a very cautious way. So he's not encouraging presumption. He's not encouraging a carelessness, a casualness, a flippancy. But what he is saying Is that we should feel free from the obligation to feel perfect and force everyone around us to conform their convictions to our sense of what is right and wrong in these areas. Did you catch that? We should feel free from the obligation to feel that we must be perfect and force everyone around us to conform to our convictions, to our sense of what is right and wrong and wrong. I am not trying to give the impression there isn't an objective standard. Not trying to give the impression that we should sin presumption. Not saying be careless. But this last point is very, very important. Paul is saying that in the same congregation at Corinth, you could have people that can eat meat offered to idols. And you can have people that can't meet each offered to the idols, and they both have equal access to the same Father through the same Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And they can both have sweet and hearty communion with God and one another, and they don't see it the same way on that issue. Isn't that an absolutely stunning thing? That's what he's saying. So, that leads us to the third area. What should be our predominant concern when relating to other Christians in these kinds of areas? Two words. Loving humility. Verse number nine, he says, take heed Lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. Let me read that again. He says, take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them to them that are weak. Be cautious about what you do before others. By the way, I'm going to go through a whole list of things that They come right out of the text that give us, you could say, some guidelines on how to how to handle these kind of issues. So first one, be cautious about what you do before other people. Just because you and your conscience believe it's okay, does not mean you should just go out and do it in front of everybody. That's what he's saying. Okay? So the fact that you can eat meat that's offered to an idol and it doesn't offend your conscience, and yes, you're right on this issue. Doesn't mean that you walk into the marketplace and you say, hey brother over there, I know you have a trouble with this, but I'm about to buy this meat. Would you like to come to my house and have some steak with me this afternoon? He's he's saying, don't do things like that Let me read it to you. If any man see thee which hath knowledge sit at me in the idle table, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things? which are offered to idols? And through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish for whom Christ died? When ye sin so against the brother and wound their conscience, You sin against Christ. Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. He's saying, just because I can doesn't mean that I have to. Just because I can doesn't mean that I that I should. That's what he's saying. There are things in the Christian life that you have absolute freedom to do that you should choose not to do them. It's true. Or you should choose not to do them in certain contexts because you understand that it will have some kind of implication on the people that you fellowship with That's what he's saying. When you go to make a decision, it's not just how it affects you, it also affects other people. And so we've got to consider this. I'll tell you the most practical way is how how it raised to our children. When your children watch you do something, they go, Dad did it, it's okay. Mom did it, it's okay. Without context, without explanation, they see a thing, they do a thing. And they'll probably do it more than you did it. They'll go further than you did. That's the way that kids are. It's true. And so the first principle is be cautious about what you do before others. Second, deliberately don't overanalyze the situation you are in. Verse 25. Whatsoever is sold, or chapter 10, verse 25. I'm going over two chapters, because he actually continues this in chapter 10 as well. He says, whatsoever is sold in the shambles. Sounds like a great place to buy food, right? Well, I've seen some places that might be defined that way when w when where you buy meat. But anyway, whatsoever is sold in the shambles that eat asking No questions for conscience sake. That's interesting. In other words, when you go to the grocery store, don't don't walk up to the manager and say, I'd like to know what your uh what your viewpoint is on I just want to know if I can go and shop in this store and buy things from you or not. And they look at you like, what's that all about? I just want to make sure that I'm not violating anybody's conscience when I go to this place. They're like, okay. He says, don't do that. Don't do that. He says, whatever is sold, don't ask questions for conscience sake, for the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. He's saying God made that meet and enjoy it. Don't ask any questions about it. You say, well, we should make decisions with knowledge. In this particular situation, we don't need that knowledge. That's what he's saying. That's what he's saying. He says, if any of them that believe not bid you to a feast and ye be dis disposed to go, whatever is set before you, eat asking no questions for conscience' sake. Let's say that you're invited to a wedding. Or to a funeral. And the person the people that are getting married, they're not Christians. The person that that has passed away is not a Christian. All the people that are going, uh, they're not Christians. And and you're going into this context And he's saying, don't go in there and start asking a bunch of questions about where did you buy this and what happened here? That's what he's saying. That's the situation he's talking about. Why is he saying that? He's saying because whether it was offered to idols or not doesn't matter. But if you know that it was, it might affect your conscience. That's what he's saying. Next, limit your involvement once the difficulty arises. So what happens when somebody just comes up to you and is like, hey, let me tell you something about that food that you're eating right there? Verse 18. But if any man say unto you, this is offered in sacrifice unto idols, eat not that thing for his sake that showed it. And for conscience sake, for the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. Conscience, I say, not thine own, but the others. Now this is interesting You may have a situation where there's nothing wrong with you doing this thing. You don't ask any questions. You just go and you do it, and you're you're okay. And then somebody comes up and says, hey, let me give you a little bit more information about this. And all of a sudden you're like, oh boy. Not feeling so good about this anymore. What am I supposed to do? Well, then don't be involved in it. Now, are you choosing not to be involved in it because it's wrong? The answer is no. You're choosing not to be involved in it because now it has risen to a level where it is a conscience debate. So realize why you are making the adjustment. 29 and 30. Why is my liberty judged of another man's conscience? If I by grace be a partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that which I give thanks? You know what Paul is basically saying? He's saying there was nothing wrong with what you were doing, but if you continue in it after that conversation now, people are gonna go, Why are you doing that? You're a Christian. I thought Christians didn't didn't participate in these kinds of things I brought this to your attention. You're continuing to do this. Why are you doing this? Now it's a problem. Not for you, but for them. And so the reason that you abstain or the reason that you stop that thing is because you are concerned about their conscience and how they are processing that issue. That's what he's saying. So he's not saying, well, you weren't sinning, but now because they brought to your attention, you have sinned. That's not what he's saying. He's saying if you continue in it, knowing how it affects them, now you're sinning. That's what he's saying. The adjustment isn't being made because you are wrong in what you could enjoy. You make the adjustment to limit offense in order to minister and edify others. Next, make your decision on what brings glory to God, not what makes you most happy in the moment. This is a very important principle in life. Why did you do that? Because I wanted to. Well, that's not really the best answer right there, okay? Just because you want to do it doesn't mean it's okay. But just because you want to do it doesn't mean it's wrong either. And so in chapter 10, verse 31, he says, whether you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. I remember learning this verse when I was a kid, never knew the context at all. Okay. But what he's basically saying is the decisions you make need to be made not by what do I want to do, but what brings glory to God. That's what should be concerning. most to me. And lastly, know your context and adjust appropriately for the good of others. In verse thirty-two he says, give none offense, neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor to the Church of God. This is a principle that anybody that's going to be a missionary and survive has to learn Okay? When you walk into a context, you need to know what the context is So if I'm going into another culture, my job isn't to go and I'm going to tell you you're all wrong because we do it right in our culture and you do it wrong in your culture. What kind of arrogance is that? You think you're going to help anybody doing that? No. When you walk into a context, you have to make adjustments so that you can minister to people. This is not just a foreign missionary thing. This is an America thing. If you go to somebody's house There might be certain topics that you don't need to bring up. You know why you don't need to bring them up? Because the moment you bring them up, it's no longer a friendly conversation. Okay? Oh, but I have to do that. It's my duty. No, it's not. No, it's not. When you get together for Thanksgiving, you know, some things just don't need to be discussed. Why? Because you know the context. You go to your mother-in-law's house, right guys? No. Just some things don't need to be discussed. When you go to your brother's house, when you go to your uncle's house, we need to know the context. It is not our job to walk into a place and to make it conform to us. It's our job to figure out how we can best minister to the people around us. This is an extremely important principle. And I tell you, a whole sermon can be preached on that particular topic, all right? Very, very important. And I think it can be abused too. Okay. Know your context and adjust appropriately for the good of others. It's not our job to make a context conform to us. Yeah. Alright, so let me give you some practical thoughts at the end here. We need to know the people that we're interacting with. Out of love for them, we need to avoid putting them in situations where their conscience will become conflicted. Did you catch that? Out of love for them Oh, but I want I want to do it my way. Then you don't love them. Then you are proud. You are arrogant. You need to calm down. When you walk into a context out of love for the people, avoid putting them in situations where their conscience will be conflicted. This doesn't mean that we personally are obligated to follow everyone else's viewpoint in our personal lives. However, in social and corporate contexts, we need to lovingly show deference. We need to understand this concept personally. We need to communicate it to our children. I think this is a really important concept. You don't want your kids to become little elitists. Oh, we don't do that in our house. They walk over to the neighbor's house. We don't do that. Great. They go to grandma and grandpa's house. We don't go to that kind of a church. Have conversations with your kids so that these kinds of things don't happen, okay? The fact is, your kids need to understand the reason that we make this adjustment is because we love this person. It's not because we're better, not because we're smarter, not because we're the better Christian. That's not why. We need to be so cautious about that. We want our kids to have discernment on how to relate to other Christians and deferential love. This is going to happen when your kids go to college. Might happen when they go into a school context. You might have taught them well on the way that they should think about things, but maybe not on how they should relate to people who don't think right about things. We need to be so cautious about this. We cannot teach these matters without conversations, and opportunities will inevitably develop out of as our children grow older. They're going to ask you questions. Give them good answers. Not, well, that's just the way we do it in our house. Sit down and talk to them about it. Help them to work through the issue. Help them to understand how to make judgment decisions. How to understand we hold a different view than this person does, but we love this person. And so when we when we're dealing with them, this is how we relate to them, okay? It's okay for us to have this difference. We can talk to them about these kinds of things. It's very important. Lastly, God can bless Christians who have substantially different convictions than we do in certain areas. The other day my son asked me a question about some of the conversations between George Whitfield and the Wesley brothers. Very interesting questions. The Wesleys and George Whitfield had massive debates about theology. Massive. But you know what's amazing? God used all of those guys in very substantial ways, with some differences of theology and areas. Okay, not and I'm not saying that they were You know, all right. I'm not saying that at all. But what I am saying is this on the fundamental issues of the gospel, they were preaching the truth. And God blessed that. And so I think it's important for us to recognize that on issues of conscience We need to be humble, we need to be gracious, and we need to love people. And we do not need to demand our rights. Just because we can doesn't mean we have to, and it doesn't mean that we We should. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, I pray that you'll take the things that we've discussed this evening and use them in our hearts. Help us to have wisdom when it comes to issues of conscience. Help us to love one another. These are truly difficult issues. And so I pray that you would help us to develop godly wisdom in these areas. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.