We take on the character and the disposition of the one who is our Father. Look at what he says in 1 John 3, verse 9. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin. And we talked about that a little bit last week, and we said that the idea is there's not this habitual characterization of a life of sin. The idea is that this person has a new nature, they're a new creature, and so they will not continue to persist in a way that is different than the family that they're a part of The reason is for his seed remaineth in him. He cannot sin because he's born of God. He says this then, in this the children of God are manifested. The idea is that they're revealed. And the children of the devil. Whosoever doth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. For this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer, and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. I'd like to invite you to bow with me for a word of prayer as we look at a very important passage from John 's epistle to the church at Ephesus. A general epistle that he writes here. Let's bow our hearts in prayer. Father, as we think about this text, I pray that you'd help us to understand the weight and the significance of many truths that will be brought to the surface. That we will examine, that we will reflect on, that we'll try to break down and understand. And I pray that the Holy Spirit might do a great work in our hearts, that He would change how we look at situations if there needs to be repentance. That He would take the Word of God and apply it to our souls and awaken our conscience if that's necessary. I pray that we would have a greater understanding of the incredible contrast between two families that live in this world. A family that is dominated by its flesh A family that is dominated by the control of the Holy Spirit. Two families in collision. I pray that you'd help us to understand that as we mature in the faith, we'll become more like Jesus. Less like this world. And we will be in a position that will bring on certain responses from the world. Help us to understand these truths and help us to live in the light of them. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. As I like to do every time we come to a passage, I want to kind of give you a basic summarization of this little section. John is writing the following section because he wants these believers to live in a distinctly Christian manner. This desire was coupled with the confidence that since they are in Christ, they can, and they will follow through with his important instructions. With this concept in the back of his mind, a secondary important concept comes to the Apostle's mind. These Christians need to be prepared to face hardship. Because the world that they're living in is not going to love them. In fact, it's going to hate them. God wants us, as we examine this text, to understand that we are to live in a distinctly Christian manner. But it's going to cost us something. I want us to take some time this morning and I want us to look at this passage in two sections. The first section is this: we need to understand the nature of the Christian life. Now, when we talk about the nature of the Christian life, there are so many different important concepts that we could address, but we're going to isolate ourselves down to the concepts that John lays out in the text before us. The first thing we'll notice in this passage is that the way we enter God's kingdom is by birth. Not the first birth, the physical birth, but the second birth, the spiritual birth In fact, we can take our minds back to the story of Jesus and Nicodemus. And Nicodemus comes to Jesus and he says, We know that you're a teacher come from God, because there's nobody that can do the kind of miracles that you're doing. unless God is with him. He was basically coming to talk to Christ and find out where his power was lying and all many different things. What does Jesus do? He doesn't give him the chance to get into what he wanted to address though He comes to a point. It says Nicodemus, unless you're born again, you won't see the kingdom of God. That's a stunning statement. Nicodemus doesn't understand what he's saying, so he states it again. Unless you're born again, you will not see the kingdom of God. Just like Jesus told Nicodemus that statement, he would tell you, and he'd tell me the exact same thing. Unless we're born again, we cannot, we will not see the kingdom of God. We can sit in this church building week in and week out. We can become a member of this church. We can get baptized. We can read the Bible on a daily basis. But if we've not come face to face with the realities of the gospel, if we've not repented and turned to the Lord Jesus Christ and been born again, if we've not received the new birth, if we've not been regenerated. We will not see the kingdom of God. There are no exceptions to that statement. God brings into his kingdom those that are born spiritually. Unless you've been born the second time, you won't be there. Notice what he says in verse 9. He says, Whosoever is born of God Now when he makes that statement, born of God, he's talking about God is his father. He's talking about just like I'm the father of my son Joel and my son Nathanael and Caleb and my daughter Adeline, you need God to be your father. , He's not talking about it in a physical sense. He's talking about it in a spiritual sense. When you're born into this world, you're born spiritually dead, separated from God. You have a father, and that father is not God And your nature begins to reveal that. From the time you begin to express in words and actions, our hearts are completely dominated by our flesh. Until we come face to face with the realities of the gospel and we're regenerated by the Spirit of God's work in our hearts, and we're saved We walk in a way that is consistent with a world that is dominated by its flesh until we're born again. You cannot be a Christian in the biblical sense. unless you've been regenerated. And it's interesting how it's stated. He says, you've been born of God. That's actually the idea of in the past you were born again, and you're still in that position today. I want to ask this question, have you been born from above? Are you God's child? Has there been repentance toward God and faith in the finished work of Christ? You might say, Pastor, I have no idea. Well, if you don't know, then you need to ask questions. The Word of God is very clear and it's very simple and explains to us how we can become God's children through the gospel message. Through the work of the Lord Jesus Christ for us, not the work that we do for him. But the first truth that we find in this understanding the nature of the Christian life is that it begins at a point of time when we are born again. The second truth is this. Children are begotten in the image of their fathers. Now I made a point when we were watching the kids sing, when I came back up there, I said, I bet you know that two of those kids, well, a couple of those kids were my kids. How did you know? Hopefully it wasn't how bad the singing was, or how good it was, however you judge it. But when you looked at those kids, you go, that is Pastor Joel's son. No question. And if you saw a picture of me when I was a little kid, then you'd really know it was me, my my son. We are begotten in the image of our Father. In the physical sense, we begin to take on the physical qualities of our parents. We begin to look like them. But it's actually more than just looking like them. We actually begin to take on the qualities of their personality, the qualities of their disposition. The way that they look at life, those things are not just taught in the home, though that's a major aspect, but there's a sense in which we inherit a lot of things from our parents just because they're mom and dad You ever looked at your kids and go, oh, I know where that came from? Oh. Somebody in the back can that resonated with you there, brother. I know where that came from. Yeah. Like father like son. The apple don't fall too far from the tree. We hear these kinds of statements because there's a lot of truth in those statements Well, the fact is, when a person is a child of God, he has something within his nature that's fundamentally different than it was before his conversion. Look down in verse number nine he says this, doth not this person who's been born of God, he doth not commit sin? And when he says he does not commit sin, The idea is he doesn't have this unbridled presence of sin in his life where he habitually is involved in these things. The Christian is restrained because he's got a new nature He's got the Holy Spirit indwelling him. God disciplines him. He chastens him. A believer can sin, but he can't sin without a bridle drawing him back. You know, when we look at the Christian life and how we progress, it's not a straight line up. It isn't even an angle like this. It's you know, you get sick if you're it looks like waves. The fact is that there are days that we don't look so much like a Christian. We don't act so much like a Christian. We don't talk so much like a Christian. And that's when God comes in and he begins to work. And he begins to draw to the surface those areas where we're not where we ought to be. And he addresses those issues. And like a doctor who is doing surgery, he goes straight to the heart of the problem and he begins to mature us. and strengthen us and press us. When the Christian sins, it's very different than when the world around him sins. Because something internally is pressing him and empowering him to do what is right. When I talked about the purpose, one of the things that I said is not only does John want them to live in a Christian manner But he's convinced that they can and that they will. Those two things come together. If they weren't believers, they don't have the ability to live out the Christian life And most certainly they won't. We then see this next statement. The reason is because he's been born of God. We come to a third truth about the Christian life, and that's this. Your pattern of life over time reveals the nature of your family and your father. Look down in verse number 10, it says this. In this, the children of God are manifested. Now you might say, well, what is the phrase in this? What's he talking about? Well, later on in those verses. He talks about the fact that we are to love our brother, and how we relate to one another is what he's talking about in this When I look at a person, I see how they relate to other people. Do they love people? Are they unwilling to forgive? Are they unwilling to to resolve conflicts. How do they relate to one another? That's a huge indication of the kind of character and the kind of nature that they have. And he states that later in the text. But he says, in this The children of God are manifested. And the idea is that they're revealed. It doesn't mean like at one point in time all of a sudden it becomes clear, but the way that it's written is it's kind of a progressive, gradual thing. You become more and more convinced the longer you spend time and observe this person. I think about the passage in 1 Timothy where Where Paul talks to Timothy, and he says, lay hands suddenly on no man. He said, some people's sins are easily seen at the beginning, but others take time to show themselves. And so the point is that you don't immediately understand who you're dealing with. It takes time. You watch them. You observe. You interact with people. You ever interacted with someone and you can just sense in the spirit of that person, this is a person who is guided by the grace. and power of the Holy Spirit in them. I can sense something about them that is very distinct and it's very pleasing. It's very godly it's very holy. I can sense that in the demeanor of that person. When he says in this the children of God are manifested, he's basically saying over a period of time, a little at a time, you'll begin to see the character. And the kind of family that person is from. But he doesn't just focus on that side. He also says, and the children of the dead. Whoever doth not righteousness is not of God, neither is he that loveth his brother. It's interesting, all these statements are in the present tense, and the idea is this is kind of a way of life with these people. A person who is guided by God's Spirit is going to have a life characterized by righteousness. I don't mean he's sinlessly perfect. John's really clear about that in this book. But the idea is there's going to be something distinct about that person We then come to a fourth principle, and that's this. The most fundamental disposition of the Christian is love for other Christians. That's a really important statement. The most fundamental disposition of the Christian is a love for other Christians. I go back to the example of your kids. You know, your kids are fussing and fighting with each other, and you sit them down, you separate-well, you gotta separate them out, and then you sit them down. Or you sit them down as you're separating them out. And you look at them and you say, you guys are brothers, you can't act like this. You guys are siblings, you can't act like this. We understand that when you're family, you're supposed to love each other. There's supposed to be harmony. There's supposed to be a lack of contention. Basically saying this, the most fundamental thing about a Christian that helps you to see that's what they are. They love other Christians. Jesus says this, and John records it in the book of John. He says, By this all men will know that you're my disciples, if you have love one for another. You might say, why does Jesus say that? Because the world doesn't do this. They don't. In the world system, we love what we think is going to please us. We do what we think will most advance our own interests. The majority of people in the world get married because of what they're hoping that person will give them. A lot of people have kids because they want those kids to give them something. A lot of people don't have kids because they don't want to deal with what those kids are going to slow them down and change their lifestyle and all those kinds of things. The fact is, when you see a person who has genuine love for another person, that's a very distinct quality. It's not something that you see commonly. You don't see it in workplaces. Sadly, you don't always see it in churches. You must don't you most certainly don't see it in the political realm. Right, Tori? That's a vicious place. The world is a vicious place. And when you see people who have genuine Christian love, it's a very distinct thing. Notice the way he words it in verse 11. He says, This is the message that ye heard From the beginning, that we should love one another. He's saying if you go back to the Old Testament, you will find out this is Fundamental what God expects of you. If you want to summarize the entire law, this is fundamental what God expects of you. If you want to summarize the expectations of Christ, This is at the heart and the center of it. From the beginning, from the Old Testament to the work of Christ, what he taught his disciples, John brings him back. This is the fundamental disposition of the Christian. We then come to this point, verse 13. Christians are the children of families in conflict. Now, this is interesting. John's point is not only to address the fact that you can identify a Christian, you can identify an unbeliever by how they live. That's not his only point in the text. In fact, a major theme that we'll find in this passage is that because there's a distinction, there's going to be a conflict. That's basically what he's saying. Look down with me in verse 13. He says, Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. Now you might say, Pastor Joel. How is loving your brother and this statement, don't be shocked that the world hates you, how are they connected at all? Well, he's going to explain that in just a second. Look down in verse 14. He says, we know that we've passed from death to life because we love the brethren. We then need to come to a second section. Making sense of the vicious attacks that these Christians were receiving. In verse 10, listen to what he says: In this the children of God are manifested, and the children of the devil As time goes on, your pattern of life becomes more and more distinct. And you know what happens when there's a distinction between these two families and these two ways of life? Well, I'll tell you what happens. Take your mind back to the fall of create the fallen after the creation. Go back to the Garden of Eden. So God creates Adam and He creates Eve and He puts them in the Garden of Eden. And there they're supposed to take care of the garden. And they have this wonderful relationship with God. There's no conflict between them. There's no conflict between them and God. No problems at all. There's no death. There's no sickness. There's no sorrow. It's a wonderful world. They know only good. That's the world they lived in. But when God created them, he didn't make them robots. He didn't make them creatures that you flip a switch and they just do whatever I tell you to do. He created us in his image, which means we have the ability to make choices. We have the responsibility to manage, and when you can make choices, and when you're responsible to manage, you can make good choices and you can make bad choices. You can manage well and you can manage poorly. And so when God created man in this kind of a way, he created a creature who had the potential for evil. God didn't create man with sin. He created him with a quality that had the potential for sin. And when Adam and Eve chose to sin, not only did they know good, but now they knew evil. And you remember the story in Genesis chapter 3, when those two have sinned, they go in their hiding, and God comes to them in the cool of the evening and says, Adam, where are you? And Adam says, hiding. Why is he hiding? He never hid from God before. Why did he make excuses? He never made an excuse in his life before. Why did he feel shame? He'd never felt that before. Because he'd sinned. And when God begins to talk about the result of sin. One of the things that he says is that there is a curse associated with this sin. There are certain things that you're responsible to do in this world, and now when you do them, it isn't going to be as easy as it you start. You go out and you work now, you're gonna do it at the sweat of your brow. Your body's gonna break down, you're gonna get tired, you're gonna sweat, you're gonna be in pain. One of the most wonderful things that a woman has the opportunity to do is bring a child into the world That child she carries for nine months and she holds that child in her hands. It's like it's a part of her. And she loves that child. But to bring that child into the world, she's gonna go through terrible pain. Pain and suffering. And because that child's a sinner, she's going to continue having pain and suffering. It's true. True. But what does he say in that passage? At the end of it all, he gives a promise. And his promise is that he's going to send redemption. Yes, we've had sin. Yes, you've felt shame. Yes, there's been a fall. But I'm going to send a redeemer. And listen to what he says in Genesis 3. 15. He says, I'm going to put enity between you and the woman, and between her seed and your seed. Now, who is her seed? It's going to be Christ. Who is his seed? It's the world. Jesus was the fulfillment of that prophecy. But one of the things sometimes we forget is he says, I'm going to put enmity between those two families. All of those who belong to the Lord Jesus. And all of those who are walking in the ways of this world are in conflict. Even within your own home, when you have your kids, there's conflict there, whether you realize it or not. It's there. You'll realize it eventually. You'll deal with it constantly. Until they come to place their trust in the Lord Jesus and they're regenerated. There's going to be that conflict because you're of the same family, but you have two families going on in the same home. You know what's interesting? He gives us an example of that. Look down in your Bibles at verses 12 to 13. Cain and Abel were the first example in the Bible of what this conflict looks like. In verse 12, it says this: not as Cain. Who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore, Slim or why did he kill his brother? Here's the answer: His own works were evil. And his brothers were righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. Do you see what he's saying here? This whole passage, basically what John's saying is this, you are called as believers to walk in a distinctly Christian manner. And as you grow in the faith and as you mature, you'll become more and more distinct, and you look more and more like Christ. And the more you become like Christ, The more you look less and less like the world. What you love and what they love is different. What you live for, what you stand for, what you do, and what you don't do, What governs you, it becomes more and more distinct the longer that you live. And he says there will be a point when that comes to a head. And he said, Let me prove it to you. Look at Cain and Abel. Let me take you back to that story. So here's the first couple, Adam and Eve. They lived in paradise in the Garden of Eden. They knew what it was like not to have pain and suffering and all those things. Yet they sent. And they have two boys, Cain and Abel. They love those boys. They taught those boys that there's going to be a promised Messiah coming. I don't know the terms that they use. We have no idea, okay? But what we do know is this. They understood in this concept of sacrifice. And that sacrifice was supposed to be a picture of a coming Savior. Christ would die and be punished for our sins. And then in that work on the cross, we can be redeemed. And so Adam and Eve taught their boys this concept And so when they took their sacrifice to God, when they killed that animal, when it shed its blood, they were to be reminded that this is what's going to happen for us. God's going to send His Son and His Son's going to die in our place. And so if they believed in their hearts that God was going to do that, then the external way of showing that was to be involved in the sacrificial system. But what we see is that these two boys had a different mind about that issue. One boy brought what he was supposed to, an animal sacrifice. And we see this so consistently throughout the Old Testament. The other boy didn't do that. He brought vegetables, the fruit of his own hands. He said, I can come to God in my own terms. I can come to God with my own sacrifice. I'm not going to bring an animal. I'm not going to shed its blood. I don't believe in the promise. That's basically what Cain is saying. So these two boys come and they bring their sacrifice to God. One with a heart of faith and one without a heart of faith. One who is doing it God's way and one who is doing it his own way. And what does God do? He accepts the offering of Abel. And he accepts Abel, the scripture tells us. Cain, on the other hand, he rejected. And you know what Cain did? Instead of Cain sitting down and going, I have sinned against God, I'm wrong, I've rejected his way, he didn't do that. It's interesting. God comes to him and he says, Cain, sin lies at the door. You've done wrong, but there's something greater coming if you don't watch out. And you know what Cain did? Instead of being humbled, he got angry. He looked at his brother and he envied his brother. His brother did right and he did wrong. And rather than conforming his heart to what God wanted, He rebelled. He bucked against it. His own brother, the one who lived in his home, these two boys, the first two boys that we know of that ever lived. And he pulls his brother out into the field when he kills him. You know what John says? That is still going on today. That's what he's saying. I don't mean that people are dragging each other out in the field and killing each other with stones. I'm not saying that. But he's saying this is a picture of the kind of conflict that continues to this day. He says, if you're gonna walk in a godly way, you're gonna be like Abel. And there's gonna be people out there just like Cain. And there's gonna come a point where it's gonna come to a head, and when it comes to a head, there's gonna be Conflict. So don't be shocked when the world hates you. That's basically what he's saying. We then come to section three. I want to make practical sense of the truth before us. What is John trying to say and how can we think practically about it? The first thing I want to state is this the Christian life is both a compelling and an attractive life. Think about the simplicity of the Christian life. Think about how wonderful it is to see genuine, real humility , patience , forgiveness. Hard work, being willing to be self-sacrificing, selfless, not selfish. These are wonderful Christian qualities. Genuine love for other people. Living with an eternal perspective. Those are qualities that I believe are very compelling. and are very attractive. And there are people in this world that when they see the Christian living out his faith, there's something inside of him that says That is compelling, and that is beautiful, and I wish that that is how I lived It's interesting that the scripture talks about a husband and wife where one is a believer and one is not a believer. And you know what he says to the person in that situation? He says to the lady, he says, don't beat your husband over the head. Live a consistently godly life. And without a word, you will win over your husband. It's an amazing concept. Why is that? Why does Peter say that with such confidence? Because the Christian life is attractive. The Christian life is compelling. In Matthew 5, Jesus says, you're the salt of the earth. You are the light of the world. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. First Peter chapter 2, he says Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul, having your conversation honest amongst the Gentiles. That though they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works which they shall behold glorify God in the day of visitation. There are many passages in the Bible that talk about how compelling and how attractive and how beautiful the Christian life is. If you will live in a godly way, there are people who will be attracted to know what you have. They won't. But that's not the only response of the world. In First Peter three it says this Verse 13. Who is he that will harm you if you be followers of what is good? If you suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. Do not be afraid of the terror Neither be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to give an answer to every man that giveth you an answer of the hope that lieth within you with meekness and in fear Having a good conscience, that when they speak of you of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse you of your good conversation. There's a lot more I could say about the passage, but here's what it's basically saying. If you're going to live in a godly way, there are people who will be compelled and attracted, but there'll be people that disp. You. They hate you. They want to persecute you. They want to harm you. That's the response that you have to face If you're going to live in a godly way, folks, both things will happen. And so what John's basically saying to these Christians is you need to understand this is why you're facing what you're facing, folks. You're a Christian. You have a pattern of life that's very different than the world around you. Go back to Cain and Abel and see what happened to Cain. See what happened to Abel. Can happen to Cain To you. The Christian life is compelling and it's beautiful, but it also can cause people to hate you. The same life that is compelling and attractive can be intensely Offensive. Listen to what Paul says to the Ephesian elders in Acts 14. It says he confirmed the souls of the disciples and exhorted them to continue in the faith that we must through much tribulation. Enter the kingdom of God. 1 Corinthians 1, it says, the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. He says that preaching Christ crucified to the Jews is a stumbling block and to the Greeks foolishness. We can go through the book of 1 Corinthians and he mentions it over and over again. The world does not understand the disposition, the character, the thinking, the worldview of the Christian. Folks, if we are going to live godly We may very well one day suffer. One of the most important things that I can do as a pastor is prepare your heart to walk through the valley. We all want to talk about the happy days in the Christian life, and there are many. But there are valleys too. One day you're going to face death, and you don't know what the circumstances may be One day you're going to walk through that valley with other people who you love dearly, and you don't know how hard that's going to be. One day you may suffer for the cause of Christ. You have no idea how that will be. Folks, we have to have hearts that are prepared to stand strong no matter what we will face. I bring you to this final thought. God wants you to live in a distinctly Christian way. But it's going to cost you dearly. Are you willing to live? No matter the cost, the way he wants you to. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father, help us as your people. To be so thoroughly convinced of truth that we will live in the light of it no matter the cost. Help us to be lovers of you. Help us to be lovers of truth. Help us to be strong. Help us to be dependent. Help us to Mature. I pray that you would guide and strengthen in the lives of the people in this church right now who are walking through the valleys of life We have people who are going through tremendous hardships. And I pray that you will strengthen them by your daily grace. Many of us are not in the valley, but one day we will be there. We can't escape it. Living in a fallen world, it will happen. Father, help us to have a worldview that's shaped by truth, so that when the day comes, we will walk in your ways and be faithful. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.