Take your Bibles and turn back to John chapter 1. John chapter 1, we looked at verses 1 to 14. And just to kind of get you caught back up to where we were, I'd like us to go ahead and read through that text one more time. And I'll remind you of the two points that we looked at, and then we're going to look at two additional points this evening. John chapter 1, verses 1 through 14. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made In him was life, and the life was the light of men, and the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the light, that all men through him might believe. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. That was the true light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. He was in the world, the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word was made flesh, and dwelt among us And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. was basically to articulate for us the incomparable identity of the Lord Jesus Christ. We talk about incomparable, we basically mean that There's nothing in this world that you can touch, that you can see, that you can interact with, that really is truly comparable to who the Lord Jesus Christ is. When we talk about his identity as being both God and man. And we're going to get into that this evening. There's nothing that you can find in this world that you really can compare that to We talk about the fact that Father and Son within the Godhead are both God and they're distinct in person yet not in essence or in substance. There's nothing in this world that we can compare that to And so when John is laying out this section, the prologue to the Gospel of John, he's basically making a statement that has a lot of different aspects to it. that he is going to prove. He's going to demonstrate. He's going to take examples from the life of Christ. He's going to tell the story of Christ's life. He's going to give examples of conversations that Jesus had with people. The way that people understood him, the way that people viewed him when they saw certain things take place. The way that Jesus would perform a miracle, and then the discussion that ensued after that miracle, all those things were deliberately put together. God moved John and guided John to record those very details as proofs, as evidences to demonstrate what he's saying here in John 1. 1 -14. So when we come to the book of John, basically if we skip over this section, or if we don't understand this section, the rest of the book doesn't really make a lot of sense. Or it doesn't actually hit us the way that it should. The whole reason why John's doing this is ultimately because God wants us to understand who Christ is. And once we understand who Christ is, then there's an appropriate response to who he is. And that's the response of worship. And what we're going to see by the end of this message is it's not just worship. But it's worship that involves trusting alone in what Jesus Christ has done for us on the cross. And really, this whole section culminates with that one statement: as many as received him. To them he gave the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. And we're going to talk about that verse, but really this entire section is driving to that statement, those who receive him become his children. That's what it's all about. So this morning we looked at two statements of fact or truth that we find in this passage. The first is this, that child, the Lord Jesus Christ in the manger, is the eternal God. We talk about Jesus. We're talking about someone who is transcendent of time, someone who is eternal, someone who is God. Fully God, 100%. There is nothing missing in who Jesus is that keeps him from being God. He's not God-like. He's God, and that's very, very important for us to understand. And so we looked at several important passages of Scripture. In fact I hope that you jotted them down, and if you didn't jot them down, I'm going to post the notes online when the sermon comes online and you can go to those passages. Because the truth is that those passages are very important when we're having conversations with people about who the Lord Jesus Christ is. Then we kind of move from that to deal with conversations that these people that were leading up to the birth of Christ had with one another. Some of the statements that they made that really give us insight into their understanding of Old Testament prophecy and their understanding of what was taking place in history. when Jesus Christ is born to Mary in Bethlehem. And we saw statements from Zecharias, we saw statements from Mary, we saw statements from the angels. We looked at several different statements. All those things are to demonstrate to us that Jesus is God. We then came to a second truth. And that second truth is that the child in the manger, the Lord Jesus, has an incomparable relationship with God the Father. I will tell you that one of the things that really gets to me and helps me something that I really see a lot when I study the Bible is how many passages in the Scriptures are Trinitarian in nature. What I mean by Trinitarian in nature is this. If you don't believe in the Trinity, that verse makes no sense. We have so many scriptures that are like that. When we talk about the gospel, we say that God had a plan. Well, which person of the God had had the plan? It was God the Father. It says that Jesus Christ, before the foundation, was ordained to go to that cross, God had a plan. God the Father is the person of the Godhead that had a plan. But then when we talk about who went to the cross, it wasn't God the Father who went to the cross. God sent his son into the world. The Lord Jesus Christ is the one who took on flesh. He's the one who went to that cross. So we say that the Father had a plan, but the Son is the one who went and he purchased redemption through his shed blood on that cross. He is the one who rose triumphant from the dead. And then we ask the question, well, who is it that convinces us of sin and of righteousness and judgment? Well, it's the Holy Spirit. Through the preaching of the gospel, through the explaining of the law, the Holy Spirit reaches down into our conscience and he convicts us of sin, of righteousness, and judgment. The point that I'm making is that the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, each person of the Godhead has a distinct role in your salvation. When you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, you're not trusting in the Father having died on the cross. You're trusting in the Son having died on the cross. And when you are saved, who seals you? It's not the Father. It's not the Son. It's the Spirit. Who indwells you? It's not the Father. It's not the Son. It's To spirit. All three persons of the Godhead form an integral role in your salvation. And so when we talk about this unique, incomparable relationship between Father and Son, this is just one of many Trinitarian passages that we find in the Bible. We saw that Father and Son are both in full substance and full essence God, yet they are distinct in person. And we talked about that concept this morning. We then are going to move to a third truth, and this one is very important. The child in the manger is the incomparable union of God and And the man. If you looked at Jesus as he was walking on this earth 2,000 years ago, you could look at Jesus and say, that person is 100% God. You could look at the same person, the Lord Jesus Christ, and say that person is 100% man. And someone here might be saying, well, which one is this? Is he a man? Or is he God? And the answer is he's both. Jesus was fully God and fully man at the same time. And that's exactly what the text is going to tell us in this passage. It says in verse number 14, the word, the same one who is in the beginning with God. The same one who is God, the same one who created all things and upholds everything by the word of his power, the word was made flesh. What an amazing statement. In other words, the eternal God, the Lord Jesus Christ, at a point in history, takes on full humanity. When we say that he took on full humanity, what we mean is this. He got tired just like you get tired. He gets he got sick, just like you and I can get sick. Jesus had to learn just like you and I have to learn. Jesus grew physically. In fact in Luke it says he increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. That means the Lord Jesus Christ grew up and developed just like every little boy. But the Lord Jesus Christ, while he's fully man, is still fully God. You say, well, I don't understand that concept. I don't understand it either, but the Bible clearly teaches it. And not only does it clearly teach it, but this is an essential, incredibly important aspect to the gospel. If we believe that Jesus is anything less than God. or anything less than fully man, we lose the gospel. It falls apart because both his humanity and his deity are essential aspects to the gospel message. Let's look at three important statements that we find in this text that really demonstrate those two truths. The first statement involves his relationship to time. And we mentioned that one this morning. It says this. In the beginning was the word And we talked about what that word was means. It means that when everything started, Jesus already existed. In other words, if you want to look for his origin, where did he come from? You can't find it. If you want to know when he began, you can look as far back as you can go, and you know what you'll find: there's no beginning point. In other words, Jesus doesn't come from somewhere, come from someone. He's eternally existent. In the beginning was the word. There's a second statement. It talks about his relationship to humanity. And the word was made flesh. What we're going to do is we're going to go to a couple of passages that talk about how God, who is eternal, takes on human flesh at a point in time. So that he is still fully God, yet he's also fully human. But when we say that Jesus is fully human, we're not saying that he was a sinful man, he was a sinless man. Yet a man who was affected by living in a fallen world. In other words, though Jesus never sinned, Jesus got tired. That's an amazing concept. In other words, Jesus was affected by the fallenness of this world, but he himself was a truly righteous individual This statement literally means that at a point in time, the eternal God became a man while continuing to maintain his deity in its entirety. Turn with me in your Bibles to Colossians chapter 1, verses 15 and 16, which is a very important passage that talks about the deity of Christ. Colossians chapter 1, verse 16 says this. Who, and that who is referring to the Lord Jesus Christ, is the image Of the invisible God. Now, when you think about the term image, what do you think of? An image is a reflection of something that can be seen. My question is, if God is invisible, then how is Jesus his image? So when he's using the term image, he's not using the term image in the sense that when you look in a mirror, you see a reflection of yourself. He's using it in this sense. He is the exact visible representation of the invisible God. In other words, when you're looking at Jesus, you are looking At God and flesh. He says he's the firstborn of every creature. And by the way, this is a very interesting statement. When people use the term firstborn, they tend to think of firstborn in the sense that he was the first child that was born into my family. But the way that he's using this term is actually not in that kind of a sense, but it's talking about a position. In relationship to other people. You know, it's also interesting when the scriptures talk about this statement of firstborn in relation to Jesus. It goes back not to when he was born in the manger in Bethlehem. But actually goes to the moment when he was resurrected from the dead. In other words, when he talks about him being the firstborn, he's not looking at his origin when he was birthed into the world. But he's talking about the moment where he demonstrates Let me get some uh this right here. Where he demonstrates fully who he is. He's God in flesh. He then goes on to say this: By him, Jesus, were all things created That are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether there be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him And for him. That's a really interesting statement. In other words, it's not just that Jesus created everything, but it was created for him. We exist for his glory. We exist for him, not the other way around. Lots of people view Jesus as kind of their little genie in a bottle who, you know, answers to their various whims, and the reality is we exist for his glory Not him for ours. We then go to another very important passage. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 3. I'd encourage you to turn there. In Hebrews chapter 1, verse 3, we see another clear statement of the nature of Christ as he is God. It says, who being the very brightness of his glory. The idea is the radiance of God's glory. If you want to see the full glory of God, look at the Lord Jesus Christ. You can see it in him. He is the express image of his person. That phrase means the exact imprint of his substance or of his essence. This is a word that was often used when they were coining or minting. And basically what they would do is as they were minting these coins, you'd have this piece of metal, and they would stamp it with an imprint, and on that imprint would be a picture of the emperor, whoever. The reality is when you see Jesus, you see the exact imprint of God. Thank you. I appreciate it. He then goes on to say this: he says he upholds all things. By the word of his power. By his power, it holds the burden of keeping everything together. You know what's interesting, you look at this universe and how it all how it all works, it's not that just that God made the world, but he actually upholds it. He holds it together, he guides it, he manages it. The Lord Jesus Christ is the one who does this But then it's very interesting. In this passage that so emphasizes the nature of Christ as God, the radiance of God's glory, the express image of his person, this same passage talks about his humanity. It says this, when he by himself purged our sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. When it talks about Jesus purging our sins, how did he do it? He went to the cross and he shed his blood In fact, it's interesting as we think about the fact that it's the shedding of Christ's blood that ultimately atones for our sins. The shedding of his blood is what demonstrates he's human. His humanity, the fact that Jesus died for our sins and shed his blood, is indicative of his humanity In fact, when we look at the book of Hebrews, really the entire book is to glorify the Lord Jesus Christ as God in the flesh. The one who died for our sins, the one who is superior to all of the Old Testament, the one that the Old Testament points entirely to. Hebrews chapter 1. But then the one that really puts it all together is found in Philippians chapter 2. I'd like to ask you to turn there. Philippians chapter 2, when we're looking at verses 6 to 8. This is a wonderful passage. When you're looking at it in its context One of the things that you see is that Paul is very burdened for the church at Philippi. He wants them to have a very humble disposition toward one another. He wants them to relate to one another peaceably. He wants them to be loving. He wants them to be humble. He wants them to be patient. He wants them to have those qualities that are not natural to us. And instead of just stating it, he gives the picture, the greatest picture, of someone who was humble, someone who laid aside his rights entirely for the benefit of another person. And he gives us the example of the Lord Jesus. Look down at what it says in Philippians chapter 2, verse 6. He says, who, being the Lord Jesus Christ, being in the form of God , Thought it not robbery to be equal with God. But he made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Now, when we take this passage, it's important for us to kind of take each phrase. Kind of understand what the phrase is saying, because once we understand what the phrase is saying, we kind of get a good picture of the whole point of the passage. So let me do that. First of all, it says he was in the form of God. The idea is that he existed in the likeness of God because He is God. He's of the same substance of God. Another way to put it is the way it says it in John 1. It says the word was God. Same substance or essence as God He then makes the statement, he thought it not robbery to be equal with God. And that's a very interesting way to put what is in this passage. What does it mean to rob? Well, it kind of begins with this. There's something that somebody has. You don't have it. Alright, isn't that where robbery begins? They got it, you don't have it. You want it, they won't give it. So what do you do? You take it by force. That's what that's what it means to rob. So somebody has something that you don't have You want it and they won't give it to you. So you decide you're going to go and take it by force. And notice what the passage says. Jesus sought it not robbery to be equal with God. Consider the implications. If you want to take something that's not yours, that's robbery. If it's not robbery, that means it belongs to you. Okay? If I go to my shed and I pull out a tool that's in my shed, it's mine. I didn't steal it. I didn't take it. I'm not robbing by going and getting something that belongs to me. So when it says besides not Robert to be equal with God, the text is saying this. He's God. He's not taking anything that doesn't belong to him. He's not trying to grasp it. He's not trying to steal it. He's not trying to take it. It belongs to him. In other words, Jesus is God. And what's very interesting though is it's not just that he is God, and the rights and the privileges are fully belonging to him. But at a point in time, Jesus is going to willingly lay aside those rights and those privileges, and he's going to take on the position of humility, and he's going to state it here. And so rather than holding on to what belongs to him or stealing something that doesn't belong to him, what is rightfully his, he sets it to the side. That is what it means when it says God took on flesh. That's what it means. He says this He made himself of no reputation. In other words, he willingly emptied himself of certain aspects of his divine nature for a period of time That doesn't mean that he stopped being God. It doesn't mean he stopped being the creator. It means he laid aside for a period of time, he limited himself for a period of time so that he could die for our sins. Is Jesus omnipotent? Of course he is. He created the worlds with his voice. He spoke the world into existence. Yet his mom had to teach him how to write. His mom had to teach him how to read. He had to learn how to form words. The omnipotent Lord Jesus Christ had to learn how to walk. He had to learn how to talk. Imagine that. In other words, he's still God. He still has his abilities, but he's laid them aside and he's willingly submitted himself to the humility of being a man. He goes on and says, I think of other aspects of God's of the Lord Jesus Christ's character character, nature, his omniscience. He knows everything. You know, there's a very interesting passage in the New Testament, and it maybe it's troubled you. I know it's troubled me before. I think about this statement that says, no man knows the day or the hour when the Lord Jesus Christ is coming. And you know what it says, not even the Son of Man. You know passage I'm talking about? You ever sat there and gone What in the world? Isn't he omniscient? Of course he is. But when he laid aside the rights and the privileges of his deity He had to learn. There were things that he chose to not know, though he certainly could know them. I don't fully understand that, but the reality is, even when Jesus performed his miracles, as he's performing his miracles during his earthly ministries, it says that he did them by the Spirit, by the power of the Holy Spirit. In other words, the omniscient one, the omnipotent one, the one who created all things, has laid aside certain aspects. Of his glory. The truth is it says in Isaiah chapter fifty thr chapter fifty-three, it says he hath no form. Nor comeliness. When we shall see him, there's no beauty that we should desire him. He's despised, rejected of men, a man of sorrows and a crane with grief. The reality is when people saw the Lord Jesus Christ They saw a normal man. You ever had a really um important person that you idolize, you thought, I'd love to meet that person, and then you had the opportunity to meet him, you go, that guy's only five foot four, what in the world? Like I was expecting this giant, this mountain of a person, and just a normal guy. Just a normal lady. Just a normal person. When people saw Jesus, that's how they saw him. They didn't see him as a superhero. They saw him as a normal person who didn't have any kind of beauty or cloud about him. Yet he's God and flesh. And he willingly lays it aside. It says later on that being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. He had no reputation. He took upon him the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of man. The thing that's amazing about what Christ did when he humbled himself. And he takes on flesh. He didn't just take on the flesh of a king sitting in Herod's palace. He took on the flesh of a babe in a manger in Bethlehem. He fled to Egypt when he's just a little baby. He was a migrant, if you want to put it in that kind of a term. He ends up living in Nazareth. And Nazareth was a place that when they said, come see the Messiah, and the guy says, Where is he from? He says, From Nazareth. He said, There's nothing good in Nazareth. Nothing good comes from Nazareth. Little Bethlehem. The reality is when Jesus comes and takes on humanity, he takes on the humblest of positions. I then want to move on to this next statement, his relationship to the apostles. John writes, He dwelt among us. John saying, This person, the creator, the sustainer, the one who took upon him the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of man, that person dwelt among us. I ate meals with him. I listened to him teach. I saw him heal. I saw him raise Lazarus to life. He dwelt among us. I interacted with him on a daily basis What an amazing statement. When we read the gospels, what are we reading? We're reading the eyewitness accounts of people who walked with Jesus. And obviously it's more than just the eyewitness accounts. It's the scriptures. The Holy Spirit breathed through those people, but they saw him. They ate with him, they interacted with him, just like you know your kids, and just like you know your spouse, and just like you know people in this church, Just like people went on Christmas caroling last night together, and they enjoyed fellowship together, and they ministered with other people and toward other people. These apostles walked with Jesus and experienced life with him. What an absolutely amazing statement. Perhaps the most amazing thing about the ministry of Christ was the personal side of his life and ministry. They knew him, and it says, they beheld his glory. Jesus preached to the nations, and excuse me. Also, the passage continues with this. John preaches to the nation of Israel to prepare to meet this person. It says, there was a man sent from God whose name was John. The same came from for a witness to bear witness of the light. that all men through him might believe. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. This is amazing. John goes to the people, the nation of Israel, God's chosen people, they have the law, they know the prophets, they should have all the information that they need to recognize who Jesus is. And what does John say? He says, Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. There's one coming, the Lamb of God, who will take away the sins of the world. And on that certain day that he's baptizing in Jordan, here comes Jesus, and he looks at that crowd and he says, There he is right there. Behold the Lamb of God. Who takes away the sins of the world. And you know what the Bible says? People rejected him. He leaves this unmistakable witness of who he is. But it says he was in the world. The world was made by him, but it knew him not. It came into his own, and his own received him not. Why do you think the people didn't receive Jesus? Why do you think the people didn't recognize Jesus? Because the reality is this, God in flesh was robed in humility. And when they saw him, they said, There's no way this is the Messiah. There's no way this is the person that all the prophecies of the Old Testament are pointing to. This is just a carpenter's son. They were so wrong. You say, why do we take the time to look at this? I'll tell you why. Because here is the the whole purpose of this section And that's the fourth truth. This child in the manger, the Lord Jesus, is the one who gives people the right to be called God's children. The reality is if it's not for this person, the Lord Jesus, you can't be called a Christian. You can't be called forgiven. You can't be called justified. You can't be cleansed. If it's not for this person, the Lord Jesus Christ, you and I cannot have salvation. And notice the way that John puts it in verse 11. He came unto his own, and his own received him not, but As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. I want to mention a couple of very important phrases here. The first is this in general Christ was rejected by the Jews. He came and they didn't receive him. The second is, but there were some who did receive him It says, but as many as received him, and those people who receive Christ, rather than rejecting him, are the ones that are given the right to be called God's children. Notice the way that it puts it. To them he gave the power to become the sons of God. Now I think it's very important that we see that phrase, to them he gave the power. We don't misunderstand what he's saying. He's not suggesting that because of Jesus, if you receive him, then he's going to give you the strength that you need to work and work and work and eventually get your salvation. In fact, there's a lot of different words that we translate into the word power. That word power has the idea of authority. It has the idea of right. Or privilege. In fact, I'll give you an example of this in Revelation 22, verse 14. The same word is translated this way: Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have rights. To the tree of life. In other words, they can go there. They have the authority. They've been authorized, allowed to go to that place. When it says to them he gave the power, he's saying that person is qualified to be called God's child. And how is it that they come to that place? Is it because of some good thing they've done? Is it because they're sinless? Is it because they're religious? Is it because they live a righteous life? No, it's because they receive Jesus Instead of rejecting him, they recognize who he is. They recognize who he claims to be. They recognize that he's the fulfillment of all those Old Testament prophecies. And they say, I don't reject him, I accept him, I receive him, I believe this message, I embrace the gospel, I trust in the Son. It's interesting how it puts it. Receiving Jesus is the same as trusting. And the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want you to think about how it would have been used in that context. All these people who heard John the Baptist preach, repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. They see Jesus and he says, That's the one. I'm not even worthy to go and remove his sandal. He's the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. He says, That's the one. And there are people who say, I don't believe that. And they walked away. That's what he means by he came into his own and they didn't receive him. There are other people that said, Huh, I want to see if if this is true, if this is real, this is legitimate. And they began following Jesus. I started listening to what he was saying. And they witnessed things, and I said, only God can do this. He gives sight to a blind man, he heals a leper. He raises someone to life. He speaks with absolute authority. He goes into the synagogue and he turns to the prophet Isaiah and he reads the passage and he says, Today that word's been fulfilled in your midst. And they say, This is the Messiah. And instead of rejecting him and walking away, they receive him. They say, I believe the message. I embrace the message. I trust in the message. That's exactly what the passage is saying All those who receive the Son, who trust in what the Bible says about who he is and what he's done for them, those who receive him and trust in him, he makes them qualified. To be called God's children. In other words, when I trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, his blood washes away my sins. So my sin doesn't stand between me and God anymore. When I trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, God declares me righteous. He justifies me, not because I'm righteous, but because in Christ, Christ's righteousness is credited to me. And God looks at me and He says, just because of Christ's righteousness. When I think about the fact that he rose triumphant from the dead, that is the guarantee that one day I will stand in his presence with a glorified body forever. It's all in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so as we take the time to look at this passage of Scripture, where we have seen that Jesus is God in flesh, that he and the Father are one in essence and distinct in person. That the Lord Jesus Christ is fully God and fully man. At a point in time, the eternal God takes on flesh. He lays aside the glories so he could go to the cross. All of this is to tell us one simple thing. We must receive that child. who was born in Bethlehem, who rose triumphant from the grave after he died on that cross, we must receive him by trusting in his work on our behalf. And if we will, God calls us his children. Forgives us, justifies us, cleanses us. May we at this Christmas season Glory in this message. And may we in this Christmas season tell others about this message. And may we in this Christmas season be in a position to be able to articulate to people who have a question. And who have questions, who Jesus is? Because really that's what this season is all about. It's about this person, the Lord Jesus. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, please. Father, we are so grateful that in your wisdom, in your mercy, and in your grace You provided a plan of redemption. Though Adam in the garden sinned against you, and by his sin it affected all of us, though we are born rebels and alienated from you. In your tremendous loving grace, you sent your son. He was born in Bethlehem and he died on the cross to redeem us from the curse of the law. And Father, I pray that you'd help us as a people to glory in the Lord Jesus and his work. We worship him and we we praise you for your work to bring him into the world so that we could be saved. Father, we thank you for this season. May it be a sweet season. May it be a wonderful time of remembrance and fellowship and worship and praise Father, I pray that on Tuesday night when we come back together, that this building will be filled with people who will enjoy these wonderful Christmas songs And who'll have the opportunity in that moment to be pointed to the wonderful work of Jesus on their behalf I pray that people would come to a firm understanding of the gospel. And even on Tuesday night, we would see people trust Christ as a result of the work you'll do through your word. Father, we pray you'd continue to bless this church, and we thank you for a good year. I pray that this season would be very rich and very encouraging for your people. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.