If you had a good afternoon, maybe you got a nap in, that would be great if possible. And uh just beautiful weather, looking forward to a great service. Let's bow together for prayer, and then we'll get started with our service tonight. Father, we're so grateful for the opportunity to gather as a body. I'm thankful for every member of this church and everyone that has been able to gather with us this morning and again tonight. I pray that as we Sit under the ministry of the word that you would guide our thoughts, help us to listen to what you have to say to us. I pray that as we share testimonies, these Testimonies would be very encouraging and uplifting. And I pray that in all of this you would be glorified and your people would be uplifted. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening, everyone. Please stand with me as we start the service off tonight. And Sylvan, turn to page 85 or follow along on the screen. Save your like a shepherd lead us, all four verses. Sing out. Make that joyful noise. We were going to include my Just a few pages over to page ninety-nine. Page ninety-nine, a shelter in the time of storm. I want to walk up and we can let me know. Ladies, I want you to say the first praise. Gentlemen, you come in on a shelter in the time of storm on the second verse. On the third verse, we'll flip it. And it'll come in first and the lady second. Okay? Here we go. Ladies. Hello everyone , I will grab the year to celebrate the time of the head. Thank you, please be seated. Thanks for playing along. That was fun We're going to turn to page 130. 130 kind of fits in with our family atmosphere. Picking out our specials. Page 130, the love of God. Everybody sing it out. Amen, Brother Braxton. Good evening. Jesus that he is Okay, how many is that a new one to you? Several. It's been a while since I sang it. Good good choice though. At the name of Jesus. Okay, 174 in the blue book. Page 174, that's towards the back. See the Christ. Okay, page five ninety-six. Page five hundred and ninety-six, please stand. Page five ninety-six. I'll get there. Okay. Here we go. Go ahead and have be a have a seat. Just a few weeks ago I was uh traveling to a military base And if you're familiar with the military, or at least on this base, at 8 o'clock in the morning, they sing the spar play the Star Spangled Banner, and everybody, the military, stop They turn around towards headquarters where the flag is in salute. And I was driving through right at that time. And the lady at the at the guard station was was gracious enough to ask me to please stop And I finally caught on what was playing, and of course I stopped. And it was it was neat to uh to see them see them do that. So All right, page 482. Page 482 in the red book. Dwelling in Beulaland, please stand with me before the special, before the preaching. Dwelling in Beulaland. And I know it's just the first verse, but let's sing a couple. First and last. Far away the noise of strife upon my ear is fake. And I know the things of a peace that 's And things of earth in May to me are calling. None of thee shall move me. You know, we 'll grow the God in a man before living for Can I let my beat me on everyone like what I am? Please be safe. Can you deal? Man, what a blessing it is to just sit, ponder, see the truths of the words of music, and just hear something five that. Thank you very much, Frank. Appreciate that. We're going to be in 1 Samuel 15, continuing our study. In 1 Samuel, we're going to be in chapter 15. And we're going to start in verse 24. First Samuel 15, verse 24. And the word of God says, and Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord. And thy words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. Now, therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin and turn again with me, that I may worship the Lord. And Samuel said to Saul, I will not return with thee, for thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and The Lord hath rejected thee from being king over Israel. And as Samuel turned about to go away, He laid hold upon the skirt of his mantle and it rent. And Samuel said unto him, The Lord hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbor of thine that is better than thou And also the strength of Israel will not lie nor repent, for he is not a man that he should repent. Then he said, I have sinned. Yet honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me. That I may worship the Lord thy God. Father, as can we come before you this evening And as we just read through this scripture, would you work through us in our hearts and our minds if we're sensitive open to the Spirit of God using his word And that you would use this in the hearts of the lives of your people to consider this text and the truths within it. And they would not just be black words on a white page, but the very word of God that can change us and mold us and help us be more Christ-like. to help us to have a perspective of learning about ourselves and learning about you and draw us closer as we endeavor to walk with you each and every day We thank you so much for this in Christ's name. Amen. Here in 1 Samuel 15, I have a question to get started. Who do you fear? Who do you fear? If you're a little child, you probably fear your mom or dad and you disobeyed. If we're speeding, we may fear those red and blue lights. If you're a lady and it has more legs than you creeping around the house, You scream for a brother or your husband. We fear all kinds of things. But here, one thing we'll look at is what we fear can truly affect How we sorrow or how we would repent. Who do you fear? Not what, but who So with that thought in mind, let's look at this again as we pick it up in verses 24. And in verse 24 and 25, we're going to see that Saul repents. Because he feared the people. Saul repents because he feared the people. So look again in verse 24. And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned. For I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord and thy words. So what was this sin that Saul had committed? We're just going to quickly review just a couple of verses. We've been going through this on Sunday nights, but I just want to hit a couple just to get it fresh in our mind and to put this all together about this sin that Saul has committed and look at his perspective. And then what you and I would think of how he responds. So let's go back to chapter 15, verses 1 through 3. Samuel also said unto Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint thee thee king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore, hearken there unto the voice of the words of the Lord. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, I remember which Amalek did to Israel, how he lied wait for him in the way, and when he came up from Egypt, now go smite Amalek. and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not, but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass. He was supposed to be instructed by God through the prophet Samuel to utterly destroy Amalek. No questions about it. He gets specific even with things that they're supposed to do and destroy. utterly destroy. And if you and I hear utterly destroy, take it out completely. Destroy with nothing left. It kind of gets the idea that, you know what, I don't think anything should be left behind. I want you to clean all of your room. Not just shove stuff under the bed, in the closets, or the laundry sitting somewhere near, oh, but that's not mine, that's my siblings I said put it all away. We want to make exceptions when it's ourselves. But we know when we say utterly destroy it, utterly take it, to do all of it. Well, let's look down at verse 9 as we review to get ourselves fresh again. But Saul said unto the people But I'm sorry, but Sa Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and of the lambs, and all that was good, and would not Utterly destroy them. But everything that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed. Hmm. Does that sound like utterly destroying all? Not so much. Let's look at verse 13. And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. Really? Utterly destroy, but I kept back some things. Let's continue on. Look at verse 20. And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the Lord, and have gone the way which the Lord sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Malachites. Now when you and I just read those verses as we're reviewing and look at this to see what his sin was, we know as clear as it is right in front of us, as we're all here gathered together together tonight, that he was to utterly destroy all Saul was convinced that he had obeyed the Lord. It's clear to you and I that he clearly did not. There is no way he obeyed the command of the Lord. Not possible. But Saul, in his pride and desiring to do what he wanted to do and not obey God's command, he's doing what you and I do. He justifies himself. Oh, if someone else does it, that's evil and that's wicked. But if I do it, well, I had reasons, and well, you know, I had good intentions And we tend to justify ourselves. I think in his position and in his pride, that's where Saul is. We tend to see the sins of others so clearly, but yet ours, not so much. I'm a pretty good person. But yet everyone else, oh, they're a horrible sinner. You could point it out very easy multiple times. But not so much myself. It reminds me of the passage in Matthew 7, verses 3 through 5, when Christ addressed this on the Sermon on the Mount. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye? But considers not the beam that is in thine own eye. Or how thou say to thy brother, let me pull out the mote of thine eye, and behold, a beam is in thine own eye. Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thy own eye, and thou shalt see clearly to cast the moat out of thy brother's eye. So here's I like the picture with teens. Every once in a while you know you get like a eyelash or you know something in your eye is kind of bothering you a little bit. It happens to be every once in a while. I don't know how, but I'll get like my own eyelash in my eye. Sometimes, you know, really bothers you. But if that's the case, and I'm looking at someone else, and it's like, oh, they have something in their eye. That's not exactly the case here. Here is I just don't have a little something in my eye. They might have something in their eye, but I'm trying to help them to get a little uh eyelash out of their eye. But here's the problem I have I'm trying to reach their eye. I found this on Saturday night. I think it might be your guys if I found it. Um we just didn't wrestle on on Friday. But this is my bean. This is my bean. You might think it's a bat, for the sake of the station it's a bee. Okay. So here it is, I'm trying to get the eyelash river out of someone else's eye. I'm like, hey, clear. I'm like jabbing them, poking them, and it's like there's no way that that's just physically not gonna work. I my arms aren't getting that long. It's a beam in my own eye. But I can't see it. It's like I'm seeing But you see the little speck. What Matthew 7 here, and what I think Saul is going at is he doesn't see the thing in his own eye, but yet he's gonna find every little thing in everyone else. We will justify our own being. But pick out the little things in others. We don't see our own sin. We don't see our own problems. Even if we're clearly disobeying God, it's not that bad. I have my reasons. Or maybe you don't see it at all. I really struggle personally with do we really people in that position Do they know they have a problem and they just truly like neglect it and try and overlook it? Or are they so full of their pride and their self that they really honestly just don't see their own sinful problem? I don't know which it is, and I don't know how to determine that, but here Saul is having a major problem. To all of us that read this text and just look at these verses, it is clear He has sinned greatly, disobeyed blatantly against the command of the Lord. It is obvious to everyone else. But twice he said, I've obeyed God's command. I've done this. Then we continue on in verse 24. So he says, I have sinned, for I've transgressed the commandment of the Lord and thy words And here gives the reason why. So he's admitting that he does, that he has sinned, but here's the reason why. Why is he admitting this? The end of verse 24 says, Because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. So Saul, why is he like on his knees? Why is he trying to come and stand on and say, oh, I've sinned. Now I disobeyed Reason? Because I feared the people. I wanted to look good in front of everyone else I didn't care about obeying God's command. I know what that says, but that's not what I wanted. What I want is to look good in front of everyone else. I am their king. And I am to look good. I mean, after all, isn't it interesting? Why was he chosen to be king? Because he was tall, handsome, looked like a great warrior. They picked him because the way he looked. Now what is Saul doing as king? He just wants to look good. They picked what they wanted and what they liked, and that's exactly who they got. But in return, he just wants to be liked by the people. He's not fearing the Lord and their commands, but he's convincing himself due to his own position, due to his own pride, I'm obeying God. But when he admits that, well, I did that because I feared the people, and we're going to see this more as we unfold this text. How should we, or who should we be fearing? How should we see our own sin? In Psalm 32, 5 it says, I acknowledged my sin to thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord. And thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin, Selah. We, you and I, are to admit our sins and how it is against the Lord Because when we sin, it truly is against the Lord. And we need to bring that to Him and ask Him to forgive us of our sin. But Saul here is only doing it for the people because he feared them. Not fearing God. He wasn't even chosen because of his great fear of God and his character. But to obey their voice, now look at verse 25. In verse 25 He says, now therefore I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship the Lord. So here he's talking with Samuel. He says he fears the people, and he now is saying that he wants Samuel to forgive himself in and worship the Lord. He's trying to make things right with Samuel. That's what he's really trying to do. I think he probably knows he's done wrong before the Lord. Maybe he just is not admitting it. Maybe he just thinks that I'm such a good guy. I can't possibly do that wrong. And we see, if anything, he's trying to blame the people. But it brings us back to this here too. Why is he going through all this? Let me ask you another question. Why are you here tonight? Did you come just because your parents made you? Did you come just because it makes your spouse happy Did you come just because you don't want anyone else to think that you're not a very good Christian? Or your motivation to come was because you wanted to worship your God Why did you come here tonight? Why will you come on Wednesday night or to Sunday school Are we finding ourselves that we're just fearing man more than we fear God? Who do you fear? What brought you here? Saul here is begging Samuel to try and get right with him and he said, Well, I want you to come with God, I want you to recognize me so I can make things right before the people and yeah we'll try and make things right with the Lord, okay, that's fine, but I really want to look good for the people. It reminds me of the verse in Proverbs 29-25. The fear of man bringeth a snare. But whoso putth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. So if you choose to fear man , It's a snare. It's a trap. Sin binds and it holds. And if you fear man, that's what it does. You become enslaved to serving man. And here's the challenge with that. If you choose to fear man and you're going to try and make them all happy, you're going to have a very frustrating and miserable life. Because if everyone on this side likes vanilla ice cream and everybody that one likes chocolate ice cream and I say tonight we're having vanilla ice cream, that's the way it is, but I'm trying to please everyone, half of you are gonna be upset because I chose vanilla and you guys all like chocolate. And then you've got those. You got one in every crowd. But the point is, you're trying to make people you're fearing people. You're trying to you're trying to look good in front of people It's not gonna so what happens is you become a slave, you become entangled with trying to please them and to fear them and to try and do right to make them happy, and you will exhaust yourself Saul here, he just wants to look in front of people. He has become a snare, just like it says in Proverbs 29, 25. If you choose to fear man, and it reminds me of this political season, boy, do we see a fear man come out. Which way am I gonna stand this time? I think most people will go with this one. I still the position. I and they flip-flop and all that. I mean they're all it's Don't get me started on that, but there's a lot of hypoxics going on, and we don't need politicians as much as we do honest men of character and integrity and statesmen to stand on the Constitution and the Word of God. But there's a lot of fear of people. And it does. It enslaves you. And it's not just fear of people too. Sin just in itself, slaves. And it becomes you You serve it and it entangles you and it gets hard to get out of the trap. Traps are designed to capture something. If you set traps and it doesn't trap anything, you're gonna stop using it or you're gonna tweak it. It's not designing the way it's supposed to. If you're gonna catch that possum or that rabbit or whatever it is to try and get it out, your raccoon. And if it never holds anything and it keeps getting out Even a mouse trap? I got real good at setting those things. But if it doesn't work, you've got to figure something out. It's designed to capture. If we, like Saul , try to fear man, it traps us, it enslaves us, it gets hard to get out We should say something like this in Psalm 79:9: Help us, O God, of our salvation, for the glory of thy name, and deliver us, and purge away our sins for thy name's sake. Not because I want to look good, because I want your name to be good. For your name's sake. In Psalm 115, verse 1, not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory for thy mercy and for thy truth's sake. It's his truth. It's his name that's on the line. That's why we do what we do. Had Saul learned this, he would be making right decisions, and it would be no question when Samuel had a message from God that says, I want you to utterly destroy the Amalekites. Saul should have been great, awesome. They've been in our author s since we left Egypt. They've been authored in our sight, following us around Boy, I'm so glad God is gonna be on our side and finally decide to help us wipe them out. That is wonderful. Let's utterly destroy them. It's an easy command. That should have been exciting to him as the leader of this nation being picked on by these other guys and now they're gonna get obliterated. And you get to lead the way. Instead, you have different plans. You just want to look good in front of other people. You want to pray the king in front of your own people and talk about how great you've done. Is that for the Lord's name's sake? Or is it for yours? And then there in verse 25, it does look like he's trying to make A decent request. Now therefore I pray thee pardon my sin and turn again with me, that I may worship the Lord. I just want to worship the Lord. That's all I'm trying to do. He's trying to sound religious. But at this point, as we're following and studying through Saul, he's not so interested in just being religious. Pride is getting in the way. He wants to look good. So yeah, it might sound righteous. Yeah, I just want to worship the Lord. And some sinful people and that have ill intentions, sometimes they can even sound religious. They might pray. They might even go to church. Sometimes it just looks good, but why are they doing that? And it comes back to who do you fear? So in verses 24 and 25, we've seen that Saul repents because he feared the people. In verse 26, we're going to see Saul rejected the word of the Lord. Look with me in verse 26. And Samuel said to Saul I will not return with thee, for thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord hath rejected thee from being king over Israel. So once again, they're talking. And Samuel is not going to honor Saul's request. Why does he want him to come with me? He wants Samuel to be at his side. He wants to come out and to be with him. And here he's like, I will not return with thee. I'm not just going to make you look good in front of the people. You know you disobeyed. God knows you disobeyed. I know you blatantly went against the command of the Lord. It was clear. I'm not going to go with you and pretend that everything's okay because you're Saul. I'm not going to go along with you just because you're the king Oh, he's in a great man of position. Sometimes it'd be easy just to go with it. Yeah, and you know what let's make him look good because of the position he's in. Samuel is showing to be a true man who fears God and not the people. He's saying, I will not go out with you. You did not, you have rejected the clear command of the Lord. There is no way I can make you look good in front of people when you clearly went and disobeyed God. And we saw that earlier in chapter 15. He clearly rejected the word of the Lord. And because of that, at the end of the verse, he says. That the Lord hath rejected thee from being king over Israel. Because he disobeyed blatantly, purposefully lied about it , didn't think, oh, I haven't done that wrong. I'm doing just fine. Because he did not obey the commands of the Lord. Purposefully, he says there at the end of the verse, that the Lord has rejected thee for being king over Israel. That's a tough thing to swallow right there. But it continues. We're going to see a great illustration here in the next couple verses. So verses 24 and 25, seeing that Saul repents because he feared the people. In verse 26, we saw that Saul rejected the word of the Lord. In verses 27 and 28, we're going to see that Saul rent Samuel's mantle. Let's look at this. This is a great illustration of the point that he just said in verse 26. And as Samuel turned about to go away, he laid hold upon the skirt of his mantle and it read. So here's that picture of my mind eye. You have Saul begging Samuel, make me look good. Come out with me before the people so we can worship the Lord and everything can look like it's okay and everything's doing good. Samuel's making a stand. He says, I will not. I am not going to go out with you. And when he says that, he says, and you know what? And God has rejected you from being king. Samuel hasn't said all he needs to say at this point. He turns to walk away. But in Saul's desperation and his fear of man and designed to look so good and to look great and be this great and mighty king In his desperation or in his pride, he reaches out and grabs Samuel's mantle as he's walking away. Grabs it, and as he does so, it rips. And I think it's very interesting because in that moment God uses that as a illustration of his own pride, his own arrogance, his desire to fear God, to his lack of fear God, and his fear of people, that he uses it as illustration. Let's follow along. He says , and it rent. Verse 28. And Samuel said unto him, I could see Samuel turning around back to Saul. He turned to walk away in desperation. He grabbed his tries to keep him close. Keep him with him. Please don't And Samuel said to him, The Lord hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbor of thine that is better than you. Whoa. I mean, can you imagine being a king? And in your desperation, you try to keep this man, he rips it, and he turns around. Okay, that's illustration. God is ripping this kingdom from you. And you know what? He's your neighbor, and he's better than you. Is there none taller and handsomer than me in all of the kingdom? What do you mean better than me? I mean, can you see his reaction? I mean, I can't I I mean I don't say I don't know, but can you imagine that thought going through his head What do you mean better than me? I mean I obey God's commands. I'm tall and handsome and they like me. You can't get better than this. That is the problem. Okay. That is the problem, okay? So here he is. But can you imagine that? And so from this point forward, you ever wonder why Saul was so desperate to kill David as we look into the future and we know what happened? I mean it's like it's almost like from this day forward Saul knew the kingdom is no longer mine. And in just like he lost it, he's still trying to keep it with his own power and his own ways It's like no wonder why he's trying to get rid of David. That guy's a threat, but he already knows it. From this day forward, he may not know who. But to get that idea, it's your neighbor, it's someone that you're gonna know And he's better than you. Well, how are you better? We're joking about his appearances and how he looks. But one way, what makes a man better than another? This is obedience to God. Do you agree with God to fear Him? Or are you fearing man? Because how could a man be better than another when we're all sinners? And when we know looking forward at the neighbor that's better, and if you're going to compare, I mean if you look at the list of sins, you've got Saul. And you've got David. Saul at this point has only had two major problems. One, okay, he can claim a little bit of ignorance. Okay, he got a little impatient. The other one, he blatantly disobeyed. Okay, not bad blatant disobedience. Okay, not so horrible. Over here, you've got David. Not meeting when the other kings are to go to battle. Adultery with a woman, then to cover up, he commits murder, becomes a horrible father, there's a lot of infighting with his own family, neglects his son, his son tries to rebel against him, and he goes on and on. What list of sins looks worse? David? Or Saul? But wait a minute, from this verse, we know that David here is going to be the neighbor that's better than him. Why? David understood that he had a fear of God. He wronged God when he disobeyed. He admitted his sin and tried to make it right. Saul, I didn't do that. He denied it and ran from it. And then he's begging Samuel to stay just so I can look good in front of the people. David here breaks down. And says, God forgive me for I have sinned. And we see this in Psalm 32. 5. We read it earlier, but now I'm going to give us some bigger context of this. Psalm 32. 5, written by David. This is the one that's the neighbor that's better than Saul. And he was used of the Lord to pen this. I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. Saul is hiding it. He's denying it. Whether it's purposeful or not, whether he just doesn't really see his sin, he's so proud, or whether he knows it, he's trying to hide it, whichever. David is saying, I'm acknowledging my sin. I will confess my transgression unto the Lord. And thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. And we're going to think about it with a sila. That's what made him better. It's not that he had less sins. Oftentimes When challenges and difficulties come into our life, it's not that they come, it's how we handle them. Are you going to blame man? Are you going to try and blame God? Are you going to God help me to this, forgive me else? And how are you going to treat? The situation. How are you going to respond to the challenges when they come? We all have challenges. We all have trials. But do you fear man or do you fear God? Who do you fear? It's going to affect your response. And what's interesting in Proverbs, David's son, he was using the Lord to say this, he that covereth his sins shall not prosper. This is Proverbs 28. 13. He that covereth his sins shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. So it's not that have I sinned or have I not. It's what do you do after you sin? When it's made known unto you, where you know you've wronged it's become obvious. What do you do from that point forward? I know I'll blame someone else Listen, Adam has tried that, it didn't work. Saul is trying that. Samuel calls him on it. No, you you blatantly disobeyed. Tries to push it off on the people. Oh, the people spared the best. You're in charge of the people. You're the king. You could have said, yeah. And they're supposed to do it. Don't try and push the blame off on others. You're responsible And then the last point here, in verses 24 and 25, we see that Saul repents because he feared the people. In verse 26, we saw that Saul rejected the word of the Lord. Verses 27 and 28, we saw that Saul rent Samuel's mantle. In verses 29 and 30, we're going to see that Saul was not the strength of Israel. It's the Lord. Look at verse 29. And also the strength of Israel will not lie nor repent, for he is not a man that he should repent. Then he said, I have sinned. Yet honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship the Lord thy God. So in verses twenty-nine you basically have God is the strength of Israel. He does not lie, he does not repent. He is perfect. He is righteous. And when it says he's not a man that he should repent, when you and I repent, it's usually because we made a mistake or we feel guilty or we're sorry for what we did If you take someone that's perfect and holy and complete and cannot do wrong and cannot lie like God, his repent would be more that he's grieved. He's heavy-hearted. You and I will be guilty and ashamed. He's not man that he should repent. It's different when you're God. He's holy, righteous, just. He can't do wrong. He cannot lie, it says here. But then right after that is in verse 30. Saul just can't get this thought out of his mind. He is so full of himself and so desperate that he says, I have sinned. I really have sinned Yet honor me now. And by this point, when I see I have not sinned, I can just picture like my kids in the moments you have to discipline them. Boy, do they have great repentance Oh I'll never do it again! You're like, okay, that's nice. But I also know spare not the Rogers crying Those times can be tough. But I think that's where Saul is right here. Wait, wait, wait, wait. I I really have sinned, I've seen, I've sinned. It's like it's too late, bud. Oh, now you're getting the consequences? Now you want to be forgiven? Is it a little more genuine now? Yeah, now when we get the consequences, isn't that how you and I work? We'll try and get away as long as we can. Then when we're caught, it's like, oh yeah, I did mess up. You know what? I sinned. Oh okay. Now can I get out of the consequence? No, the consequences are still coming. Now you have to deal with it. I feel like that's where Saul is right now. He's been told the kingdom is going to be taken from it. It's going to be ripped from you. And now he's going back to where he went before. Ah, I've sinned, I've sinned. Look at verse 30. Yet honor me now , I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, turn again with me, that I may worship the Lord thy God Would you just please come with me? Can I just say face? Can you just uh make me look good in front of people? I okay, okay, I know I said I messed up, but can you just make me look good? Samuel was probably better. Had enough, you childish, immature king. Go stop sucking your thumb. You know, let's get on move. I mean, I can't I can't imagine what Samuel was thinking right here. No No, I cannot change what you did. I told you what to do. You disobeyed. Now you're getting consequences. Now you're still begging me after I get the consequence And you still want to fear people just to look good in front of them. He still is not saying, I've sinned before God. I need God to forgive me. That's still not coming out. He's just saying, look at verse 30. I've sinned. But he wants honor in front of the elders. At least make me look good in front of the leadership. Maybe not all Israel, but at least the leaders. Help me look good in front of them. And then, you know, we'll start with the leaders, and then yeah, before all the rest of Israel, sure why not? But come with me. He's getting, he's still so desperate. I feel like he's getting the consequences And it's like a little kid, they're getting consequences, and boy, is there great sorrow and repentance then. That's just how I see Saul here at this point. The question comes back, who do you fear? I just want to quickly hit these couple verses. Look at verses 34 and 33 and 34 with me. And Samuel said, As the sword hath made woman childless, So shall thy mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before the Lord in Gilgal. You know what Samuel did? He says, You know what? I'm going to take this in my own hands. And look at the thoughts of verse 32. And then said Samuel, bring hither to me Agag the king of the Amalekites. And Agag came unto him. Delicately and a guy says, Sh surely you're still not upset. I mean, come on. I mean you wiped out most of my people. Here I am. I'm what do you want me to do? Be your slave? I'll do that He's a coward, right? He's trying to spare his own life. And Agag said, surely bitterness of death is past. Samuel said, Here's the sword. This made many women in Israel childless. Your mother's not gonna be and hacks him to pieces. That's the prophet. What is he doing? He's doing what Saul should have done. He fears God. He's gonna obey. You got Agag here, and I found out I'm picking him out myself. Saul, you knew to do this, and he's stepping up to do that Why? Who do you think Samuel feared? You don't see too many prophets running around with a sword to hack someone to pieces Saul, who did he fear? He feared man, brought a snare, and his whole kingdom, everything was taken from him. So when it comes to you and I in our daily life, why do we repent? How do we respond? It comes back to the question: well then who do you fear fear. Is it man or is it God? Father, we come before you thanking you for this passage that we can read, learn We can so many times clearly point out the sins of others. Father, we just need to be alone with you. And as David said in Psalm 32, 5, where have I sinned? I need to be right before you. I, as an individual, need to confess my sin before you. Because I fear you. Help us not to get caught with just fearing man. Help your people to not be snared. Help us to learn from Samuel and from Saul. That when we make decisions, and yes, we will make mistakes, how do we respond? And it comes back to us having a healthy fear of you as our God And as our Lord. Be with your people, and we come to you to the precious and glorious name of Christ who paid the penalty for our sin on that cross. And it's his name. Amen. You know, it's so important that when we sin, our greatest concern isn't how to get out of the consequences. but how to actually face it biblically and be restored to right fellowship with God. And really a sign of true repentance is that we accept consequence. And we accept whatever that is because that's the right thing. And a a hallmark of worldly sorrow is Tell me what I need to say so you can leave me alone. And there's a really big difference between those two things. And so it's so important that we That we learned that lesson and that we really do care most about what God thinks, not what other people think. Let's go ahead and turn in our hymn books for a closing hymn to hymn 177, our great savior. And it is true we we sin much, but it's also true we have a great savor. So let's sing about, let's stand together, please. We'll sing verses 1, 2, and 5. Of our great Savior as we close our service tonight. The blue man We don't train if we can have a myself Well, I hope that you'll be able to join us again on Wednesday night as we keep going uh through the Sermon on the Mount, and we have finished the part of the Lord's Prayer, but uh we're just gonna keep on working our way through that sermon, and I hope that that's been a real encouragement and a challenge to you. I'd like to ask if Billy Phew can close us in prayer and I know the teens have a singer, so please meet in the back so that you can get in the van to go to that activity. Dear Lord, thank you so much for bringing us here safety tonight. Bring the teen safely uh to the fellowship and then back as well, Lord. I pray that as we go through our lives that we seek to fear God rather than man. And that when we do find ourselves lacking in the eyes of God, that we have true repentance for him, and that we would turn to him to obey him in that time. Bring us safely home tonight in Christ's name. Amen.