Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. Today we are in James chapter 3, and we're looking at verses 6 through 13. James chapter 3, verses 6 through 13. If you're joining us this morning, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn with me to James chapter 3, and we are looking at verses 6 through 13. Just for the sake of context, I'm going to start in verse 5 in our reading this morning. Even so, the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth. In the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature. And it is set on fire of hell. For every kind of beast, and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind. But the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. Therewith bless we God, even the Father, and therewith curse we men. which were made in the similitude of God, out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. Doth a fountain send forth in the same place sweet water and bitter? Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries, either vine figs? So can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Let him show, out of a good conversation, his works with meekness and wisdom. This morning, as we come to this passage of Scripture, I want to remind you of a simple summary statement and then some of the practical applications and observations we'll find in the text before us. Here's a summary of the passage. This section reminds us how evil the tongue can be to help us to understand that the person who's truly wise will demonstrate this wisdom by a consistent, godly use of his words. So basically, what James is going to do is he's going to remind us that the tongue, though very small, can do terrible damage And he really wants us to get a good sense of that because once we understand that, then we're going to understand how profound and how truly supernatural it is when a person has a controlled, measured tongue consistently. What that reveals about that person's character is something that we need to pause and think about. And so here are a couple of observations that really help us to think a little more carefully about that little summary statement. The first observation The tongue has tremendous power for evil. In verse 60 says it this way, the tongue is a fire. A world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature, and it is set on fire of hell. You know, we have the freedom to speak our minds. We can say anything that we want to. Sometimes we need to use that freedom a little bit less, because what that freedom does is it reveals what's really in our souls. It reveals it's in our heart. And he talks about some of the kinds of things that really can be revealed by the things that we say. Think about something like hatred. The fact that we don't respect a person. The fact that we really have no concern for other people, a self-centeredness, a vindictive spirit, these are the kinds of things that can be revealed by what we say And he uses the illustration of fire. He says a fire is something that has the power to destroy. He uses the phrase a world of iniquity. It represents really the full spectrum. of the corruption of that which is good. In other words, you want to look at all the potential evil in the world. That can really be summarized by the things that people say. It defiles the whole body. In other words, the phrase it's just talk is really something that we should be cautious about using. Someone might say, well, I never do that. I'm just talking. Well, what you're doing is ultimately revealing what lies deep down in the soul by what you say. He says it can destroy the path that we're walking on. How many people's lives have been made shipwrecked because of a simple conversation that they had or something that they stated publicly that ultimately caused tremendous damage to the opportunities that they had and the direction that they were going? And he says it burns like the fire of hell. It's an endless burning. So when we talk about the tongue, it has tremendous power for evil. And James really wants us to get that in our minds. Our tongues have the power of life and death And we we sometimes use the phrase, what we do is what really matters, not what we say. But the truth is, according to the scriptures, what we say is very impactful, and it can be very damaging. A second observation, no person can tame your tongue. I don't have the power to stop you from saying the things that are deep down in your soul. And you don't really have the power to tame my tongue. And notice what he says in verse 7. Every kind of beast, of birds, of serpents, and of things in the sea is tamed, and hath been tamed by mankind. But the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. You and I are powerless to stop people from using their mouth the way that they want to use it. And the question is why? Why is it that we can tame a powerful animal, but we cannot tame another person's tongue? And I'll tell you the ultimate reason is because we have no power to reach into the heart of a person and uproot what ultimately flows through the things that we say. In other words, we have no power to change the heart of a person. We can influence the change by the things that we say. We can try to stop people from speaking certain things, but the truth is we don't have that power. And James is emphasizing that. The only way that a person's speech can be tamed is by the Holy Spirit who resides in the heart of the Christian, beginning to influence the heart of that person so that it changes. And the way that the person thinks, what they love, what they hate, what they want to do, what they don't want to do, when the Holy Spirit begins to change the internal workings of a person's soul, that's what changes the way that they speak. But you and I don't have the power to do that, and James is emphasizing that. A third observation: Christians should consistently use their tongue for God's glory, not to tear down people who are made in the image of God. In verses 9 and 10 he says this, therewith with the tongue, bless we God, even the Father, therewith curse we men. who are made after the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessings and cursings. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. James is saying that there are people who will bless God and will speak of the glories of biblical truth. And at the same time, they will go and destroy someone that is created in God's image. Someone that God loves, someone who Christ's blood has purchased the redemption of their souls. And he says this inconsistency should never take place. We shouldn't be a person with a divided tongue who speaks what is good and what is evil at the same time This lack of consistency is a very serious thing, and we absolutely should not have it in our lives. And in verse number four, or uh Our fourth observation is this, your mouth cannot consistently speak contrary to what's ultimately in your heart. What that is revealing Is that within your heart there is a divide between what God says is right and what you want to do. And here's what he says in verse 11. Doth the fountain send forth at the same time in place sweet water and bitter? Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries either of vine figs. So can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh. Basically what he's saying is, look, it's impossible for a stream to be sweet and bitter at the same time. It's impossible for a tree to produce a different kind of fruit than what is in its nature. His point is that the nature of the tree produces the fruit that's on the tree The nature of the source of the water produces whether it's sweet or whether it's bitter. Why does he say that? He says that to help us to understand that our speech Is the flower, it's the fruit, it's not the root of our behavior. One of the things we have to recognize is that when we speak in a way that's inconsistent, It's ultimately something that's going on inside of us that's producing that kind of inconsistency. Our words and the pattern of words that we use are ultimately a revelation of what's deep down in our souls. And so we can't change the pattern of our speech if we don't come face to face with the reality of the source of that speech. If we don't get down to what's going on in our hearts, we will never be able to confront what's going on in our words And so James' point is, look, if you want to see a difference in what you say, there has to be a difference in how you think. There has to be a difference in what you love. There has to be a difference in the source of those words. You have to address it deep down inside, not on the symptom level. Observation 5. It is possible for a person to use his tongue for God's glory and the edification of others consistently. Now, when he talks about the fact that no man can tame the tongue, he's not saying that it's impossible for a person to consistently use their tongue for the glory of God. That's not what he's saying. He's saying that you and I have no power to change the way other people speak. We can control an animal. We can teach that animal to submit to our authority, but you have no power to go to another human being Reach down into their soul, change how they think, change what they love, and change what they say. You can't do it. You can't tame the tongue. But he says, a person can have a consistent, godly walk, and here's how it can happen. In verse 13, he says, who is wise? And a dude with knowledge among you. Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness and wisdom. Now, verse 13 is kind of flowing a little bit into the next section. of what we're talking about. But it's sort of like the connection between this this verse dealing with the tongue and the next section that he's going to talk about. And what's very interesting is Verse 13 also kind of links us back to this discussion that we had about our profession of faith and how we claim that we're a Christian. We claim that we have faith. He says, if you really have faith Then there's going to be evidence of that faith. There are going to be works that flow from that faith. And now we're coming first full circle in verse 13 back to that concept. That if you have wisdom , Real wisdom, you're going to see it in your conversation. And that word conversation is not just talking about what we say. It's talking about the pattern of life that we follow. Our words are part of what he means by conversation. But he means this is how a person lives. A person who is consistent, who is measured, who is meek, is a person whose life has been dominated by the Spirit of God. who has godly wisdom, who is spiritually mature. That's really the point that he's making. If James is saying that, then what we can conclude is that it's possible for a person to be in this position It's possible for someone to have godly wisdom, spiritual maturity, not that they become sinlessly perfect, but they are matured. They use their words in a measured and godly edifying kind of a way. So here's the question. How can we practically apply this discussion on the tongue? Not just today's, but really kind of going back to yesterday as well. So let me share with you a couple of things that I jotted down today that I'm going to reflect on and I want to encourage you to reflect on. The first is this. We must stop and listen to ourselves from time to time. When you say something, just just don't just blow by it. Just stop for a moment and say, what did I say? Why did I say it? And ask ourselves, what do the words that I'm using, the intent behind those words What do they say about what's going on in my heart? That's really important. You might say, well, I I don't mean that. I would never do what I just said to do It was just a reaction. I was angry in the heat of the moment. I said something that I I didn't mean it. I regret it. And on some level, I understand that. That's true. But when we are pressed, what does it do? It squeezes out what's going on inside. It really does. It doesn't mean that we'd ever do what we just said we'd do But we've thought about it. It's actually going on in the mind. Deep down inside of our heart, what we just said is something that's really being revealed by our words. You say, well, it was just a joke. It was It was just a sarcastic passing comment. It was just a slip. But it reveals what's going on inside. That's really important. We need to stop and listen to ourselves sometimes and ask what's that revealing about what's in my heart? A second thing, we must address the heart of the problem. Someone says, I have this terrible struggle with the words that I say By the way, that's a very common problem. There's a reason James is addressing it. I'm constantly saying things I regret. I'm constantly speaking in anger. I'm constantly saying cutting things. I'm constantly belittling people. Pause for a moment and realize something. If all you're doing is constantly trying to address the symptom, you will never deal with the issue at hand. It's like if you're very sick, you have a terrible virus, and rather than going to the doctor, you have a terrible bacterial infection, you go to the doctor and you address the what's causing it. You just constantly take Tylenol, you constantly take ibuprofen. Okay, yes, it takes down the the fever that you have, but it doesn't get rid of the problem. And so as soon as as soon as the medicine wears off, the fever's back We have to address the heart, not the symptom. And so if my problem is in my speech, the real problem is in my soul. It's what's going on in my heart. And I've got to address that. A third thing, we must pick up the means that God has provided to change our hearts. I want you to realize that when the gospel saved us, it didn't just remove the penalty of our sin. It didn't just deliver us from eternal separation from God. God saved us to make us holy. That's why he made us a new creature in Christ. That's why he gave us the Holy Spirit. That's why he disciplines us as his children. That's why he lovingly encourages us. That's why he gave us the church. That's why he gave us his word. And the truth is that the only way that we will change is if we pick up those tools that God has provided and we begin to appropriate those things. And change is slow. It doesn't happen quickly. If I have a problem that's being revealed in some area of my life, what I'm saying, then the change that will ultimately produce a change in the way that I speak, it's going to take time. It's going to be incremental. And so I've got to take those tools that God has given me in his word, and I've got to apply them day after day after day, and eventually the patterns of my heart will change. The patterns of thought, the patterns of feeling, the way that I I react in circumstance, it will begin to change. Why? Because the Spirit of God's changing us internally. He's rooting out wrong thinking And he's replacing it with right thinking. He's rooting out those character and patterns that are very fleshly, and he's replacing them with godly patterns And that's going to begin to flush out in the things that I say. My speech will change as my heart changes. And God has provided tools for us to actually change and grow. And the last thing I want to mention is this. We need to remember there's hope. Someone might say, I feel like I could never get victory over my words. I can never get to the place where I'm consistently encouraging people, where I'm consistently speaking in a way that is edifying, that is God-centered and in a godly way because my life has just been this this hopeless train wreck of destructive speech and I feel like I can never get victory over it. I want you to realize that that thinking is not true. God can give you victory. God wants to give you victory. He's given you all of the tools that you need. You simply need to begin putting that to practice. And by the way, it takes faith to trust God to change us. But I want to remind you that God has promised in his word that there will be a day, if we stand complete in Christ, until that day, God is molding us into the image of his son. And we need to trust him to do that. I hope the things that we've talked about this morning have been an encouragement to you. I know that a conversation about our words is very hard-hitting. It's very practical. It's very personal. But the truth is it's something that God's put in his word because he wants us to grow and he wants us to change. And I want to leave you with that encouragement that we can grow, we can mature. We can have victory in this area. It might feel helpless at the time, but that doesn't mean that it is. How we feel in reality aren't always the same. same and we need to keep that in our minds. If this has been an encouragement to you today, I hope you'll you'll just share a little comment, perhaps share it on your feed to to be a blessing to somebody else. And I'll look forward to seeing you guys next time. Let's be all together for a word of prayer and I hope that you have a wonderful morning. Father in heaven, thank you for the opportunity to share this passage of Scripture with friends. with dear brothers and sisters in Christ, and I pray that you would strengthen each of us this morning that we would really come face to face with the reality of what our words reveal in our souls. And that we would address these problems at the root, deep down in our hearts. I pray that you would help us to have the courage and the confidence that in fact you do love us enough to change us And you will change us, and you even are changing us. And I pray that little by little we would grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus And we would become people who have godly wisdom, who are measured in our speech, who are encouraging, and who truly use our words for the glory of God. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see you this morning. I hope you have a great rest of your day, and we will catch up with you next time. Bye now.