If you could take your Bibles and turn to the book of 1 John, 1 John chapter 2, and if the music this morning was a blessing to your soul, can you say amen? Those are wonderful, wonderful hymns of the faith. It's a wonderful time of reflection on the Lord Jesus Christ. And he is the center of our focus this morning. So with that, let's take our Bibles, look at 1 John 2. We'll again read verses 22 to 26, and then we'll bow our hearts together in prayer. Who is the liar? But he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is Antichrist, that denieth the Father and the Son. Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father. But he that acknowledgeth the Son hath the Father also. Let that therefore abide in you which ye had heard from the beginning. If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye shall continue in the Son, and in the Father. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to really work in our hearts as we examine this very important text of Scripture. Father, we confess to you this morning that we are unworthy sinners. We are wretches in the eyes of a holy God. All of our righteousness is filthy rags. And there is no reason that you, a holy God, should accept any one of us We confess to you our sin, we confess to you our frailty, we confess to you how easy it is to depart from truth. And yet this morning we glory in the Lord Jesus and we remember that the God man came and dwelt among us. Those individuals beheld his glory and they told us about it. He was crucified as our sin-bearing substitute. And he demonstrated his power over sin and death as he rose triumphantly from the grave. We focus our attention on your Son, the Lord Jesus. And we desire that he will be the center of our affection and the center of our attention and our praise, and that he will truly be pleased with the worship he receives this morning. Father, we think of our congregation, how there are so many who carry heavy burdens, burdens that you know very well, but maybe they carry privately. I pray that you would grant them tremendous strength as they endure through much affliction in this world. I pray for those who carry these loads, may they find strength in the Lord Jesus. May they find that his yoke is easy and his burden is light. And may you strengthen them through the grace that is in Christ Jesus. We pray that you would help us this morning as we open our Bibles to understand the weight and the significance of these very important truths. Help us to be able to take this text. and understand it within its original context and also the context of history and then our current day Help us to be folks who hold fast to sound doctrine, that we would not in any way compromise our belief about the Lord Jesus. We would hold fast to truth. Help us to understand the balance that we need to hold on these issues. One that is very strong and one that is very fast and one that is unflinching. Yet help us not to lose our love for people and humility and kindness. I pray that you might glorify yourself in our midst this morning. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I don't know how many of you enjoy studying church history, but there is a time in church history, in the life of a very well-known individual, that I want to draw your attention to today. And that individual is Charles Spurgeon, and the controversy that I'm going to reference was known as the downgrade controversy, which took place in the late 1800s, really very close to the time of Spurgeon's death. It was perhaps the most dramatic and most disastrous episode of Charles Spurgeon's career. It was also the severest crisis ever faced by the Baptist Union in London, which was the body that Spurgeon belonged to. The controversy comes From a title of series of articles that Spurgeon published in his monthly magazine, The Sword and Trowel. Spurgeon wanted to acknowledge or admonish his flock about the dangers of moving away from the historic positions of biblical Christianity. Biblical truths that he believed were the pinnacle of a steep slope In Spurgeon's view, there were certain doctrinal beliefs that were being accepted in his Baptist Union that he believed were departing from orthodoxy. And if individuals took just that one step on the wrong side of orthodoxy, they were going to be on a slippery slope that would cause the demise of the Baptist Union. and the people who are under the ministries of those individuals. Spurgeon got thick into this controversy. He wrote extensively during this time and he created a lot. A lot of people wanted Spursion to just be quiet and just settle in and let people do what they were going to do in their own congregations. But Spurgeon didn't want to do that. He wanted to write and he wanted to preach and he wanted to speak about what was going on. By the end of the time Spurgeon was openly rebuked by a vote of censure from the Baptist Union, and his wife writes that at the end of his life he did not emerge unscathed. His health deteriorated, and his wife Susanna writes, his death was the fight for the faith. It cost him his life. I'd encourage you to take some time to read a little bit about the controversies that were going on in the Baptist Union because I want you to realize that the fights that go on within, if you would say, Orthodox biblical fundamental Christianity, those are not new issues that are going on. In fact, they've been around for a really long time. But I want to ask a series of questions. Was Spurgeon really a wise man or was he a fool and a schismatic for going to war with those within the Baptist Union? It's an interesting question. Was Spurgeon's controversy with his colleagues something that we should emulate, or was it a blot on his reputation as the Prince of Preachers? Are all controversies, whether in the public arena as it was for Spurgeon or in the considerable isolation of a local church assembly, valid confrontations? You know, when we look at history, we can learn a lot. Spurgeon 's battle with the Baptist Union ultimately broke his health, and he died as a result of what he was fighting for. And if you listen to people commenting on this time in Spurgeon's life, you're going to get two very different opinions. Some will say Spurgeon was dead on and he held fast to orthodoxy, and all those within the Baptist Union that didn't stand with him, they were compromisers. Others say Spurgeon needed to just leave it alone and let those people do their own thing. What I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to examine this text before us. Because this text before us tells us there are some things that are absolutely worth fighting and contending for. Not everything that we believe is that way, but there are some things that if we don't hold fast to them, we have nothing as Christians. In fact, John is giving a very specific example of that today. The reason that John writes this portion of Scripture is that he is warning the church against against worldliness. and some specific individuals in their midst who had embraced false doctrine. Now he addresses a very specific doctrinal divide that separated the truth from the lies. God wants us to understand the importance of holding fast to doctrinal truth. And so this morning, I'd like to answer the question: how can we think and respond correctly to the issue that is before us today? The first truth we're going to see from the text is this biblical Christianity is a body of truth that is focused primarily on the identity of Christ. Not only on the identity of Christ, but if we depart in any way from a clear biblical understanding of who Jesus Christ is, we fail to have Christianity in the biblical sense. In verse 22, he says this, who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? That word Christ means the Messiah. And if you want to understand what John means by the Christ or the Messiah, you need to understand what he believed based on the Old Testament. In fact, there was a passage I was going to read it this morning, but because of our time I didn't. But I'm going to read it to you right now, and that's in Isaiah 9, 6 and 7. It says this: Unto us a child is born. A son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom. to order it and to establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this When I read that text, that is just one of many messianic passages in the Old Testament that tell us that the Jews were to be anticipating God in the flesh. the eternal God dwelling among his people. They should have anticipated a God in the flesh who would die for the sins of mankind. God in the flesh who would rise triumphant from the grave. God in the flesh who would come from the seed of David and would one day establish an eternal kingdom. Let me make this clarification about the statement I made, though. Biblical Christianity is a body of truths focused primarily on the identity of Christ. We need to understand that our Bibles are not written as a systematic theology or a book of rules and laws. Or a self-help book to get you back on your feet. And by the way, that's how a lot of people approach the Bible. They approach the Bible as I want to get this issue in my life resolved, so I'm going to look for 15 verses that give me the how to fix this problem. Now I'm not suggesting that you cannot see your life practically and wonderfully changed by the power of the word of God. Not suggesting that at all. But the Bible is not written so that we can self-help. It's not written as a systematic theology. We can take those doctrines, but we're not going to find any chapter in the Bible dedicated to, well, this explains the doctrine of and it lays it out. The fact is we're taking our Bibles and we're studying topics, but the Bible's not written as a systematic theology It's also not written as a rule book, though a large portion of our Bibles are full of laws. Do this, don't do this, here's the consequence of if you don't do this, or here is the result of if you do this. The Bible, if you want to put it in simple terms, is the story of God's redemption. It's more than just a story, it's an historical record. God working in time, the redemption of mankind, and ultimately the creation to himself, and it's through a person, the Lord Jesus Christ. From Genesis to Revelation, the Bible is about Christ and redemption. And you know, as we study our Bibles, not that we don't learn wonderful truths from the life of David and the life of Samuel. and the life of Hannah and the life of Daniel and all these f figures in the Bible, but don't miss the fact that their lives are recorded for us. So that we can see God's plan of redemption unfolding and God doing what He promised He would do. The Bible is the record of God bringing redemption to mankind. And you have no redemption apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. If we don't have an understanding of Christ that is thoroughly biblical, we don't have a gospel, and our understanding of the Bible is fundamentally flawed in its entirety. It's not suggesting that we have no laws or ethics, though, associated with the Christian faith, but that what we do flows out of who we are in Christ. The power to overcome sin, the ability to make wise and godly decisions is rooted in a position in the person of Christ. The faith is a body of truth. That Jude writes in Jude 1. 3. Beloved, I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation. It was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you. That ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. When John, or when Jude writes that, he has in his mind a body of truth. The story of redemption, an understanding of mankind's nature, an understanding of God's holiness and God's sovereignty, of God's plan of redemption, how he would bring mankind to himself. There is a truth, a body, if you will, of truth that Jude is thinking about. So I asked the question, what are the issues or doctrines that make up what we call the faith? Now, please listen, this morning I'm not going to be able to lay all that out. Okay? I Yeah, I can't do that, all right? I'd be here a while. But I want to focus in on what I think is the most important issue that John is drawing their attention to today. And I will mention some additional ones as well that I think we can find good, solid biblical support. that those are items that are unquestionably matters of the faith. If we compromise on those things, we depart, we take a step past that pinnacle, and we're on the wrong side of the divide, if you will. The first statement is this: the person of Christ is the center of the gospel. We were going through Romans chapter 1 this past week in our Monday night study, and we came across this section. I'm going to read it and comment on it. It says, Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, Called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God. And then he begins to kind of explain to us some details about the gospel of God. It says this, which was promised afore by the prophets in the holy scriptures. So what he is basically saying is this gospel message is connected to promises given in the Old Testament. From the beginning in Genesis all the way through to Christ coming and dying and rising from the dead, all those promises about redemption and the Messiah, they're focused on the gospel message And then it says it's concerning his son, Jesus Christ the Lord. When he uses the term Son, he's talking about a position within the Godhead. When he uses the term Jesus, he's talking about the humanity of Christ When he uses the term Christ, he's associating this individual with those Old Testament prophecies. And when he uses the term Lord, again he's associating him with God himself. That word Lord goes back to how they understood the name of God, Jehovah. And when we read our Bibles, what do we see? Capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. Okay? We read Lord, but the actual Hebrew term was the proper name of God. And so when it talks about him being the Son. Jesus Christ our Lord, do you not see the weight and the significance of what Paul is saying in just a statement? He was made of the seed of David according to the flesh. Talking about his humanity, talking about his connection to the Davidic covenants. He was declared to be the Son of God with power. by the resurrection from the dead. He's showing that when Christ rose from the dead, he didn't become God. He stated emphatically, I am God, and I've demonstrated that. Christ is the center of the gospel. Think about why John wrote his his gospel. In the beginning he makes this statement. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. The Word was God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made. In him is life, and the life is the light of men. What's he doing? He's saying I present to you Jesus and this is who Jesus is. Think about the discourses The vine and the branches, the miracles, the blind man who was given sight, Lazarus who was raised from the dead, the conversation between Nicodemus, the Samaritan woman, Mary and Martha at the death The burial of their brother. And then culminating with Thomas, when he falls on his hands and his face before God and he says, Jesus, you are my Lord and my God. Why all these details, the controversy where Jesus says before Abraham was I am, and they want to kill him Well, John tells us in John 20, verse 30. Many of the signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written. That ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye might have life through his name That is why he wrote the book of John. In chapter 21, he says, I didn't even begin to scratch the surface what I gave to you. If you could write a book, I suppose that the whole world itself could not contain the books that were written in that document. Christ's life was a wondrous life The conversations, the miracles, the teaching, the things we observed. And he says, I've written these things so that you will be convinced beyond all doubt who he is. And if you are convinced and you bow the knee and you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, He will give you eternal life. Do you not see that Christ is the center of the gospel? He is the center. We come to a second truth, and that's this. Genuine Christians do not apostasize. From Orthodox. Now when I use the term Orthodox, don't think Eastern Orthodoxy, okay? That is not in the least bit in my mind. When I use the term Orthodox, what I'm talking about is fundamentally sound in doctrine. We believe in a genuine fundamental face of Christianity, if you will. If somebody is a true child of God They don't embrace the gospel and then ten years later become an agnostic. They become an apostate and they say, I have nothing to do with Christianity. If they're truly a child of God, there's something fundamental about them that continues to, if you say, nag at them and press them, and God continues to work in them in a very unique way. I'd like to read to you what he says in verse 23. He is Antichrist that denieth the Father and the Son. Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father. It's a very direct statement. You deny the son, you don't have the father. He then goes on to say this. Let us abide let that therefore abide in you which ye have heard from the beginning. If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you. You shall continue in the Son and in the Father, and this is the promise that He promised us, even eternal life. In John 's mind, as he's writing to these people There is a divided group, if you will, within the congregation. There are some who have embraced false doctrine. Now, they they they profess faith in Christ. They got baptized, they joined the church, they were moving with the congregation. Some of them even maybe became teachers within the congregation. But at some point, they began to depart from From sound biblical understanding of Christ. Now, these are not superficial matters. These are not areas of genuine debate within Christian circles. These are areas of core fundamental doctrine. And he believes that if people are truly saved, though they maybe have gotten affected by this false teaching, if you will, Maybe they begin to drift for a time. Maybe they even leave the congregation for a while and they're not being as committed and they're not being faithful. And they're getting lured away. That this warning is going to draw them back And the Holy Spirit of God is going to convict and convince them because there's something inside of them drawing them back to the truth. If you will, there are certain matters that are the continental divide. Our PowerPoint has a picture of kind of a mountain scene. And if you go to a continental divide and you have a rainstorm in that area, when the water hits one side, I mean I guess theoretically it ends up in the Atlantic Ocean. Maybe not those exact molecules, okay? And on the other side it ends up in the Pacific Ocean, okay? That is like the dividing line. Now you can be this far apart from here, you're pretty close, but you're still in, you know, on the other side. You can be this far apart. And the further you slide, the more you get momentum and move in that direction. And actually that is what Charles Spurgeon was talking about. His concern was that there are folks in the church or in his Baptist Union that were denying fundamental doctrines of the Christian faith, but they liked the the the rituals of the Christian church. They liked the the Christmas and Easter and and they liked the calendar and they liked the hymns and they liked hearing the scriptures read in cadence and they liked listening to sermons that made them feel good. But there was no doctrinal substance to what they had And so he said, We're this close, but we're on the opposite side. That's what he's saying. Genuine Christians don't permanently turn away from the faith. Now let me clarify this. Because I do think that this can be misunderstood. I'm not suggesting that genuine Christians will not go through times of serious doubts. There are lots of people. I'm not asking anybody to raise their hands, but you know, maybe when you were a kid, you grew up in a good church, the gospel was preached, you responded to the gospel, you got baptized. You were growing in Sunday school and then you hit 14 or 15 or 16 and you started going, you know, I don't know about this Christianity stuff. And you may have even gone through a period of time that people in your congregation were praying for you to get saved again. Because they don't know really where you stand. And there are people that when you look at them, you don't know where they stand. Sometimes you just have to let time take its course. Some of those very same people, many times, as they get older, they turn back into the faith. And they begin to solidify those beliefs. And their struggle, if you will, with the faith is something that ended up proving too strengthen their faith. There are a lot of a lot of individuals that are involved in apologetics today. And they like to present The gospel and proofs, if you will, that demonstrate the validity of the Christian faith, they get in discussions with folks that are agnostic and atheists and people who deny the Bible. And the reason they have a heart for those people Is because they themselves were there one time. There are a lot of examples of people like that. I'm not suggesting that a genuine Christian will never go through a series of terrible doubts Despair, crisis of faith. Genuine Christians can go through seasons of rebellion. And we've all gone through them at some point in our Christian experience. Genuine Christians can make terrible compromises. Genuine Christians can bring terrible reproach to the name of Christ, but genuine Christians are kept by the power of God And the Holy Spirit of God, in his own way, continues to work and to mold and to strengthen and to revive that to refine that individual. And when he has tried, he comes forth as gold. Matthew 24, Jesus says this. There shall arise false Christs and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders, inasmuch that if it were possible, kind of an interesting statement. If it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect of God. In other words, he's saying they 're convincing, but God's people will not ultimately be duped. In 1 John 2. 18, it says this: they went out from us, they were not of us. If they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. They went out that they might be manifested that they were not all of us. I want to encourage you folks. You never know where God is working on a person. You don't know. So don't come to your final conclusion on a person. Trust God to work in them. If they are God's child, He won't let them go. He will chasten them. He will deal with them. He'll bring crisis to them. He'll bring people along their way. If they belong to the Lord, what does it say in Hebrews? Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. And scourgeth every son in whom he delighteth. Don't think that you have it all figured out when you're looking at an individual. But realize this. There are some who appear to know the Lord, and one day you'll see them turn away, and they will never ever come back. I do not believe that the scripture teaches that a true Christian is going to depart and never return back. God will continue to work in that individual, and eventually they will come to their senses. There's a certain quality, if you will, that flows from a genuine profession of faith. He stated this earlier in our text He said that they had an unction from the Holy Spirit or an anointing. And so there was a certain quality about them that the Holy Spirit was working on them and he was empowering them and enabling them, if you will. He said that they knew all things, meaning that that body of truth that was essential to salvation and godly living That was given to them and they didn't need something new. God has a special relationship with his children The word takes root in the hearts of God's people and stands the test of persecution and worldly temptation. Luke chapter 8, it says this. The parable is this, the seed of is the word of God. Those by the wayside are they that hear, then cometh the devil and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they which when they hear receive the word with joy, and these have no roots, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation they fall away. That which fell among thorns are they which when they've heard go forth, and are choked with the cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection But that on the good ground are they which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it and bring forth fruit with patience. If you will, in James 2, that passage is saying very simply, you profess faith in Christ. Time will demonstrate if that profession is real. If that profession is genuine. I want to use this illustration. I don't know, maybe some of you love football, maybe some of you don't love football. But last night I was watching a football game, my my favorite team. If you want to know who that is, you can ask me later. And as I was watching this game, there were so many high points and low points in the game. There were times that the momentum turned immediately, and it seemed as if the team that started the strongest was going to get crushed. And then ten minutes later it was like a complete reversal. There were times that a huge play would be made down the field, and it's like the defense was broken, but then at the last minute they would stand. and they would get a turnover and the momentum would shift again. That's how football works. It's tough to watch sometimes. Especially if you don't keep it in proportion. But let me tell you that that can be how it is watching Christians too sometimes. You see that they've embraced truth. You see these steps of growth. You see that there's a maturing that's going on. And then it's as if in a moment the momentum has shifted. And you see they're downcast and you see that they're broken and you see that they're drifting, and you say, What in the world is going on? Let me tell you something. God 's people, He continues to work in them. Take heart in that glorious truth. I then come to a third and final point, and that is this. We must speak plainly about departures from biblical orthodoxy. Notice how bluntly John speaks in this passage. He says, who is a liar? Anybody like being called a liar? That's like one of them like this is like throw down the gloves, we're gonna fight without gloves now kind of a thing. You called me a liar. No, I'm not, and we want to go to war over that issue Yet he uses such a strong term. Who's a liar? He says, whoever denieth the Son, the same, hath not the Father. He says it's incompatible. If you reject the Son You don't have the Father at all. You don't have eternal life at all. Strong terminology In Romans chapter 16, verse 17, Paul says this: mark them which cause divisions and offenses contrary to doctrine which you have learned and avoid them. That's a strong word. 2 Timothy 2. 15, it says, Shun profane and vain babblings. They will increase more and more to ungodliness, and their word will eat as death a canker, of whom is Himenaeus and Philetus. Who concerning the truth have heard. He even named these guys. Do you not get the point that in Paul's mind, you must hold fast to the truth? I want to present a small balance though to this, because I do think that there are Christians that will err on one of two sides of this issue. Either one They'll be so soft and so spineless that they stand for nothing, or they become so dogmatic that every single matter of potential debate is life and death to the Christian. Now please, folks, neither of those sides is the one we should be on. Side one, there are many areas in the Christian life that we can legitimately call areas of soul liberty. In fact, when we read the book of Romans, what we find out is that the church had a major controversy within its midst. And you and I would laugh about some of the things like, oh you mean you can't eat pygmy. Wow, that's a big time controversy, isn't it? Oh you can't eat shrimp. Well what about blue crabs? Well, they wouldn't have done well in Maryland, huh? You know, that's the kind of stuff. It's arguments about whether or not our boys should be circumcised according to the Jewish law or not. It's arguments about whether or not we should have a Saturday Sabbath or whether or not we should follow the Jewish Levitical feasts and festivals. And within that congregation, you had people who grew up in devout Judaism. They embraced the gospel, and in their conscience, there's no way that they could allow their son not to get circumcised. No way in the world that they could do that. There's no way in the world that that guy's gonna come home from work and his wife's gonna have a chunk of hand sitting there uh ready to eat. It ain't gonna happen, okay? And you know what Paul's perspective was on that? He said, they actually have the freedom. They have the freedom. God never said you can't eat him now that you're living in the New Testament, nor did he tell you, you have to eat him. So it's a legitimate area of, could we say, soul liberty. And a tremendous controversy. And so what does Paul say? If your conscience is not thoroughly biblical in this matter, don't compromise your conscience because you are going to feel really miserable. And when your conscience is, we could say, hardened in this area, it's going to be hardened in other areas too. And those areas are legitimate areas. And then he says to some others in the church, you understand your liberty. Don't force those other people. To violate their conscience for the sake of proving a point. You know, it's sort of like, I know brother so-and-so doesn't eat, you know, blue crabs, so I'm going to invite him to the house and say, hey, you might not have realized this. We're going to have blue crabs tonight. And he's like, what is he going to do? You put him in a terrible position. He has the freedom to eat the blue craft, but his conscience condemns him, and you're forcing him. to violate his conscience. A lot of Christians don't understand that there are areas that are very much hotly debated amongst Christians Christian people that legitimately fall in this category of soul liberty. We need to recognize the role of the conscience and encourage people to not compromise their conscience. In these areas. Even if their conscience is overly sensitized, uh sensitive, we may have a strong opinion or preference, but these areas But we need to choose to show grace and deference. And I'm convinced that most Christian controversies actually are not about fundamental doctrine. They're about these issues. And these are the things that we get really angry and defensive about. But there's another side of the balance. There are a lot of folks that want to put everything in that category. And we can't do that either. There are areas that if we compromise in that area, we have departed from doctrinal soundness. And you know, maturity in the Christian faith is what brings us to the place where we can recognize soul liberty, doctrinal orthodoxy. Grace and deference hold fast. As we mature, we should be able to more readily recognize which category we're dealing with And then respond appropriately in that category. Not all areas of disagreement are truly soul liberty. Let me put it this bluntly. You cannot be a Christian if you deny the deity of Christ. That's the whole point of this text. You cannot be a Christian in the biblical sense. If you deny the deity of Christ. Now, there are folks who call themselves Christians in theologically liberal denominations Who would tell you to your face if you ask them, no, Jesus wasn't God in the flesh. That's a myth. Then you ask them, well, why are you a Christian? Well, I I love the hymns that we sing. And I love listening to the liturgy. And I I I love being a part of all the sacramental elements of our church. And I love the community that it's there. And I I love the beauty of the that the building that we meet in, and I love all the things that we wear. I love the form of Christianity, but not the substance. If you deny the Trinity, you're in this exact same territory. If you deny the blood atonement of Christ. And let me tell you, there are a lot of folks that are even popular speakers that on some of these areas They've departed. They've departed. If you deny the literal resurrection of Christ from the dead, if you deny the salvation. Is by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone. If you deny the authority of Scripture, these areas fall into the category of fundamental theological orthodoxy. If you will, this is the divide. You can be this close, but if you're on the opposite side, you are departing or you are holding fast. It's that simple. And I want to encourage you Christians, let's hold fast to biblical orthodoxy. I have some closing questions I want to ask you, and I want you to think about it. First of all, are you a Christian? Have you embraced The faith alone in a biblical Christ, a biblical gospel, a biblical faith. A lot of times the way that we use the term my faith is really nothing more than this mystical, superficial belief system that's completely built on our emotions. It has no doctrinal, no theological substance at all. And I asked the question, have you embraced biblical Christianity or something that just makes you feel warm and fuzzy? There's a huge difference. Do you have the discernment to be able to recognize the distinction between what is theologically orthodox and what is soul liberty? And I want to challenge you, Christian, ask the Lord to help you to grow in these areas. Become, we could say Well educated in the Christian faith. Understand the issues that are on the table. And when you understand the issues, and when you're educated, you'll begin to have more tools to be able to make that kind of a determination. If you don't know, ask me, I can talk to you about them. And not that I become the standard, or if you will, but You know, as someone who studied the Word of God for many years, there are issues that you realize that right there is a core, fundamental doctrine. You can't depart from that area. And another area you say, you know, that actually is an area of freedom. I know it's a hotly debated issue, but if you study it out and you're educated and you understand what is there on the table, that is an area of soul liberty. Do you have the self-control to restrain that natural impulse to prove your point and win the argument and make somebody conform to your image, if you will? And the areas of soul liberty. Do you have the courage to confront departure from biblical orthodoxy with a skillful use of the scripture? My prayer is that God would help us to be lovers of truth in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation among whom we shine his lights. May God help us to understand the right balance, to understand where the watershed is, and to stand on the side of truth. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Our Father, this message is a very strong and a very serious message. But it's the next passage that we're dealing with in 1 John. I pray you'd help your people to develop godly discernment. Help us to know when we are in the realm of preference When we are in the realm of soul liberty, where we are in the realm of conscience. And help us to show grace and humility and deference. Help us to pray for those who've not yet grown to a better understanding of these things. And help us to be patient as we let you work in their lives. And then on areas of orthodoxy, fundamental doctrinal truths help us to hold fast to sound doctrine, not in arrogance But in humility, in grace, but with great courage and boldness. Help us to have the ability to communicate and articulate sound doctrine as your people. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen