Let's all turn together to the book of Ephesians. And this morning we are in Ephesians chapter 1 again. And we are looking at verses 1 through 6, but really we're focusing our attention on the portion of these verses that are dedicated to praising the Father for his work on our behalf. So Ephesians chapter 1, and we will pick up, beginning in verse 1. Says Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus and to the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace be to you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him, and love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ Himself. according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. Please let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to really Help us to appreciate the very, very rich truths that we read in these verses. Father, as we open this text, I pray that the Spirit of God would move in our hearts. Father, help us to recognize the tremendous weight of the glorious truths that these verses declare about every person in Christ. If we are your children, then all that is stated in this text is true of us. And so, Father, I pray that we this morning with open hearts, would delight in the glorious work of the Father toward us. I pray that we would glory in you. I pray that we would delight in your ways, and I pray that our hearts would be filled to overflowing this morning. Father, I pray for those who might be joining us this morning either in this congregation or maybe they're on the live stream that do not have that assurance that in fact they are in Christ. I pray that as they hear these truths this morning, they would recognize that in fact all these things can be true of them if they are in Christ. And I pray that they would recognize that as these verses unpackage the glorious work of redemption, they would understand that Christ has died on the cross for their sins. that he has paid in full their sin debt, and that they can be reconciled to you through his sacrifice, that they would repent and believe and have the assurance of these wonderful truths. I pray that this would be a time of great worship, a time of praise, a time of resting, a time of rejoicing, a time that you are truly magnified. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a glorious passage. And I want to start with a little illustration to kind of help whet our appetite for some of what we're going to talk about here. And that illustration is I want to talk about an individual, actually two individuals that were very impactful in my life. These two individuals were my wrestling coaches in high school and college. Their names were Jim and Dave Hayswinkle. In fact, I got this little book right here that is an interesting story of little tidbits from their life. One of the reasons that this these two men were such an impact on me, and I know I'm not the only person in this room that would say that these men were very impactful in their lives. is because of the kind of men that they were. They were guys that if you just looked at them and you saw them in a crowd, they were sort of unassuming. You wouldn't Realize that these are guys that had competed for the United States national team. I think it was like seven to eight times that they competed for the U. S. national team. You wouldn't know that they both competed on an Olympic team twice. You wouldn't know that they had a long college uh career of coaching, uh some of them high school as well, that they had impacted the lives of many, many young men for many, many decades. They're just normal guys in the room. You don't know who they are. But as I got to know them and as I sat under their tutelage as coaches, I learned things about their character, I learned things about their mindset, I learned things about their work ethic, I learned things about their love for Christ. And what those men poured into my life as an athlete, and some of the guys in this room as athletes, was something that to this day deeply impacts us. And the truth is that when I think of these two guys, I don't necessarily think of them as Olympic wrestlers or guys that have all of those credentials. I think of them as people. And the reason that I think of them as peoples, I think about their commendable qualities. I think about the commendable things that they did But what really stands out to me is the personal interest that they took in me as a young man and some of the guys in this room. One of those coaches when I was in high school, the first year wrestler, after practicing was done, he would stay after practice and he would he would coach me and he would work with me and he would chat with me basically until my dad got there and and picked me up and took me home. And those little extra times were very, very impactful. I remember before we got up to have our first competition, my coach pulled out this pack of tracks, and he said, one of the things I really want to talk to you guys about. Is that you use this sport as not just a place to grow as a man, but as an avenue to reach into people's lives. He talked to us about evangelism, taking those tracks and giving them to people after matches. And uh you might not think this because I'm a pastor and I talk about the Bible for, you know, that's how I feed my family, for lack of a better way to put it. But at that stage in my life, I was terrified to take a track and give it to somebody. To get into a conversation with another athlete was something that was overwhelmingly a thing that I was nervous about And it was his encouragement, not overbearing, but just an encouragement and his consistency that really helped me step out of my comfort zone and hand that first track and actually open my mouth and talk to somebody about the gospel. These two guys might have had more impact on me going into ministry than probably many of the people that that influenced my life as a high school were even college-age person. because of how it touched my life in those specific areas. And so the question is, why do I mention that? We praise people who have commendable qualities. Do commendable things, and have personally invested in our good. It's true. It's true in the human realm. What's very interesting about the text in front of us is this passage is going to present to us the greatness of God And the greatness of his work in a general sense, but it's going to go beyond his greatness and how he works in a general sense to how he worked in your life. And how he worked in my life. This text is all about how personal the great God who created all things, who is outside of time and space, how he has personally worked in my life for my good to redeem me to himself. And that is something that I am going to enjoy for all of eternity. And it is all because of his grace. That's what this passage is all about. And so let me summarize it this way: The Father deserves our wholehearted praise because of who he is. What he does and how he has personally demonstrated his grace in our lives. And as we read these verses, I hope we will walk out of the service going, I must passionately worship God with all of my heart. And I must rest in what He has done for me. That's what we should walk out of this room with. A desire to worship and praise God and a willingness to rest. in him. And so the question is, why should we do this? Well let me work our way through these verses and show you the reasons that we should passionately worship God with all of our heart and why we should rest in what He has done for us. So the first thing I want you to notice from the text here is how it talks about God's worthiness. Notice what it says in verse 3. It says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. Now, when we look at what he's saying here, the first thing that he mentions is who God is. That's what the phrase blessed. be the Fat God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ is emphasizing. I need to worship him because of who he is. Alright? And that phrase blessed be simply means to praise or to commend someone. So when he says, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, he's saying, Praise the Father. Blessed be the Father. He is commendable. He is worthy of all praise. In fact, what's really interesting is this word is a word that we get our English term eulogy from. A eulogy is what we talk about at a funeral. Okay? This is not a funeral, but at a funeral when we talk about a eulogy, we're saying, these people come up And they talk about, hopefully, they talk about the commendable qualities of that individual. They say, this man, this woman, they were They ministered to me in this way. They gave me this example. They did this for me. This is something I learned from them. They talk about, they praise the commendable qualities of that individual. That's what a eulogy is. And when we talk about humans, it's always a mixed bag. Every single person's funeral, there are going to be people that are going to come there and hopefully they have good things to say about you. But the reality is they're going to also remember some things that they probably could say about you that are not good. That's just the truth. But that's never true about God. God is only good and entirely good. There are lots and lots of scriptures that use this same terminology. Two of them come to mind. They're actually Old Testament examples, but the same Greek term is used in the Septuagint in these two passages, and I think that they follow the exact same pattern that we see here at Ephesians 1. The first is 1 Chronicles 29, 10. Listen to what it says. And David blessed the Lord. Same term there. He blessed the Lord before all the congregation. And David said , Blessed be thou Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. And then he lifts all these things that God is, and all these things that God has done. And then he says, now, therefore, our God, we thank thee and we praise thy glorious name. Another example, Psalm 103. 1. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, forget not all of his benefits. The very first thing, it's such a simple thing, but the first thing that he mentions about why we should bless God, his worthiness to be praised, is because of who he is. But there's a second thing. Paul presents three reasons to praise the Father. Not just his nature. But also his action. The first reason, blessed be the God and Father, he is these things. I go back to the first Chronicles passage in the Psalm 103 because you'll see the same thing. Listen to what it says in 1 Chronicles 29, 11. He says, thine O Lord is the greatness. That's who he is. And the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. All in heaven and all in earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord. Thou art exalted as head above all. It's all about who he is. Psalm 103. 8. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous of mercy. Now, what's interesting about Psalm 103 is he's going to talk about how God has been like that twenty But he simply starts by saying, This is the God that we have, the God that we serve. He's a great God, He's a merciful God, He's a gracious God, He's a loving God, He's a righteous God, He's The good God, all of that is true But then the second thing we see in these verses is his action. Who has. He did something. Now in 1 Chronicles 29, listen to the way that David highlights this. He says, Riches and honor come from thee. Thou reignest over all. In thine hand is power and might. And in thine hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all. David says, you are this amazing God. You do these amazing things, but it's all still kind of general. It's all kind of general. Psalm 103, 11 and 13. As the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. Like as a father pities his children, so the Lord pities them that fear him. Now I want you to just stop and think about this. If these verses stopped at this point, God would be worthy of praise. Because of who he is and how he works. But notice I've only emphasized how he's worked in others at that point. You know what? There might be people in this room right now That 's as far as you go. You know why that is? Because you've never tasted and seen that the Lord is good. You've never personally turned to the Lord Jesus Christ. Place your faith in the finished work of Christ. Now, God is worthy of your praise, but you don't know him, and that's why you don't praise him. But there's a third reason, and this is the one that really captures the heart of this text. His personal benevolence commends his blessing. He says he has blessed us. Does that verse apply to you? Are you a believer? Have you placed your faith in the finished work of Christ? Do you know that today your sins are forgiven? You've been declared righteous. before God, that he has washed away your sin as far as the east is from the west, as far as he removed your transgressions from you, and that he accepts you as his child. Do you know that? If you don't, then don't leave this place without getting that issue addressed. Don't do it. He says he's blessed us. Interestingly, you're going to see the exact same thing in the Psalm 103 passage in the 1 Chronicles 29. Listen to what it says 1 Chronicles 29. David writes, Who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thine own hand have we given thee. You know what David's saying? God, I praise you because of who you are. I praise you because of how you've done out there, and I praise you because of how you've dealt with me as a person. Psalm 103. 5. Listen to these verses. Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction. Who crowns thee with loving kindness and tender mercies? Who satisfies thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagle He has not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. He knoweth our frame. He remembers we are dust. What does that tell you? These psalms go from this is who God is, this is how he worked, this is how he's dealt with me. Why don't you praise God? Maybe it's because you've never personalized it. Why is there a coldness and a deadness in your heart? Maybe it's because this has never become personal and real to you. And it doesn't have to stay that way. Who God is, how he has acted, and how he has dealt with us should cause us to passionately praise him. And so that moves us to a second fact that we see in these verses, and that is God's grace. And when we talk about Ephesians chapter 1, this is all about the grace of God. From beginning to end and everything in between, it's all about highlighting the grace of God. It says, according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world. By the way, if you were to go back to chapter 1, verse 1, he says, I'm an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God to the saints at Ephesus. Grace to you and peace from God and our Father. Notice the grace isn't from us, it's from Him The peace isn't from us, it's from him. He is the initiator of experien of us getting this experience of his grace and being in a position of peace. God does that on our behalf. Very, very important for us to notice that. This worthiness is magnified by the word grace. And grace literally means unmerited favor. Whenever the Bible is talking about how we are saved, how we are reconciled to God, how we are justified, and that term grace is used, it is God's unmerited favor toward us. Let me give you some examples. Romans 3. 24. We are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. What work did you do in that verse? None. What work did he do? All. Romans 11, 6. I love this one. This is an interesting text. If by grace it is no more of works, otherwise grace is no more grace. But if it be of works, then it is no more grace. What an amazing statement. He's simply saying this: if God has demonstrated something to you by grace, then work is no part of it. He does the work, you receive the work. Grace. Ephesians 2. 8. 9, by grace are ye saved through faith. It is not of ourselves. It is the gift of God. It is not of works, lest any man should boast. Galatians 2. 21, I do not frustrate the grace of God. If righteousness comes by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. Now what does all that say? It's pretty pretty simple. Salvation is free. It is a gift. It is all of God's grace. All the work and salvation is from God, not you. That's what it means. That's a very simple thing. If in your mind God does his part, you do your part, and we all work it out together, then you're not saved. I know that's pretty blunt, but it's true. Until you come face to face with the fact it is Christ and Christ alone. My works don't play any part, my righteousness don't play any part by going to church, by giving tithes, none of those things play any part in how I am reconciled to God. It's all what He did for me. Until you come to terms with that, you don't understand the gospel. This grace is not a reaction to the good that God sees in us or the good that's done by us. God doesn't go, you clean yourself up, and then I'll come and save you. I mean, if that was the term, then we'd all be lost. He says, I'm going to come and save you right where you are. I'm going to come to you in your misery and your brokenness and your unrighteousness and your sinfulness. As my enemy and I will save you by my grace. That's why we see the phrase freely by his grace. Free to you and free to me, not to him. Costs Christ's life. If it's by works, it is no more grace. Not of yourselves. It's the gift of God. It's not of works. Salvation is entirely of God's grace. And notice how he describes it in these verses. Verse number four. He's chosen us in him before the foundation of the world. This description of grace is outside of time. What's really interesting about Ephesians chapter 1 is he actually looks at our salvation in two different aspects. He looks at it outside of time. That's what we are looking at right now when we talk about the Father. But then he talks about it in time as he talks about how our salvation is appropriated to us. And so after you heard the word You believed and you were sealed with the spirit of promise until the day of redemption. What's interesting is in these verses, you'd be saying, here's how God dealt with you outside of time, here's how God dealt with you in time. But the point is this, it's God's grace. Verse 3, blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places. This grace goes beyond the physical and the temporal realm. Usually when we think about our needs, we tend to think about physical needs. I have this financial problem, I have this relational problem, I have this physical problem, I have this health need. And those things I'm not in any way desiring to diminish them. They're big, they're real, they're serious, but they're not the most serious. What matters most is our soul. Where we spend eternity. Have we been reconciled to God? And this grace touches on that area. And the third thing he mentions it's found in a person, it's in Christ. Put it very simply: either you're in Adam or you're in Christ. It's one or the other. Born in Adam, born again in Christ. Where do you stand? So we talk about this grace. These statements apply to all of us who are in Christ. We've been blessed with every spiritual blessing in Christ. Some of these blessings are immediate. Some are fully experienced now, others are not. And I'm going to demonstrate that in just a minute. But the determination That God would save us in this way as it focuses in on the culmination of all that we receive in Christ, that is not a reaction to us. That is God's grace. The personal magnitude of this grace should cause us to passionately praise Him. Third thing I want you to notice here is our standing and how this is emphasized. Verses 4 and 5 he says this, that we should be holy and without blame before him, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. His grace addresses both our present and our future standing. And you might be going, well, I don't know that I see anything in the future in these verses. Hold on. I hope to demonstrate that in just a moment. He clearly states things that are true of us right now as we sit here today. He says that we should be holy. Present tense. That we should be without blame before him, present tense. That he has accepted us in the beloved, present tense. When the Bible talks about a Christian and refers to them as a saint, it's not you need to be a saint Or you hope to be a saint, or one day you're gonna be a saint, it's you are a saint. You say, really? Yes, you are a saint Or we talk about being blameless. It's not talking about something we're gonna be, it's something we are. You say, how's that possible? Or accepted. You know how many Christians struggle with whether or not God loves them and accepts them and that He receives them? Lots and lots of Christians struggle with these issues. Yet the text here is very explicit. He's presenting full present realities about every believer. The determination that our standing today would be holy, without blame, and accepted was made in the past by the Father. That is part of how we are saved. The basis of that determination has always been the work of Christ, and I'm going to demonstrate that in just a minute. And the realization of that reality is our daily standing before God. Let me read to you some other scriptures so that you can kind of see what he's saying here. 1 Corinthians 1:2. Paul writes, Unto the church of God which is at Corinth. Question, would you have liked to attend that church? Would you have liked to have been one of those people that uh that was a part of that beloved congregation that got several letters from Paul? Would you have considered that a strong and vibrant, healthy church? You'd say, well, the fact that uh they were overlooking some really serious things, I don't know that I'd look at it that way. Yet listen to how he describes the church. Unto the church of God which is at core, to them that are sanctified in Christ. Interesting statement, isn't it? In case you're missing it, listen to what he says in 1 Corinthians 6. 11. He says, such were some of you, but you are washed. You are sanctified. That's the same concept that's mentioned in verse 1. He says you are justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of God. And so what Paul is saying is, when I speak to you and I speak of how God sees you. I see He sees you as people who are washed from your sins. You are sanctified in Christ Jesus. You are declared righteous before him. And the question is how can you do that? The answer is it's all because we are in him. Listen to Philippians chapter 3, verse 9. That we might be found in him not having our own righteousness. Which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. How can God call you and me, who are sinners, accepted, beloved? Holy, justified. How can he do that? It's because we're in Christ and Christ is all those things. In fact, the thing that kept Paul from becoming a Christian initially was his pride and self-reliance. If we go back to the Philippians 3 passage. He talks about the way that he thought before he became a Christian. And this is how Paul thought. He said, if I do good, if I be good, if I look good, if I keep all of these rules and all these rituals. then God will accept me because I've proven to him that I've made myself righteous. And I've done it with his help. And I've used all his rules and I've used his law. That's the way Paul looked at salvation. As a lost man. That's how a lot of people look at salvation. If I do good, if I be good, if I look good, if I do all these things, then God will accept me because I've proven that I've earned my way to Him. But what does Paul said? He says, I counted all those things dung, rubbish. garbage that I might be found in Christ, not having my own righteousness, but the righteousness which comes through faith in Christ. And so this issue of standing is huge because it's all about him. Those are all present realities. Those are true about you, even when you don't feel like they are. And the truth is a lot of us don't feel like there are a lot. Why is that? Because we have a conscience, and when we sin, it bothers us. And that's a good thing, actually. When you sin and your conscience is bothered, that's not a bad thing. That is a clear indication that the Spirit of God's working in your heart and you know something's not right. But when your conscience says you're not God's child, now your conscience is outside of what is biblically accurate, and it's starting to think in a way that's not consistent with Scripture. But there's a second side to this that he mentions, and this is very important, and that's adoption. Now, when we see that word adoption, we tend to think of this as, well, he's saying that today I'm adopted, and that's the end of it. Predestinated unto the adoption of children. But adoption in the first century was something that had several different aspects to it. Some of them were current realities. Some of them were near-term future realities and some of them were long-term future realities. In other words, when we talk about adoption, we would say you have a status that will not be fully realized until a certain point in time down the road. And so when he says that you are predestinated unto the adoption of children, He's talking about something that has both a present aspect to it and a future aspect to it. And that's really the heart of this text. Because what it's doing is it's emphasizing the fact that these verses are all about the security of the believer. Every aspect of our salvation is rooted in God's work, including keeping our salvation. There is a subtle yet significant difference between being adopted and being a son. You say, really? Yes. Let me give you some examples of what I mean by this. The first one is 1 John 3. 2. Beloved. Now are we the sons of God, and it does not yet appear what we shall be. Question, when do you become a child of God? Well, the verse says it's now. If you place your faith in Christ, you're God's child. It's that simple. You say, well, are there any other verses to talk about? Of course there are. John 3. 36, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. You don't wait to get eternal life. You have eternal life the moment you place your faith in Christ. Now you're not experiencing it in its fullness, you're not experiencing it in eternity, but you have eternal life. Now that's what the Bible says He that believeth not, the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. 1 John 5. 11. This is the record that God hath given us eternal life, and this life is in his son. Not that he will give us eternal life, and that it will be in his son. You have it. It's been given. It's in his son now. John 5. 12 He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Those verses are very clear. The moment that you hear the gospel, that you're convicted of sin and righteousness and judgment, and in repentance you turn to God and you place your faith alone in the death and the resurrection of Christ. God forgives you. He cleanses you. He justifies you. You are his child. Boom. It's done right then and there. But adoption has another element that is being alluded to in this text. Listen to what it says in Romans chapter 8 verse 23. It says, we which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves. waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our bodies. Isn't that interesting? So in verses like 1 John 5, he says, you have eternal life, you have the Son, you have life. This is a record God's given us eternal life. This life is in his son. Romans 8. Even we groan waiting for the adoption. Do you see there's a clear difference in language right there? One is something you have, one is something that you're you're waiting on. And so what's he talking about? He's talking about the culmination of everything. He's talking about that future glory that we will enjoy forever. In other words, there are aspects to our salvation that we have now, and there are things that we are waiting on in the future. It doesn't make them less real. It doesn't make them less guaranteed. It doesn't make them less secured. It simply means there is time before we experience the realities of glory. Are you in heaven right now? No. And some of you are like, for sure I'm not. My body tells me that. And all the people around me get to hear about it. But one day you will be in glory, and you will have a glorified body, and you won't deal with sin, you won't deal with the miseries of this life. And that that time you will have a redeemed body. And so when he talks of redemption, Romans 8. 23. He speaks of that future realization. Or listen to the language of Romans 8, 29 to 32. So this is kind of an expansion of what he's saying. He says, whom he foreknew he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. Do we experience on this side of our death and eternity a fullness and practical experience of reflecting the image of Christ? No. Are you a perfect saint? No. Do you wish you were? Of course you do. I hope you do. But we're not. But one day we will be I go back to that one little verse that we just read a few seconds ago. So very interesting. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, but it does not yet appear what we shall be. When we see him, we'll be like him. We will see him as he is. And everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself even as he is pure. That's really interesting language, isn't it? He says, whom he did predestinate, he called, whom he called, he justified, whom he justified, he glorified. What shall we say to these things if God before us Who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all. This is important. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? So what is the point of Romans 8? It's to say, you've got a lot, but there's still something you're waiting on, but God's guaranteed it's going to happen. He has predetermined that you will not just be saved, justified, but you will be glorified. And if he has given his son for you to be forgiven and cleansed, he's going to complete what he started. That's what he's saying. And the burden is all on his shoulders, not on your shoulders. That's why the word grace is so important here. And so I mentioned a couple things about this issue of adoption in the first century. In Roman culture, there was an immediate status that changed regardless of age, but there was also a delayed experience of the full benefits until the adopted person reached full maturity. So let's say that someone was adopted at seven years old. Were they a son to the person that adopted them legally in Roman culture? Yes, they were. But were they considered a full status at that age? The answer? No. And so there was a point in time where they would have a special recognition that they have come of age and now they receive the full benefits of that. And even there's a third aspect. They don't receive the full inheritance until dad's dead. By the way, let me also mention something here. In Roman society, you could disown your biological child, but you could never disown your adopted child. Isn't that an amazing thought? Isn't it interesting how he uses both the terms of regenerate and adoption? Because both of them apply to our salvation. And so the perspective is this. This is both a new and future status that has a stunning reversal of relationship to God. These things are amazing because they're true, but what really makes them amazing is when you consider what we were before these became ours. Listen to what it says in Ephesians 2. You at the quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world. We all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the lusts of the flesh. And of the mind and were by nature the children of wrath. Romans 5, 6, when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. God commendeth his love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. If when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Colossians 1, you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblamable and unreprovable in his Do you see the contrast? It's who I was, who I am in him. And it's incomparable the dis the difference. And what's the difference? Two words, but God. Grace. The present and future magnify our standing before God and should cause us to passionately praise Him. The fourth thing I want to mention here is why did God do it? What was his motivation? It's very interesting what he says in verses four to six. It says, In love, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ himself. According to the good pleasure of His will, to the praise and the glory of His grace. What does that mean? What it means very simply is this. God purposed to create good out of evil. You say, what do you mean by that? When Adam sinned, that was evil. When Adam rebelled against God, that was evil. God chose, even before that event took place in history, to take the evil of that situation and to use it. to demonstrate the greatness of his goodness. That's what salvation is. God taking our miserable and broken condition and saying I'm bigger, I'm stronger, I'm a gracious God, and I can reverse this tragic and miserable series of circumstances. He purposed to create good out of evil, demonstrating how great he is. And he uses several phrases. The first one is in love. His love for sinners, verse number four. Verse 5, the good pleasure of his will, his desire to do good for those who are unworthy. It wasn't like God looked at you and you're like, Man, I I gotta get that guy right there. I'm gonna get a good deal if I get him. So I'm gonna save him because I'm going to get a good bargain out of that. That's not the way God saves us. God saves us because he is good. And it brings him pleasure to demonstrate his grace. He's a merciful God. He delights in saving the broken sinners. But this third statement's really interesting. To the praise of the glory of his grace. His desire was to commend the greatness of his grace to the world. Now, when you and I wanted to proclaim our greatness, we do it in arrogance. It's just the honest truth. Hey, I just want to let you know I'm really good at such and such. You know, watch junior high kids interact a little bit. Watch little little kids interact. My daddy's bigger than your daddy. I can do this and you can't do that. And all this back and forth. I mean it's all about pride, pride, pride, pride, pride. Is that what God is? Is he a proud, arrogant God? No, he is someone who loves what's good. And there's nothing more good and more commendable and more great in all of the universe. Than his grace that was demonstrated in the gospel. There is nothing more magnificent and commendable than that. And how could a good God who loves what is good not glorify that? That's what salvation is all about. This passage celebrates God's resolve to complete what He planned, secured, and has given to us. He purposed before the foundation of the world. He promised to send his son. He sent his son in the fullness of time. His son accepted, or he accepted the sacrifice of his son. He justified us by faith alone in the gospel. He will complete every aspect of what he purchased. He's given us his spirit until we experience the completion of everything. So how do you apply such an amazing text? I mean we could be here a lot longer than this. It's really just a surface level evaluation of the text. But how do you apply it? First is this. We must passionately worship God with all of our hearts. Purpose to grow in your understanding of his character. Purpose to grow in your comprehension of His grace. Reflect on who you are and what you were. Rejoice in the security of your position in Christ. Worship. The second is the word rest. We must rest in the security that we have in Christ. When we stumble, We need to look to Christ and rest in what He's done for us. When our conscience condemns us, we need to rest in the position we have in Christ. When we cannot escape our weaknesses and our struggles, we need to rest in our position in Christ. I want to go back to Coach Jim and Dave. When I was in the third grade, my parents moved from South Carolina, or we all moved together, I should say. They didn't move and leave us. We moved together to Pensacola, Florida. And down the road that I grew up on is where Jim Hayeswinkle lived with his family. And I remember one his family moved to Pensacola from Minnesota the same time that my family moved to Pensacola from South Carolina. And I remember my mom telling me, did you know that there's an Olympic wrestler that lives down the street from us? And I was like Like where? She's like that little guy that lives in the house over there. I'm like, really? Third grader, right I'm like, I'm thinking I'm gonna see this like massive athlete come walk out. He's like this little old bald guy with glasses. Like, what's the deal with that? I grew up with his kids. We used to scrap a lot in the neighborhood. We had a lot of rivalries on our street. They were often on the other side of the rivalry for me and my friends. And I can tell you this. As a third grader, as a sixth grader, as an eighth grader, I didn't really understand who that man was. He didn't mean a whole lot to me. That sounds kinda kinda kinda bad, but it's true. He's just, you know, a guy that lives down the street with his kids that we scrap with in the neighborhood. But I'll tell you what changed. What changed was one day that coach came and talked to me and said, hey, we're starting a wrestling team. And there's nobody at your weight class you can make the team and get beat up every time you step on the mat nonetheless And that changed everything. You know why? He initiated an interaction with me that gave me the opportunity to know him personally. And when I got to know that man, that made a big impact in my life. You know what's funny? He still looked like a little old man with glasses. He had a funny sense of humor. But I knew who he was. And you know why a lot of people have a diminished attitude toward God? It's very simple. don't know him. You know why a lot of people come to church and they don't sing the hymns? They don't really think much about what they're saying. Why people don't live with a confidence in the Lord and His goodness. Every time something bad happens, immediately God's got to be the villain there. Why do we do that? It's because we don't know him. I'm not saying you're not a Christian. I mean it's possible, but we just don't know him. And when you get to know your God and you understand his character and you understand how he works in people's lives, And you have tasted personally how he has dealt with you, and you understand what the Bible says about your position in Christ and who you are versus who you were, all of a sudden the heart is going to change And so I want to challenge you this morning. Think about him in a personal sense. Not just I know some things about him, I know what he does, I can talk about him, I can converse about theology, I know him, he has saved me, I love him, he is everything to me. Let's bow for prayer. With every head bowed, every eye closed, before we go to the Lord in prayer and sing our closing hymn. Very simple question. Do you know the Lord as your Savior? Or is there uncertainty? If you were to die today, hopefully that doesn't happen, but we have no guarantees, or if the Lord will return today. Would you go to be with the Lord or not? It's a very important question. How you answer it determines eternity. If you don't know the Lord as your Savior and you'd like to speak with me about that, can you just quietly raise up your hand at this moment? I'm not gonna call you out, I'm not gonna ask you to stand or anything like that. That. I just want to take note because I want to speak with you. Take a Bible and show you from the scriptures what Christ has done for you and invite you to respond to it by placing your faith in Christ. Anybody like that at all? You might say I've gone here for years and I kind of struggle with this. Reach out. Send me an email if you need to. Be glad to sit down and talk to you. God is an awesome God. But if you don't know him, you won't love him. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, I thank you for your word. I thank you for your matchless grace That even before the foundation of the world, your choice was that those who are in Christ will not just taste some of salvation, but they'll get the The whole thing. Forgiveness and cleansing, reconciliation, a righteous position, a full inheritance, a glorified body It's all a part of what Christ has purchased for us. And so I pray that we would delight in you and we would be grateful to you for how you have worked on our behalf. Behalf. And for that heart that might be troubled, I pray that you would use this moment to provoke them to reach out and to get the help they need. At this time of struggle. And I pray that for each of us that know the Lord, we would rejoice and rest in you. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.