The passage that we're looking at is a very important passage. It gives us a picture of a time in Israel's history when they were in danger as a nation. They were in danger because though they were God's covenant people and he had entered into this wonderful covenant with his people, he'd protect them, he'd defend them, he would bless them. He would prosper them. There were conditions with that covenant that he had entered into with them, the Mosaic covenant, that if they were to dishonor God and they were to reject his ways, God would have to chasten his people. As we read through the Old Testament, one of the things that we see is that the nation of Israel went through high points and low points. We see that there were times that there were kings that were raised up that were faithful men. There were also kings who came into power that were very dishonorable men. There were times in the nation when they faced intense trauma and trouble as a nation because of their disobedience. And one of the things that we see consistently throughout the Old Testament is that God never left his people. He never abandoned his people. God was faithful to the promises that he made to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and though God had to discipline or chasten the nation of Israel because of their disobedience, he would remain faithful to those promises that he made Well when we come to Malachi chapter 2, what we're going to see is really what was at the root problem of the rebellion and the drift and the turmoil that the people experienced at the time leading into what we call the intertestamental period. This is a period when God was silent in Israel. There were no prophets that were active in the land of Israel. And it wasn't until the end of that time period where God Speaks to Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist. There was a period of time where there was silence in Israel. You may ask the question, why was it that God had to discipline his people? Why was it that the nation would drift when God had been so faithful and they had this rich history of God doing these amazing works? Bringing them out of slavery in Egypt, giving them the promised land, how God would raise up good and noble kings, and when the nation would drift, he would always go back and reach out to those people. How is it that those people Would end up in these places. Well, I think when we open up this text of scripture, we're going to get a snapshot picture of why the nation drifted. What was at the root, what was at the heart of the drift of that nation? You might say, well, Pastor, these are Old Testament believers and these are many unbelievers who are part of a nation in covenant with God. How does this really apply or help us today living in the New Testament era? We're living in a nation The United States of America, we are not a theocracy, we're a republic, we are a local church. How does this passage apply I want you to realize that what this is, is this is a case from Israel's history that gives us insight into the heart of God for people who know him. The heart of God for families, the heart of God for fathers, the heart of God for mothers, the heart of God for people who know the Lord and have embraced his gospel. So with that in mind, let's look at Malachi chapter 2. We're not going to read all of the verses. We're going to hit some of the highlight verses. And then I want us to dig into a very important concept of why fatherhood actually matters. Why does fatherhood actually matter? Malachi chapter 2, verse 5 says this, my covenant was with him of life and peace. It's a really interesting statement. I think a lot of times they don't think about the fact that God entered into a covenant with Israel for their good. And ultimately to bring about redemption through the Messiah, you could say, even for our goods. His covenant was with them of life and peace. But verse 8 says, you departed out of the way. You have caused many to stumble at the law. You have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. Though God's covenant with his people was a good thing, it was for their good, and ultimately it would lead to our good because he would send the Messiah through those people. They rejected God's will for them. As a nation, they had drifted. In verse 11, he says, Judah hath dealt treacherously as an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem, for Judah hath profaned the holiness of the Lord which he loved and hath married the daughters of a strange God. Now when God chose out the nation of Israel, He chose out this people, to be a peculiar, unique group of people so that all the nations of the earth would look at this people and say, God is amongst his people. I want to know that God. I want to serve that God. And as they came and they observed the God of Israel interacting with his people, they would understand that God was going to send redemption. Through those people, through the Messiah. Yet what does he say? You've profaned the holiness of the Lord. In other words, the relationship that you have with God a very precious, a very treasured position, you have betrayed it. You've cheapened it. You've treated it as if it has no value. We then go on to see this, it says, You have done this again, covering the altars of the Lord with tears, with weeping, with crying out, insomuch that he regardeth not the offering any more, and receiveth it with good will at your hands. Another way to put that is they continued to sacrifice to God. They continued to follow the ceremonial aspects of their relationship to God. However, their hearts were reproduced. Rebellious. Their ways were sinful. Their ways were treacherous. And so while they in their personal lives would dishonor God, in their public lives they would go through the motions. Of living as if they were in relationship with God. By the way, this is what people do when they come to church regularly every week, but during the week their families are complete chaos. And the ways of the Lord are not in their midst. This was the ideal. And then he goes on to say this, This have ye done again, covering the altars. And they say, Wherefore? Because the Lord hath been witness between thee and the wife of your youth. Against whom thou hast dealt treacherously, yet is she thy companion and the wife of thy covenant. It's kind of interesting. The people didn't understand what they were doing. When God gives this message to the prophet, to the people, they say, hold on a second, God. We are honoring you. We're going to the temple. We're going to the festivals. We're following your ways. What's your beef with us? That's kind of the idea. And God says, here's the problem. The way that you're responding to your wife is treacherous. It's an interesting thing. He addresses the men of the nation. He addresses husbands. He addresses fathers. You say, well, in what way was it treacherous? He continues on. He says, he says, Yet is she thy companion, the wife of thy covenant? Did not he, that's God, make he or make one that yet he had the residue of the Spirit, and wherefore one, that he might seek a godly seed? He says, Why do you think God created marriage? Why do you think God gave children to that covenantal relationship? He said it's very simple. He did it because he wants your children to walk in the ways of the Lord. In other words, he says you're not honoring marriage because you have cheapened its purpose, its value, its weight. You don't understand how precious that family that God gave you is. You have cheapened it, you have dishonored it, and the drift of the nation really goes back to the fact that in your personal lives You are not embracing the incredible opportunity and responsibility that I, God, have given you to raise up a godly seed. Folks, that is what this passage is all about. This passage explains to us that the reason that the nation got into the place where they were is because the men of that nation The husbands, the fathers had not embraced the role that God appointed them to have They were not being godly men. They were not raising up their children in the nurture and admonition and the ways of the Lord. They were dishonoring the covenant of marriage, and they were leaving their wives of their youth, and they're embracing foreign strangers who were not believers and they were taking their wives and their families and they were falling to the side I want you to realize that though we are in a very different context, we're in a very different relationship to God, and we talk about theocracy and nation and all those things, we see the exact same problem today. Nothing has changed. We don't just see it in the world. Folks, we see it in the church. We see in the church a huge breakdown of family. And the fact is this morning I want to challenge our men, and I'm not just by the end of the service going to just challenge the men. I want to challenge all of us. to observe and understand the weight of what God does when he takes a man and he takes a woman and he unites them in the covenant of marriage and he gives them the blessing of children. What is God's purpose, his design? What responsibility do we have in that relationship? That is what we're looking at this morning. The section at Malachi before us is an appeal to a self-deceived people, a rebellious people who failed to see the full weights. of God's purposes, to step back and realize how wonderful God's ways were, so they would embrace them and be faithful. God wants us to be a people, understand that fatherhood matters, and he wants us to understand why it matters, and he wants us to passionately embrace the role that God has for us to play in the raising and the shaping and the sending out of the next generation. How can we be that kind of a people? Well I want us to begin by first of all understanding the case that's before us. And as we understand the case that's before us, we're going to move from this case into understanding our responsibility as New Testament Christians when it comes to this issue of the family. The first thing is I want us to see the trouble that Judah found itself in. Judah was a truly troubled people. He is expressing it this way in verse 5. My covenant was with him of life and peace. Verse 8, but you have departed out of the way. You have caused many to stumble at the law and have corrupted the covenant of Levi. And verse 11 it says, Judah hath dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. There are four statements that I think really give us the sense of what he means when he says, you're in trouble. The first thing that stood out to me as I read these verses was that these were people who were self-deceived. Another way to put that is they were deluded. They believed that they had a good standing with God, yet they did not have a good standing with God. They believed that they were okay, yet they were in trouble. For instance, in verse 4, he says, yet ye say wherefore? So as God gives this information to them through the prophet Malachi, the people throw up their hands and say, What are you talking about? We go to the temple. We do the sacrifices. We follow your rules. What is your problem with us? That's what they're saying. If you're asking that question and God's confronting you through the prophet, what does that say? It means you're deceived. It means you've deceived yourself. Many, many people who are religious do not understand that religion cannot be a guise for them to just do whatever they want in their personal lives. The fact is, a lot of people think that because they have a form of godliness, they have the power of godliness. The fact is it's only the gospel That saves us and then transforms us through the work of the Spirit that helps us to be in the position we need to be in. But these people were self-deceived. The second thing that stood out to me is in verse 15: they were short-sighted. He says, Wherefore one that he might seek a godly seed? It wasn't just that the people were self-deceived and they looked at themselves and they said, We're okay with God, he's okay with us. The people also didn't understand that this thing called marriage is actually something God created. God blessed. And God has a purposeful reason function for this thing called marriage and family. And you're not seeing the purpose that God designed for this institution. And because you don't see the purpose for this institution, you're not embracing your role in that purpose, and therefore there are terrible consequences. On a personal level, on a corporate level, on a national level, when volumes and volumes of people don't understand the purpose that God designed for this thing called marriage. Do we not live in a land that is in this role, this place? The answer is of course we do. These people didn't understand. So God told them. The third thing that stood up, it stood out to me is that these people were very rebellious. In verses 16 and 17, he says, Take heed to your spirits that ye deal not treacherously. Ye have wearied the Lord with your words. Yet ye say, wherein have we wearied him? The only thing that I can think of when I look at this is I think about a situation like let's say that you're a youth pastor that doesn't have a lot of experience working with young people and you have a couple of teenagers in the youth group that they kind of like to mess with you a little bit. You know what I'm talking about? Any youth leaders in here that ever were in a place like this? Anyone that was ever the one that messed with the youth leader, don't raise your hand, okay? And so you get into this discussion, you say, well why not? Why not? Why not? I don't want to do this. I want to do this. And there's this back and forth, this debate, if you want to put it that way. That's what these people are doing with God. God says your heart is stubborn, it's calloused, it's rebellious. What you're doing is treachery. That is a strong word. It's something that is unjust. It's evil. It's harmful. This is treachery, the actions you're taking. And then he says, you have wearied the Lord with your words. It's like God tells you this and you respond this way. And God tells you this and you respond this way. And it's back and forth and back and forth and back and forth and back and forth. And God says, you know what? Fine. You do it your way and see what happens. That's the sense. I'm sure no parent has ever been here with their child. Never, right? We've all been there This is how God is relating to this people. He says, you weary me. You weary me The last thing that I see is that they were headed for swift judgment. In verse 12, it says, The Lord will cut off the man that doeth this, the master and the scholar. He says, it doesn't matter if you're a very educated person, it doesn't matter if you're a very skillful person. I'm going to deal with you on the basis of how you relate to me. No matter what your skill sets are, no matter what your knowledge level is, I'm going to deal with you on the basis of how you're relating to me. That's what God's saying. Judah was in trouble. The implication is that they did not embrace God's plan because they didn't understand it. You so I don't understand how they couldn't understand this. Well they didn't understand it because the truth is that their consciences had become desensitized. Sin has this way of dulling our conscience. In fact, as it dulls our conscience, it can even get to the place where we're not dull anymore. We actually embrace and celebrate what is evil and we look down on what is good. This is what happens when we go our own ways. They didn't understand the beauty and the virtue of God's great purposes. You know, a lot of times as Christians, we encourage the next generation, don't do this thing because of the negative consequences. And I understand that principle. And I know that the Bible does this at times, but the appeal is not always a negative appeal. Don't do this because it will hurt you. Sometimes it's do this because of the greatness of what you can enjoy. Like when God invites us into relationship, he says, repent and believe, so you escape the judgment of God for eternity. Embrace a relationship with me, because in my presence is fullness of joy, and at my right hand are pleasures forevermore. In other words, the scripture presents the positive and the negative. And these people did not understand the incredible blessing of being a God-centered family. This is a case in Israel's history that shows us human nature. And you know what we see? Human nature doesn't change. If we don't learn from the past, what are we going to do? We will repeat it. Just because one generation gets it right. Doesn't mean that the generation to follow will get it right or the generation that follows them will get it right. We've got to learn from the past. The second truth we're going to see is that Judah was ultimately in trouble because of the breakdown of the family. Verse eleven he says he has dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and Jerusalem. In verse 16, he says, Take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. For the Lord, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away. Now you know what's really interesting about these verses? His focus was not on the wife's problem. His focus was not on the kids' problem. Who does he address? He addresses dads. He addresses husbands. That's not to say that wives cannot get out of line from God's word. That's not say not to say that children sometimes are stubborn and don't listen to what mom and dad are teaching. But what it does show us is that in God's system, the person who bears the weights and the responsibility to make sure that that family is moving in a way that honors the Lord. is dat. It's dat. These families were broken because men were unfaithful to the wife that God gave them in their youth. The family was broken because men were marrying unbelievers who would ultimately lead them astray to compromise their homes. The family was broken because they failed to see the glory of God's purpose for the family. You know, there's all kinds of reasons that people get married. And have children. Many people often marry and have children, and if you really were to break it down, like when I do pre-marriage counseling, I'll sit down with somebody and say, Well, so why do you want to get married? And you get this kind of goofy look on your face, like, well come on, you know I want to get married. They go, no, really, why do you want to get married? I want to hear, you know, your reasons. This is like the most important decision you make after you get saved. Like, have you thought it through a little bit? And they're like, uh uh, there's nothing to think about. I just know I want to do this. I think if we really were to break it down, a lot of people get married because they want security, companionship, sexual fulfillment, money. Status? I want to be alone. Now listen, I'm not saying that those things are wrong. I mean, this is part of what comes into God wiring us so that we will desire to get married and have families. But these motivations that tend to rise to the top are supposed to be secondary to what is most important. I want to raise a family because God has a purpose in it. That was really what he was saying. God wanted these people to recognize that marriage was a really good thing, that he created for a really good purpose And if they were faithful in this relationship, they would enjoy the incredible fruits and blessings of what God designed for that union. This was a covenantal relationship that was meant to strengthen the community. I want us to think about where the scriptures talk about this institution. God's good gift of life and how he created marriage really to give children to be raised up in the ways of the Lord. So the third thing we're to look at is that we need to be gripped by the value and the glory of what it means to be a father and fatherhood. This context is directed towards men because ultimately they would stand before God and give an account for the way they directed their homes. It was also directed to them because this is the breaking point in the nation. The problems going on in society all filtered back to the fact that these men were not being responsible to seize the roles that God created them to have. I want you to see what God says in His Word about this issue. First place, I want you to go to Deuteronomy chapter 6. Now, Deuteronomy chapter 6 is an Old Testament context, it's in a covenantal relationship. But it tells us a lot about how God expects parents who know him to relate to the children who 've not yet come to understand the gospel, eventually they come to embrace the gospel, and then what's supposed to take place from that point on? In Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 5, it starts this way. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. These words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. And talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, when thou risest up. This is one of the most classic passages of Scripture that we think about when we talk about the concept of Bring up children in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. When Paul made that statement to the church, and those fathers understood what he means by bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, their minds would go back to what he instructed those Old Testament Christians or believers, people that were anticipating the Messiah, what he told them about how to relate to their own children. Love God. You will never, I'll say this: never raise up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord if you don't love God first. You cannot give somebody something you don't have. You can't do it. If you tell your children, here 's the way, walk in it, and they watch that you don't do it, you know they're gonna say, Why in the world would I want to do it? Now you could have a parent that is stubborn and rebellious and walks in a very disorderly manner and their kids watch their parents' life and at some point they conclude I don't want what they got. I want the truth. That can happen. But if you're trying to train up your children in the ways of the Lord and you don't really have it yourself, why do you think they will follow? Love God. That's where he starts. The second thing he says is teach your children. There's got to be communication. I know there are a lot of dads in here that have a hard time talking to their kids about these very important things. How do I know that? Because I'm one? It's easy to take your kid fishing and sit there on the dock or sit there in the boat and throw in your line for six hours and never say a word about anything important And the world says, hey, good job. You spent time with your son. Take a step. How about with your daughter? There's a lot of important conversations to be had between dads and their kids, and it's not easy to have those conversations. But if we don't have them, guess what? They're going to have those conversations. But it's not going to be shaped by the truth. So what does he say? Teach them diligently unto your children. Teach them diligently. Dads, I want to encourage you. I want to encourage you, set aside a time every day that you purpose to sit down with your kids, open up the Bible, and teach them God's Word. Do that. Let me tell you what I purpose to do. And let me tell you, when I say I purpose, I don't mean every single day at that time, this man does it perfectly. No, I'm not I'm not saying that. This is what I do. When I read my Bible in the morning, I take notes of the scriptures that I read. And then when I sit down with my kids at night, guess what I do? I take one of those scriptures that I jotted down in the morning and I just explain to them what it's saying. You say, well, how long does it take? Five minutes? Seven minutes? I guess I'm not looking at the clock. Usually, if I'm looking at the clock, it doesn't go very long. Pray with your kids. Sing with your kids. Sing with your kids. We have a hymn book. Open it up and we sing with them. Now listen, I'm not telling you that you have to do it the way that Pastor Joel does it, or the way that your dad did it, or the way you wish your dad had done it. What I'm saying is this. You've got to teach your kids the Word of God. Sunday school is not an hour, not even a full hour every week True trackers, tiny trackers, the programs that we do on Wednesday night, your kids are not going to grow at the rate that they need to if you don't sit down with them and teach them the word of God. But he actually goes beyond that. He says, have a God-centered home. Listen to what he says. Talk of them when thou sittest in thine house. House, when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, when thou risest up. You say, Okay, I'm gonna make sure that when I get up in the morning I talk to them when I'm seeing. No, his point is this God should be the center of your life, and God should be the center of your home life, and you interact with your children in all the various contexts that they are exposed to in life, with God's word being presented as you As the center of it. That's really important. So what happens when your child is at school and they, you know, get in trouble with the teacher? What happens when they're in Sunday school and they get in conflict with one of the other kids? What happens when you walk around the corner and you see something going on down the hall and you're like, I gotta break up this argument, discussion, whatever? What happens when the kids are fighting? These are opportunities. Frustrating, yes, but opportunities to obey the scriptures, to follow the principle established in this text. In the New Testament, this is how the scriptures put it. Ephesians chapter 6, he says, Ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. Bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. We don't think of dads as being the nurturing type, do we? Some of us are not wired that way at all. Yet God tells us that we need to be men who nurture and admonish our children. And that word nurture is talking about the entirety of the training process. Rebuke. Teaching, comforting, encouraging, disciplining. It's all a part of this word nurture. Colossians 3. 21, he says, Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged. You know, a lot of times as dads, we really focus on the disciplinary side of raising our kids. I tell you what, I don't let my kid do this and this and this. Fine. But my question is this. Are you only a strict and harsh disciplinarian? Or are you a compassionate dad too? A loving dad? A nurturing dad? Let's not be dads who discourage our kids. The scriptures command us to teach beyond our generation. And to think about the generations that follow. Listen to some of these scriptures. Psalm 127, 3. Children are in heritage of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is his reward. What is a heritage? Is it something that you have now, or is it something that you think in the future of? Future. Proverbs 17, 6 says, Children's children are the crown of old men. Very interesting statement. The crown of old men, the glory of children is their fathers. One of the reasons that we need to think long term Is that there's going to be a day that that little boy and that little girl is a part of their own family and their kids are going to be your grandkids. And the question is, how are those kids going to walk? They're going to walk in some proportion to what you invested in your kids so that they had the tools. and the character to actually raise their kids in a way that honors the Lord. The crown of an old man is a child who is their grandchild walking with God. That's an incredible thing to see Psalm one hundred three, verse seventeen says, The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, his righteousness unto children's children. Proverbs 13, 22 says that a good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children. There's a lot of scripture behind what I just shared with you. I want to encourage you young dads with young kids. I want to encourage our teenage boys I want to encourage our preteen boys, when you think about your family, the one that you have or the one that you will have. Think beyond just the moment of every day and think about how the investment you're putting in today is going to reap long-term benefits for the glory of God. It's like a person who is investing in their retirement and somebody says, Hey, you know, you should start, you should open up uh an account and start investing in your retirement. They're like, I'm only 19, I'm working at McDonald's. If you're making money, you should be putting something in an account. They say, oh, I got time. And then when they're 40, they go, Oh, I gotta catch up. Guess what happens when you just put a little bit aside year after year after year after year after year? There comes a day when you have an investment that has real value. And that's the way that our families need to be. Scripture commends those who think beyond their generation. I think of the example of Abraham. Abraham. In Genesis chapter 18 it says the following, I know him. God is saying this about Abraham. I know him that he will command his children children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord and do justice and judgment. It's an amazing statement. He's not just going to command his kids, but the household after him. The way he invests in those kids is going to end up affecting the next generation. This is an important concept. So I move to our final fact, and that's this. We have to think practically about what we're seeing here in the scriptures. We need to live a life that has this tension between recognizing the Lord Jesus can come at any moment. You know, it's really easy for us as Christians To say, hey, you know what? The rapture's coming in my lifetime. I know it's going to happen my lifetime. So my investment in my kids, I mean I'm going to do the best I can, but in the end, you know, fifty to a hundred years from now, we're going to be in heaven. So what does it matter? Well, folks, there are lots of generations that believe that the rapture was happening in their lifetime. I believe that we should live with an anticipation of the imminent return. Of Christ. But the fact is, if you were living in the 1500s, you thought, man, 1500 years of church history is gone. He's coming back today and look at 500 years later. How do we know? If we're not living in the middle of church history, we have no idea. And so we have to have this tension of living with healthy anticipation of return. And investing in the next generation, recognizing that this could be going on for generation after generation after generation. I want God to use me to invest in the perpetuation of truth for generations. We need to embrace our role in the season that we are in. Now I know that this is directly But the truth is this the principle about God creating family, giving children, and saying the family is the place where the faith is to To be perpetuated, and one generation is to teach the next generation and to teach the next generation. That principle doesn't just apply to dads. It applies to everybody here. For instance, our kids. We have a lot of kids in here. We have a lot of kids in here. A lot. My family's got a lot of them. To our kids, listen. When mom and dad are teaching you God's word , Don't be wiggling around on the floor and poking your brother and your sister. Sit there quietly and listen to the word of God. Give respect to what God is saying in His Word. When mom and Dad want to have a conversation with you about something that just took place, and they're trying to teach you how God wants you to think about that issue. Listen to what they're saying. Our children need to develop a mind, a mindset that says, I want to have a biblical view on this issue, no matter what the world tells me. To our parents. That's mom and dad. We need to walk with God. We cannot Teach what we don't have. We cannot pattern what we do not live. We need to walk with God. We need to love one another. You know, if if a if a f if a son watches his dad not love his mother, why in the world would that son want to get married And have kids. Or if a daughter watches dad not love mom, why in the world would that girl want to get married and have a family and have children? Because what they've seen is not beautiful. It's not good. It's not the example that compels them. It's an example that repulses them. Let's love one another. Let's demonstrate the power of the gospel. When I say demonstrate the power of the gospel, we are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, to walk in newness of life by the Spirit's enabling. And so when we walk in the power of the position that we have in Christ, Our kids see that and they say, I know this is true. I know this is real. I know what mom and dad say when they're sitting in a pew and when they're interacting with other Christians, and I know what they do at home, and they're the same. And I want that. In fact, a kid growing up in a home like that doesn't even realize that other families are not like that. And it shocks them when they interact with people that don't have that experience. We need to train our children. We need to restrain our children. We need to teach our children. We need to keep God the center of our homes. We have to communicate with our kids. I want to encourage you parents. This is how we apply a text like this. I know we have a lot of grandparents in here. And we have a lot of people that'll probably become grandparents in the next, you know. Five ten years. Maybe shorter, I don't know. Grandparents, invest in your grandkids It's really easy to get at a stage in life where somebody says, you know what, for me, I lived my life, I did my time, and now it's time for me to enjoy life. I'm retired, and I'm just gonna chill on a golf. Of course. I'm gonna get out on the boat and I'm gonna do my thing because you know I I I paid my time and it's their responsibility I'm messing with it anymore. Listen Grandparents who love God can have an incredible influence on their grandkids. Incredible. I want to encourage those who are not parents. They're not grandparents. Maybe you never will be. That's okay. God's will is not for every single young man to get married. Every single young woman to get married. God has purposes for singleness as well. But every single person in this room. Whether you get married and you get married, you never have children because God doesn't give you that, or whether you have a small family, or whether you have a large family or whether you stay single all of your days, God has a role for you to play in helping the next generation walk. with him. We need encouragers. You know, you don't have to be the most spiritually matured person to be an encourager. You don't I'm not saying being spiritually immature is good, but what I'm saying is, you know, you could be a teenager who doesn't have your own kids. But you encourage and you support a mother who is like trying to balance life and trying to keep up with everything going on. Encouragers are important. Mentors Are important. Young fathers and mothers need people to come alongside and say, Hey, let me sh share with you something about what I just saw. And I know you can You've got to be careful about how you do that. Don't get me wrong. But mentors are important. We need mentors. We need encouragers. You know, there are times that we need specialists. There are some situations that a a parent gets involved with with their kid and the the bottom line is it's beyond their expertise. It's beyond their expertise. Guess They need to do. They need to find somebody who has expertise in that area to help them. You know, not every single man in this room is a plumber. Some of you learn that the hard way. Not every single person in this room is an electrician. Not every single person can build things with their hands. Not every single person is good with electronics and computers. The fact is each of us has a little niche in an area that God is God is uh pointed us in and we develop in those areas and we enjoy those areas. And if I do this and I don't have skills here, I do call the plumber. I do call the electrician. We call an AC man this week and it's a good thing. Why is that? Because sometimes you need specialists. And so I want to encourage you that even within our congregation and outside of our congregation, there are people who invest their lives as specialists and And there are times that we need God to connect us with them to help us in a very deep and difficult issue. My point is this: all of us have a role to play. From the little child all the way up to our senior, those who are married, those who are single, we all have a role to play in the development of Of the next generation. But the highest weight falls on the shoulders of dad. And so I want to encourage our men, let's be Faithful men. Let's think beyond the immediate and the mundane, and let's purpose to be faithful men who live with purpose and draw upon God's daily supply of grace. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, I thank you for this text of Scripture and the many scriptures we looked at today. I pray that you'd help us to think practically about these truths, not just our man. Our dads, but every single person in this room, may we recognize that there is a role that we have to play in Investing in the generation to follow. Help us to be faithful and help us to be purposeful and help us to enjoy the fruits Of godly labors. Help us to glory in the grace of God that sustains us when we are beyond our strength and beyond our wisdom. Who intervenes for the good of the growth of our kids? We ask that you would help us to be faithful in these areas. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen.