Take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Luke. And we are this morning in Luke chapter 23. Luke chapter 23 and as you can see we've been working our way through Luke and we skipped a section of the book And the reason for that is I wanted us to focus in on the section of the book that is really geared toward the crucifixion. the resurrection, and then the witness of the resurrection after Christ has risen from the dead. And in fact, What you have seen as we've been working our way through Luke is that technically the section of Luke from where we left off last week to where we pick up this week is all happening during the same week. This is all during the Passion Week. But if we're going to deal with all of those texts together and really spend some time focusing in on them, we will spend months to go through a week, and I'd like us to try to keep our focus on really the heart of what was going on during the Passion Week. Luke chapter 23, we're going to begin reading in verse 33 and we'll read down to verse 46. Here's what the scriptures say. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors one on the right hand and the other on the left. Then said Jesus Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. They parted his raiment and cast lots. And the people stood beholding, and the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God. The soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek and Latin and Hebrew. This is the King of the Jews. And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. The other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds. But this man hath done nothing amiss. And he said unto Jesus, Lord. Remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour, and the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst. And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit And having said thus, he gave up the ghost. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to really grip our hearts with what we are reading from God 's Word. Father, as we think about this passage, I pray that every heart in this room would be deeply moved afresh. Over the horrific death, the crucifixion of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that we would be gripped by the physical agony of that moment. But more than the physical agony of that moment and the humiliation of that moment. We would be gripped by the theological weight of that moment. That we would realize that it is through the death of our Savior, his blood that was shed on Calvary's cross, That we are forgiven, that our sin debt has been removed, that we are no longer the children of wrath as others, but in fact we have been saved from wrath through Him. That we are justified in your presence, that we are accepted in the Beloved, that we are saints. who are declared holy in Christ. And it is all of your grace. It is all because of Christ's willing sacrifice. For the joy set before him, he endured the cross, and he despised the shame, and he did it for us. And so as we read this text and we reflect on these truths, I pray you'd prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table with the true weight in which it was meant to be. experienced. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a very gripping text. Christ's crucifixion is one of the most consequential events in all history. And the reason for this is it provides reconciliation to God. For all who will humbly trust in it. In fact, as we look at this passage of Scripture, I desire to argue the point that God wants you to glory in the cross of Christ. And I think I would add the word alone because that is the only place that we as God's people should glory. There is no other place that you and I can turn. There is no other work that we can embrace. There is no other righteousness that we can embrace save the righteousness and the work of Christ. And so this morning I want us to think deeply about this passage. And so to prove that point, I want to begin with the first truth that we find in the text, and that is that we must glory in it, because it is a fact. In verse 33, we see the following statement. When they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him. Christ's crucifixion was a rigorously documented fact of history. There are some people today that would give you the impression that Jesus of Nazareth never lived. And Jesus of Nazareth was never crucified, and most certainly Jesus of Nazareth never rose from the dead, and that there's no way in the world you could ever make an argument from history that this man ever existed, ever died, and ever rose again. And if you believe that, then you do not know how to research history. Because the reality is there is no event that goes back to the first century that was more attested in more places And the crucifixion of Jesus of Nazareth. The reality is that people who hated him did not deny the fact that he existed and that he died on a cross. The people who hated him did not deny the fact that there was no body that they could pull out of a grave and say, he's here, he's dead, he did not rise from the dead. The fact is that the Romans knew about it. The Jews knew about it. Jesus' disciples knew about it. It was known all throughout the Roman world. that a Jewish carpenter from Nazareth was crucified and his disciples were so convinced he rose from the dead. That they were even willing to die for that fact. They were willing to go before the very people that said, away with him, his blood be on our hands and on our children's hands. We have no God but Caesar, no king but Caesar. Those very people they stood before fearlessly and said, he is alive. In fact, one person records there is overwhelming historical and factual evidence that Jesus died on the cross and rose again on the third day. The evidence For Christ's death is greater than almost any other event in the ancient world. It was documented in each of the gospel accounts. It was documented by Roman historians, one being Tacitus. It was documented by Jewish historians, one being Josephus. It was documented after the fact even in the Babylonian Talmud. And listen to the words of Paul in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 3. He says, Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. He was buried. He rose again the third day according to the scriptures. He was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. After that, he was seen of about five hundred brethren at once After that, he was seen of James and of all the apostles, and last of all, he was seen of me. I am the least of the apostles because I persecuted the church of God. Interestingly, there have been some folks who understanding that historically Jesus existed and historically Jesus was crucified. And historically his disciples were absolutely convinced that he rose from the dead. They were willing to die, martyrs' deaths for that. People have been compelled to try to explain other ways that we could prove that Jesus, yes, did live, and yes, people believed he died, but in fact he didn't die. But what does the text say? The text clearly states they took him to Calvary and there they crucified him. And let me tell you, the Romans understood how to crucify people. Roman crucifixion was an exceptionally horrific form of capital punishment. It was developed over hundreds of years leading to the time of Christ. In fact, if you look back over history, the Phoenicians were the first to adapt this method of killing their enemies. And then from the Phoenicians, the Persians took this to heart, and then the Greeks, and then the Romans. And eventually crucifixion was outlawed by the Romans because it was such a horrific practice. In fact, even if you will read the stories of some of those who were rulers during the time of Christ, even some of those very hardened individuals were very, we could say, uncomfortable with the concept of crucifixion because of how painful, how humiliating, how barbaric the practice was. The purpose of crucifixion wasn't just to kill a criminal. It was to inflict intense physical and emotional agony. Making a public example of a person who was an object of public disdain. Some criminals who were being crucified took days to die. And if someone was exceptionally strong and they were willing to fight the inevitable, they would live that long. In fact, during the destruction of Rome, Josephus claims that over 500 Jewish people a day were crucified outside the walls of Jerusalem to make an example. When the Romans crucified, they got the job done. Jesus died. But his death on the cross and his physical suffering is really not the whole story. It's just a part of it. In fact, as we look at this text in front of us, Luke records a lot of notable details regarding the crucifixion. I just want to highlight them because if we were to sit down and we were to digest every single one of these pieces, we'd be here all day. And I don't know how many of you are willing to do that. I don't know if my voice would hang in that long. But let me highlight a couple of the things that Luke records that are highlights of the crucifixion. Five times in this passage in front of us, he emphasized that Christ was an innocent man. For instance, in 23. 4 it says, Then said Pilate to the chief priest and to the people, I find no fault in this man. We then skip ahead a little bit further to verses 14 and 15. He says, Ye have brought this man unto me as one that perverted the people. Behold, I, having examined him before you, have found no fault in this man touching those things whereof you accused him, nor not yet Herod, I sent you to him, and lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him In verse 22 it says, He said unto them a third time, Why? What evil hath he done? I find no cause of death in him. I will therefore chastise him and let him go. And so three times Pilate, who's in charge of that region, who is ultimately accountable to determine whether or not Christ would die by crucifixion or not, three times he admits I know this man is innocent. He tried three times to find some kind of an appeasement between himself and the people. But he was unable to find a middle ground. Even the thief on the cross in verse 41 says, We have received the due reward of our deed, but this man hath done nothing amiss. Verse 47, the Chinchurion says, when he saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. What's the point? One of the things that Luke is highlighting beyond the actual historic moment is the fact that this is a man who everybody knew was innocent. Nobody involved in the process believed that Jesus deserved to die. They all knew he was a righteous man. They had no right to crucify him. But the will of the people prevailed. The question we should ask is why? We'll come to that later. He repeatedly emphasized Christ's attitude while he was dying. In verse 34, Jesus says, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. Amazing statement, isn't it? Verse 28, a little bit before he says, daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me. Weep for yourselves and for your children. Christ is saying, I'm not the one who you should be lamenting over. It's all of those who have rejected me and are going to face the judgment of God. Verse 43, Verily I say unto you, today. Thou shalt be with me in paradise. A word of comfort. The attitude we see in our Savior at this time is not one where he is sulking on the cross. Where he is desiring for people to have pity on him, he has gone to the cross with the firm conviction, this is the will of the Father. And there is no other way that mankind can be redeemed to the Father save through what I'm doing. And so we see, forgive them. Don't weep for me. You will be with me in paradise. He is a man at peace. Thirdly, he highlights how the people react to him in his agony. In verse 27, it says, there followed him a great company of people and of the women, which also bewailed and lamented him. Verse 35, the rulers disdained him, it says. They also derided him, saying he saved others. Let him save himself if he be Christ, the chosen of God. Don't you think it's unique that they take this placard and they put it over his head in three languages? Latin, Greek, and Hebrew. And it says, the king of the Jews. Did they believe that? It was a mockery. As those soldiers were hanging around the cross, like they did with so many of those criminals who were dying, they mocked them, they laughed at them, they scorned them, they derided them all through the time as this person was hanging in agony and just trying to get their next breath lest they die in that moment. And Jesus was the object of derision. But that's not the true point of the cross. We see that some had intense sorrow. Verse 41, all the people that came together to that site, beholding the things which were done, smote their breast and returned. There are two more things I want to mention here that get to the heart of what's really going on And that is two signs that Luke records regarding the moments that Christ hung on that cross that are very significant. The first is mentioned in verse 44. It says, it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour. And the sun was dark, and interestingly, even the historians of the day document that this took place. And this is not a solar eclipse. In fact, there is no record of that being a timing of a solar eclipse in that region or anything like that. This is a supernatural sign that God accomplished for a purpose. And the question is, what was it? What was happening as Christ hung on the cross and there was utter darkness over that region? Christ was paying for our sin. In fact, I'm not going to mention this here, but I'm going to go back to the thief on the cross. And I want you to notice the timing of the thief's words and then Luke's documentation of the three hours of darkness. It's not a mistake. It's not an accident. It was there for a reason when it was stated. Christ was paying for our sin. The true agony of the cross was not nail prints and bloodshed and beatings on his back and mockery and div and people deriding him. It was the weight of the sins of mankind. He became an offering for sin. The second thing mentioned is the veil in the temple. A lot of people don't realize how big this veil was. We're not talking about the curtains you hang up. in your living room. We're talking about a veil that was probably anywhere from 60 to 80 feet tall. And this veil represented a separation between the people and the presence of a holy and righteous God. And in that moment, verse 46 it says, when Jesus crowd with a loud voice, He said, Father, into thy hand. I'm sorry, he says in verse 45, the veil of the temple was rent in twain, and Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And having said thus, he gave up the b the ghost. What was happening when that that that veil was ripped in two from top to bottom? It was God telling the people, it is finished. It's God telling the people, you have access to me through the sacrifice of the one who has died. Interestingly, when that veil went, then Jesus said, Father, into your hands I commend my spirit. And then he gave up the ghost. In other words, the mission of the cross was accomplished, and it was demonstrated to be accomplished when the veil was rent. These are the things that Luke records for us. The question we should ask is, why does it all matter? So that moves us to our second truth. We should glory in it because of its provision. Look down in verse 34 at your Bibles and it says, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. Now what is the significance of that statement? The people who mocked the Lord did not know who he was. They didn't know why he was there. They didn't know what he was accomplishing. They didn't know what was being made accessible to them through his sacrifice. They had no understanding of the significance of Christ hanging on a cross. In their mind, he was just another Jewish man. Who had been beaten and been scored, scorned and mocked, and people were crying and people were mocking him, and he was just another one of those criminals. They didn't care who he was, but in fact there was a lot more going on. What was accomplished by the death of Christ? I think of Acts chapter 2, verse 23, where it says the following, Him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, you have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. Christ's death is the central component of God's plan of redemption. And there are a lot of things that we could say here. In fact, I could be here all day talking about the significance of this. But I want us to just focus in on a couple of some of the most significant of all of the pieces of why the cross matters. The first is the word substitution. He took our sins on himself and was punished in our place. Jesus was not dying for himself. He was dying for you. And he was dying for me. He was dying to redeem. Listen to some of these scriptures and let them sink into your souls. 1 Peter 2, 24, who his own self Bear our sins in his own body on the tree. What is that? Substitution. Galatians 3. 13, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. Who cursed Jesus? The Father. The Father did. Why? Because he became sin for us to redeem us who were under the curse of the law by being made a curse for us. That's incredible language. That's the cross. Second Corinthians 5. 21, he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Substitution. The second word I want you to remember is the word propitiation. He offered his life to remove the Father's wrath against our sin. Now we read this in Isaiah 53, and I want to highlight it again. It says in verse 10, thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. What was a sin offering? A sin offering was an animal that died to appease wrath. Whose wrath? God's wrath And when a person brought a sin offering, they were to confess their sins over the animal, watch it die, watch it shed its blood. And remember that that animal represented a substitution to come. Propitiation. Christ became an offering for sin. The entire sacrificial system was meant to show us that sin matters and there has to be consequence and Christ, the Lamb of God, who would take away the sins of the world, would do it in himself. Romans 5. 1, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. There is enmity between God and man because our sin separates us from God. But God removes the enmity and there is peace established through the death of Christ. Ephesians 2. 12, ye were without Christ, aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenant promises, having no hope, without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometime were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. and hath made both one and broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enmity. Substitution, propitiation. A third word is justification. He declares us not guilty and righteous in him. Romans chapter 3 verse 20. By the deeds of the law no flesh shall be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God, apart from the law is made manifest. Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe. Romans 5, 9, being justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. Justification. A third word is sanctification. He declares us holy through his death. Actually, it's the fourth word. Hebrews chapter 10, verse 10, we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ. Once for all. The last word I want you to remember is the word access. He gave us access to the Father through his personal mediation. 1 Timothy 2. 5, there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. Why does the cross matter? Why should we glory in it? Because you can't be forgiven. You can't be declared righteous. You can't be set apart as holy. You can't have access to the Father. Your sin debt cannot be removed in any way save the death of Christ. In fact To make this even more emphatic, Galatians 2. 21 says, I do not frustrate the grace of God if righteousness comes by the law. Christ died in vain. If you believe you can come to the Father through anything but the death and resurrection of Christ, you say his death does not matter. I don't think anybody would want to say that. Third thing I want you to see is we should glory in it because it's not too late if you're alive. This is the personalization of it. We talked about it as an historic event. We've talked about it as a theological, theologically significant event, but what we really need to remember is it's personal. Just because he did it, and just because you know about it, doesn't mean that you've experienced the free grace and forgiveness available through it. You have to personally respond to the gospel message. And the reality is God in his grace is drawing you, even at this moment, if you're in a position of unbelief. And I want you to notice some very interesting details that are a part of this text. In verse 43, it says, Verily I say unto you, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. This is an absolutely amazing statement. There were two criminals who were condemned to die with Christ. Verse 32, there were also two other malefactors led with him to be put to death. Both criminals confessed their belief concerning Christ. Now one person stood on the side of mockery and division and unbelief. The other stood on the side of belief and humility. And we see a laid out in verses 39 and then verses 40 and 41. Notice what the first man says in verse 39. One of the malefactors which was hanging railed on him, saying, If thou be the Christ, save thyself and us. Amazing statement. He railed on him. He mocked him. He derided him. He was just like the people at the foot of the cross who said he saved others. He can't save himself. That word if is important. You know what's interesting? When he says, if you're the Christ, save thyself and us, he was closer to the truth than he realized. Because one of those men would be saved by Christ's death that very day. Pretty amazing to think about. He could be that close to the actualization of all these redemptive promises. He could literally hang on a cross next to the very man who was offering him redemption, and he could turn away in mockery. Yet how many people sit in a church and they deride the gospel too? They wouldn't say it, but in their heart, it's nothing to them That word if is huge. It was a challenge. The second thief in verses 40 and 41 said the following. The other answering rebuked and saying, This is fascinating. Dost thou not fear God? Do you catch that? Seeing thou art in the same condemnation, who does he believe Jesus is? Let me read that again. Does that now fear God, seeing that we're in the same condemnation? He knows who Christ is. He realizes this is God in flesh. Hanging beside him on the cross, being mocked by this other man. He says, We indeed justly, but we, for we received our dear reward for our deeds. This man hath done nothing amiss. He knows who Jesus is. He says we're in the same condemnation. We deserve it. He is innocent. And then we see this very important statement. Verse number 42, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. You know what's amazing? Here's a man who was dying next to the Savior, and he still had a chance. He still had a chance. And he took it. What have you done with the gospel? Have you embraced it while there is hope? In verse 43, Jesus gives him this assurance, verily I say unto you, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. Very interestingly, when you look into the text, what is the very next thing that is recorded? And it came to Bass about the sixth hour that there was darkness. And the sun was darkened, and the veil rent, and Jesus cried, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. There is no person in history. That had closer access to the agony of the Savior on the cross than that man right there. He felt the darkness. He saw for three hours as Christ experienced what was necessary to remove our sin. And that man knew that he was a part of that. And here's my question. Do you? Do you realize that that cross wasn't just for him, it was for you? How do we apply this? Well, it's very simple. God wants you to glory in the cross. That's simple. And there's really two possibilities. One would be that of a person who is a skeptic. You can't glory in a cross while walking in unbelief. There are compelling reasons to believe that Christ came and died for your sins. There is still hope for you even if you have repeatedly pushed him away. Turn to Him and experience His forgiveness and the transformation that takes place in the heart of a new creature in Christ. When someone turns to the Lord and places their faith in the finished work of Christ, They become a new creature in Christ. Old things are passed away. All things are become new. They are reconciled to the Father through the death of his son. There is peace between God and that man. They have access to the Father. They are declared to be saints. They are righteous in Christ. And it's all of grace. Will you accept it? There's a second possibility, and that would be those who believe that frankly have gotten a little cold, a little calloused. I know that we know Jesus died for our sins. We sang all those hymns about it. If you were to answer questions on a test, you'd get them all right. But here's the question. What tear would be in your eye when you when you really thought about it? Have you really been gripped by it? But God who is rich in mercy For his great lover with he loved us, even we were dead in trespasses and sin, has quickened us together with Christ. By grace we are saved. By grace you are saved through faith that not of ourselves is the gift of God. Not of works as any man should boast. Does that move your heart in any way? If it doesn't, there's something wrong in your soul. You want to be a godly person, be gripped by the cross again. If you struggle with sin and you seem like you don't care, be gripped by the cross again. If you struggle with pride, be gripped with the cross again. If you struggle with looking down on others, be gripped by the cross again. If you're not a very contented and happy person, be gripped by the cross again Because that cross is your only hope. Don't let distraction stand between you and a renewed view of the cross. It is easy to take our eyes off of it. Don't become complacent. We can become so familiar with the fact that we fail to live daily in the light of that great sacrifice. Have a rekindled view of sin. We need a correct view of our sin and God's holiness to be reawakened. A lot of people say, I don't understand how God could actually judge people for eternity. You don't understand how holy he is. There's a lot of people that say, I don't like the cross. The cross makes me squeamish and uncomfortable. Makes God seem like a barbarian. Makes God seem like he's cruel and harsh. You don't understand sin. You have no concept of it if that's the way you view it. Because sin is eternally standing between you and a holy God, and the cross takes it away forever. We need a rekindled view of his grace. We need to be reawakened to how forbearing God is, how merciful and how gracious he is. We need a rekindled view of love. We need to recognize that the great love of God was put on people who are so unlovely. How often do we sin against one another? Every day. How miserable and contentious are we? What would people think if they knew our innermost thoughts? Those things that we are able to conceal in the moment? Well They would realize that we are all broken and miserable and only the grace of God can restore the beauty of what God has for us. And the fact is that Christ had to suffer, and he was perfectly willing to do it. He embraced it, as it says in Hebrews, for the joy. That was set before him. In Isaiah 53, it says he would look on the travail of his soul and be satisfied. What's the point? He knew what was accomplished through it. May God help us to come to the table with a renewed view of the cross. Let's bow for prayer before we Take a moment to reflect on the death of Christ, his body broken and his blood shed, when asked this question. There's somebody here this morning that doesn't know the Lord as their savior. You shouldn't partake of the Lord's table if you don't know the Lord as your savior. But you need to think about the table. You need to think about what Christ was doing. If you in any way have doubts about whether or not you are a child of God , Or maybe you know that you're not, you need to talk to someone, please come and speak with me after the service. I will sit down as long as necessary to help you understand what Christ has done for you and how you need to respond to it For the rest of us, let's not come to the table with any level of flippancy. Or arrogance. But may we come to the table with tremendous gratitude and humility, and may our love for Jesus be rekindled through our remembrance of his sacrifice.