The passage that we're going to look at this morning is one of the accounts of the resurrection of Christ. Luke 24, we'll begin reading in verse number one. It says, Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came into the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre, and they entered in and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. Came to pass that as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. And as they were afraid and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified, and the third day rise again? They remembered his words, and returned from the sepulchre and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest. It was Mary Magdalene. And Joanna and Mary, the mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles. Their word seemed to them as an idle tale, and they believed them not. Then arose Peter and ran into the sepulchre, and stooping down he beheld the linen clothes. laid by themselves and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass. Please let's bow together and ask the Lord to really help us to dig into this passage of Scripture this morning. Father, as we have just read your word, I pray that the Spirit of God would open our understanding to the significance of the truths that are laid before us. There's so many wonderful nuances to this text that just magnify the power of Christ and the reality of the resurrection. And so I pray that as we look at these various truths that were part of the witness to Christ's resurrection, that you would help us to see these things. That they would drive down into our souls and that we would walk out of this place, having had our hearts stirred, our affections awakened, and our faith strengthened Father, if there's someone here this morning, either in our midst or someone who's uh with us on the live stream this morning that has never understood the gospel or perhaps they have resisted. This testimony of Christ's death and resurrection and why it matters. I pray that this morning you would open their understanding That their sin would be laid before them and it would be a weight and a burden that would be so great they would recognize there's nothing that can remove it save the death and resurrection of Christ. They would humble themselves and turn to you and place their faith in the finished work of Christ and experience the liberation of forgiveness of sins and cleansing and new life in Him. I pray that you would comfort hearts, that you would strengthen us as we consider these truths this morning. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is such a wonderful passage, but what's interesting about the text in front of us is that it actually leaves where we stopped reading with a bit of a question. Does Peter understand what has just taken place? And so as we dig into this passage of Scripture, I want us to think about kind of the summation of what is being communicated, and then I'd like us to work our way through several truths that we will find. in these verses and then beyond these verses that will drive home the fact that we must glory in the resurrection of Christ. And unless you're concerned, we will also have a resurrection service next Sunday for sure. We will focus in again on the resurrection, but we really need several weeks to unpackage some of the things that are in front of us. So simply a summary statement first. Christ's resurrection is one of the most consequential events in history because it has provided triumph over sin and death for all who humbly trust in it. God wants us to glory in the resurrection. And so let's work our way through this passage and see exactly what it shows us that should cause us to glory in it. First truth I want you to notice this morning is this. We must glory in the resurrection because it radically changed these disciples. In other words, we can see in these verses an incredible transformation that took place in the lives of these people. That is a tr it's a tremendous witness. to the fact that Christ in fact is risen today. Look down in verse number one, and then I want us to work our way through some of the important details that I hope you've noticed as you've read this passage over the years. It says, Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. Now, there are four details I want to draw your attention to this morning that I want you to see in these verses. The first detail that I think is very significant is that the disciples knew that Jesus was actually dead. You say, well why do you need to make that statement? Well one of the reasons I need to make that statement is because one of the theories that was proposed At different times for those who are skeptics was to say, you know, Christ is crucified. True, we know that's true from history, but he didn't die. He was just He was passed out and then three days later he came out of the tomb because he never actually died. But we see in these verses that in fact it is clear Jesus died. When they crucified him, they knew exactly what they were doing, and they were successful in what they were trying to accomplish when he was nailed to that cross. Look back at the chapter before in verses 52 and following. It says the following. This man, that is referring to Joseph of Arimathea, went unto Pilate. And he begged the body of Jesus. Interestingly, when he comes to Pilate, Pilate is surprised that Jesus is already dead. And he clarifies, is it true that in fact he is dead? And they said, absolutely it is. In fact, if we look at John's gospel, one of those soldiers who was there takes a spear and thrust it up into his side, right under the rib cage to confirm that in fact he's dead. I would say that had he not already tied, that probably would have taken care of the job But there was confirmation from the soldiers all the way back to Pilate that in fact Jesus was dead And so this man, Joseph of Arimatheus, says, I want the body of Christ. I want him to receive a proper burial. And so it says he took it down and wrapped it, being the body, in linens. and laid it in a sepulchre that was hewn in stone whereon never man was laid before. Now notice carefully the next couple of statements. It says And that day was the preparation for the Sabbath drew on. Remember that Christ was crucified. And in the afternoon there is darkness for three hours, from noon until the third hour of, we think of it, 3 p. m. During that period of time, there is complete darkness as Christ hangs on the cross and pays for our sin. And then at the end of this, knowing that all things were accomplished. that had been spoken of, Jesus says it is finished, and he gives up the ghost. Now, from three o'clock until dark is not a long period of time. During that time, they have to confirm that he's dead. They have to take him down from the cross. Joseph of Arimathea has to go and plead with Pilate that Pilate would let him take the body. Joseph has to rush and take the body of Christ and lay it there in a tomb. And during all this time they have to get it done before we have the beginning of the Sabbath day, because they have to rest during this time period And so what it tells you in these verses is that the women saw where they had placed his body, and it says they returned and they prepared spices and ointments and rested the Sabbath day according to the commandment. So these women did not have the opportunity to properly prepare Christ's body for burial because there was not enough time in the day before the Sabbath. And so they prepare all those things and they wait until they can go after the Sabbath on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, because they believe he's dead. Second thing I want you to notice is that when they came to the tomb, they fully anticipated a dead body. They did not prepare those spices, thinking that they were going to come across an empty tomb and they're going to see that there is no body there. No, they prepared those spices. believing that they were going to actually take this body that has been laying in a grave and now is right at that point where it's about to decompose internally and begin to smell bad. You know the story of Lazarus It says after four days his body was stinking and they said, you don't want to open that tomb because his body is decomposing and it smells. They're coming right to the threshold of this. They're wanting to rush in as early as they possibly can after the Sabbath is finished so that they can do this. It says early in the morning they came to the sepulchre, bring the spices that they had prepared. They didn't understand that Christ wouldn't be there. They believed that he would. I think that's very significant because what it tells you is that these are not people that were waiting to craft a story about the resurrection. These are people that did not believe it was going to happen. They had no idea that Christ's body would not be there. Third thing I want you to notice is this. Their initial response was not faith, but it was doubt and it was confusion. In verses 1 through 12 we see this. And so we see what they come across and then we see how they interpret or how they respond to the things that they have seen. In verse number two, it says they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre. Interestingly, in some of the other gospel accounts, they were concerned that they weren't going to be able to get into the tomb because It had been sealed because of the things that the Sanhedrin had said would potentially take place. Maybe they'll steal his body. Interestingly, Jesus' disciples understood his teaching less than the Sanhedrin did. The Sanhedrin believed that his disciples were going to steal the body because they knew that Christ said, You kill me and I'm going to rise from the dead. The disciples weren't anticipating that at all. They weren't prepared for this. Very fascinating to think about. The skeptics understood better than they did. In verse 3 it says, they entered in and they found not the body of the Lord Jesus. And the question is, how did they respond? Well, the next thing that's there was it, he's risen! That's not the way they responded. Verse 4, it says they were much perplexed. Verse 5, it says they were afraid. Verse 11, when the women go back and they tell the other disciples, it says, their word seemed to them as an idle tale, they believed them not. The disciples were the first skeptics to the resurrection. They were not the first to believe it was the women who came who were perplexed and fearful who were the first to say, perhaps this is true. When they came with that testimony, the disciples didn't believe them. Verse 12, it says, Then arose Peter and ran into the sepulchre and stooping down, He beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves departed. And listen to the way it's worded. He wondered in himself at that which was come to pass. Peter didn't even believe it when he saw it either. You say, well, what changed? What changed is they met the resurrected Lord? What changed is that these people, they were not in a position to start a movement that would shake humanity for thousands of years. They were in a position for this story to die and be unknown to anyone. The fourth thing I want you to notice is they were transformed into fearless witnesses to the resurrection. In fact, to appreciate this, you need to know the rest of the story. Luke and Acts are written as two sequels to essentially the same book. If you read the book of Luke and you don't read the book of Acts, you're missing half the story, okay? And so Luke is anticipating as he's writing to Theophilus That he's not just going to record what happened when Jesus died and how Jesus rose from the dead, but he's going to keep reading this story because he's going to see that these men who were doubters and who were skeptics and who were fearful and who were hiding These men would be powerful witnesses to the resurrection of Christ. Acts 2. 32. This is what Peter says. This Jesus hath God raised up, whereunto we all are witnesses. Something changed. Between the end of Luke and Acts chapter 2, you know what it was? They saw the Lord. Acts chapter 3, verse 14. Ye denied the Holy One, the just, desired a murderer, and ye granted him unto you, and killed the Prince of Life, whom God hath raised from the dead, whereof we are witnesses. Acts 5. We are his witnesses of these things. And so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him. When they heard this, they were cut to the heart and took counsel to slay them. And when they called the apostles, they beat them and commanded them that they should not speak in the name of Jesus. And they let them go, and they departed the presence of the council. rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name, and daily in the temple and in every house they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. Don't miss this. These people, when they heard that Christ was risen, said, I don't believe it. They were hiding in an upper room for fear of the Jews. They were perplexed. They were doubting. They were wondering of these things. Not one of them anticipated that in fact Christ would die. and rise from the dead. As the women go to the tomb, they're convinced they will see a body there. And they were all wrong. Yet here in Acts chapter 5, the Sanhedrin, the same people That delivered Christ up to Pilate and said, His blood be on us and on our children. Those same people said, Do not speak of this name. And they beat them and they said, We don't care. What changed? The resurrection? They really saw the Lord. Acts chapter 10, verse 39. We are witnesses of all these things which did both the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they slew and hanged on a tree, whom God raised up the third day and showed him openly not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before of God, even to us. who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead, he commanded us to preach unto the people and to testify that it is he which was ordained of God to be the judge of the quick and the dead. To him give all the prophets witness, and through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins. You say, Isn't that a little overkill? Didn't you just need to say it once? Do you get it? Do you get it? He's risen. To kind of give you a little bit of perspective here, I want you to think about Peter. And Luke 22, verses 60 to 62, this is what it says. Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. Immediately while he spake the cock crew. And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he said unto him before the cock crow. Thou shalt deny me thrice, and Peter went out and wept bitterly. Do you think that this man is in a good position to shake the world with a story of the resurrection? The answer is not a chance. John 20, verse 19, we have the disciples, and it says, Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, The disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews came Jesus and stood in their midst. Do you think that these twelve, these men, were ready to turn the world upside down? Absolutely not. I think of the Apostle Paul. Don't forget what he says in Acts chapter 9. What it says about him. It says, Saul yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord went to the high priest and desired of him letters to Damascus To the synagogue that if he found any of this way, whether they be women or men, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem In Acts 22, verse 4, he says, I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delivering into prison both men and women. What changed? He saw the Lord. When we think about the resurrection of Christ, one of the reasons we ought to glory in it is because it radically transformed these people. But I think we need to go a little further than that. So it moves us to the second truth. We must glory in the resurrection because it has secured triumph over death. Look down in verses 5 to 6 it says this. Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, he is risen. He's alive. And when we talk about him not being dead but risen, he has conquered two and two senses. He has triumph. And I want us to kind of focus in on that this morning for just a few minutes. That statement, he is not here, but he is risen, is referring to Christ's personal triumph over death and corruption. Jesus wasn't in that grave. Now, before we get to you and before we get to me, we've got to talk about him, okay? We can't get to us if he himself is dead and gone, and that's the end. But we see that Christ personally triumphs over death and corruption. John 11, 25, Jesus said, I am the resurrection and the life. He is. 1 Corinthians 15, 20 and 21. Now is Christ risen from the dead, and I love this statement. He is the first fruits of them that slept. Since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. He has triumphed over death personally He's also personally triumphed over the misery of this fallen world and the kingdom of darkness. It's not just about sin, it's about the fall. It's about justice. It's about how sin has affected all of not just humanity, but the world itself. Listen to 1 Corinthians 15, 42. It says this, speaking of our bodies. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption. It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. Anybody in this room ever get sick? We might ask the people on the live stream this morning because they are sick or because they're afraid they're going to get sick. And so we have people that are not here right now because of the physical infirmity of living in a fallen world. We have people that physically would love to be here. It's not that they're sick. It's that they can't get out of their homes. Their bodies are beginning to wear down and they're weary and they're tired and they're not able to do things that they once did. And what is it talking about? The fact that this body is a corruptible body, and this body is a fallen body, and this body is a body that experiences temptation. And this is a body that we sin in, and that body It's going to be removed and replaced with a new one. That's called glorification. There's another side to this. I love the statement in Colossians 3. That Christ blotted out the handwriting of ordinances that were against us, which were contrary to us. And took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross, and having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a show of them, openly triumphing over them in it. What is that talking about? The cross is the greatest triumph in all the world. It's a triumph over sin, it's a triumph over corruption, it's a triumph over the kingdom of darkness. The reality is that when Christ went to the cross and said, it is finished, it was done. And when he rose from the dead, he says, I have triumphed over all these things. But that's all talking about him. What about you? What about me? And so there is a second sense in which This is talking about triumph. And that is, it's secured triumph for all who are united to him. This is huge. Just because Christ died, and just because he rose from the dead, doesn't mean you are going to experience the benefits of that death and resurrection. You must be in Christ. You must be united to him. That makes all the difference in the world. And so it's not just that it's available to you, it's that it's applied to you. And that's what really matters. And so the second sense is it secures triumph for all who are united to him. Romans 6. 5, we are united in the likeness of his resurrection. That's an awesome statement. Through faith in Christ we can participate in his triumph. Going back to John chapter 11, where he says, I am the resurrection and the life. He makes this statement in verse 25. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this That's the key. You have to be united to Christ. And that is through faith and his sacrifice. 1 Corinthians 15, 19 says, Now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. In Adam all die. That's why the Bible says in Romans 3. 23, all have sinned. When Adam sinned, it affected you. It affected me. I'm not just a sinner because I sin, I'm a sinner because that's by nature. That's because when Adam sinned, he represented me. In Adam all die. Even so, in Christ shall all be made alive. Union with Christ. So long as you're in Adam, you are dead spiritually to God. You need to be made alive in Christ. And for those who have placed their faith in the finished work of Christ, the Bible says death has no more power because that power is broken. Listen to 1 Corinthians 15. I have read this at so many funerals. Dozens of funerals. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin. The strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. So it's not just that he died and he rose again and he triumphed personally over sin and death in the kingdom of darkness. But he has secured redemption for every person who places their faith in him. All those who are now in Christ are alive in him. If you've trusted Christ as your Savior as you sit here this morning, death hath no more power over you. You're not under law, you're under grace. You have now participated in the greatest event in all of history. His death secured your redemption. His resurrection guarantees your life forever. That's something to be thankful for. Truth number three. We must glory in the resurrection because it demonstrates the faithfulness of God. And this is a really important piece that is laid out in the verses in front of us. Look down in verses six and seven. He says this. As the women come to the tomb and they see that the tomb is empty, they go into the tomb and they're perplexed, they're fearful. And there are two men standing there in white raiment. Who are these men? Well, they were angels. We know that from some of the other accounts. And this is what the say to the women. It says, Remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying, the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and the third day rise again. You know what's really interesting? It didn't dawn on them that this is happening. For some reason, as they're gathering all this stuff together and they're waiting on the Sabbath day, and as soon as they can go and they can actually uh go and anoint this body They're fully anticipating to see you by it's like they never thought about these words. There are people who sit in church for years. And you can tell them about Jesus' death and resurrection, but for some reason, something never goes from here to here. And one day as a 25-year-old or 30-year-old or 19-year-old or whatever, 14-year-olds, that information hits their heart in a way it never had before. And they're broken over their sin. And they realize who Jesus is, and they realize what he did for them. And they realize that that cross gives me redemption. And that resurrection gives me life forever. And it hits them in a way it never has. Personally hits them. The point is driven home into their soul. And they did it for the first time in their lives. That's these ladies. They remembered. There might be somebody here this morning who's like that. You grew up in this church. You've never understood the gospel. I don't mean you can't tell people what it is, but it never hit your heart personally. You've never been broken over your sin. You never placed your faith in Christ. He never rested in his finished work. Don't turn from this place without doing that. In one sense, he's talking about faithfulness to the word. Remember how he spake. You know, this morning we opened up with Psalm 16. This is a wonderful text of scripture. We talked about this actually when we were in our college and career activity this past Friday. Listen to what it says. David is writing here, he says, My flesh shall rest in hope. For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. What does David say? When I die, that's not the end. And the reason I know it's not the end, the reason I can face death with confidence is because I know I have a Redeemer coming. As Job said, I know that my Redeemer lives. And that I will stand in the latter day before him. And while this body will decay and the worms will eat it, in my flesh I will see God. In other words, the resurrection is not just a New Testament concept. It's in the Old Testament. And they should have had an understanding of it. Christ is putting them back to things that have already been written in the Word of God. We have his own testimony in Luke chapter 18. He says, we go up to Jerusalem. All things that were written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. He shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, he shall be mocked and spitefully entreated and spit on, and they will scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again. How could they not understand what he was saying? Spiritual blindness. Like that person who hears the message in church week in and week out and they never get it, and then one day it hits them. Spiritual blindness. But there's a second sense. And this is one I think we don't often think about, but it's important. He's faithful to his own nature. Do you know that God can't just wave a wand and say, I forgive you because I want to? You say, well, hold on, God can do anything he wants, consistent with his nature. He's a holy God. He's a righteous God. He's a just God. There has to be a just basis that in no way compromises his character. As the basis for redemption. And there are so many people that do not understand this. And if you do not understand this, you really are missing at the heart of the gospel itself. God's holiness was in no way compromised when he saved your soul. God's justice was in no wise compromised when he saved your soul. You see, how do I know that? Because of the cross. Think about this issue of holiness. In Hebrews 9. 26 it says this, now, once. He appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. By one offering, he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. We can be forgiven. We can be set apart as holy to God without any compromise of God's holiness because of the cross. His justice cannot be compromised, but in 1 John 1. 9 it says that he is faithful, and I love this statement, he is just He is just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Why do you think he says that? Because it's true. When God says, I forgive and I cleanse, he is in no way compromising justice because there's a basis for that cleansing, and there's a basis for that forgiveness. God 's love is magnified at the cross. Romans 5. 8. God commendeth. Literally it's like this. He takes it and he presents it. He says, look at the beauty of this thing. God commends his love for us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Christ's love for humanity is demonstrated in his love for his enemies. Love for people. As he looks at these people at the foot of the cross, he says, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. You know, some of those very people could have been embracing him at Pentecost. We don't know. It's available to them. The Apostle Paul hated Christ. He hated the church. He literally killed people under his own authority. Yet, what does he do? He embraces the Christ. who he persecuted. This is the love of God. It's something you and I cannot comprehend. We cannot comprehend the depth, the breadth, the height of the love of God. It surpasses human comprehension. And God's love is magnified through this gospel message. His grace can now be extended. Ephesians 2, 4 to 5. I love this verse. But God who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us. Even when we were dead in sins, he hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace we are saved. You could say it all in that verse. Rich in mercy, great love, quickened, by grace saved. God 's grace is extended because of the cross and through it. He can now be both just and the justifier. Romans chapter 3 verse 25. If you don't understand this, you don't understand the gospel. He says, God sent forth Christ to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. To declare, I say at this time, that he is righteous. And that he might be just and the justifier of him that believeth in Jesus. That's the gospel. Because he takes on sin for us, we can be forgiven. You don't have salvation apart from that verse right there. God's justice was in no way compromised. God's holiness was in no way compromised. When he sends Christ to the cross, that was the key that makes it all possible. I would summarize it with the words of Peter. First Peter one eighteen. Ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, but with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb without blemish and spot. who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but manifests in these last times for you, who by him do believe in God that raised him up from the dead and gave him glory that your faith and hope might be in God. He has always had an eternal plan of redemption. This plan was revealed progressively so that people could anticipate it in the Old Testament. So it could be confirmed as they are living with Christ. They say, I know what the prophet said. I see with my eyes. I hear with my ears. It's true. I believe it. And then we look back and it becomes what? The ground of our faith. Our feet stand on the promises of the Old Testament, the fulfillment of the gospels, and the way that is expounded for us in the New Testament. Our faith stands on that. This plan has always been consistent with the nature of God, his holiness, his love, his justice. All of these things come together in the cross and the empty tomb. Without this, God cannot save sinners Because that's the only way. So how do we apply this? Well, simple. God wants you to glory in the cross and the resurrection. And there are two possibilities in this room today or on the live stream today. Either one you're a skeptic or one you're a believer. It's that simple. A skeptic is one who says, I don't believe it. Now maybe you don't believe it because you never understood it. Maybe you don't believe it because you just say this is too much for me to believe. Maybe you don't believe it because you're on a journey. of studying what the scripture has said, looking at history, trying to put this all in your mind, and you're really trying to figure out is this true or not? Well I have good news for you. The scripture lays it out so very clearly. You can glory in the resurrection because it's true. And there are all these witnesses, it's laid out as an historic account so that you will be convinced that this is true. It happened, it was predicted, and in fact, you rest in it. You can't glory in the resurrection if you walk in unbelief. There are lots and lots of compelling reasons to believe that Christ has done these things. There is still hope, even if you've pushed him away. Last week we talked about the thief on the cross. As he hangs there, he says, Lord, remember me. And Jesus didn't say, well, you should have talked to me about a week ago. It's too late now, buddy. He didn't do that. He said, today you'll be with me in paradise. Today. When this is all over, you'll be with me. There was hope. And there's hope for you today. Turn to Him and experience His forgiveness And the transformation of new life in Christ. The second group is those who are saved, but not walking in the light of their salvation like they should. And you know what? I think all of us at times find ourselves here. The Bible is very simple. We need to walk by faith. And this reminder of the resurrection is one of the greatest ways we walk by faith. Let me give you some simple thoughts. One is this. You want to have victory over sin? You better get your eyes back on the resurrection of Christ. How do I know that? This is what Paul says to those who struggle with sin. If we have been planted in the likeness of his death, we shall also in the likeness of his resurrection. Knowing this first That our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. What do I need to hear when I'm struggling with temptation? You serve a risen Savior. You're in him. You don't have to obey the lust of the flesh. You have been resurrected to walk in newness of life. So go do it. Reckon yourself alive to God and dead into your sin. Because it's true. Second application. Gives us purpose when life seems purposeless. And I know everybody here goes through these seasons. It's kind of funny, sometimes we have these like mountaintop moments and then like right after that's like the cliff. You know what I'm talking about? You have this experience of excitement and joy and and then you just hit this like low place. Where you're like, I feel worthless as a person. I feel like what I do has no value. I feel like, what's the point of all these things? I have good news for you. There is a point. And that point is found in 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast and movable. Always abounding in the work of the Lord, as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. That is a direct application to the resurrection of Christ. If you think there's no purpose, look at the resurrection and say, there's an eternity. What I'm doing today matters. Whatever God's work for me is, I'm going to get busy in it because there's value in it. Third, there's hope when we suffer. And the fact is that in life sometimes we suffer immensely. Sometimes that's just physical pain. Sometimes that's emotional agony. We deal with things around us that just they throw us for a loop. We don't even know how to make sense of them. And when we're going through those things, we say, is there any light at the end of the tunnel? And I want to make sure it's not a train. Okay. Just saying, right? There is hope. Romans eight eighteen. I reckon That the suffering of this present time is not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us The whole point of Romans 8 is to say, suffering's real, eternity is good and forever, and you can trust God till that time. That's what it's all about. Lastly, comfort and death. This might have been a really hard year for some people. Because somebody that you love very much has died. And when you think about that separation, it's painful. It's hard. And maybe even the circumstances that led to that person's passing, you cannot wrap your mind around them. I wish I could tell you, I I can figure it out for you and I'll help you. No, no, I can't do that. If you're trying to figure all that out, you're going to spend the rest of your life like that. But there is something that we have as believers that this world cannot offer to anyone. And you know what that is? It's real comfort. It's real hope. 1 Thessalonians 4:13 he says, I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them that are asleep, that ye sorrow not even as others which have no hope. Believers sorrow and you shouldn't feel guilty when you sorrow. But you shouldn't suffer and you shouldn't sorrow like a lost person. That goes to every area of our lives. When we are in grief and we are in heartache, the question is this: where does my belief in the resurrection impact this? And if you can't figure it out, you probably need to sit down with someone who can help you work through it. The fact is that as hard as this life can be There is comfort even to the point of death because of the resurrection of Christ. And so I ask this question, are you walking by faith or are you a skeptic? May God help us to glory in the resurrection. Let's bow together for prayer. Before we close in prayer, with every head bowed and eye closed, I'm just going to ask a simple question. Is there someone here this morning that would say, hey, Pastor, I I listened to all this. I'm not going to say I figured it all out, but what I did figure out is I'm not saved. And I need to talk to somebody about that. I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to ask you to stand up. I'm not going to ask you to give a speech. I'm just going to ask you to raise your hand so that I can try to make a point to speak with you after the service. Is there anybody here that would say that's me, Pastor? I need to speak with you because I do not believe that I'm saved. And I have questions about that. Anyone at all? I'm looking. Again, I won't ask you to give a speech or stand up or come forward. I just want to make a note that I need to speak with you. Anyone at all? If there's someone here this morning that would be like, Pastor, I'm not going to raise my hand, but I do need to talk to you. Okay. Send me an email to the church office, to my Pastor Porsche account. There's lots of ways you can reach out. If you don't know for certain that you're saved, please, please reach out. It's very, very important that you don't just leave this situation without having it resolved Let's bow together for prayer and then we will sing our closing hymn. Our Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you for its power. to change lives, to transform. We thank you that through the cross and the resurrection, you offer us salvation, all of your grace. You magnify your love. You do not compromise your righteousness, your holiness, your justice, but in fact, through Christ's offer of redemption, everything is accomplished. And we can be the recipients of this free gift because of your work on our behalf. Father, may we be absolutely overwhelmed with gratitude as we think about it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.