I feel like I'm about to give a a debriefing here. Thankfully no hurricanes, right? Okay. Actually you guys can probably hear me without the mic, based on where I'm standing, right? Oh that one's on right there. Okay. All right. Well, I want to welcome you to our Sunday school hour, and we're really looking forward to our time together this morning. I'm going to introduce our speaker in just a But let's bow for a word of prayer and then I'll get I'm gonna give you kind of some update announcements and then I'll introduce Peter Wright. So let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you so much. Much for your word and the opportunity this morning to have it open before us. Please speak to our hearts. Help our hearts to be tender to your word. Help us to be able to focus our attention, despite the distractions that we may have in our minds, and help us to just submit to what you have for us today. And so speak through your servants in each of the classes. Speak to our hearts in the morning worship service and in the evening. Thank you for a great conference that we had yesterday, for all the work that went into it, the sacrifice of time and energy. For the teaching of your word and the young people and the sponsors that brought them. And I pray that you would uh just continue a work that you've started in them. And so we ask your blessing on this time. In Christ's name. Amen. Okay, I know we know we normally do our announcements at the beginning of our service, but one of the things that I've noticed is we probably don't do a very good job talking about what we're doing. Which is kind of like this is here, this is here, this is here. So I want to kind of do a better job with that during our Sunday school time and um just encourage you if you have any questions about any of the events that are coming on that you just bring those up. First of all, I want to highlight we have invitations to our Christmas Cantada. And this is going to be on December the eighth. It's actually, I think about one week earlier than normal this year. Because we don't have the Lit conference in December, we just did that. We're going to do that on December the 8th. And this is a great opportunity for you to invite people that Maybe don't normally attend church, but they would be interested in coming to that. We're going to have a lot of music and there's going to be a gospel message every time we have our Christmas cantata. We try to coordinate all that. Janelle writes the script for those. My wife and I worked through that with her. And so we try to make sure there's a lot of scripture in the in that. uh that part of the cantata and um it's usually got a really good gospel focus. So if you have friends or neighbors or somebody that you work with that maybe doesn't typically attend church and you say, boy, really like to get them out to that. This is a great opportunity. And we'll just keep printing these as people take them. Okay, so I want to encourage you with that. Let's really uh let people know about that. And it's it's gonna be a beautiful service. It's gonna be very Christ-centered, and the gospel is gonna be at the heart of that. Second thing I want to mention is that we have this is kind of our middle of the month week that we have most of our activities. So we have the Baltimore Rescue Mission on Tuesday. So if you don't typically come to that and you would like to come to that, please let us know so that you don't get left. But the van leaves at 6. 30. We go up there, we do a service for the ladies, we do a service for the men. And usually the ladies who come stay with the ladies during the men's service and gives them an opportunity to really minister to those ladies and be a blessing to them. So make a note of that, and if you want to come to that, please let us know. Also, tonight there's a Teens Inspiration and just let the teens know they're in they're in the back with Pastor Josh and Willie. But I'm mentioning that because we have some teen parents in here. Please let your kids know if you're planning to have them come to that. And then this Friday is when we have our college and career group at the church. And uh I know uh a lot of our college and career folks are in different places right now, but um if you have people that you know that are kind of in that age group, uh but they're not in church, they used to go to church, they've kind of gotten out of church, work scheduled. things like that, this really be a great way to get them uh to connect with young people. And we do a Bible study that generally goes about an hour and it's uh it's just kind of open-ended. We have a lot of questions, a lot of discussion. We work our way through the text that's in front of us. And then we usually have games. There's food. It's a really good time. And I think last time we had about 30 people at the house. house. So it was it was pretty packed in there. And uh so just want to keep that on your radar. Also we have our men's breakfast on Saturday and also our visitation afterwards. So Visitation is not just for the men. If you would like to come to that and you're a lady, bring the rest of the family. We'd love to have you with that. But the men's breakfast is at 8. We do a Bible study. It's a good time of fellowship. Please sign up, guys, because that's how we know how much food to prepare for. And um there are always a lot of donuts and the tea Boys eat far too many donuts at these events. So anyway. And then also we have uh memorial service for uh Lillian's That's uh Janelle's grandmother. And so um that will be on December, or excuse me, December, November the 18th. So please mark that on your calendar. It's it's in the morning. At 10. 30, which is kind of not a typical time, so um if you're working, uh you you're gonna have to take time off for that, but please do uh keep the family in prayer as we'll be having that service. And then there'll be a 30-minute period before the service where people can come. And uh they can just greet the family and be an encouragement to them. So that's what I have as far as events. If you have any questions about that, please don't hesitate to ask me. Um you will hear this again very briefly before we start our service this morning. But I wanted to mention that to you now. Also, I wanted to talk to you about the LIT conference that we had yesterday. And LIT Conference stands for Leaders in Training. And basically the way that this uh teen conference started was many, many years ago when Willie, was Willie even married? No. Did he know you yet? This is Willie's wife. Okay, alright. Wow, interesting. All right. So Willie was not even married yet. And uh he and he and some friends they came up here and uh they wanted to go to DC. during a time off that they had at the beginning of December. And then from that is what eventually became, hey, let's do a team conference. And Uh they've been doing it every year since then. I think maybe one or two might have gotten snowed out. Uh with it occasionally does snow early in December enough to snow out, but uh well in Maryland I guess you just need like it falling, right? But uh anyway, um it's a great time. It's very teaching focused, and so we have four teaching sessions, and then we have a fifth session that is for uh sponsors who bring young people. And um I always get good feedback from that. I think it's very encouraging. We usually have a couple of schools and camps that are here to give the young people an opportunity to get exposed to that. Mayor Natha is still with us. They're going to be flying out this afternoon. And this morning, uh well, I didn't ask you this morning, I asked you yesterday. Or a couple days ago. But um I asked Peter Wright if he could uh teach during our Sunday school hour. And um wanted to give him an opportunity to just say a little bit about uh the conference before he opens up the word. But uh Pete, you've been coming for what? Twelve four twelve years. Twelve years. And he's an Alabama fan. And here are still friends. Just barely. But uh yes. Pete come on up and uh open the word to us and share some stuff. All right, good. Well good morning. All right. This side wins, I think. Okay. I'm sorry, I'm still in youth conference mode. That's good, but uh yes, right. Throw the candy out. Yes, this is my twelfth year at uh the Lit conference, and let me just say that uh you do you realize that this is planting seeds for the future. Um I talk to people all over the United States And mention this conference and they say those many of them will say, oh yeah, I went to that back in. So realize there have been thousands of young people That have been affected by this. I know that it's a lot of work for many of you, and uh, but it is an amazing opportunity that you have to have an impact on so many young people. So thank you. uh for that impact and uh thank you for all that you do and praise the Lord for the opportunity he's given us to be a part of that. And I trust it'll be an encouragement to you. And I hope it will continue on for the future until the Lord comes back. That'd be great. Please take your Bibles and turn to 1 Peter. 1 Peter chapter 1. This morning we're just going to deal with one subject, and it's not something that's anything new to you, but it's something that is under attack And I want to encourage us and build our faith. 1 Peter 1, verse 22 simply says this. Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently Verse 23, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man is the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away. But the word of the Lord endureth forever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you for your word. Lord, I pray that you would build our faith in what you say this morning. For we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. If I was to ask you to give me a word for something that is really, really, really What would that word be? This is where you talk to me, okay? Oh, was that? Awesome. Good. Naps? Naps. That I that is so new I am not promoted yet. That is absolutely naps. If you knew him, you'd understand. Okay, good. Naps, what else? Amazing. Exuberant Incredible! If you live back in the 60s and that was your time, you would say that is groovy. Come on Come on, people. Groovy. I grew up in the 70s and 80s. We would say that is totally gnarly. Remember that? Gnarly? Yeah? Okay. Good. These are all words for and in fact I was told that for a time out here in the East that um wicked was good. It's like wicked good and I'm like and in fact when I was a kid when we would say, Oh, that's sick, that meant bad. But now it means it's good. Oh, that's sick I don't get that either. But these are words to describe something that is really, really the top. The summit. Okay, now let's talk about some things that are really awesome. Okay, I I na Naps! I like I get it now, I get it. Okay, yeah, that's good. Naps, I I like that. Good. Uh what what are what are some of the naps g getting good rest? What what what else is awesome? What is it? Your husband Wow that ten thousand points right there. That's excellent. Very good. Good. I had some incredible um ice cream last night. I mean that I think ice cream is Awesome too, okay. Good. Have you ever have you ever been um have you ever been to a s a space shuttle or a rocket launch? Any of you ever done that? Okay. Well um, I have been told that that is like the epitome of Amazing. I I I mean, I was told by a friend of mine that they were sitting in in stands about three-quarters of a mile away for uh the uh space shuttle launch. And he said what they were for you know for like an hour or so people were sitting down talking, and about a minute before people started uh getting quiet, and ten seconds to go, they just said he went like five, four, three, two One. It was it just took his insides and went, oh, like that. That was awesome. Now, when we get to , I heard creation is awesome. Really, when you get to the very top, when you get to the pinnacle, you get to God, right? God is all of those things. But what about God is so amazing and incredible? His love. God loves us, even though we don't deserve that. His mercy, what we do deserve, he doesn't always let us have. Wow, that's an amazing mercy. What else about God? He is holy. He is without sin or spot. Wow. Good. Faithfulness. Faithfulness every single day. His mercies are new and he is faithful. Wow You know, if you look in scripture, and I don't know if you've noticed this, but throughout the Bible, you have God's name. Exalted. If you think about it, why did God bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? One of the reasons he gives is that the heathen might know my name We understand that his name is his character, who he is. And then when David built the temple, one of the reasons was so that there would be a place for the name of the Lord. And in the Old Testament, when God talks about to his people, if my people, which are called by my name And you get to the New Testament, you find all kinds of verses like Jesus saying, if you shall ask anything In my name, I will grant it you. You hear hear things like this, that at the name of Jesus Every knee shall bow. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God's name is awesome. It's the top, but you know what? We can go even higher than that. Psalm 138, verse 2. Paul over there with me if you would. Psalm 138. And verse 2. God's name is awesome. But look at what Psalm 138, verse 2 says. I will worship toward thy holy temple and praise thy name for thy loving kindness and for thy truth. For thou hast magnified thy word above all thy name. So when you get to the very pinnacle To the very top, you have the word of God. But that's not what you hear today These days you hear stuff like, oh yeah, the Bible's out outdated. It's kind of irrelevant. It's not really written for the needs of today. When we hear those kind of things, what does it do to your faith? When you hear scientists saying, well, even though the Bible says this, we know now that Our faith in the word of God is being undermined. So what I'd like to do for a few minutes this morning. is just challenge us with the awesomeness of God's word and why. Why is God's word so great? Number one, because it is exalted It is exalted. In other words, God has put it there. He has exalted His name as we read in Psalm one thirty eight verse two. Number two, it is everlasting It is everlasting. Back to our text. Verse 23 says, by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. Isaiah 40 and verse 8, the grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand forever. And that word stand does not just mean it will be around. It implies a rock solid relevance that God's word will be relevant forever. But you contrast that to what atheists are saying today. Things like, ah, it's just, it's no good anymore. Only the people that need a crutch use the Bible. You know, I went to the source of all true the internet and I typed in the Bible Do you know I found almost as many negative things about the Bible as I did positive things? I saw things like like all these things I've just mentioned. It's irrelevant. It's not going to be in fact I want to give you a quote. One guy wrote, quote, in a hundred years the Bible will be lost and eliminated. End of quote. But I want to tell you who wrote that. This was a quote from a guy by the name of Voltaire. He lived in 1759. The age of enlightenment. And he writes, you know what, we don't need all that. We have science now, we have man, and in a hundred years the Bible will be lost and eliminated. You know what? Voltaire is dead and gone. The Bible stands firm. In fact, it is said that fifty years after his death, the Geneva Bible Society purchased Voltaire's home for the purpose of distributing Bibles in Europe. So the next time someone tells you, ah, Bible is just not really that big enough, you know what? They will be dead and gone. God's word will be awesome forever. Don't forget that. Jesus said in three of the Gospels that heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. God's word is everlasting. It is exalted. Number three, it is effective. It is effective. Do you realize that you can never think or speak or use the Word of God without it doing what God wants it to do? The Bible is very clear in Isaiah 55 and verses 10 and 11. It talks about the ecosystem. And it says basically, my word shall not return unto me void. It shall accomplish that thereto which I send it. God's word will always do what God wants it to do. But you know what? Sometimes it's it's inconvenient. Maybe even it sounds a little trite to use the Bible. Well, they're going through a hard time. I'm not going to just throw them out a verse of scripture And sometimes we go too far a wrong way, and we don't use God's word. Now, again, I think we should be careful how we use it, but don't neglect the source. of our power. It is important that when we deal with people, that we use God's word. If you need help You need God's word. If you want to help others, you need God's word. I've been a youth pastor for over 30 years. One of my favorite weeks of the year is dum dum dum dum. VBS. Isn't that awesome? I mean, I I I don't know about you, but I love it. You have all of the the sets and the skits and the cookies and the games and the points, all that good stuff And I remember one of the first years I was doing Bible school as a young youth pastor. Uh I was doing the opening rally time and we had gone through the points and we got to the place where we usually did the memory verse for the day and I skipped it. I just forgot it and we went on and The night got done and Pastor came to me and said, Pete, good job today, way to go. But don't forget the name of this event. VBS, Vacation Bible School. Why did he remind me of that? Because long after the cookies are gone and the skits are done and everybody's gone home, what these young people need is God's will. Word. Because that's where the power is. So let's not neglect, I understand we don't always just want to be like trite, but let's not neglect the source of our power, which is God's It is effective. It is everlasting. It is exalted. Number four, it is evident. It is evident. There is overwhelming proof of the validity of the Word of God. Let me just give you a couple of these things to bolster your faith this morning. First of all, the Bible claims to be the Word of God over and over again. And I could read many of these 2 Peter 1 21 2 Timothy 3 16 All Scripture is given by inspiration of God And over 400 times in the Old Testament it says, thus saith the Lord. 42 times in the New Testament says the Word of God. Forty-six times in Scripture it says God said. So this is the Word of God. It claims to be the Word of God What about the time that it took to write the Bible? Do you know how long it took to write the pages of Scripture? It took over 40, excuse me, over 60 generations. Over 1600 years on three continents, and yet it all agrees? How is that possible? How has it lasted Can you imagine? Let's see, Mr. Moore. Let's say I tell you, okay, I want you to go make a copy of the Word of God. Do you know how long that would take? He would have to take his Bible, he would go to the copy machine after church, he would open that thing up and he'd put that down. It would take him forever to make a copy of the Word of God. How did they make copies of the Word of God? With copying machines? Not all through history. How did they used to make copies of the Word of God? By hand. Can you imagine that? In the beginning. In the beginning. That would take forever. And yet you realize that even still today, there are more than 13,000 copies still around of the Word of God. That's more than any other ten pieces of literature combined. 3 ,600 years in counting, and there are no contradictions. Wow. Let's talk about the writers. Who wrote the word of God? Well, obviously it was God that inspired the writers, but there were 35 different writers. So let's try a little exercise here. Give me the name of one of the writers, one of the books of the Bible, and their occupation. Okay? One of the writers and their occupation. Pastor. New Testament old test. Either. Fisherman. Peter. Peter was a fisherman. Very good. Who else? Yes, sir. Luke was a doctor. Okay, we'll come back to those two. Good. Yes. David. David. David, Shepherd and King, good. Paul was a tent maker. Good. Jeremiah was a tent Jeremiah, a prophet. Good. Okay, now let's just stop right there. You've got all these people from different backgrounds. Do fishermen and doctors See life from the same point of view? No, I mean you look at even in America and the diversity of the different cultures, right? All these men were from different backgrounds. even different times of history, and yet they all agree 100%, no contradictions. Now, does that just happen? If we were to get you three guys in a room and throw out a subject, you three wouldn't agree on everything. And yet, every one of these writers Agrees 100%. Now, I've said that a couple of times. No contradictions. Are there? I mean, have you ever had anybody tell you, ah yeah, the Bible's got errors in it? What do you say to that Okay, yeah, yeah that's the best thing to say. Okay, could you show me one? I have yet to actually have somebody show me one. But to be honest There are times when I read scripture and I think, that doesn't quite seem to square with something else in Scripture Let me give you a couple of examples. 2 Samuel 14, 27 says this. Unto Absalom were born three sons and one daughter. But elsewhere in Scripture, in 2 Samuel 18, 18, it quotes Absalom as saying, I have no son to keep my name in remembrance. Isn't that a contradiction? Not necessarily. Why not? Bingo! Exactly. In fact, when Absalom says that, he's erecting a memorial, a mem -a monument, probably to his three sons. And yet, critics take that and say, see, there's a contradiction in scripture. No. You do your study, you look at what the Bible says. Now, does God ever always give us every single little detail? No. He gives us what we need to know. But sometimes it doesn't quite seem to make sense. For instance, Judas, how did Judas Iscariot die? He hung himself. And yet the Bible says over in Acts that he fell headlong, burst asunder, and his bowels gushed out. Yeah. Well did he hang himself or did he you know bust up on a rock? The answer is both. Yeah, the rope might have broken and he d all that came true and all that extra information. That's not a contradiction. That's right. Because the doctor wrote about it. That's very good. I like that. Good. How about this one? Proverbs 26, 4 Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou be liken to him. The very next verse says, Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit. Isn't that a contradiction? No. And even if you 're not familiar with the genres of scripture and things like that, listen, we all understand that there are different situations that demand different responses, right? I taught my two oldest girls to drive. And I didn't do that with my youngest two. I sent them the driver's ed. My oldest two. Have you ever tried you ever tried to teach somebody how to do a roundabout? That's just uh okay. And anyway, tell me something. What do you do at a red light? Okay, stop. Do you ever go at a red light? Stop stop it stop. I want to know do you go or stop at a red light? Okay, all right. Can you ever turn right at a red light? Okay, can you ever turn left at a red light? No no. There are two states in the country that you may go left at a red light if it's a one way street going to the left and nobody is coming. You may proceed to the left I don't like that. Do I stop or do I go? It depends on the situation, right? And that's exactly what Roberts is saying Answer not a fool according to In other words, some people don't even mess with him. All you do will get into an argument. It's not going to help anyone. By the way, that's great advice for social media, but we won't get into that. But in other cases, answer a fool according to his folly. Sometimes you've got to stand up for the truth and say, no, this is the truth. And Proverbs teaches us that. You will find, if you prayerfully approach Scripture, you will find absolutely no contradictions. You say, Pete, how can you say that? Because I've read the Bible, we asked several times. How can you say that? Because my confidence is in God And God has said it is perfect. The law of the Lord is perfect. There are no contradictions. And if you find something that doesn't seem to line up, may I ask you to prayerfully. Do the research and ask the Lord to show you, and he will, I believe. There are no contradictions in Scripture. You can believe God's word 100% absolutely. And I remember I was at a crossroads in my life when it came to this. I was in Bible college, and I had read some things in Scripture that didn't quite seem to make sense And I got to a chapter, I believe it was in John. We had I was in the Life of Christ class with Dr. Auckland. And uh we got to the last verse of the chapter and it said basically this. Peter says to the, or excuse me, Jesus says to his disciples There are some of you here that will not pass away until you see the Son of Man coming in his glory. So after class, I just went up to my teacher and I said, Dr. Auckland , It's just not true. Because all of those guys died and Jesus hasn't come back yet. How do you explain that? He said, Pete, read the next verse. I said, there is no next verse. It's the end of the chapter. He goes, no, read the next verse. All right. You know what the next chapter, verse 1, says? Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John to the Mount of Transfiguration. And they saw the Son of Man glorified right there. You know what that reminded me? That if I have questions, it's my bad, not God's. And there are always Answers. You can bank 100% on God's word. And you can use it in your life and in the lives of the people around you. There are no contradictions. Well, what about the languages? We won't take time, but the Bible was written in Hebrew and Greek and Aramaic, and yet all of the principles, all the concepts, there are no contradictions at all. The prophecies are the Word of God Have you thought about this? All of the prophecies in Scripture that have come true. In fact, the book of Daniel has so many accurate prophecies. The critics have tried to say that Daniel was written many, many hundred years later, after all of these things in history had taken place. But there's all kinds of other problems with that that they can't answer as well You even Jesus Christ, the prophecies of Jesus, most of which have been fulfilled. You say, ah, there you go, most of which, but some of them haven't been fulfilled. Exactly. Some of them will be fulfilled in the millennial kingdom. Every prophecy of God's word comes true. What about the persecutions that the Bible has endured? Do you realize that there have been people that have tried to wipe out the Bible? Jehoiakim, Diocletian, the medieval church, Voltaire, the Nazis, communists, and yet the Word of God thrives when people are trying to extinguish it. They have tried to ban, burn, and outlaw it, but it has flourished all along. How about archaeology? Don't you love um l listening to like National Geographic and the History Channel and the Discovery Channel? I mean I do. I don't get cable and so when I go to a hotel sometimes that's what I'll watch and I'll f you know, watch those things. But I remember several years ago watching a documentary on the Exodus. We were talking about the Egyptians and the Israelites, and here's what the guy said in this beautiful deep voice. Although the biblical record speaks of an Exodus, there is no archaeological evidence to that effect. What does that do to your faith? I mean this guy has a deep voice. And he's on TV. But you know what? A little later in that same broadcast, they were asking the archaeologist. They said, sir, uh approximately how much of history, of all of history, would you believe has been uncovered? And he said, well, conservatively speaking, probably a little less than one percent of all history has been uncovered. What? So you're saying based on less than one percent that the Bible is not true? And by the way, since that time, that was about twenty years ago, since that time they have found uh an exorbitant amount of evidence of a mass exodus of Israelites in the desert there. But at that point, the critics are saying, see, the Bible can't be true. Which do you believe? That happened with the Hittite Empire. In the early 1900s, they they they the Bible talks about this empire of the Hittites There was no archaeological evidence to that, and critics scoffed at the Bible until the Dead Sea scrolls were found And there is plenty of evidence of a Hittite Empire in there. You understand that even though the world around may say, well, this is what we have found, this is what the Bible says, and obviously they're implying that we're right. Which science book did you use in school? Which edition? Why are there different editions of science books? Because they were wrong in that one and they change it in this one. In other words, science is kinda continually updating and changing, and eventually we'll get to where the Word of God is. So when it comes between science, archaeology, all of those things, and the word of God, may I challenge you, you go with the word of God. Because God's word is true. Archaeology shows us that. Let me give you one more evidence of God's word being authentic, and that is this: the lives that it has changed. Now, I don't believe that experience should be the only reason you believe something, but it is a really good evidence. When you look at what God's word has done in the lives of people, it changes scoundrels into scholars, scoundrels like Josh McDowell, who set out to totally debunk the resurrection. He spent two years investigating the resurrection and finally became a Christian because there's overwhelming evidence. It changes scoundrels like John Newton, a slave trader, into saints who wrote, I once was blind, but now I see. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound. There was a atheist on a street corner in California in the 1940s that was saying, there is no God. People gathered around and he said, if there's a God, let him strike me dead right now. Nothing happened to him. People began to laugh until an elderly lady stepped up and simply said , I serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today. I know that he's living, whatever man may say. I see his hand of mercy. I hear his voice of cheer. And just the time I need him, he's always near. He lives. He lives. Christ Jesus lives today. He walks with me and talks with me along life's narrow way. He lives. He lives salvation to impart. You ask me how I know he lives? He lives within my heart. Do you know the assurance? Has God changed your life? That is an evidence of the validity of the word of God. So, why is God's word so great? Because it is exalted? Because it is everlasting? Because it is evident? And because it is effective, it will do what God wants it to do. So my next question this morning in the two minutes I have left is this I have more than that. Okay, good. I'm gonna Okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna take more time there. Good, thank you. So next question is, well what does it do? What does God's Word do? Well, I have a list of about 15 different things, but I'm going to fly through them. It sets us free, John 8. 32. It sanctifies us, John 17, 19. It shows us Jesus. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth. In the life. It shows us Jesus. It starts communication with God. John 18, 37. Everyone that is of the truth heareth my voice. It secures us, Galatians 3. 1, who has bewitched you that you should not obey the truth. It shields us from condemnation, 2 Thessalonians 2. 12. that they all might be damned which believe not the truth. It supplies the knowledge of salvation. 1 Timothy 2. 4 who will have all men to be saved and come unto the knowledge of the truth. It strengthens our faith How do you build your faith? Romans 10, 17. Now then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. It sanitizes us. Psalm 119, verse 9. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word. God's word is rich. with all that it does in our lives. So why is it important? Why is it awesome? Why is it the ultimate? Because it's everlasting. It is evident. It is exalted and it is effective. What does it do, all of these things? So the last question is, what do I do with it? Well, let me give you some thoughts in closing. Number one, read it. If it is so awesome , if it is the ultimate, then read it. And I'm speaking to myself here. You know, there are times when I have difficulties in my life, and I run to the Word of God. I say, God, please speak to me. But then there are also times when things are going pretty well, and I'm on vacation, I'm out of my usual habit. And I don't open the Word of God. Wait a minute. Isn't this awesome? Isn't this more awesome than Auburn football? Isn't this more awesome than flying or than anything else I could do? If it is so incredible, then spend time reading it. Secondly, remember it. Don't just read it, but Psalm 119. 11, thy word have I hid in my heart. That I might not sin against God. Verse 97. Oh, how I love thy law. It is my meditation all the day. Meditation, which means, think about it. And there are times when I have my devotions in the morning, I read some scripture, I close my Bible, and I go through the rest of the day and I don't even think about what I just read. And I need to be in the habit of taking what I read and meditating on it And going throughout the day and thinking about whatever it takes, what are some ways that you and I can be reminded of God's word? That's not a rhetorical question. How can you remind yourself of God's word? What is that? Memorize it. Very good. We should spend some time memorizing the Word of God. And you've probably heard it said, if somebody took your Bible away and threw you in prison, how much of it would stay with you? And there are stories of people that have been locked away with in third world countries that have just the few verses that they have have become so real to them. So let's memorize the Word of God. Good. How else can we keep God's word in front of us? You know what? When we speak the word of God, it helps ingrind it into our own lives. Excellent. Speaking the word of God. Tell somebody I hope that there's someone that you're comfortable speaking the Word of God to each day. Whether it's a spouse or an accountability partner, just somebody that you can say, hey, what did you get from the Word of God today? Here's what God spoke to me of. Good. How else can you remember God's word? Sing it. Oh, I love that one. That's good. Why do we why do we sing songs in church? Why well, because God tells us to. That's a whole nother sermon I'd love to preach sometime. But also because it stays with us, right? To be honest with you, when I was growing up, my parents and my church We sang all kinds of choruses, and many of them were pretty chart or trite, you know, kind of like Father Abraham and stuff like that. But you know what? I have found myself Humming a tune and then stopping and thinking, what is this? Um, sweet Jesus, sweet Jesus, what a wonder. And I've started singing it back because I remember the words And then I start thinking about those words and thinking, wow, that's really good. And even though when I memorized it or when I learned it as a kid, I didn't fathom that. Now in different Stages of my life. It comes to my heart and the Holy Spirit uses it to just go, look at this. You are sweet, Jesus, in my life. Wow. That's amazing. Good, sing it. I like that. How else can you remind yourself of the Word of God? Write it down. That's excellent. When you first of all, when you write something, it also helps inculcate it into your life. But then you can display that somewhere, right? Um I I I've my wife has told me I need to put one on my steering wheel when I drive. To be reminded and be ye kind one to another, tender hearted, in love, con you know affirming one another. Okay, yeah, good. Write it down. Anything else? You got do any of you have uh yes ma'am? Listen to it. Wow, good. Well, we can't do that these days. We don't have podcasts and think, oh, we do. And actually have read me Bible passages every day. Oh, that's good stuff. Yes, sir. our church here that recently passed away. One of the things I remember most about him was he prayed God's word back. Yes. Praying God's word. Again, speaking it. And there the Holy Spirit can take his word. And we can pray things we may not even know. There were times in your life you don't know how to pray. Can I just ask you to pray for a family back in Watertown, the Glass family, on Monday, a girl at our college unknowingly ate some ate a ate a I think it was a brownie that had peanut flour in it. She had a reaction. Her heart stopped. She's been on her respirator all week. Today they are turning off the machines. How do you pray for that? I mean, I have no idea what that would be like. What a great idea. Pray scripture. God, you are all powerful. God, how majestic is your name in all the earth? Wow, that's a great suggestion. Thank you. What else can you do? Well, I we don't have a ton of time, but you all have phones, right? You can actually put that right on your phone, have it send you reminders. There are many ways that we can remember God's word throughout our day. Why? Because it's awesome. Because it's the ultimate. Read it. Remember it. Number three, rejoice in it 1 Corinthians 13, 6 says, love rejoices in the truth. And that's kind of what we're doing this morning. We're doing a pep rally for the Word of God because it's awesome. So read it, remember it, rejoice in it, and if we stop there, it would not be enough. Because number four is the most important, and that is relate it. In other words, apply what we hear and see in God's Word. James 1. 22. Be ye doers of the word and not hearers only. And in our text we have these words, in obeying the truth through the Spirit. And we must enlist the Holy Spirit's power in moving the truth of God's word from our head to our heart. And from our heart to our hoof, and get out there and live the Word of God. Why? Well, because it's evident, it's exalted, it's effective, it's everlasting, it does all these things, so I ought to read it and remember it and rejoice in it and relate it to my life. Why? Because God's word is the ultimate. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father. Your word is truth. And Lord, I pray that you would give us confidence in your word. Lord, I guess that most of us this morning would have said before this time, of course I believe the Bible. And yet, God help us, even with all of the shots of the enemy around us in our society today, undermining the truth of God's word. God, I pray that you would solidify our belief and confidence in your word. And then, Lord, help us to live it and help us to share it. with the people around us because that's where the power is. And Lord, we look forward to seeing you one day when your word The word of Christ, which dwells within us, becomes a reality. And we take all of eternity to learn more and more about your incredible word. We look forward to that. Lord, thank you for this time together. We ask your blessing now on the next service in just a few moments. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.