Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of Anchored in the Word, Pastor Talk. And tonight we're going to be looking at a very important topic. And the topic that we're going to be dealing with really is centered on the Passion Week. The question that we'll be looking at this evening is why is the cross so important? Why is the cross so important? In order to understand this question, I think we need to really begin with a couple of very important facts. That we may not like to think about very often, but the truth is these are true. And so let me give you a couple of facts That are major problems that every single person has between us and God. And the reason that we need the cross, the reason that Christ needed to come and die for our sins and rise from the dead. The reason why this week that we're celebrating the death and the resurrection of Christ is so significant for the Christian is because of these issues. that we have between us and God. And let me let me give you a couple of them and comment on them. The first is this we are completely incapable of controlling our circumstances And without eternal significance to what we do, our suffering and the challenges that we face really are pointless. Let me give you the observation that we find in Ecclesiastes chapter 1. This is what Solomon writes about life in verse 14. He says, I've seen all the works that are done under the sun. Behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit, and much wisdom is much grief. And he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow. Now that's a really pessimistic view of life, but basically what Solomon is saying is when I observe life, The more I learned, the more I figured out about life, the more I realized how little I knew. And not only how little I knew, but really Life without God at the center and life without eternity and life without hope forever is really a life that is empty. It's vain. It has no value and there's no encouragement in that. A second fact that we need to consider is this. Our sin is an offense to God and sets us apart as enemies to Him. Now, a lot of people would say, I'm not God's enemy. I've not done anything to make him angry with me. Well, listen to what the scripture says in Ephesians chapter 2. Verse 3, it says this, we all had our conversation, and that word conversation simply means the way that we lived. We all had our conversation in time past in the lust of the flesh. fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And here's the phrase that really should catch our attention. And we were by nature the children of wrath. You know, it's not only not only is life really pointless without God and eternity as uh being major factors in how we look at life. But the truth is that we live in this world in a way that is offensive to God. And the reason because of that that happens is because we are by nature sinners And so the things that we love and the passions that we have and the things that we do many times are in clear contradiction with God's will and violations of his law. And so we really, when we come into this world and we live out our lives, we live out our lives as people who are set at enmity with God, the scripture says. There's a third fact that we need to think about tonight as well. And that's because we have broken God's laws, we all are under his just wrath. and deserve to be punished eternally for our sins. Romans chapter 6 verse 23 says it this way. The wages of sin is death. You know, if I'm working a job and I go and I put in my hours and we've agreed to a certain wage that I'm supposed to receive, well I expect because of the work that I've done to get paid for the work that I've done. And so what the Bible basically says is when we've sinned, we've earned God's wrath and we deserve death. And so the just payment for what we've done is eternal separation from God. We see a fourth thing. We have no mechanism of approach to God. Because anything that we do for Him or give to Him is affected by our sinful nature. Now there are a lot of people that believe, hey, you know, I I know I'm a sinner, everybody's a sinner, everybody that I interact with is a sinner. And God knows that. I mean he created us and he knows our hearts and certainly God isn't good with that, but he understands human nature, so he's willing to work with that. And as long as I'm not as bad as the person next to me As long as I do the very best I can at the end of my life, if my good deeds fill weigh my bad deeds, then certainly God would accept me on that basis But there's a problem, there's a fatal flaw with that type of thinking. Anything that I do for God, anything that I give to God, is tainted in some way because I'm a fallen creature. Listen to what it says in Isaiah 64, 6. The scriptures say, we all are as an unclean thing, and all of our righteousness is as filthy rags. In other words, the very best that I can give God, the very best that I can do for God, it falls far short of God's standard of perfection. It's tainted. It's like a filthy rag. In other words, there is absolutely nothing that I can do to work my way to God, to earn my way into his good graces. The fact is, any mechanism that I develop, any approach that I take to God, it's going to fall short. And that's why the scriptures say that all of us are unrighteous and we've all fallen short of God's glory. The last thing I'm going to mention here that is a reality that's very important for us to consider is that these realities are really terrifying because they leave us with no hope. You know, the fact that I go through this world and apart from eternity and apart from a God-centered view, the truth is everything that I do is vanity. The fact that the way that I live is an offense and a violation of God's law and I deserve his justice and his wrath. But there's nothing that I can do to earn his favor. There's no way that I can approach him and remove my sin. That's a scary reality. And in Romans chapter 7, this is what Paul says. He says, I see another law within my members, warning against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin, which is in my members. O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? The Apostle Paul, when he came face to face with God's law, he he began to realize something. I fall short of God's glory. I violate his laws and from within my own soul there are so many desires that fall short of what God wants. He's like it's it's almost like I'm a captive to my own will My flesh is so powerful. The things that I don't want to do, I do them, and the things that I do want to do, I don't have the will and the strength to do them. I fall short over and over and over again And Paul says, what hope do I have? You might say, well, that was a really pessimistic approach to talking about why the cross is important. Well, listen, you won't understand the significance of the cross. You won't understand why it was so important for Christ to die on that cross. to shed his blood, to pay the penalty for our sins. If you don't understand those those important realities, that there is nothing that we can give to God or do for God. that can remove his wrath, that can reconcile us to God. It's an absolute impossibility. But I want you to know there's good news. It's really good news. In fact, in Romans chapter 8, verse 3, this is what the scripture says. What the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh. God, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, condemned sin in the flesh. I want you to get a good picture of what that passage is saying. Let me say it again. What the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh. In other words, the reason that we cannot work are we to God Earn his favor, climb this ladder that ultimately brings me into his good favor and good graces. The reason that we can't do it is because we are fleshly creatures. The law is unable to save someone who's unrighteous. It's because of my flesh, it's because of my fallen nature. But he says, when you and I were absolutely powerless, we had no ability. To earn our way to God. God did something for us. God created a way that you and I could be saved. God sent his son In the likeness of sinful flesh. And I love this phrase. He condemned sin in the flesh. And here's the question: how did he do it? How did the Lord Jesus Christ in the flesh condemn sin? Well, here's the answer. It was the cross. When Christ went to that cross, he condemned sin in the flesh. What you and I were absolutely powerless to do, to work our way to God, to earn his favor, Christ did it all on the cross. And what's interesting is he talked about this. This was talked about in Isaiah 53. Let me share with you a little bit about what that Old Testament text says. That was basically a prophecy hundreds of years before the time of Christ that said, this is what Christ is going to do so that you can be redeemed. How he will condemn sin in the flesh. Isaiah 53, 5. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised. For our iniquities. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. When he shall see the travail of his soul, he shall be satisfied. He shall bear their iniquities. I'm just giving you a couple of the highlights of what was stated in Isaiah 53, but the point is this The Lord Jesus Christ went to that cross and all of my sins and all of your sins, they were placed on him, and he was punished as if he had sinned, though he was sinless. In fact, the scripture says that the one who was sinless became sin for us, so we knew no sin, so that we might be made to righteousness of God in him. We ask what is the significance of the cross? It starts with our absolute inability to be able to work our way to God. It starts with God doing for us what we absolutely couldn't do, condemning sin in the flesh. It goes all the way back to Isaiah 53, where the scripture says that he would be wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities, that the Lord would lay on him the iniquity of us all. The cross is all about God doing for us what we couldn't do. And then that leads me to a final scripture that I want us to focus on for just a few moments. And that's Romans chapter 5. Because in Romans chapter 5, the scriptures are going to lay out for us what God did for us and the significance of what God did for us on that cross. Romans 5 6 says this. When we were yet without strength, in due time, Christ died for the ungodly God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. When we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Don't miss the significance of the little details that are laid out for us in Romans chapter 5, verses 6 to 10. The first thing that really stands out in this verse is this. Christ died for us. So that we uh Christ died for us because we were powerless to save ourselves. Okay? You know, we just talked about this a few moments ago. We have an absolute inability to work our way to God. Christ died for us when we're absolutely powerless. And he says it in the text. He says, when we weren't out strength. We also see this, Christ's death was in the fullness of time. He says, when we were without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. And that's really important. It means at the right time, in other words, there was a plan that God had to redeem people. And that plan involved Christ going to the cross. And there's a lot of history. The Old Testament history and all the way through the Bible until that point when Christ was born into the world, all of those details were being put into place by God's hand. leading to the moment where Christ would be born and enter into the world. And even when we come to this week where we remember the death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ, they were celebrating the Passover at that time. And that celebration of the Passover was ultimately going to be a picture of what Christ would do on the cross and how appropriate that when Christ enters into Jerusalem, They're setting aside the Passover lambs that they're going to kill and they're going to remember how God delivered his people out of Egypt. And that lamb that they set aside was a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. What an unbelievable thing to think about. In the fullness of time, in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. A third thing that I think about is this. Christ's death revealed the depths of God's love for you and me Don't miss that phrase that says that God commendeth his love toward us. That word commendeth doesn't just mean that, well, he demonstrated and he showed it. That is part of it. But the word commend has the idea of I'm showing this to you so that you'll glory in it and you'll see how beautiful and how amazing it is. And so it's basically saying that when God demonstrated his love for us, he held it out so that we could see it in all of its beauty and its depth and its glory. In other words, Christ's death revealed how much God loves people. It's an unbelievable thing to consider. A fourth thing that stands out is that Christ's death provided the means to declare us not guilty. And when I say the means, I mean the absolute only means that could declare us not guilty. There is no other place that we can find not guilty except in the cross And here's how he puts it. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us, being justified by his blood. That word justify means to declare not guilty. In other words, God takes the sinner who clearly is guilty, who's clearly violated his law, and he can say not guilty for two reasons. Number one, he can say not guilty because all of those sins that we've committed were placed on Christ And Christ was punished in our place. In other words, now there's a basis for which God can forgive us. The sin 's been paid for 100%. On the other side, not only do we see that the Lord Jesus Christ paid for our sins 100% entirely, but the Lord Jesus Christ lived an absolutely perfect, holy, righteous life, one that you and I cannot live and have not lived. And when we place our faith in Christ, not only are our sins forgiven in full, but God declares us righteous. On the basis of our union with Christ. In other words, he sees the righteousness of Christ and he says, you're in Christ, you're not guilty because of him. His death was the basis of our justification. We then see another detail that's extremely important His Christ's death removes God's just wrath against us. We talk about God's wrath. People don't like to think of the fact that God is angry, but the reality is God's angry with our sin. Our sin is a terrible offense to him. Our sin is evil. It's against his authority. It goes against his nature. God hates our sin. And the reality is because we've sinned against God, his wrath stands, his just wrath stands against our sin. And what does the scripture say? We shall be saved from wrath through him. In other words, because the Lord Jesus Christ was nailed to that cross, God poured out his just wrath on Christ instead of on you and on me. And then we see a final thought. Christ's death brings us into a relationship with God. It says when we were his enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. In other words, because the Lord Jesus Christ bridged that gap between us and the Father, we can be brought into relationship with Him. The one who was his enemy is now his dear beloved child. I mean that is an unbelievable thought. So we ask what's the importance of the cross? Let me tell you the importance of the cross is that God is doing for us what we can't do for ourselves. God is fulfilling scriptural prophecies all the way throughout the Old Testament. God is demonstrating his love and he's commending it to us and helping us. to see it in all of its beauty. God is declaring us not guilty. God is removing his wrath that we justly deserve. God is drawing us into relationship with him. Let me add a couple of thoughts that are also connected in these verses. In these verses, we see that we have peace with God. We see that we have access into God's presence. We see that we have a sure, eternally secure position in Christ because of the cross. We see that we can live without fear of death and eternity. And we see that we can cope with the sufferings of this world because we recognize there's more to life than just this temporary state We find those things in verses 1 through 3 of chapter 5. I want you to realize when we talk about the cross, it's very important. It's an absolute essential element to the gospel. If there's no cross, there's no redemption, we're still in our sins, we have absolutely no right to come into God's presence. Let me summarize it this way. The basis for all of these blessings that we've talked about tonight is 100% in the cross of Christ. In Galatians chapter 2 verse 21, this is what Paul said. I do not frustrate the grace of God. If righteousness comes by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. You know, if I believe, and I really believe that I can earn my way to God By keeping the law, by earning his favor through the things that I do for him or something that I've given to him, I am ultimately saying what Christ did on the cross was a waste. Now there's nobody that would say that, I don't think, who really cares about wanting to be right with God, say, oh, the cross doesn't matter. You wouldn't say that. But the reality is if you believe that you can earn your way to God, then there was no purpose for the cross. Christ died in vain. Yet what does the scripture say? Christ absolutely needed to die. The basis for all of these blessings is rooted in the cross of Christ. And I want to add one final thing that's so important. These blessings come to us through faith in the finished work of Christ. Just because Christ has died on the cross for your sins doesn't mean you're saved. That means that the basis is established for you to be saved. The basis is established for you to be forgiven, declared righteous by God, brought into relationship. The wrath of God is removed The basis is there, but you don't receive the benefits and you don't receive the blessings until you turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. in repentance and place your faith in the finished work of Jesus. This is what it says in Ephesians 2. 8. 9. It says by grace, that's an undeserved gift. Ye are saved through faith. The basis of our salvation is the work of Christ. And the means that God gives us the benefits of the gospel is faith alone in the finished work of Christ. He goes on to say this, this is not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. I want to ask you this evening Do you know for certain that when you die, you're going to heaven? Have you understood the importance, the significance of the cross? That if there was no cross, there would be no salvation. And because of the cross, the wrath of God can be removed, you can be forgiven, you can be justified, you can become God's child. I ask you today, have you placed your faith in the finished work of Christ? And if you're listening today and you're a believer, I want to say something. Let's pause for a moment this week and let's reflect on what was accomplished for us. when Christ went to that cross. I pray that the things that were said tonight will be an encouragement and a blessing to you. It's been good to see a couple of familiar faces on the stream, and I hope that you have a wonderful evening. Bye now.