Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today we will be studying a continuation of what we did last time. And we are in James chapter 2, looking at verses 1 through 7. James chapter 2, verses 1 through 7. If you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with me to James 2, 1 through 7. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading. Verse number one. My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect to persons. For if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring and goodly apparel, and there also come in a poor man in vile raiment, and ye have respect of him that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here at a good place. And say to the poor, stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool. Are you not then partial in yourselves and are become judges of evil thoughts? Hearken, my beloved brethren, hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he hath promised to them that love him? But you have despised the poor. Do not the rich men oppress you and draw you to the judgment seats? Do not they blaspheme that holy name by which ye are called? This morning we're going to kind of continue our thoughts in James chapter 2, and I want to remind you a couple of the details from last time. Our summary statement was very simple and straightforward. Let me give it to you again. The following section of James' letter is an expansion of his statement upon pure religion. and a warning about how we treat the poor. And so we were reminded that earlier on, a few verses before, he talks about what is pure religion. And it's taking care of the fatherless and the widows in their affliction and keeping oneself unspotted from the world. He's going to circle back to that statement of taking care of the fatherless and the widows, visiting them in their affliction. And he's going to talk about this issue of partiality. And he's going to give a very specific example in the church and say, if you do this, I want you to understand the implications of that. And so we observed four things yesterday. The first was that he commanded them to not play favorites. And in verse 1 he says, My brethren, have not the faith with respect of persons or don't be partial don't show favoritism in the congregation A second observation we saw is he said, he asked them a very important question, and that question really demanded an answer. In verse 4 he says, are you not then partial in yourselves and become judges? of evil thoughts. In other words, the example that he gave, you have two people that come to the congregation, you don't treat them the same way, and it's based on really one difference between them, it's how they're dressed. He said, if you do that, then you need to ask the question, where is that judgment really coming from? He says it's coming from evil thoughts. And I want us to dig into that statement a little bit And ask the question, you know, in what way does partiality reveal some things about the way that I'm thinking that are very troubling? And I need to understand exactly what I'm doing when I do a thing like that. Third, he warned that their values did not reflect the values of their father in heaven. He says, but ye have despised the poor. He says that in verse 6. And then the fourth observation we saw last time is that he warned them that they'd acted just like the people who had abused them. And in verses 6 and 7 he says, Do not the rich men oppress you? You know, one of the sad realities of life is that many times when people are oppressive and abusive in their behavior, they're actually doing something that they've experienced themselves. They're actually following through with behavior that they have been harmed by. And he's saying that that's exactly what you're doing. By your treatment of the poor, you're actually doing the exact same thing that people have done to you. And you know how troubling and how how painful that can be. And so don't do that. That's basically what he's saying. So let's dig into this question for a little bit this morning. How does partiality reveal evil thinking? And I jotted down five ways, and I want us to dig into those five ways a little bit and then just try to practically apply that. So let's dig into this one at a time. The first is this. The first thing we're doing is not considering what gives us our true value. When I look at a person and I make a judgment based on a partiality, simply based on what I can see, how they're dressed, their status in society, some arbitrary means. then I'm ultimately saying that I've not thought about what makes a person truly valuable. For instance, what gives you your true worth You guys you sit here today, you might not be able to work like you normally can. You might not be in a healthy state right now. You might not be able to do things that you could do just five years ago or ten years ago You might be locked into a house and you don't know when you're going to get out because you're in quarantine. And you ask the question, what is it that really gives me my value? Do I no longer have value when I can't do the work that I used to do? Or when I don't have the mental capabilities that I used to have or I'm not in the kind of health that I used to be in. As I get older and my strength begins to begins to diminish and I don't have the same beauty, do I lose my value? Where does your value come from? That really is at the heart of this issue of favoritism. When I show partiality, I'm actually revealing that my view of a person's value is not healthy. It's not what it should be In other words, what gives us our true worth is that we're created in the image of God. The fact that He created us with purpose gives us value. He made us in His image. And not just that he made us in his image, but he dearly loves our soul. And we see the expression of God's love for our soul on the cross. When God sent his son to be the Savior of the world, when he died on the cross, when he rose from the dead, when he offers to you and me in himself , a way of salvation, that's an expression of our love of God's love for us, and it's a re-a revealing of our true value. So because we're created in God's image and because God values our soul, that's really where our true value lies. And our value is not in our class. It's not in our physical strength or ability. It's not in how we look. It's not in our ethnic background. It's not in our financial strength. It's not in our influence in society. It's rooted in the fact that we're created in God's image and that he loves us. He wants us to spend eternity with him. This is why we value children in the womb. This is why if a person's disabled, we value that person. This is why when a person becomes elderly and they can't take care of themselves, we still value that person. In other words, we value a person in the womb. We value a person who's not able to do everything that everyone else in society can do. And we value a person who is beginning to lose their strength and vitality. Why is that? Because their value is not in what they can do. It's not in their influence. It's in the fact that they're created in the image of God and their soul is precious and valuable to Him. The ultimate end of this wrong thinking about where our value comes can be extremely dangerous. And the truth is that if we look at history, you know what we see? We see a lot of examples of people. who didn't value other people because they're created in the image of God. They didn't value them because God loves their soul and they will spend eternity somewhere. Instead, they put them in a certain class that they viewed as less valuable than their own class, and the end of that was very destructive and very evil. We come to a second thought About what partiality reveals about the way we think. It's not considering the implications of the gospel You know, when we think about the gospel, we're reminded of several fundamental truths that are extremely important. The first is this, we are all equally incapable of earning our way to God. There is nobody. You could be a pastor, you can be a missionary, you can be an evangelist, you could be a person that handles the Bible on a daily basis. You could be a person who grows up in a rural part of the world where you never come in contact with the church. You could be a person who grows up in a very religious home and your parents Uh did family worship week in and week out, day after day. The reality is it doesn't matter who you are, it doesn't matter your background, it doesn't matter your ethnic group, doesn't matter the amount of money you have You and I are equally incapable of earning our way to God. Our righteousness can never compare to the perfection of Christ Our good deeds are a filthy rag. And in light of the gospel, we're reminded that we are all equally incapable of earning our way to God. That's an equalizer. A second thing that we remember is that we're all saved through the same cross. We're all saved through the same resurrection. We're all saved through the same righteousness of Christ. The reason that I have a standing before God has nothing to do with a work I've done for him. It's completely rooted in the work he did for me. It's not rooted in my own righteousness. It's rooted in the righteousness of Christ. And when I meet another Christian, I'm meeting a person who standing before God has been secured the exact same way that mine has. And so that's a big equalizer that we remind that we're reminded of. A third thing that stands out, we're all going to stand before the same judgment seat of Christ, and we're all going to enjoy the same glory forever. In other words, if I'm a Christian and you're a Christian, no matter where I lived in the world and what I did and how much money I made and how much influence I had, I'm going to stand before the same Savior And I'm going to give an account for what I've done with what he gave me. We are all going to stand in the same place. We're going to be in the same heaven, enjoying eternal glory. The gospel is an equalizer. Our money, our heritage, our culture, occupation, how gifted we are, our status in society, these play absolutely no role in how we become a Christian. And so when we are partial in our judgment towards other people, it means that we're not considering the implications of the gospel. The gospel is the greatest equalizer that's ever existed. A third thing that stood out to me as I jotted these things down, it's not valuing the nature of the church The church is a very special body. In fact, in Colossians 3 verse 11, this is what Paul writes. There's neither Greek. Nor Jew, nor circumcision, nor uncircumcision, nor barbarian, nor Cynthia, nor bond nor free, but Christ is all in all In Ephesians, Paul says something very similar. And what's he saying? He's saying that God created one body. There is one body of Christ. And the local church is reflection of the body of Christ. And he says, when we are placed into the body of Christ, There's an equality there. It doesn't matter the way that you grew up or how much money you had or any of those other things that we tend to really notice amongst ourselves. He says, it doesn't matter God didn't want there to be local churches for people who are Greek and local churches for people who were who are Jewish and local churches for people who are poor and local churches for people who are rich and local churches for people who had power, local churches for people who had no rights. He said, no, there's a local church at Ephesus. There's a local church at Colossus. There's a local church at Jerusalem. And if you're a Christian, no matter what your status is in society, you're put into that body. That's very important. When we show favoritism in the local church, We're showing that we don't really understand or we don't value, we don't reflect the values of what a local church really is. the rich and the poor were purposefully placed by Christ into the same local assembly. And this is an unbelievable thing to think about. In the Roman world, you had people who were slaves who had no rights who were meeting in the same assembly as people who were government officials who had come to embrace the gospel. That's an absolutely shocking thing. You had people who were Gentiles whose backgrounds were so offensive to the Jewish people who were worshiping together with Jewish Christians who had followed the Jewish dietary laws their entire life. And God wanted them in the same body. We sing the same songs together. We pray corporately as a body together. We sit under the same ministry of the word together. We fellowship one with another together. We partake of the Lord's table together. We've observed the ordinances together. And you know what's really interesting in 1 Corinthians 11, one of the passages that we go to when we talk about the Lord's table, is that the reason that Paul rebuked the church at Corinth is because they showed partiality when it came to the Lord's table. He says there's one Lord's table and you're dividing yourselves up and you're making differences in the congregation. based on these arbitrary issues of status. And he says, that's wrong. That's sinful. In fact, it was so serious that he said, for this cause many are weak and sick among you, and many even sleep. And he says the ultimate cause of that is you're not discerning the Lord's body. And I think that when he used that term body, he's not referring to the to the body that was nailed to a cross. He's talking about the body that's assembled together, a local church. You're not valuing the nature of the church. A fourth thing that stands out here. It's often filled with self-serving motives. And when I say that, what I'm saying is many times when we are showing partiality or favoritism, We don't necessarily think this through. It might be something that we don't necessarily see, but many times there is a motive inside that is ultimately to please myself. Let me give you an example of what I mean. Why is it that we favor the rich, the powerful, the educated? Why is it that we're gravitated towards that person and others we are less inclined to interact with? Why do we do that? Well perhaps it's because we feel a greater sense of value in those circles. Lots of people favor the rich, the powerful, the educated, because as they relate to those people, they feel like they have a greater sense of value in their circles. Does it give us an opportunity to use that relationship to advance our agendas so that we are in a better position of influence? You know, if a person comes into a local church who obviously has money, there are a lot of pastors that would be tempted to show favoritism to that person because they say that guy can bring a lot to the church. That's what he's talking about here. Does it allow us to build our own image? In other words, by our interaction with that important person in the eyes of the world, that powerful person, that rich person. Does that make people look at us in a different light? The truth is that many times people look at someone who has money and power and they view them as a resource to tap into. So this issue of favoritism is not just about we are not judging people correctly, but sometimes we are seeing that person as a tool to get something that we desire to advance our own agendas. And that's an extremely dangerous place to be in. We don't use people to get stuff. We use stuff to bless people. And that's a really important distinction to make The last thing I'll mention here that I jotted down is it's going to often cause us to doubt our own value down the road. Let me put it like this. If I value people based on how much money they make, based on how they look, based on how they dress, based on their status in society, There's going to be a day when I'm going to begin to wonder about my own value because I'm not going to look the way that I did when I was 20 years old. I'm not going to have the same physical strength that I had at the prime of life. I'm not going to be able to do the work that I did for decades with the same vigor and the same sharpness and the same effectiveness at some point down the road. If I go through a season where I'm not able to do the things that I used to do, I'm going to question my value. And the truth is that that's something that really Is is down the road one of the things that will come when our thinking's not correct about this issue of values. You know, early on, we're valuing the people around us based on what we see Down the road, we value ourselves based on the same standard of judgment. In other words, we're not going to stay on top of our field the whole the whole our whole lives. We're not gonna stay as physically attractive and as vibrant the rest of our lives. What happens to us when we lose our job? We can't continue to do the things that we've done, the things that have given us tremendous joy, a tremendous sense of value and worth. What happens when we can't do this? things anymore. What happens when you become a mom and you have toddlers and all of a sudden all you're doing As you're cleaning up messes and you're changing diapers and doing those kinds of things. The truth is that that's a really tough time of life. What happens? When one of your family members becomes disabled, and now your entire life is centered around taking care of your wife, your husband, your child , your parent. Do we all of a sudden no longer have value? Do we now not have worth to God? Should we see ourselves as living wasted lives when we get in a position like this? What happens when I become sick? And I cannot do the things that I wanted to do? Have I just wasted my life at that point? What happens if I personally become disabled? The truth is we don't know what's going to happen in our lives down the road. And if our sense of value is rooted in anything but the fact that we're created in the image of God and He values our soul, if it's in what we do and what we have. And what we can accomplish and how much we influence. There may be a point in our lives where we come to this shattering reality check that we cannot do what we used to do. The truth is our values are really important. So let's get really practical here and just remember a couple of simple applications that should flow from the discussion we've had this morning. The first is this. To we who are in ministry, I'm a pastor, I've been a missionary. I will say this, we must be very cautious that we don't play politics with people. As a missionary, people who are trying to raise support, I will tell you that politics in missions is a really big problem. It's a really big problem. A lot of times at missions conferences people drop names. Oh I was at Brother So-and-So's church. That's not to make a connection and say, oh, he's your friend, he's right. We have a mutual interest. Now we have something we can talk about. It's because you're trying to establish your status. A lot of times when a missionary writes a prayer letter, they kind of embellish details and leave out a lot of details. Why? Because they're trying to create an image. And why are they doing that? Well, ultimately they're doing that because that's where they get a sense of value. What happens when I have to step down from my position in ministry because the reality is I'm too old to do what I'm doing? Or because I physically can't do the things that I'm doing anymore. Because of Something that's taken place in my life that means really I need to step down and I need to focus on that particular area now. What happens? Do I no longer have value? The truth is that people in ministry are are very much in danger of having a wrong sense of values. And I I've personally felt the pressures and I've interacted with lots of people who face the pressures and it's something we have to be very careful of. A second thing is our ministry success or our uh or the bit the busyness of our schedules and those things, they're not really a true reflection of our value. There are some pastors that labor in obscurity for decades. Nobody will ever know their names, but they have been absolutely faithful to God They have ministered to the flock that God put under their care with tremendous faithfulness, and they will receive a rich reward when they stand before Christ. And the truth is how busy our calendar is, how much stuff we get done in the day, how much we are known, that's not really where our value lies. Let's not use the church as a place to advance our personal agendas. And that's not just for people in ministry, that's for people in the pew. You know, somebody's starting up a business and what are they doing? They're looking out for the people in the church that can really get their business out into the community. Okay? The truth is that it's not just pastors and missionaries and evangelists that use the church for their agendas. Sometimes church members do as well. Let's be careful that we don't do that. As we interact with people, let's see them with the value that God has ascribed to them. In other words, the way that we relate to a visitor that comes into our local church, the way that we relate to the people that we interact with and rub shoulders with on a daily basis. Let's value them in light of the gospel, in light of eternity, in light of them being created in the image of God and the incredible value of their souls. Not in what they can do at the moment, not in what they can contribute or what they can do to advance our own causes. We must be so careful about this. And lastly, let's not allow time and circumstance to cause us to begin to doubt our own value. And the truth is if our values are not correct personally. There will be a day when we begin to evaluate ourselves by those same standards and we will come to terrible, very, very difficult reality checks. And so it's important for us to recognize early that our values have to be shaped by the Bible when it comes to how we view people and their true value. Let's be all together for a word of prayer. I hope that this message, this lesson has been an encouragement to you. If it has, please share. In the comment section, how's been a blessing, share it with your friends, and I'll look forward to chatting with you next time. Let's bow together for prayer Father, thank you for the time we've spent together in the Word and the time that we've spent reflecting, breaking down this very important concept of partiality, how dangerous it is. I pray that you would use these things to encourage your people today, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see you this morning. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. And God willing, we'll talk to you next time. Bye now