Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church today. And uh today is a special day for our fathers. So if you're a father, uh we want to wish you a happy Father's Day, and uh if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time uh we'd like to say welcome and we hope that you're able to get uh visitor welcome packet in that you have some information about the church. There's also a connection card and we'd ask that if you'd like to connect with us, that you fill out that card and that's a way for us to reach out to you and find out how we can be a blessing and encouragement. to you and your family. If you could, let's uh look at our bulletins for just a moment. There are a few items in here that I'd like to draw your attention to. First of all, we have our vacation Bible school coming up on June the 20th And so this is uh this is coming up very, very soon. Um if you're going to be helping out with that, I want to remind you that on the 27th, that's the Sunday, uh morning before We have Vacation Bible School. We're going to have a special meeting after the morning worship service for all of our workers. Please make sure that you come to that so that we can talk a little bit about uh preparation for that also in the evening on the 27th we'll have uh a time to set up for VBS uh that'll be after the evening service so please make sure that you make a note of that Also, our teachers are going to have a special meeting, but we're going to do that one virtually. So for our teachers, please make sure that you're checking your messages so that you'll know when that meeting Also wanted to mention that on July the 4th we're going to have a special uh evening service. It won't be like a typical evening service. It'll be a hymn sing. We'll meet in the back and uh we'll have uh basically a barbecue. So there's a sign up sheet in the back. When I say barbecue I'm using that in the southern sense okay. I know. I don't mean everybody's gotta bring barbecue, but uh we'll have the grill going so we can throw meat on there. Uh there are gonna be sides and uh and non-grill items that will be available. So please do sign up for that. That'll be a really good time of fellowship. And that's going to start at five o'clock. So please make sure if you're planning To come to that that you sign up. There are other items in the bulletin. Please read through that so that you can make a note of those things. If you could, let's take our Bibles and let's turn together to Deuteronomy chapter 6. And we're going to look at a passage for opening pa uh opening scripture that was uh scripture of appeal to the nation of Israel and a challenge to uh men and women. So let's read this together. Deuteronomy chapter six, verse four, says the following. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, when thou risest stop. This morning being Father's Day, we're going to look at a very important topic, and the focus of our worship will be being Christians of conviction and purpose. And when it comes to raising up the next generation that God would really stir up our hearts this morning about the incredible responsibility and the incredible privilege it is to invest in shaping the next generation. Generation of young people. So let's be out together for prayer and we'll start our service. Father, thank you so much for this Lord's Day. We thank you for the opportunity to be gathered as a body of believers. I pray that this morning our fellowship with one another would be very sweet, be very Christ-centered, that the gospel would be the center of what connects us, what unites us. As believers. Thank you for those who've been able to join us on the live stream and also those who are visiting with us today. I pray that they would feel very warmly welcomed and that they would enjoy fellowship. With other believers as well. Father, I pray for this church. Help us to be a church that has a burden for reaching and shaping the next generation of young people. Father, I pray that we would be a people who take very seriously the responsibility of, first of all, walking in obedience to you, and then secondly investing in the next generation to find Follow us. Father, help us to be a people who are overwhelmed by your love and your grace, your patience. I pray that we would be a people who love you deeply and our worship of you. Father, I pray for our nation. We pray for this land. We recognize that there's a tremendous dearth of uh gospel Gospel centered families. There's a tremendous need in our generation for Christians to uphold the gospel and train their children in the nurture and Admonition of the Lord. I pray that you'd help us as a congregation to be distinct from our generation. Help us to be faithful in these areas. And I pray that we would be very humbled and grateful when When you uh graciously work in the lives of our kids. Father, I pray for those in our congregation who are recovering from surgeries, from the birth of little ones, from People who are uh who are sick, people who have traveled. I know that we have lots of different situations, and I pray that your hand would be working very specifically in each of those situations. I pray that this morning as we as we gather together in this place, we would not forget those who are suffering and affliction and who need to be encouraged. encouraged and strengthened. Father, I pray that you'd help us to really be strengthened today through this time together so that we can minister. We pray for your rich blessing on this service, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, good morning Anchor Baptist Church and our esteemed guests. Happy Father's Day to all the fathers out there. And as we begin our song service, take a hymnal, please, and turn to page 300. Please stand with me. And we're going to sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses of I Am Resolved. No longer to linger. Sing out. I am resolved no longer to linger, charmed by the world's delight. Things that are eye, things that are dope may have a word like eyes. I will take the doom and that's a body I am resolved to follow the playoff fabric. I will let the deal and survivor I every hold new enter the kingdom , in the path of men Prince may close me, brother, baby, that's me. Will I enter it? I will make sense to him, make sense of my brain Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. While we turn over to page four hundred and eighteen, page four eighteen, trust and obey, and we'll sing the first, the third, and the fifth, beginning the middle of the When we walk with the Lord In the light of his word, what a glory he sheds on our way while we do his good will Will he abides with us still, and with all who stand For there's no other way to be happy in us for the frustration. On the burden we bear, not the fumble we share, what our toilet of wear But it's my pleasure Once and no way, for there 's no other way to bring happiness Oh yeah. Oh yeah. For the God I delivered to be happy and disrupt. Right across the page. Don't close your handles. Right across the page, page 417. Faith of our fathers. Three verses one through Three and four It's my noble school , although I will go Where we are at all over your heart , it's all by When we'll be good, they never know his way must rise We got on the calling saying we will be Amen. Good singing. Sounding wonderful this morning. And now we'll go to our second scripture reading, which will be found in Malachi chapter two I've got verses 5 through 17. The word says, My covenant was with him of life and peace. But ye are departed. Ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. Judah hath dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed For Judah hath profaned the holiness of the Lord which he loved, and hath married the daughter of a strange god. The Lord will cut off the man that doeth this the master and the scholar out of the tabernacles of Jacob, and him that offereth an offering unto the Lord of hosts. And this have ye done again, covering the altar of the Lord with With tears, with weeping, and with crying out, insomuch that he regardeth not the offering any more, or receiveth it with good will at your hand. For Because the Lord hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously. Covenant. And did not he make one? Yet had he the residue of the spirit. And wherefore one? That ye might seek a godly seed. Therefore, take heed to your spirit And let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. For the Lord, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away, for one covereth violence with his Garment, saith the Lord of hosts, therefore take heed to your spirit that ye deal not treacherously. Ye have wearied the Lord with your words. Yet ye say Wherein have we wearied him? When ye say, every one that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delighteth in them, or where is the God of judgment. May the Lord add his bleeding uh blessing to the reading of his word. We have an off a torrent, gentlemen. Yeah, that was a three plus one. Three guys and a and a lady. So the the the Rose got sandwiched between three thorns, I think it was. Okay, we'll uh continue our song service. Take your hymnals or look up at the screen. We're gonna go to page one one hundred and nine page one hundred and nine Great Is Thy faithfulness all three verses Great is thy faithfulness, O God, my Father There is no shadow of turning with me. I think it's not your passion take with Have been forever. Great clear life will be clear, my written life Great in my intolerance, great in my forest, for the thy That we don't know. Brave in thy faithfulness. Brave it with thy faithfulness. Morning, my morning come by me, all I have lived, I have all my days Repeat the chorus without the instruments. Great is thy Thy faithfulness. Whoops, the chorus. Great is thy faithfulness. Great is thy faithfulness Morning by morning, new mercies I see. Oh, I have needed thy hand Hath provided great is thy faithfulness, Lord unto me Amen. Amen. Amen. Now the next song will be coming out of our blue book. Of course, you can just look up on the Screen, I forgot my age-adjusted crib sheet. So now I have to turn to page 24 and read the little bitty notes. So, but we know this one. You are always good. Always good. See ya Looking back, I can see your fingerprints. Taking my back there were time would make this in front ever You are always good unto You are always good unto me All right by far me You are wrong. Looking in my praying, my I string that's the song. I 'll use the mercy shelter me by That you did like all you were always good, you were always good, you were always good to me Why I can 't leave my heart meeting. You were always mine. Come stand with me on the last place. Oh mean God, I can see your ship the eye. You are always good with me , are my eyes can't see how I wanted. You are always always gone. Please have a seat. I am the Lord came to Jesus, giving all the grace , resting of verticulation, heavenly prize. Game of the arm and witness to have struggled with the sky. It will be done before us. I don't think so it is the biggest father because the mighty man of all Faithful men have come before us, faithful men Men who fight and stand I want to follow in their footsteps, guided by I those faithful men Okay, well if you could read your Bibles. And let's turn together to Malachi chapter 2. Very interesting passage of scripture for us to look at today. Malachi chapter 2 and our children. And the passage that we're looking at is a very important passage. It gives us a picture of a time in Israel's history when they were in danger as a nation. They were in danger because though they were God's covenant people and he had entered into this wonderful covenant with his people, he'd protect them, he'd defend them, he would bless them. He would prosper them. There were conditions with that covenant that he had entered into with them, the Mosaic covenant, that if they were to dishonor God and they were to reject his ways, God would have to chasten his people. As we read through the Old Testament, one of the things that we see is that the nation of Israel went through high points and low points. We see that there were times that there were kings that were raised up that were faithful men. There were also kings who came into power that were very dishonorable men. There were times in the nation when they faced intense trauma and trouble as a nation because of their disobedience. And one of the things that we see consistently throughout the Old Testament is that God never left his people. He never abandoned his people. God was faithful to the promises that he made to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and though God had to discipline or chasten the nation of Israel because of their disciples. disobedience, he would remain faithful to those promises that he made to Abraham and to his descendants. Well when we come to Malachi chapter two, what we're going to see is really what was at the root of root problem of the rebellion and the drift and the turmoil that the people experienced at the time leading into what we call the intertestamental period. This is a period when God was silent in Israel. There were no prophets that were active in the land of Israel. And it wasn't until the end of that time period where God Speaks to Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist. There was a period of time where there was silence in Israel. You may ask the question: why was it that God had to discipline his people? Why was it that the nation would drift when God had been so faithful and they had this rich history of God doing these amazing works? Bringing them them out of slavery in Egypt, giving them the promised land, how God would raise up good and noble kings, and when the nation would drift, he would always go back and reach out to those people. How is it that those people Would end up in these places. Well, I think when we open up this text of Scripture, we're going to get a snapshot picture of why the nation drifted. What was at the root, what was at the heart of the drift of that nation? You might say, well, Pastor, these are Old Testament believers and And these are many unbelievers who are part of a nation in covenant with God. How does this really apply or help us today living in the nation New Testament era, we're living in a nation, the United States of America. We are not a theocracy, we're a republic, we are a local church. How does this passage Apply. One should realize that what this is, is this is a case from Israel's history that gives us insight into the heart of God for people who know him. The heart of God for families, the heart of God for fathers, the heart of God for mothers, the heart of God for people who know the Lord and have embraced his gospel. So with that in mind, let's look at Malachi chapter 2. We're not going to read all of the verses. We're going to hit some of the highlight verses. And then I want us to dig into a very important concept of why fatherhood actually matters. Why does fatherhood actually matter? Malachi chapter 2, verse 5 says this, my covenant was with him of life and peace. It's a really interesting statement. I think a lot of times we don't think about the fact that God entered into a covenant with Israel for their good. And ultimately to bring about redemption through the Messiah, you could say, even for our goods. His covenant was with them of life and peace. But verse 8 says, You departed out of the way. You have caused many to stumble at the law. You have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. Though God's covenant with his people was a good thing, it was for their good, and ultimately it would lead to our good because he would send the Messiah through those people. They rejected God's will for them. As a nation, they had drifted. In verse 11, he says, Judah hath dealt treacherously as an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem, for Judah hath profaned the holiness of the Lord which he loved and hath married the daughters of a strange God. Now when God chose out the nation of Israel, he chose out this people to be a peculiar unique group of people so that all the nations of the earth would look at this people and say, God is amongst his people. I want to know that God. I want to serve that God. And as they came and they observed the God of Israel interacting with his people, they would understand that God was going to send redemption through those people from Through the Messiah. Israel Yet what does he say? You've profaned the holiness of the Lord. In other words, the the relationship that you have with God, a very precious a very treasured position, you have betrayed it. You've cheapened it. You've treated it as if it has no value. We then go on to see this, it says, You have done this again, covering the altars of the Lord with tears, with weeping, with crying out, insomuch that he regardeth not the offering any more, and receiveth it with good will at your hands. Another way to put that is they continued to sacrifice to God. They continued to follow the ceremonial aspects of their relationship to God. However, their hearts were rebellious. Their ways were sinful. Their ways were treacherous. And so while they in their personal lives would dishonor God, in their public lives they would go through the motions. Of living as if they were in relationship with God. By the way, this is what people do when they come to church regularly every week, but during the week their families are complete chaos. And the ways of the Lord are not in their midst. This was the idea. And then he goes on to say this, This have you done again, covering the altars, and they say, Wherefore? Because the Lord hath been witness between Thee and the wife of your youth. Against whom thou hast dealt treacherously, yet is she thy companion and the wife of thy covenant. It's kind of interesting. The people didn't understand what they were doing. When God gives this message to the prophet, to the people, they say, hold on a second, God. We are honoring you. We're going to the temple. We're going to the festivals. We're following your ways. What's your beef with us? That's kind of the idea. And God says, here's the problem. The way that you're responding to your wife is treacherous. It's an interesting thing. He addresses the men of the nation He addresses husbands. He addresses fathers. You say, well, in what way was it treacherous? He continues on. He says, he says, Yet is she thy companion, the wife of thy covenants? Did not he, that's God, make he or make one that yet he had the residue of the Spirit, and wherefore one, that he might seek a godly seed? He says, why do you think God created marriage? Why do you think God gave children to that covenantal relationship? He said it's very simple. He did it because he wants your children to walk in the ways of the Lord. In other words, he says, you're not honoring marriage because you have cheapened its purpose. its value, its weight. You don't understand how precious that family that God gave you is. You have cheapened it, you have dishonored it, and the drift of the nation really goes back to the fact that in your personal lives You are not embracing the incredible opportunity and responsibility that I, God, have given you to raise up a godly seed. Folks, that is what this passage is all about. This passage explains to us that the reason that the nation got into the place where they were is because the men of that nation The husbands, the fathers, had not embraced the role that God appointed them to have. They were not being godly men. They were not raising up their children in the nurture and admonition and the ways of the Lord. They were dishonoring the covenant of marriage, and they were leaving their wives of their youth, and they were embracing foreign strangers who were not believers and they were taking their wives and their families and they were falling to the side I want you to realize that though we are in a very different context, we're in a very different relationship to God, and we talk about theocracy and nation and all those things, we see the exact same problem today. Nothing has changed. We don't just see it in the world. Folks, we see it in the church. We see in the church a huge breakdown of family. And the fact is, this morning I want to challenge our men, and I'm not just by the end of the service going to just challenge the man. I want to challenge all of us to observe and understand the weight of what God does when he He takes a man and he takes a woman and he unites them in the covenant of marriage and he gives them the blessing of children. What is God's purpose, his design, what responsibility do we have we have in that relationship. That is what we're looking at this morning. The section in Malachi before us is an appeal to a self-deceived People, a rebellious people who failed to see the full weights of God's purposes, to step back and realize how wonderful God's ways were, so they would embrace them and be faithful. God wants us to be a people, understand that fatherhood matters, and he wants us to understand why it matters, and he wants us to passionately embrace the role that God has for us to play in the raising and and the shaping and the sending out of the next generation. How can we be that kind of a people? Well I want us to begin by first of all understanding the case that's before us. And as we understand the case that's before us, we're going to move from this case into understanding our responsibility as New Testament Christians when it comes to this issue of the family. The first thing is I want us to see the trouble that Judah found itself in. Judah was a truly troubled people. He is expressing it this way in verse 5. My covenant was with him of life and peace. Verse 8, but you have departed out of the way. You have caused many to stumble at the law and have corrupted the covenant of the And verse 11 it says, Judah hath dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. There are four statements that I think really give us the sense of what he means when he says, you're in trouble. The first thing that stood out to me as I read these verses was that these were people who were self-deceived. Another way to put that is they were deluded. They believed that they had a good standing with God, yet they did not have a good standing with God. They believed that they were okay, yet they were in trouble. For instance, in verse 4, he says, yet ye say wherefore So as God gives this information to them through the prophet Malachi, the people throw up their hands and say, What are you talking about? We go to the temple, we do the sacrifices, we follow your rule. What is your problem with us? That's what they're saying. If you're asking that question and God's confronting you through the prophet, what does that say? It means you're just It means you've deceived yourself. Many, many people who are religious do not understand that religion cannot be a guise for them to just do whatever they want in their personal lives. The fact is, a lot of people think that because they have a form of godliness, they have the power of godliness. And the fact is it's only the gospel that saves us and then transforms us through the work of the Spirit that helps us to be in the position. We need to be in. But these people were self-deceived. The second thing that stood out to me is in verse 15, they were short-sighted. He says, Wherefore one that he might seek a godly seed? It wasn't just that the people were self-deceived and they looked at themselves and they said, We're okay with God, he's okay with us. The people also didn't understand that this thing called marriage is actually something God created, God blessed, and God has a purposeful reason function for this thing called marriage and family. And you're not seeing the purpose that God designed for this in And because you don't see the purpose for this institution, you're not embracing your role in that purpose, and therefore there are terrible consequences. on a personal level, on a corporate level, on a national level, when volumes and volumes of people don't understand the purpose that God designed for this thing called marriage. Do we not live in a land that is in this role, this place? The answer is of course we do. These people didn't understand So God told them. The third thing that stood up it stood out to me is that these people were very rebellious. In verses sixteen and seventeen, he says, Take heed to your spirits that ye deal not treacherously. Ye have wearied the Lord with your words. Yet ye say, wherein have we wearied him? The only thing that I can think of when I look at this is I think about a situation like let's say that you're a youth pastor that doesn't have a lot of experience working with young people and you have a couple of teenagers in the youth group that they kind of like to mess with you a little bit. You know what I'm talking about? Any youth leaders in here that ever were in a place like this. Anybody that was ever the one that messed with the youth leader, don't raise your hand, okay? And so you get into this discussion, you say, well why not? Why not? Why not? I don't want to do this. I want to do this. And there's this back and forth, this debate, if you want to put it that way. That's what these people are doing with God. God says your heart is stubborn, it's calloused, it's rebellious. What you're doing is treachery. That is a strong word. It's something that is unjust. It's evil. It's harmful. This is treachery, the actions you're taking. And then he says, you have wearied the Lord with your words. It's like God tells you this and you respond this way. And God tells you this and you respond this way. And it's back and forth and back and forth and back and forth and back and forth. And God says, you know what? Fine. You do it your way and see what happens. That's the sense. I'm sure no parent has ever been here with their child. Never, right? We've all been there. This is how God is relating to this people He says, You weary me. You weary me. The last thing that I see is that they were headed for swift judgment In verse 12, it says, The Lord will cut off the man that doeth this, the master and the scholar. He says, It doesn't matter if you're a very educated person, it doesn't matter if you're a very skillful person. I'm going to deal with you on the basis of how you relate to me. No matter what your skill sets are, no matter what your knowledge level is, I'm going to deal with you on the basis of how you're relating to me. That's what God Saying. Judah was in trouble. The implication is that they did not embrace God's plan because they didn't understand it. You so I don't understand how they couldn't understand this. Well, they didn't understand it because the truth is that their consciences had become desensitized. Sin has this way of dulling our conscience. In fact, as it dulls our conscience, it can even get to the place where we're not dull anymore. We actually embrace and celebrate what is evil and we look down on what is good. This is what happens when we go our own ways. They didn't understand the beauty and the virtue of God's great purposes. You know, a lot of times as Christians, we encourage the next generation, don't do this thing because of the negative consequences. And I understand that principle. And I know that the Bible does this at times, but the appeal is not always a negative appeal. Don't do this because it will hurt you. Sometimes it's do this because of the greatness of what you can enjoy. Like when God invites us into relationship, he says, repent and believe, so you escape the judgment of God for eternity. Embrace a relationship with me, because in my presence is fullness of joy, and at my right hand are pleasures forevermore. In other words, the scripture presents the positive and the negative. And these people did not understand the incredible blessing of being a God-centered family. This is a case in Israel's history that shows us human nature, and you know what we see? Human nature doesn't change. If we don't learn from the past, what are we going to do? We will repeat it. Just because one generation gets it right doesn't mean that the generation to follow will get it right, or the generation that follows them will get it right. We've got to learn from the past. The second truth we're going to see is that Judah was ultimately in trouble because of the breakdown of the family. Verse 11, he says he has dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and Jerusalem. In verse 16, he says, Take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. For the Lord, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away Now you know what's really interesting about these verses? His focus was not on the wife's problem. His focus was not on the kids' problem. Who does he address? He addresses dads. He addresses husbands. That's not to say that wives cannot get out of line from God's word. That's not say not to say that children sometimes are stubborn and don't listen to what mom and dad are teaching. But what it does show us is that in God's system, the person who bears the weights and the responsibility to make sure that that family is moving in a way that honors the Lord is done. Dat. It's dat. These families were broken because men were unfaithful to the wife that God gave them in their youth. The family was broken because men were marrying unbelievers who would ultimately lead them astray to compromise their homes. The family was broken because they failed to see the glory of God's purpose for the family. You know, there's all kinds of reasons that people get married. married and have children. Many people often marry and have children and if you really were to break it down, like when I do pre-marriage counseling I'll sit down with somebody and say, well so why do you want to get married? And you get this kind of goofy look on your face like Like, oh come on, you know I want to get married. I go, no, really, why do you want to get married? I want to hear, you know, your reasons. This is like the most important decision you make after you get saved. Like, have you thought it through a little bit? And they're like, uh-uh, there's nothing to think about. I just don't want to do this. I think if we really were to break it down, a lot of people get married because they want Security, companionship, sexual fulfillment, money, status. I want to be alone. Now listen, I'm not saying that those things are wrong. I mean, this is part of what comes into God wiring us so that we will desire to get married and have families. But these motivations that tend to rise to the top are supposed to be secondary to what is most important I want to raise a family because God has a purpose in it. That was really what he was saying. God wanted these people to recognize that marriage was a really good thing, that He created for a really good purpose. And if they were faithful in this relationship, they would enjoy the incredible fruits and blessings of what God designed for that union. This was a covenantal relationship that was meant to strengthen the community. I want us to think about where the scriptures talk about this institution. God's good gift of life and how He created marriage really to give children to be raised up in the ways of the Lord. So the third thing we're to look at is that we need to be gripped by the value and the glory of what it means to be a father. Father and fatherhood. This context is directed towards men because ultimately they would stand before God and give an account for the way they directed their homes. It was also directed to them because this is the breaking point in the nation. The problems going on in society all filtered back to the fact that these men were not being Responsible to seize the roles that God created them to have. I want you to see what God says in His Word about this issue. First place, I want you to go to Deuteronomy chapter 6. Now Deuteronomy chapter 6 is an Old Testament context. It's in a covenantal relationship. But it tells us a lot about how God expects Parents who know him to relate to the children who've not yet come to understand the gospel. Eventually they come to embrace the gospel, and then what's supposed to take place from that point on? In Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 5, it starts this way. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. These words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, when thy walkest by the way, when thou liest down, when thou risest up This is one of the most classic passages of Scripture that we think about when we talk about the concept of bringing up children in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. When Paul made that statement to the church. And those fathers understood what he means by bringing them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Their minds would go back to what he instructed those Old Testament Christian or believers, people that were anticipating the Messiah, what he told them about how to relate to their own children. Love God. You will never I'll say this: never raise up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord if you don't love God first. You cannot give somebody something you don't have. You can't do it. If you tell your children, here's the way, walk in it, and they watch that you don't do it, you know they're gonna say, why in the world would I want to do that? Now you could have a parent that is stubborn and rebellious and walks in a very disorderly manner, and their kids watch their parents' life, and at some point they conclude, I don't want what they got. I want the truth. That can happen. But if you're trying to train up your children in the ways of the Lord and you don't really have it yourself, why do you think they will follow? Love God. That's where he starts. The second thing he says is teach your children. There's got to be communication. I know there are a lot of dads and shit that have a hard time talking to their kids about these very important things. How do I know that? Because I'm one? It's easy to take your kid fishing and sit there on the dock or sit there in the boat and throw in your line for six hours and never say a word about anything important. And the world says, hey, good job. You spent time with your son. Take a step. How about with your daughter? There's a lot of important conversations to be had between dads and their kids, and it's not easy to have those conversations But if we don't have them, guess what? They're going to have those conversations. But it's not going to be shaped by the truth. So what does he say? Teach them diligently unto your children. Teach them diligently. Dads, I want to encourage you. I want to encourage you, set aside a time every day that you purpose To sit down with your kids, open up the Bible, and teach them God's word. Do that. Let me tell you what I purpose to do. And let me tell you when I say I purpose, I don't mean every single day at that time, this man does it perfectly. I'm not saying that. This is what I do. When I read my Bible in the morning, I take notes of the scriptures that I read. And then when I sit down with my kids at night, guess what I do? I take one of those scriptures that I jotted down in the morning and I just explain to them what it's saying. You say, well, how long does it take? Five minutes? Seven minutes? I guess I'm not looking at the clock. Usually, if I'm looking at the clock, it doesn't go very long. Pray with your kids. Sing with your kids. Sing with your kids. We have a hymn book. Open it up and we sing with them. Now listen, I'm not telling you that you have to do it the way that Pastor Joel does it, or the way that your dad did it, or the way you wish your dad had done it. Saying is this, you've got to teach your kids the word of God. Sunday school is not an hour, not even a full hour. Every week. Truth trackers, tiny trackers, the programs that we do on Wednesday night. Your kids are not going to grow at the rate that they need to if you don't sit down with them and teach them The word of God. But he actually goes beyond that. He says, have a God-centered home. Listen to what he says. Talk of them when thou sittest in the Thine house, when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, when thou risest, stop. You say, Okay, I'm gonna make sure that when I get up in the morning I talk to them when I'm see. No, his point is this God should be the center of your life, and God should be the center of your home life, and you interact with your children in all the various contexts that they are exposed to in life with God's word being presented as the center of it. That's really important. So what happens when your child is at school and they, you know, get in trouble? What happens when they're in Sunday school and they get in conflict with one of the other kids? What happens when you walk around the corner and you see something going on down the hall and you're like, I gotta break up this argument? What happens when the kids are fighting? These are opportunities. Frustrating, yes, but opportunities to obey The scriptures to follow the principle established in this text. In the New Testament, this is how the scriptures put it: Ephesians chapter 6, he says, Ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but But bring them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. Bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. We don't think of dads as being the nurturing type, do we? Some of us are not wired that way at all. Yet God tells us That we need to be men who nurture and admonish our children. And that word nurture is talking about the entirety of the training process. Rebuke, teaching, comforting, encouraging, disciplining. It's all a part of this word nurture. Colossians 3. 21 he says, Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged You know, a lot of times as dads, we really focus on the disciplinary side of raising our kids. I tell you what, I don't let my kid do this and this and this. Fine. But my question is this. Are you only a strict and harsh disciplinarian? Or are you a compassionate dad too? A loving dad? A nurturing dad? Dad. Let's not be dads who discourage our kids. The scriptures command us to teach beyond our generation And to think about the generations that follow. Listen to some of these scriptures. Psalm 127, 3. Children are an heritage of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is his reward. What is a heritage? Is it something that you ho have now or is it something that you think in the future of? Future. Proverbs 17, 6 says, Children's children are the crown of old men. Very interesting story. Statement. The crown of old men, the glory of children is their fathers. One of the reasons that we need to think long term Is that there's going to be a day that that little boy and that little girl is a part of their own family and their kids are going to be your grandkids. And the question is, how are those kids going to walk? They're going to walk in some proportion to what you invested in your kids so that they had the tools. and the character to actually raise their kids in a way that honors the Lord. The crown of an old man is a child who is their grandchild walking with That's an incredible thing to see. Psalm 103, verse 17 says, The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him. His righteousness unto children's Children. Proverbs 13, 22 says that a good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children. There's a lot of scripture behind what I just shared with you. I want to encourage you young dads with young kids. I want to encourage our teenage boys. I want to encourage our preteen boys. When you think about your family, the one that you have or the one that you will have , think beyond just the moment of every day and think about how the investment you're putting in today is going to It 's like a person who is investing in their retirement and somebody says, Hey, you know, you should start, you should open up an account and start investing in your retirement. They're like, I'm only 19. I'm working at McDonald's. If you're making money, you should be putting some in an account. They say, ah, I got time. And then when they're forty they go, Oh, I gotta catch up. Guess what happens when you just put a little bit aside year after year after year after year after year? There comes a day when you have an investment That has real value. And that's the way that our families need to be. Scripture commends those who think beyond their generation. I think of the example of Abraham. In Genesis chapter 18 it says the following, I know him. God is saying this about Abraham. I know him that he will command his Children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord and do justice and judgment. He's not just going to command his kin Kids, but the household after him, the way he invests in those kids is going to end up affecting the next generation. This is Important concept. So I move to our final fact, and that's this. We have to think practically about what we're seeing here in the scriptures. We need to live a life that has this tension between recognizing the Lord Jesus can come at any moment. You know, it's really easy for us as Christians to say, hey, you know what? The rapture's coming in my lifetime. I know it's going to happen my lifetime. So my investment in my kids, I mean I'm going to do the best I can, but in the end You know, fifty to a hundred years from now we're going to be in heaven, so what does it matter? Well, folks, there are lots of generations that believe that the I believe that we should live with an anticipation of the imminent return of Christ. But the fact is if you were living in the fifteen hundred hundreds, you thought, man, fifteen hundred years of church history is gone. He's coming back today and look at five hundred years later. How do we know if we're We're not living in the middle of church history. We have no idea. And so we have to have this tension of living with healthy anticipation of the Return of Christ and investing in the next generation, recognizing that this could be going on for generation after generation after generation. I want God to use me to invest in the perpetuation of truthfulness. We need to embrace our role in the season that we are in. Now I know that this is directed towards dads, but the truth is Is this the principle about God creating family, giving children, and saying the family is the place where the faith is to be perpetuated and one generation is To teach the next generation and to teach the next generation, that principle doesn't just apply to dads. It applies to everybody here. For instance, our kids. We have a lot of kids. lot of kids in here. We have a lot of kids in here. A lot. Your family's got a lot of them. To our kids, listen. When mom and dad are teaching you God's word , Don't be wiggling around on the floor and poking your brother and your sister. Sit there quietly and listen to the word of God. Give respect to what God is saying in His Word. When mom and Dad want to have a conversation with you about something that just took place, and they're trying to Teach you how God wants you to think about that issue. Listen to what they're saying. Our children need to develop a mind, a mindset that says, I want to have a biblical view on this issue no matter what the world tells me. To our parents. That's mom and dad. We need to walk with God. We cannot teach what we don't have. We cannot pattern what we do not live. We need to walk with God. We need to love one another. You know, if if a if a f if a son watches his dad not love his mother, why Why in the world would that son want to get married and have kids? Or if a daughter watches dad not love mom, why in the world would that girl want to get married Get married and have a family and have children. Because what they've seen is not beautiful. It's not good. It's not the example that comp Let's love one another. Let's demonstrate the power of the gospel. When I say demonstrate the power of the gospel We are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, to walk in newness of life by the Spirit's enabling. And so when we walk in the power of the position that we actually Love in Christ. Our kids see that and they say, I know this is true. I know this is real. I know what mom and dad say when they're sitting in a pew and when they're in interacting with other Christians and I know what they do at home and they're the same. And I want that. In fact, a kid growing up in a home like that doesn't even realize that other families are not like that. That. And it shocks them when they interact with people that don't have that experience. We need to train our children. We need to restrain our children. We need to teach our children. We need to keep God the center of our homes. We have to communicate with our kids. I want to encourage you parents. This is how we apply it. I know we have a lot of grandparents in here. And we have a lot of people that'll probably become grandparents in the next, you know, five, ten years. Maybe shorter, I don't know. Grandparents invest in your grandkids. It's really easy to get at a stage in life where somebody says, you know what, for me, I lived my life, I did my time, and Now it's time for me to enjoy life. I'm retired and I'm just gonna chill on a golf course. I'm gonna get out on the boat and I'm gonna do my thing because you know I I I paid My time. And it's their responsibility I'm messing with it anymore. Listen, grandparents who love God can have an incredible influence. on their grandkids. Incredible. I want to encourage those who are not parents, they're not grandparents. Maybe you never will God has purposes for singlenesses Well But every single person in this room, whether you get married and you get married, you never have children because God doesn't give you that, or whether you have a small family, or whether you have a large family, or whether You stay single all of your days. God has a role for you to play in helping the next generation walk with Him. We need encouragers. You know, you don't have to be I'm not saying being spiritually immature is good, but what I'm saying is, you know, you could Be a teenager who doesn't have your own kids, but you encourage and you support a mother who is like trying to balance life and trying to keep up with everything going on. Encouragers are important. Mentors are important. Young fathers and mothers need people to come alongside and say, hey, let me share with you something about what I just saw. And I know you gotta be careful how you do that. Don't get me wrong. But mentors are important. We need mentors. We need encouragers. You know there There are times that we need specialists. There are some situations that a parent gets involved with their kid, and the bottom line is it's beyond their expertise. It's beyond their expertise. Guess what they need to do? They need to find somebody who has expertise in that area to help them. You know, not every single man in this room is a plumber. Some of you learn that the hard way. Not every single person in this room is an electrician. Not every single person can build things with their hands. Not every single person is good with electricity electronics and computers. The fact is each of us has a little niche in an area that God has God has uh pointed us in and we develop in those areas and we enjoy those areas and if I do this and I don't have skills here I do call the plumber I do call the electrician we call an AC man this week and it's a good thing. Why is that? Because some Sometimes you need specialists. And so I want to encourage you that even within our congregation and outside of our congregation, there are people who invest their lives as specialists in areas And there are times that we need God to connect us with them to help us in a very deep and difficult issue. My point is this. of us have a role to play. From the little child all the way up to our senior, those who are married, those who are single, we all have a role to play in the development of the next generation. But the highest weight falls on the shoulders of dad. And so I want to encourage our men: let's be faithful men. Let's think beyond the immediate and the mundane, and let's purpose to be faithful men who live with purpose and draw upon God's daily supply of grace. Let's bow together. For prayer. Father, I thank you for this text of Scripture and the many scriptures we looked at today. I pray that you'd help us to think practically about these truths. Not just our men who are dads, but every single person in this room. May we recognize that there is a role that we have to play. And investing in the generation to follow. Help us to be faithful and help us to be purposeful and help us to enjoy the fruits of God's Labors. Help us to glory in the grace of God that sustains us when we are beyond our strength and beyond our wisdom, who intervenes for the We ask that you would help us to be faithful in these areas. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen. Okay, I'd like us to take our handbooks out, please, and turn to hymn four hundred and seventy-five. I know this was not a the gospel focused message. The gospel was mentioned. But if there's any Anybody here this morning that does not know for certain when they die they're going to heaven, I want to encourage you reach out to me and say, Pastor, I I'm not certain that I'm saved. You talked about the gospel, you talked about raising the next generation. Generation. I don't even understand the gospel. I'm struggling to know if I'm saved. Please do reach out, shake my hand, greet me on the way out, and say, Pastor, you need to talk to you. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you could be saved. So please do not hesitate to reach out. If you're here and you say, I'm a dad and I'm struggling and I need to talk to you about this issue or that Issue. I need I need counsel. I need advice. Please reach out. We'll sit down, we'll talk, we'll take the scriptures, talk about how to practically apply and obey God's word. If you just need to be encouraged, make Make sure you reach out to people that can encourage you and support you. We are not designed to grow independent of everybody else. We grow in the community of the local church. Church that God has established. So let's keep that in our minds. Let's turn together to hymn 475. This will be our closing hymn. We'll sing the first and the third verses of Rejoice in the Lord. Let's stand together, please, and let's sing this hymn of praise to God. With a purpose or plan , enjoying reservants, and holding a man, give thanks to the Lord He joys in the Lord, He makes no mistake. We call my daughter 's path that I take For when I am tried glory, I shall come Now I can see testing comes from above prostring. And purges in love, my father 's best, and I trust in his name. He makes no mistake, only no worth depend on his path that I take For when I am tried and glorified, I shall come It's a beautiful song. It's very powerful when you think about the person who wrote it and what they walked through in life. Uh if you're visiting with us today, I hope that you'll come by and greet me on the way out. I'd like to meet you. If I didn't didn't get to. And uh dads, uh there are gifts in the back. Uh when I say dads, it's not just our dads, it's for our men, it's for our grandfathers, it's for our adult men. Uh There are some gifts back there, and so I hope that you'll pick that up on the way out. Um and uh hope that we'll be able to see you again tonight. We'll be back in Ecclesiastes, and the passage we're looking at tonight will dovetail you pretty well with this concept. It's going to be talking about authority and what is sad when we see authorities who are not faithful and the power of those who are faithful and righteous leaders. So I think it'll be a really good study as we continue uh plodding through the book of Ecclesiastes. So let's bow together for prayer. Scott Moore, can you close us in prayer and uh we'll be dismissed? Dear Lord God, we thank you so much for this wonderful day that we've had in your house. We thank you for the preaching. And the reading of your word and the singing and the rejoicing that we can have in you. Thank you, Lord, for fathers and for the great influence that they can be on us. Just pray that we might encourage those fathers that we have and give all the glory to you for all that is done in Jesus' name. Amen.