Okay, well good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. Hope that you're having a good week. The week for me feels like it's been a month. So I'll explain a little bit when we come to our prayer time. But for those of you that uh were praying for our safety when we took the teens up to K Thank you, because we had uh an not an accident where we were involved with another vehicle, but uh one of the tires blew and we had to get a rental vehicle. And uh it was a very long ordeal. But the teams are all at camp. They were very happy to uh to be there and they got to meet their counselors and their counselors were very uh excited. I got to speak with the uh the guest speaker for a little bit. Um and uh it was It was good. So it was a long, long day, but I'm back and I'm going back up in two days. So please give uh please do keep us in prayer and pray for the young people. Uh just really pray that the preaching of God's word will really hit their hearts and that they will be submissive to the work that the Lord is doing in them. And it's a very young group, so almost Almost all of them are junior hires. So yes, we were bringing pillows to them because they forgot them and oh that's your wallet, I think. Lots of that kind of stuff. So um please be in prayer for them. Think they're gonna have a great week. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we're going to get into our study tonight, and we are in 2 Timothy chapter 4. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you again for the opportunity to gather in the middle of the week. And I pray that as we look at this passage, that you would help us to understand exactly what you're communicating. here. Father, help me to rightly divide the word of truth. I pray that each of us as we think about these truths would be uh would have a firm conviction on biblical preaching and I pray that you'd help us to be people that are developing an appetite for biblical preaching, that we're also a people that are bringing others into a place where they'll hear the word Word of God expounded and rightly divided and where the Holy Spirit can take these truths and really convict and convince them of the truth. We ask these things in Christ's name Amen. Okay, 2 Timothy chapter 4. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage again. We're looking at verses 1 through 5. And what we're talking about this evening is why preaching matters. Why is preaching such an extra extremely important part of how we grow as Christians. So here's what the word of the Lord says. I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing. And his kingdom. Preach the word. Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort, with all long suffering and doctrine. For the time will come that when they will not endure sound doctrine But after their own lust they shall heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. They shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables. But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make foolproof of thy ministry. This afternoon I was working on my message for Sunday, and we're looking at the 17th Psalm. And so if you want to get kind of a snapshot of that particular psalm, I want to encourage you to look at that passage, read through it. The thing that really struck me about the 17th Psalm is that that psalm is really emphasizing the fact that as Christians, and of course this is written in the Old Testament, so the believer was living in a very difficult period of time. So David is talking about how he has many enemies. And when he talks about his enemies, the main reason that he has enemies is because David was a man who represented the truth. David was not an idolater. David was a man that was very, very committed to walking with the Lord. And because of David's commitment to walking with the Lord, David was also a man who was a suffering man. And so there are periods in his life where he suffered because he walked in righteousness. Well, as you work your way through the 17th Psalm, the thing that really stands out to you is really two things. One is do right. And two, look for the Lord's return. Do right and look for the Lord's return. Well, when he talks about doing right, the word that comes to mind is the word courage. In fact, it's interesting. We we don't really I believe we are actually losing a sense of courage in our culture. I think one of the great examples of this, and I know Maybe some people won't like me for saying this, but if you look at the Olympics and you see the decisions that are being made by some of our athletes, we're seeing a lack of courage. The reason that we don't see courage in our culture is because courage is tied into the concept of commitment. And that concept of commitment is tied into the concept of duty. And so when a person used to talk about courage, they talked about courage in the sense that I'm willing to suffer Because I'm called to a sacred duty. But when you take God out of the picture, guess what you don't have anymore? Sacred duty. And so what people will do is they'll make decisions not because of sacred duty, because God's called me to this task. I'm going to be faithful to fulfill this task. But people simply do what's convenient, what works for them. And so what you see is you see people making decisions where they're not willing to suffer because they don't have a sense of duty And so this passage of scripture really does give us that sense. The fact is that Paul is telling Timothy Timothy, you're going to have to suffer because you've been called to a sacred duty by God. And that sacred duty by God, he calls it a charge, and his charge is to preach the word. So over the last two weeks weeks we've been looking at this. First of all, we saw the importance of understanding what we mean by preaching. Preaching is not simply telling people what the Bible says and leaving it there. That is a major part of preaching. But preaching goes beyond instruction and it goes to application In fact, it is also something that really focuses on authority. And so when we talk about biblical preaching, we're saying we're expounding God 's word. It's his authority. And the point of preaching is to persuade people and to call them to action. And so when we talk about preaching, we could simply put it this way: preaching is teaching. from a point of authority, that's God's word, with the intent to persuade people, reasoning with them through the Word of God, and calling them to respond, calling them to actually submit to what God says. So if we're talking about evangelism, we're calling people to repent and to trust Christ. We're talking about the believer, we're calling people to repent and turn to God in a very specific area of life. And so we talked about the importance of understanding this calling. Second thing that we looked at was understanding the connection between preaching and what the word of God actually is. And so one of the reasons we preach The word is because it's God breathed. So it bears God's authority. I should preach what God said. On the other side, I shouldn't preach what is just simply my opinion. The second thing we saw is that we understand that we need to preach because of what the scripture actually does. And so the scripture is what God uses to bring a person to repentance and faith. The scripture is what God uses to grow and to mature and to shape the believer. And so we preach because it is profitable. The third reason that we are to preach is ultimately because it is the only place that we can find something that does that work. And so what we can say is because we believe in the sufficiency of Scripture. We are to preach the scripture. So we move from that concept to the third point that I want us to see tonight, and that is that we need to learn from Paul's warning to guard against distractions. Now when we talk about distractions, I want you to realize there are lots and lots of different kinds of distractions that can take a person from their calling, their duty, their responsibility, and they can divert them from the road that they should go. on. Some of those distractions we could say are like allurements. For instance, a person gets distracted, they're doing the will of God, they're doing the work of God. And all of a sudden they see an opportunity out here that is very lucrative. And guess what they do? They get drawn to that very lucrative opportunity distraction. They don't do the work. God's called them to do. That's one way that a person can be distracted. We can also look on the negative side. Not just that someone can be allured, but someone can become discouraged. Someone can become frustrated, someone can become disgruntled, someone can become fearful. And because of that negative distraction a person will not do the work that God's called them to do. Well, in this particular passage, he's going to emphasize several ways that Paul was concerned that Timothy could get distracted. And so let's look at what he says in verses 3 to 5. He says, For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lusts they shall heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. They shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables. But watch thou in all things, endure affliction. do the work of an evangelist. Now I want us to kind of break down what Paul is saying. He gives four simple distractions that he is warning Timothy, do not, do not, do not get distracted. The first temptation that he tells them, watch out for, is that people will stop listening. to the truth. Now there was a day in this nation where people could set up in an open field And if they would just set up in that open field and they put out signs and they said, there's going to be preaching in this field. There would have been people who would have come from all over the community just to hear what was going on. There was a day that that was very common. In fact, when we talk about the Great Awakening, we talk about George Whitfield. It's very interesting George Whitfield actually was an Anglican, okay? That was his background. And he was pushing against the Anglican church, and they essentially did not want him preaching. A lot of it had to do with his style of preaching. And so George Whitfield basically said, Well, if you're not going to let me preach in the church, I'll go out in the fields and I'll preach. And that's exactly what he did. He went out into the fields and what we see from history Is that the majority of the people that lived in the American colonies during the time of George Whitfield personally listened, heard him preach the word? Well, let me tell you something. If you decided to set up a place in Glen Burney and say, we're going to have preaching here tonight and we're just going to put out a loudspeaker system and we're going to do this and see what happens. You know what probably happened? You would probably have some people show up and say, where's your permit? Okay, that would that would you know they would kind of use the law. Or you might say, well, I have a permit, and people would say, how dare you preach these nasty and hateful and terrible things. You need to be inclusive and you need to be kind and you need to be loving to everybody in the community. When he says the time will come will they when they will not endure sound doctrine. He's talking about Now he's not just talking about now in our country and in this culture, but there have been ebbs and flows all throughout church history. were in specific locations the gospel was spreading rapidly and churches were growing and being started and people were getting saved and people were training their children. And many, many people were placing their faith in Christ, and there were really good things happening, revivals in communities. But then after a period of time, people begin to get cold and calloused. and complacent, and this is what he says, they will not endure. Sound doctrine. You know the Bible is full of pastors. Of ministers of God 's word who found that the people they were preaching to did not endure sound doctrine. I'll give you some Old Testament prophet examples. For instance, think about Elijah or Elisha. Think about Isaiah and Jeremiah, Ezekiel. When we read the stories of these prophets of the Lord, they were called to a people that the Bible says were colds. were dull of hearing. In fact, listen to what it says in Ezekiel chapter 2, verses 3 to 6. He says, Son of man, I send thee to the children of Israel. This is how he describes them. To a rebellious nation. They have that hath rebelled against me. They and their fathers have transgressed against me, even unto this very day. For they are impudent children and stiff-hearted. I do send thee unto them. And thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God, and they, whether they will hear or whether they will forbear, for they are a rebellious house, Yet shall know that there hath been a prophet among them. And thou son of man be not afraid of them, neither be afraid of their words. That's exactly what Paul is telling Timothy is going to happen to him. You're going to be in a context where people will not endure sound doctrine. Now there are lots of different ways that people can get to the place where they won't endure sound doctrine. One of the simplest ways is that sound doctrine is not palatable to people who have rejected the gospel. In fact, the Bible says that a person who's not a Christian is at enmity against God. That word enmity means that there is war between them and God. It's not just that people are neutral towards God as unbelievers. They are antagonistic towards God as unbelievers. And so if you have a community where there's not a lot of saved people, guess what? You're going to have people that don't want to listen to the truth. But it's also possible for for people to embrace the gospel at least on the surface and then to become like the story of, well, the shower. You know this parable that Jesus He said some was thrown out and it landed on hard places and the birds came and they took it away. He said some of it landed in shallow soil. And it began to take root, but as soon as the sun came out, it just scorched it and it died. I think that's a lot of what he's saying here. Or there's this other group where the seed comes and it falls kind of on the wayside, and the thorns and thistles come and they choke out the word. And so you have some people, they like what they're hearing on some level, and they appear to accept it on some level, but then as soon as pressure comes, what happens? They walk away from it. Or as soon as the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches come, they begin to choke out the word, and a person's distracted. And so one of the ways that people do not endure sound doctrine is because it gets choked out by worldliness. Or because of the pressures that they're experiencing, it scorches them. They don't want anything to do that. And really what it comes down to is their little watershed issues. And these little watershed issues, what happens is they kind of get to a place where we say, Well, I'm good with this, but I'm not good with that, so I'm going to walk away because I want to hear that. That's really what he's saying. And so if someone is going to preach the whole counsel of God, verse by verse, chapter by chapter, just lay out whatever is there, they're going to come to these sticking points and people People are going to say, you know what? Not interested. That can discourage people. That can discourage people. Jeremiah was called a weeping prophet. You read the book of Ezekiel. And you read about Ezekiel and how he responded to the ministry that he had. It was a very, very difficult ministry for that man. You look at Elijah and after Mount Carmel, what does he do? He says, God, just kill me. I can't take this anymore. And so we have this warning about distraction. People not listening to the truth. Second distraction that he mentions is that people will start looking for others who will tell them what they want to hear. Now this is very interesting. Listen to how he puts it in verse 3. He says, after their own lusts Shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears? Now you say, what does he mean by having an itching ear? Anybody, one of those people that has a really hard time when you got to scratch, not scratch. You know what I'm talking about? Like when I was a little kid, I used to get these mosquito bites on my legs, and if my mom didn't put socks on my legs, I would just rub those things raw. Anybody have little kids like that? Okay? You see, when there's an itch there, what do you want to do? You want to scratch it. And so basically what he's saying is there are some people, they're going to tell you what you want to hear. And the more they tell you what you want to hear, the more you're going to listen to what they're saying, because you want to hear it. And eventually you know what you become? You become a slave to false teaching. In fact, when we talk about the prosperity movement of our day right now, do you know why there are masses and masses of people following these false teachers? It's because they're telling what they want to hear. People want to make money, and somebody's saying, Hey, you come to my church, you're going to make money. People want to get that job and they want to have some kind of prosperity that they're longing for. And so they go to that place. believing they're going to get what they're being told they're going to get. That's what he means. But there's even more to it than that. There are some pastors that will actually stroke our spiritual egos a little bit. And they'll kind of nail these little areas that we love listening to. I'll give you an example. I like to listen to preachers. But this is how most people listen to preaching. I'll probably put myself in this category. We look for what we want to hear. It's true. If I go to sermon audio and I want to listen to a message on a particular topic, you know what I do, I search for that topic and I want to find a message on that topic. And then I'm going to listen to another message on that topic and another message on that topic. But I have this question. Do you tend to listen to messages on topics that now you're right here? Or that know your brother right there. You know what I'm talking about? We actually become entertained By preaching. And so we can really focus on the whole prosperity thing where somebody becomes a slave to the prosperity teacher who's saying, You're going to be rich and you're going to be wealthy and you're going to get this new job and you're getting this opportunity and they tell them all these things. It's not true at all. But we can kind of do the same thing too. We can go and find those areas that are our hobby horses. We love to listen to things on this and we'll read books on it. We'll watch videos on it. We'll listen to sermon after sermon after sermon after sermon. Not because it's history. And that is exactly what he means here when he says, after their own lust they keep to themselves teachers having itching ears. Listen to what it says in Jeremiah 23. I actually read this this morning for my own devotionals, and this passage is very profound. Listen to what it says. Jeremiah 23, 28. The prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream. And he that hath my words, let him speak my words faithfully. Now listen. I'm not a prophet, okay? I'm preaching the prophecy right here. I'm preaching the word of God So in those days, you didn't have the completed word of God. You didn't have the Old Testament. You didn't have a lot of the new, you didn't have all the Old Testament, you didn't have And so there were people in Israel that were genuine prophets, and there were people who claimed to be genuine prophets, but there were false prophets. And so Jeremiah basically says this, listen, this is God's message for you. You claim to be a prophet. If you're a prophet, you have the word of God, you better speak it and speak it faithfully. Then he says this, listen carefully. God says, I am against the prophet, saith the Lord, that steal my words everyone from his neighbor. Say how do you do that? Okay, you have it and you say I'm not gonna talk about that. I'm not gonna give that. That's what you Now, in the specific context, the people that knew what God was going to do, God was going to judge the nation. God was calling out all kinds of wickedness in this nation. It was a rebellious, stubborn, disreputable nation. And there were prophets who said, I'm not going to tell the nation that. I'm going to tell them God's going to do good things in their lives. And it wasn't true at all Then he goes on to say this, Behold, I'm against the prophet, saith the Lord, that use their tongue and say he saith. Now that's the opposite. That is ascribing to God something that he didn't say. So we can do one of two things We can take the word of God and we can hold it to ourselves for whatever reason. Because we're afraid, because we don't think people are going to listen. Because we don't think it's palatable. Whatever the reason, every person's gonna be a little bit different. But we can choose to hold back on what God said. Or we can go to the other side or we can add to what God said. And we can say God said this, but he didn't say this. Now it's very interesting. We're talking about the specific context of Paul addressing Timothy. He's talking about Judaizers. And of those two problems, which ones were the Judaizers most notorious for? Was it cutting or was it adding? Without it. We can be in error on either side of the equation. And so I want to remind you again of what Jesus said. And I read this the other week. In Mark chapter 7 it says, He saith unto them, Well saith Isaiah, prophesying unto you hypocrites. As it is written, This people honoreth me with their Lips and their heart is far from me. Howbeit in vain do they worship me teaching for doctrines the commandments of men Laying aside the commandments of God. Ye hold the tradition of men as the washing of pots and cups, and many other such like things ye do, and he saith unto them, Full well ye reject the commandments Of God that ye may keep your own traditions. The Pharisees did both. There were things that God said, you need to address. You need to address the hard issues. Like just a simple issue like something like divorce, okay? The Pharisees were like, so can you can you divorce your wife over burnt toast? Or because she doesn't look as beautiful today, or because of what she's wearing. These are the kinds of arguments these people were saying. And they're trying to capture Jesus. And Jesus says, hold on a second. What did God say in Genesis? He says he created two, one. What God has joined together, let not men put asunder End of story. And they said, well hold on a second, then why did Moses say that? He said, because you're a bunch of callous hard-hearted people. Okay Okay, any more questions? The bottom line is that these people were so caught up in all these little peripheral matters that they were ignoring the heart and soul of what God said It's like they're they're they're debating about whether or not they gave enough mints to God in their tithe. And Jesus Jesus is saying, and you know what you're doing to your mother and father? In other words, they concealed some things and they added another. And this is one of the great hallmarks of false Teaching. Cut, add, either one's a problem. We then move on from that passage to a third distraction. And this is this is a very interesting one. And perhaps it's not one that you've really thought about, but it's actually a big time potential distraction for someone who is a minister of the gospel. People start to embrace foolishness. Listen to what it says in verse 4. They shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto faith. Now, I want you to notice the progression. The first step is, I don't want to listen to sound doctrine. The second step is, well, I do want to be a religious person. I do want to feel like I'm a religious person or I'm accepted by God, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to find people who tell me what I want to hear. The third step is that you got no sense. And so you have access to the truth, and you turn away from what is clear and what is true and what is pure. and you embrace something that is clear nonsense. Now I remember this illustration that my my partner when we were in in Ghana as missionaries He used to give this illustration. We'd go to somebody's house and we'd see this person make a profession of faith, and then we begin to talk to them about church. Now, when we started the conversation, it was about the gospel, because that's their greatest need. It wasn't about getting people into our church. It was about leading people to Jesus If people want to come to church but they're going to ignore the gospel, then they're not going to be any better off in our church or in the other church. But once we got to that point where this person embraced the gospel, my friend would say something like this, can you get me a cup of water? So yeah. Is that nice and cold and clear and refreshed? Absolutely. Say let me just put a little bit of dirt in there. You want to drink that Gotta say not a chance. See, that's what your church is like. That's a little bit step on the toes. There's a lot of truth there But it's not all truth. And so the point is, he says these are people who will turn away from what is pure and what is true and what is right and they're going to embrace something. That isn't true. It's a fable. It's a myth. It's superstition. In fact, it's very interesting. We look at 1st and 2 Timothy He emphasizes a lot. This issue of old wives fables. You know that that was the phrase that he used? Okay, why does he use that? Because within the Judaizers there were certain viewpoints that they had that were just nonsense. Total nonsense. If you could read some of the literature, now I'm not encouraging you to do But if you were to go and to read some of the literature that was being written by the rabbis during the intertestamental period, guess what you would find out? There's a lot of mythology, a lot of nonsense. A lot of superstition. It's the kind of stuff that you don't expect to see in a true place where you're going to find sound doctrine. And one of the most discouraging things for a pastor who is preaching the truth is to see someone who has access to the truth and says, you know, I'm not sure they really want the truth. I'd actually rather this Superstitious stuff. And it happens. Happens a lot of times. I think of what Paul says in Romans chapter one. When they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God to a bird's uh excuse me. They changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible men Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies between Between themselves, who changed the truth of God into a lie and worshipped and served the creature more than the creator. By the way, this is the passage we're going to deal with. In Sunday school. And we're going beyond just verse 25 there. But I want you to notice what he says. These people had access to the truth, and instead of having a heart to embrace the truth, They rejected it. And you know what they did when they rejected it? They went into something that was completely illogical. It was complete nonsense. It was something that, as he says, it was dishonoring their own bodies. You have opportunity to do things the right way, God's way, and you do it your own way. And the fact is that what we see in Romans chapter 1, we see this kind of a situation whenever you see people that have access to the truth, but they never embrace the truth. Even in the book of Acts, we see examples of people who it's like they came close to the truth and then they then they then they pushed away. And what happened when they pushed away was they went full well into complete We talk about Gnosticism, which was a huge problem in the early church. That was one of the biggest doctrinal deviations. Gnosticism was the place that people who came to the church were interested in a superficial way, in the kinds of things that they they were hearing in the church, when they decided they weren't interested anymore, they turned away from the purity of sound doctrine and they went into Gnosticism and mysticism and superstition and all those kinds of issues. And so what Paul is saying is, Timothy, they're going to be people you minister to. That's what they do. And if they do that, guess what? Don't let that cause you to deviate. In other words, when somebody is callous and they just don't want to listen. Or when somebody's like, I'm gonna go find somebody who's gonna tell me what what I want to hear. Or when somebody says, I know there's the truth, I'm not sure that I'm interested in this, and they go to this mysticism, don't step away from your responsibility. Responsibility. Be courageous, be faithful, speak the truth, preach the word. The fourth distraction that he mentions Is the one that is kind of the it's the crowning jewel of the demise, if you want to put it that way. And that is affliction and persecution People will start to persecute the truth. In verse 5, he says, endure affliction. Listen to what Jesus says in Matthew chapter 5, verse 10. He says, Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. He doesn't say, blessed are they that are persecuted, full stop in the story. He says, blessed are they that are persecuted for righteousness' sake. In other words, just because someone is persecuted doesn't mean that they're persecuted in the way that he's talking about. In other words, it's because of the gospel, it's because of sound doctrine, it's because they are identified with the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ. It's because of their position people see it, they hate what's being represented there, and so they attack the person that's the messenger. That can really destroy Discourage people. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets. I have this question. Do you not see a progression there? There's a progression. Now here's my question. In this country, where are we in the progression? I'm not here to tell you. I'm asking you to think about it. The bottom line is within our lifetimes, we may see All of them. And if we do, or if we don't, God says, don't be distracted. God says, be faithful. I want to encourage you, do not be fearful because of what you feel you may lose or experience because of the truths of the gospel. Don't do that. He comes to the last part where he says, Timothy, complete the mission that God has called you to perform. We have lost in our culture a sense of duty. We really have. And my question is, duty to what? If you don't believe in God, then what's your duty to? Your neighbor? Why do you why why should there be allegiance to your neighbor? person. It's the Christian worldview. It's the belief that there's a God in heaven who made me, who I'm answerable to. that he has laws that govern what I should do and what I should not do, and he has provided a means of salvation for me And because I believe in who he is and what he's done for me, I'm going to live out of a sense of duty and what is right before him. Because we're losing that in our generation, we're losing a sense of courage. I think about what we saw in the Olympics yesterday. Okay? This is arguably the greatest female gymnast ever to walk on the stage. And she withdrew. Now I'm not saying this to be critical of her. I'm saying this to be critical of the culture that's produced that. I remember when I was a kid watching Michael Jordan in the NBA Finals. Anybody remember this? I don't remember how high his fever was. I don't even know if the guy knew what he was doing. I think he sc Let me tell you something. There's a different mentality today. It's a very different mentality. And I it's just a sport. There's nothing eternal that's going on that basketball court or going on when somebody's doing a gymnastics or But what I'm telling you is this, our culture is not producing the kind of character that stormed the beaches at Normandy. It's not. I do not believe that our culture today would do that. I just don't. And the reason that they won't It's because we don't have a God-centered world in our culture anymore. The reason that people are motivated to set aside pain Potentially lose your life. My wife's grandfather was a medic at Normandy. He was 18 years old. 18 Eighteen year olds today? What would they have done if they had been in those amphibious things They say I can't go out there. There's too much of a cost. But the fact is that those young men laid down their lives because they had a sense of duty. They said, I'm going to be courageous because there's something on the line here. And we've lost that. We've lost We've lost a sense of teamwork. People don't enjoy what they do anymore. When I when I see the Olympic actually I I I haven't seen it, I'll just be honest. I haven't watched it. I don't know that I even want to. But what I what I recognize is that we are seeing the fruit of a culture in major decline. We're seeing the fruit of a culture that has rejected God, that's living for self, and doesn't really have anything bigger than themselves to live for. And so when we come to the end of this, he says, complete the mission that God has called you to perform. Why would a minister of the gospel be willing to go to prison for the sake of sake of the gospel. Because he believes that the gospel is more important than him feeling comfortable. Why would someone be willing to stand by the stuff when they're going to be ridiculed and hate it? Because of that sense of duty and calling. And so he says in verse 5, he says, Watch thou in all things, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist. Make full proof of thy ministry. Watch me and shepherd those people. Look out for their souls. When you see something, say something. I tell you, it's not easy to go and talk to somebody about an issue that is very obvious to you. It's not easy. But it's a responsibility. Somebody's got to do that. Endure. The idea is be an example of the power of the gospel. If people in authority are not able to endure affliction, then the people they're teaching aren't. going to be able to either. Because people are going to follow the example that's set before them. He says, do the work of an evangelist. This is a really interesting point. The evangelist is not a defensive role in the church, is it? It's offensive. I don't mean offensive like it's an offense. I mean it can be, okay, don't get me wrong. But it's someone that's taking the gospel out of the way. Walls. So when things start getting really bad around us, you know, our tendency is to kind of like hunker down and say, let's just hold on until the end here. That's not what he says to do. You know, if things are getting bad out there, well then the darkness is going to be exposed by the light. So we've got to go out there. We've got to tell people about Christ. Do the work of an evangelist. The primary work of the pastor is to shepherd, but that doesn't mean that the pastor is not supposed to evangelize. The pastor should be going out of these walls. We should not just lock down in this location and just bury our heads in the sand and say, I hope Jesus comes really soon. because I'm getting tired, I'm getting weary, I don't think I can make it. We need to go out of these walls and reach people. That's what he's saying. Lastly he says, make full proof of thy message. Simplest way to do it is finish the job well. You started, complete it. It's like you get a person that comes and does a job at your house. They do drywalls. They do great work. But they only did three-quarters of the job. You gonna pay them? Anybody ever had a contractor like that? They do great work, but they don't finish the job. Guess what? You're gonna always remember that. And so he says, Timothy Finish the job well. Whatever the race is that God's put before each of us, we need to finish that course. Faithfully. You say, well, what's the application? Let me give you a couple thoughts in closing. First of all, we have to stay the course, even when the environment that we're called to serve in Deteriorates. We are not responsible for how the world is going to respond to the message. We are responsible to get We're responsible to be consistent. We're responsible to pray for them. Even when he talks to Ezekiel, he says, Ezekiel, whether they listen or not, you just tell them the truth. The second point that we see is that we can't give in to the temptation to embrace cheap substitutes because the times and culture have changed There are people today that believe, you know what, preaching doesn't work anymore. Well then what's your alternative? Is that better than God's word? Does God promise to bless that? This cheap substitute, we have to stick by the stuff. Three, Bible preaching must continue to be the central focus of our ministries. That's what builds people. That's what really is going to pay in the long run. And there's this exponential growth that takes place over the course of people's lives. It's not about what happens in the one service in the Masian. It's about what happens week in and week out, year after year after year after year. This person that's being fed spiritually for decades and they're actually growing and they're actually internalizing these things, these are people that are becoming miserable. Matured in the faith, well equipped to do the work of the ministry. Just like we see our kids grow. You don't see them grow in one night. You just see them grow a little bit at a time. You look at a picture What happened? Wow, this yeah, but it took months and years. And that's how we grow. Lastly , We must preach the gospel and diligently labor to complete the ministry, the mission that God has called us to perform. I want to encourage you, don't be acquitted. Don't be a quitter. Pastors are not the only people that quit. Missionaries are not the only people that quit. There's dads that quit. There's moms that quit. There's husbands that quit. There's wives that quit. The fact is that where you are as a Christian today Where you are planted, God puts you there with a sense of duty and calling and responsibility to Him. So finish Your course well. That doesn't mean that God doesn't have us change from one thing to another. I remember we were in Ghana. And it was very clear that God was moving us from that ministry. to this ministry. I I don't think God could have made it any clearer to Tar family. But one thing that really stood out to me was I want to finish this section well. Want to be faithful. And so as God puts into your heart, this is where I'm planted, this is what I'm supposed to be doing. These are the kids I'm supposed to be raising. This is the ministry that I'm supposed to do. God has given you that responsibility. Finish it well. Don't be like those who fall by the wayside and quit. God wants his people to have an unwavering commitment to biblical preaching, let's be wholeheartedly committed to what he's doing. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, take these words and use them for your glory. Help us not to be quitters. Help us not to be spineless. Help us not to look for cheap substitutes. Help us not to get angry and frustrated. when things don't go the way we'd love to see them go. Father, help us not to bury our heads in the sand and just hold on. But help us to go out and reach people with the gospel. Do the work of ministry that you've called us to to and so that we are thriving and we are serving faithfully when you come and call us to be with you I pray that you'll bless our time of prayer tonight, help us to have sweet fellowship with each other. As we lift up these requests, I pray that you would work in these situations in a remarkable way. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.