Page five twenty-seven. Revive us again. We'll sing all four verses. We praise thee, O God, for the blood of thy love. For Jesus died and is now God above. Hallelujah , like the glory, hallelujah , hallelujah, light the glory. Revival again. We praise thee, O God, for that given of life to a show of our Savior And scattered our night. Hallelujah , thy glory. Hallelujah , love him. Hallelujah , thy glory Revival glory and praise to the land that was slain. The Lord of Lord lives that has lived everything Aleluya, the glory, Hallelujah Amen Hallelujah, thy glory revival again on the last revival again May we parts with thy love making all we can look with our Brahma. Hallelujah, by the glory, Hallelujah , Father, Hallelujah, thy glory, revive us again. Amen. Now we're going to turn back to page 99. Page 99 in three verses of a shelter in the time of storm. Sing the first, second, and the third. Whoops, first second and fourth. Page ninety nine? Ninety nine. Ninety nine. Faith is the victory. Okay. Let's do four thirteen. We'll do all three verses of faith is the victor The Victory Good Song? All three verses put such. In camp the hill of light, E Christian soldiers rise and breath the battle air that night Shall nail the glowing sky Against the folds and veils below the shrink we hurl. Faith is the victory we know that overcomes over Faith is the victory. Faith is the victory. All glorious victory that overcomes the world. His banner over us is up, for towards the word of God. We tread the road, the gates of love, with shouts of triumph. We the world with breath with them or every feel The faith by which they conquered death is still our shining chill Faith is the victory, faith is the victory, all glorious victory that overcomes the one the land To him the program of the white rain that shall begin before the angel being Shall let his name confess and heaven, then onward from the hills of light, our hearts with love applause, not vanquish all the hosts of night In Jesus' country name , there it is the victory , there it is the victory. Oh glory is victory that overcomes the world. Amen. I've got two. to schedule of events here that have four thirteen and then one has ninety-nine. Oh no wonder I'm confused. Bastard Okay, well on Sunday night we'd like to take a few minutes to give you an opportunity to share testimonies. Got the two oh man, now I've got two guys and a girl. So I gotta pick um Mr. Snow. I forget your first name. No, I want to know your name. Judah, Judah. Ah, Judah. 203. And Miss Adeline. 251. 203 and 251. But Judy was two oh three. And Adam's two fifty-one. Got it. Okay, so we got time. for two and so we got a guy and a gal page two hundred fifty I hope they're both in yeah there's not two hundred and fifty one pages in the blue book book so I got that right. Page 203. They're all in the red book. Sounds like Pastor needs extra time to preach to me tonight so be prepared to uh stay late. Page two hundred and three. Oh holy night Page 203. We'll sing the first verse. Now, this is oh holy night, not holy night. You got the right one? I mean we can sing it. I just wanted to make sure. You want Oh Holy Night or Holy Night? Oh, it's right here. Or silent night, that's what I was trying to do. You want silent night? Okay. Yeah, two nineteen is is silent night. Okay 219. Good. I wanted to make sure, because we've done this before, and it's like you're you know the guy the person whose eyes asked for the song is like, no, that's not the one I I wanted. So good, caught it. Alright, Silent Night. We'll sing the first verse. Christmas in July. Continued So ah no I've done it and uh all this All is bright, brown, young virgin mother and child Only it was so tender and high. Sleep in heavenly feat Sleep in heavenly. Amen. Christmas in July. That's a man after my own heart, I tell you. Very good. Ah , congregation full of surprises. Especially the young ones. Page 251, near the cross. We'll make this the song right before this special. So stand with me And we'll sing the first second in the fourth. First second in the fourth. Near the cross. Jesus keep me near the cross the precious fountain free to all the himself. In the cross, in the cross Be my glory , little my raptured soul shall die. Whereas we are the river near the cross of driming soul That was the me there the bright and morning star. And his being around me in the cross, in the cross. Be my glory ever till my raptured soul shall die No instruments on the last near the cross I'll watch and wave Hoping, trusting ever till I reach the golden strand Just be on the river in the cross, in the cross Be my glory till my raptured soul shall find Rest be on the river. Amen. That's good singing She's not a guy, just give my shaker, just not mine My neighbor really He is my big daughter and I think of my familiar and friend Other sadest wise, I was divided to search after Christ, back in my ill dream and self I am my friend, I'm going for him not being my friend. And on to the fall, he will return to reign over all. Come to one right every wrong The Lov will join her and Here 's my best for it. Prices ain't known. Prices in known I think they know I think hey we all hand Okay, thank you for that. If you could, let's take our Bibles and let's turn together to Ecclesiastes chapter five. And there was a little section in that song that talked about the fact that Christ is sufficient, and ultimately it's pointing us to the fact that it is his kingdom. That is going to be the realization of that. Well, tonight what we're going to look at from Ecclesiastes chapter 5 is going to emphasize to us why it is so important that we're a people who long for And so Ecclesiastes 5, verses 8 through 10 is the passage we're looking at. Here's what the word of the Lord says. It says the following: if thou seest the oppression of the poor and the violent perverting of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter. For he that is higher than the highest Regardeth, and there be higher than they. Moreover, the prophet of the earth is for all, and the king himself is served by the field. He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver. over, nor he that loveth abundance with increase. The last statement is extremely important. It says this is all also vanity. One of the things that we're going to see in this passage of scripture is that Solomon is observing the reality of living in a fallen world. When we talk about human governments, we recognize that human government is a necessity when you live in a fallen world. What would happen if we had a society that had no laws, no government, no restrictions? Do you know what kind of a society we would live in? A society with absolute chaos. A society that would be absolutely dangerous to live in. it would be an extremely dangerous society to live in. And so what God has done is God has instituted this thing called the government, and the government is supposed to establish laws and the government's supposed to establish not only those laws but to enforce those laws. And the purpose of God instituting this thing called government is really to Defend the innocent, to protect the weak, to vindicate those who are oppressed. The purpose of government is to deal in justice with evil and to defend the innocent. But one of the things that we have to recognize is when we have a necessity for government, we also recognize that even those within the very government themselves that have this mandate ultimately from God to establish order in a society. Society and to protect those who are innocent, even those who are in the position of authority are themselves sinful and broken people. And because they themselves are sinful and broken There is going to be a tendency within every single government system to abuse the authority that ultimately has been given And so what Solomon is doing in this text is he is laying out an observation about life and at the end saying this is a vanity. ultimately to point us to the fact that when we live in a fallen world, it should press us to desire a kingdom that is pure. And perfect and holy and just and righteous and eternal. A kingdom where the Lord Jesus Christ rules and reigns over His dominion. And so that is the sense of the passage that we're going to look at this evening. First of all, I want to begin with a summary statement and from that look at several truths dealing with this issue. Of longing for Christ's kingdom. This passage gives us one of the great tragedies of living in a fallen world. We can see that government that God instituted to protect the enemy. Innocent is often dominated by greed and abuses of authority. God wants us to see that government is something that is going to be broken in a fallen world, and it should press us to long For the kingdom of Christ. I want to begin with these two statements from the New Testament. Or first of all, one from the New Testament and one from the Old. The first statement is a statement that Christ gives On instructing us to pray. How did Jesus tell us we are supposed to pray? Well, this is how he starts the Lord's Prayer in Matthew 6, 9. He says, after this manner prayed, Ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. What's the next statement? Thy kingdom come Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Jesus said when you start to pray Begin with worship and praise and ask God's kingdom to come and be established. God's will that is accomplished in heaven to be accomplished on earth. In other words, Jesus Jesus is saying when you begin prayer, exalt God and worship Him as you ought, and long for His kingdom. And pray that God's rule will be established in this broken world. Until the day that he sets it all straight. I also think of a passage in the Old Testament that talks about why we should long for the kingdom of Christ. That's in Isaiah chapter 8. Verses twenty-two, and then following down to verse seven of chapter nine. Listen to what the text says. It says, They shall look upon the earth and shall behold Now these verses are talking about the reality of living in a false. He then goes on in verse two to say the following of chapter nine He says the people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. The idea is that you have people that are stumbling in a dark and fallen world, a world that is full of sin and trouble. And as they're groping in the darkness, all of a sudden they see this light that's shining, and this light is giving them a glimpse of It's like a person who's stumbling in the darkness of a cave and they're just hoping to find a way out. I think of the story of Tom. Sawyer and he's there searching, trying to get out of the cave, and all of a sudden he feels this little draft and he sees this little light and he realizes there's Hope. That is the sense that the text is giving us. He says, The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. Thou hast multiplied the nations and not increased the joy they joined Joy before thee according to the joy of the harvest. As men rejoice when they divide the spoil, for thou hast broken the yoke of his burden. Burden, the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor. Every battle of the warrior is with confused noise. He goes on to say this. For unto us a child is born, and a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called wonderful counsel Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom. order it and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. The sense of this prophecy is that you have people living in a broken world, stumbling in the darkness, and all of a sudden they see hope. And where do they find that hope? It's in the prophecy. Person of Christ. And why is the person of Christ hope? It's because God has promised that the Lord Jesus Christ will establish a kingdom that will have no end. A kingdom of justice and judgment, and it will be established by the zeal of the Lord of hosts. So what we see in the verses that we're going to read this evening. And I hope that it presses us to set to see that there is a coming kingdom and we should en Anticipate it, and we should long for it, and we should pray for that day, and we should live wisely in light of this coming kingdom. So with that in mind, let's look at the first truth that we find in the text, and that is that human government is full of injustice. Now let me pause for a moment and say something. I'm not pulling out a particular particular nation or a particular empire and saying this nation is unjust, this empire is unjust, but all these other nations and all these other empires, well they're just and they're different. Folks, this is a statement about the reality of every people group that has ever existed. There are some kingdoms and some nations that have experienced seasons of justice and seasons of peace and seasons of prosperity and God has blessed those people for seasons. But at the end of it all, when you compare those governments to the perfect judgment and righteousness of God, they all fall deeply short. Listen to the way he expresses it He says, if thou seest the oppression of the poor and the violent perverting of judgment and justice in a province, listen to the next phrase. Marvel not at the matter. You say, What? In other words, what Solomon says is if you see people in power abusing their power Don't be surprised. Don't be surprised. Don't be shocked. He said this is called human nature and a birth He's not saying that it's good. He's not saying it's acceptable. He's not saying God will ignore it. He's simply saying, don't be surprised when you see these kinds of things because you have sinful people being ruled by sinful people and sinful people Do sinful things. That's the point that he's making. Listen to the first tragedy that he mentions. First of all, he says oppression is common in a fallen world. If you see the oppression of the poor, marvel not at the matter. I think of the phrase that says, if thou seest, please notice something He is suggesting that it is possible that you will not see that there is injustice and you will not see that there is evil in high places, but that doesn't mean that it's not there. One of the most interesting things about studying history is that as you study it study history, after people die, it's amazing the secrets that come out about them. It's amazing the things that they were able to conceal in their lifetime and then when they're gone, the people that worked with them, the people that were under them, the people that interacted with them closely, they now feel the liberty to speak about the way it was working with this person or living under this person. And they write about it. Guess what? Even though you don't see it, it's there. And then the phrase marvel not. When you see it, don't be surprised. Let me put it this way we should be surprised when we see that people in power don't abuse their authority. We should be surprised when we see people who rule who are not greedy and not domineering and are not controlled by a lust for power. When you see someone who's in authority and they genuinely are treating that authority with care, it's telling you something about what is ultimately guiding that person. What's guiding them is not their lustful passion, it's something that's restraining them from God. The best and godliest leaders are only that way because God is dominating their hearts. And even the greatest examples that we find In the Bible of people who were great leaders, great rulers, we will find in moments within their rule that they fell short, that they abused their authority, that they did not continual faith. safely in the way that they were going. And so the point that he's making is that oppress oppression is common. It shouldn't shock us. Please don't misunderstand me. I'm not suggesting it's acceptable. I'm not suggesting we should go, no big deal. I'm not suggesting that God will ignore injustices. What I am suggesting is that We shouldn't be shocked or set back when we see such things. The second truth we find is this, a second tragedy, is that a complex bureaucracy doesn't eliminate all this corruption. Fact, may I add something? The complex bureaucracy often actually makes it worse. It's the truth. Notice carefully to the way that he puts it in verse 8. It's an interesting He says, he that is higher than the highest regardeth, and there be higher than they. Now someone might say, well what exactly is he expressing when he says there 's someone that's higher than another person? The idea is that Solomon is expressing the concept of a bureaucracy. He's saying that within an authority structure, you have people at the top, and there are people under them and people under them and people under them. And the theory is that if you'll put someone over another person then essentially what you'll have is a check and balance that keeps this kind of attitude or these kinds of dealings. We kind of keep those things in check. But what Solomon is saying is that's not actually the case. Because when you put a person in authority and the person that's over them is also a corrupt person like the person under And the person that's above that person is also corrupt. Guess what you have? An extremely corrupt and oppressive system. It's like little tentacles. They're everywhere. I'm going to give you an example of this at the end of the statement. But at first glance we would assume always saying that God is overall. But he talks about the fact that there's somebody higher than the highest. He's talking about bureaucracy. about I make this point. There's no such thing as a utopian in a fallen world. No such thing Someone that believes somehow we're going to order a society that is utopian where we're going to remove all injustice and remove all the problems that we see see in societies, I want you to realize that is naive. And potentially it's just a cover to use some kind of change. It really is. The concept of a utopia will not work in a fallen world. In fact, when we look at the greatest example of a government in the Bible in human history, what are we looking at? We're looking at the nation of Israel. A nation that was a theocracy. When we talk about a theocracy, we're saying God was their king. When we talk about the land that they lived on, God owned the land. God gave them the land. God said, I'm going to bless you and prosper you in my land if you obey my laws. You're going to experience lameness and struggle and trouble in my land if you disregard my laws. When we talk about the laws that governed Israel, Israel, we're talking about laws that came directly from God's mouth. These are God's laws. When we talk about the covenantal relationship , That was between the people on the land between God. It was a covenant with God. And we talk about their feasts and their festival. We talk about their celebrations. These were celebrations established by God. Yet in a society that was meant to be a theocracy, it was meant to be a light to lighten the Gentiles. It was a nation that was supposed to demonstrate God's goodness and God's power and God's glory. What do we see? Study their history. Count up all the good kings in Israel's history. History. Count up all the kings that don't have a blot on their name in the days that they served, and guess what you'll find? You're gonna find any. Why is that? Because there's no such thing As utopia in a fallen world. If God is king over a fallen world And you have human leaders who are fallen leaders that are answerable to God Himself. In that context, as long as you have fallen people living in a fallen world, you're going to see these problems. Problems. Let's look at it objectively, folks. There is no perfect society in a broken and fallen world And so even when we have bureaucracy, what does the bureaucracy do? It actually establishes new levels of corruption. I'll give you an example. Example of this. When I lived overseas, I was constantly, constantly stopped by the police. Okay? Because you know, I kind of like stood out. Where I lived. I kind of stood out, okay? So every time we came to police spirit, I'd watch people go by and I would get stopped. They'd get me out of my car. They'd go through everything in my car. and try to find somewhere that I had somehow violated the law. And I understood the drill. And so I went through this countless times. Well I remember this one time I came to a four-way stop. I was coming from the hospital and I'm stopped at this four-way stop. There's no traffic coming. You can turn right on red. So what do I do? I turn right on On red. Okay? Did I break the law? No, I didn't. I did not. And as soon as I turned, police officer stepped right out and said, Sir, stop and pull down. Okay. So he steps into my car and he says, Sir, I need your driver's license. I said, okay, no problem. I handed my driver's license. He says, Sir, I'm going to arrest you. I said, okay. Okay, go ahead. No problem. Did I break the law? I said, Well I'm just here to arrest you. But I don't want to trouble you today. I want to make your day as smooth and easy as possible. It's a Monday morning and I don't want to trouble you and worry you I said no problem he said so how are we gonna settle this issue I said great question did I break the law are not. I I'm just asking you how we're going to settle this question. We went back and forth. Fifteen, twenty, thirty minutes. I'm sitting in a car with this police officer. And I said, it's very simple. If I broke the law, take me to the police station, write a ticket, take me to court, I'll do what I need to do. He says, sir, I have to talk to I said, really? He comes back and he said, You gotta give me something because He needs that. I said, I'm not doing that. It's very simple. Either I'm gonna be arrested because I broke the law, or you're gonna give me my license and I'm gonna go on Because we've wasted almost an hour of my day now. Would you believe that senior officer came to my car, said, I need to have a word with you, sir. You say, what was going on I'll tell you what's going on. Corruption within bureaucracy. If I just gave the guy some money, having done nothing wrong, He would have let me go. And if I gave him the money, he would have taken some of it and put it in his pocket and he would have given some to his senior officer who would have put some in his pocket Who has taken a little bit and given it to his senior officer. In other words, there was corruption on every single level. Can I tell you something? That is life in a broken fallen world. And that's exactly what Solomon is talking about. You can introduce the checks and balances, but so long as the people that are keeping others in check are themselves corrupt, guess what you have? This vicious web of corruption. The third tragedy is that we see hardworking people are often painfully exploited. He puts it this way in verse nine, moreover, the prophet of the earth is for all, and king the king himself is served by the field. You know, we understand the concept that the laborer is Is s is worthy of his reward. If I work, I should be paid for my work. I should be paid appropriately for the work that I did. I shouldn't cheat somebody that I hire. that hires me, I should be treated fairly, justly, appropriately for the work that I've done. Yet in the context here, he's talking about a practice that would have been the practice throughout almost all of the The practice is that you would have a king who was a powerful king, and that king had a realm, and essentially he owned all the land. You say, Well, how did he own the land? Well, he could have inherited it. Or he could have killed the person who inherited it and then it becomes his and as long as he can hold the power, he keeps the land. Well how does he get more land? Well he goes and he brings his army against other cities and he says, it's very simple. You can't You see, that's a terrible thing. That's the way that history is working Folks, study history and you'll learn about this. And so what happens is he talks about this scenario where you have this powerful king comes to a city and he says, Give me your land or make peace. You make peace, you can be become my subjects on what's now my land, or you can fight me, you can die, and I'll take your land. You say that is so terrible. That's so unjust. It's so evil. And the answer is yes, it's true. And you know what he says? The king is served by the field. Does the king work in the field? Nope. Why does the king own the field? Either he inherited it or he stole it. But he gets to take the produce. In other words, Solomon is saying, I have seen this over and over Over and over and over again. The strong man controls and takes advantage of the weak. under heaven. And I see it over and over and over again. The fourth tragedy that I'll mention that we find in this text is that a corrupt system is never satisfied. You know, you hear, you, you, you look at this and you go, well, certainly when a person gets a certain amount of land or they get a certain amount of of money or they they cover a certain amount of area and they can they can control it. At some point they'll finally say, you know, enough's enough. I've got what I need. Let's share it with everybody else. And the answer is that's not the way it would He says it this way in verse ten He that loveth silver shall never be satisfied with silver, nor he that loveth abundance with increase, this is also vanity. When people abuse power because they're greedy, they never come to the point where they say, I've had enough. I'm going to give back to you. I think I overstepped my boundaries. Let me give you back some of your freedom. Let me give you back some of the stuff that I took from you. I feel a little bad about it. Solomon says that's not the way that people Who have seized power and are full of greed think. They're always looking to expand the boundaries, expand their wealth, expound, expand. uh expand their influence. The lust for money only becomes stronger and uglier the longer that people abuse a system. In fact, it's a very interesting proverb we find in Proverbs chapter 30, verse 15. Listen to what it says. The horse leaps Hath two daughters crying, give, give. There are three things that are never satisfied, yea, four Question. Let's say you go and you swim in a river and you get a bunch of leeches that attach themselves to you. Do they attach themselves to you in ten minutes later say, you know, I've really had a lot of blood from this person that I'm sucking the life out of. I'm gonna just kind of like step aside and let them go back to their Is that what they do? The answer is no. Once they're there, they just keep consuming and consuming and consuming, and they will ultimately kill you if you don't take them off. That's the way corruption is. That's the way that greed is. That's the way that envy is. Like the leech that attaches itself and never says, you know. That was good. Thank you for the meal. I'm gonna go, you know, take a break and then find somebody else on another day. That thing attaches themselves, that parasite It stays there and it will kill you if you don't remove it. And basically what Solomon is saying is that's the way corruption is. Greed, a lust for power, this lust for money, it all will never be satisfied. You know, the only thing that restrains evil in a fallen world is the grace of God. It's the inner grace Intervention of God. You know, if God literally just turned the world loose and just let it spin out of control and do what it was going to do, this world would self-implode. If it wasn't for God bringing up nations at points when nations become so powerful and so abusive and so vicious that they get conquered and stopped by another nation, if it wasn't for those kind of movements. In history, guess what? You would have a self-destructive world. I mean, look at World War Two and World War One. If it wasn't for the United States stop stopping the Nazi regime, people going to D Day Normandy and the battles that were fought on the European continent. If it wasn't for the things that took place during that time period, this world would look a lot different than it does today. And the fact is, it's the hand of God, it's the mercy of God, it's the grace of God, it's the intervention of God, who is sovereign, who steps into history. And he restrains evil, and he puts down tyrants, and he lifts up the humble, and God works with this broken, fallen world. But the point that Solomon is expressing in this text. Is that it's a messy world. So here's the question. What should we take from this? My second truth, and really this is What we want to take away is that we have to live wisely in a broken world. In verse 10, he puts it this way. He says this Is also vanity. What I have seen with my eyes, Solomon says, the oppression, the evil, the good the corruption on every single level of the bureaucracy, he said, this is vanity. And the point is, if it's not for God, and if it's not for eternity, and if it's not for the gospel, and if it's not for God's future kingdom, then this world and everything going on in it is a terrible tragedy. But the fact is that we can live wisely in a broken world. Let me give you a couple of thoughts quickly as we close. The first one is that God, that government is God's idea and it is necessary to respect Strain evil and to defend the innocent. As much as we recognize that systems of government are always going to be flawed. We need to recognize that the concept of government is God 's concept. He wants societies to have order. He wants there to be authority structure, and he has given it to restrain evil for people's good. Even the broken systems that we all see in the world, God established government. Secondly, we need to recognize that these systems will always be flawed because they're made up of fallen people. To me, when One of the most interesting concepts that I read in the Bible is the fact that during the millennial reign of Christ A period of time where for one thousand years the Lord Jesus Christ will rule and reign on this earth. A thousand years. He's going to establish a reign of justice and righteousness and peace. There's going to be so much peace and so much prosperity during this millennial reign of Christ that they're going to take the weapons of war and they're going to destroy them. They're going to use those weapons of war and the instruments and they're going to they're going to destroy them and they use them Basically for farming equipment. You say, why is that? Because people say there's no need for this. We have peace and we have prosperity and we have order. Yet at the end of that period, you know what's going to happen? There's going to be a massive rebellion against Christ. You go, are you kidding me? No, that's what the Bible says says there's going to be this massive rebellion against Christ, the final battle in God's timetable leading into eschatology when we Enter into eternity with the Lord. On that final battle, the the Armageddon battle that's talked about in Scripture, there's going to be this massive army that accumulates at You say, What's the point? Why do you bring that up? I bring it up to say this. If under those circumstances you still have this level of rebellion, why would you be surprised when you see brokenness in every system known to you? Humanity. So long as we have fallen people living in a fallen world, we're gonna have problems. The third is this: fallen government 's always gonna let us down. Don't be surprised. Don't think it will ever be completely eliminated apart from the establishment of Christ's kingdom. Next, realize that people without government will be in an even worse position in those days Who have a government. Realize that God lifts up and brings down, He uses rulers to accomplish His purposes. When we read the Bible, we see the story of God's sovereign hand working in history. We see systems that were oppressive, yet God still worked in spite of them. And he used them. I think of the Roman Empire. Why was it that the gospel could spread all throughout the Roman world so quickly quickly and so freely? Why was it that everyone was speaking essentially the same trade language so they could read the Word of God for themselves? Why was it that there was peace for such a period of time that was so, so very important to the advance of the gospel, the answer is because God raised up that empire. You say, why would he do it? Well, that's at least a major explanation of it. And the point is this God works in spite of the brokenness of people and the brokenness of systems. But here's the point that I think is so very important. When we live in a fallen world, realizing what we're going to deal with, and realizing that God is in control, we must be people. I think of what Paul says in First Timothy. He says, Pray for kings and all who are in authority. Godliness. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of the Lord, who will have all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. Basically, what Paul says is this you live in a messed up world, you live under a difficult system. Pray that God will preserve peace so his gospel can go forward. And this is a major part of living in this fallen world. Then I move to this statement, anticipate God's justice and his eternal kingdom. Folks, that last statement in these verses, this is also vanity, tells me something. Something. I should look for what is not vain. I should look at what has real value. I should live for what cleans up the mess. And you know what that is? The gospel. The gospel is the only real solution to this vanity. The gospel that gives us forgiveness as God removes our sin debt. The gospel that cleanses away the filth of our sin, the gospel that regenerates us, that gives us a new heart, that was once dead in trespasses and sin. And now is alive unto God. The gospel that gives us the position where God begins to sanctify us and shape us into the image of Christ by the Spirit's work. And the gospel that gives us the guarantee of eternal glory. We look forward to that day. And so the greatest takeaway from this passage of scripture in my thinking is this. We need to To live for the kingdom that is righteous, the kingdom that is eternal, the kingdom that is just, and the kingdom that is holy. the kingdom that is ruled by the Lord Jesus Christ and the kingdom that we're able to participate in all by the grace of God through the work of Christ on the cross. God wants us to have a realistic view of the government that we live under. And God wants us to live wisely in this fallen world. And God wants us to live with an anticipation So I close with this final qu final statement. Just like Abraham in Hebrews chapter eleven was a man who the Bible says, by faith, when he was called to go out into a place which he was would after receive for inheritance, obeyed with fear, not knowing whither he went. By faith he sojourned in the land of promise as a stran as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs And here's the key. He looked for a city which hath foundations whose builder and maker is God. I want to encourage you that when we read these verses, don't become disheartened. Don't become angry. Don't become discouraged. Face it with maturity. This is the reality of the world we live in. But God has given us tools God wants us when we see the horrific sin and injustice of a broken world, He wants us to live in And so I want to encourage you, like Abraham, let's look for a city which hath foundations, whose builder maker is God. That is the way we should live in this fallen Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to have such a heart as we think about what it's like living in a world like this. Father, I thank you for the opportunity to study the text in front of us. Father, we're reminded that this is an unjust world. It's an evil world. It's full of sin, pain. It's full of so So many tragedies. Yet we also recognize that you sent your son to die for our sins, to redeem us who are part of this broken world. That we can enjoy your glories forever. I pray that you would help us to live as strangers and pilgrims in this broken world. Help us to anticipate with tremendous joy This kingdom that has no end, a kingdom of righteousness and justice that will be established by the zeal of the Lord of hosts. I pray that you'd help us To be faithful, to be soul and light in this generation. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could, let's take our hymn books and And we'll turn to our closing hymn. Our closing hymn is hymn 391. I am resolved. Let's stand together and we'll sing the first and the last. Last verses of I am results. I am resolved no longer to linger, charmed by the world's delight. Things that are higher, things that are nobler Peace have the Lord lies thy. I will hasten to him. He said so glad and free. Jesus , greatest highest, I will come to thee on the last I am resolved to enter the kingdom, leaving the paths of sin. Friends may abroach me, force may be sad in Still will I enter in, I will hasten to him , peace lit so bad and free Jesus highest I will come to thee. Right. Great scene. Marshall, can you close us in prayer, please? And don't forget, teens, we have our teens inspiration, so uh head to the back, fellowship hall, for that. We have some great food food and we're gonna have good fellowship. So sorry adults, you just have to smell it from a distance. We're gonna have a great time back there. Go ahead. Lord, thank you for a wonderful day. Thank you for your many blessings and we We just pray that you would be with us this week, that would heed all the words that you've preached us this evening, and we just thank you for another wonderful week. Please bless the food that folks will partake in for the teens inspiration. And we're just thankful and so grateful for all you do for us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.