And we're looking forward to a great time of focus on the Lord and uh looking forward to getting exposure to another mission field as we have each night of our uh missions month. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer And then we'll ask the Lord to bless our time, and then uh Doug will come with our first congregational hymns. Let's pray. Father, we're such a richly blessed people, and we recognize that This gathering today is here because we have access to the gospel and you've worked in our hearts and we are so grateful for Each person who has come under the conviction of the Holy Spirit has placed their faith in Christ and is a part of this body. And I pray that tonight as we see the needs around the world, particularly in Germany, I pray that you would help us to have a greater appreciation for what we have and a greater per appreciation for the needs that are there May we also be struck by the simple fact that when time goes and the gospel is not being presented from generation to generation. There's a great need. And there's a need for churches to be re-established. And so I pray that we would be gripped by that reality. Bless our singing, may it be very Christ-centered, and the fellowship we'll enjoy this evening may it be very encouraging. We ask all of this in Christ's name, amen. All right, good evening, everyone. Take out your handles or get prepared to look at the screen as we sing. If you're going to follow along in the book, turn to page 391. Page 391, we're going to sing all four verses of I Am Resolved, so please stand with me and make a joyful noise. I was all no longer the thing that works me I think there are neighboring I 'm praised the God and praise me. Salvo Kidding. Just a few pages over to page three hundred Hundred and ninety-seven Page three hundred ninety-seven, all four verses of higher ground. And all three time, they 're in the world. We then wonder how you come, but we are. Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. A few more pages towards the back, page 408. Page 408. And we're going to just sing this not my will until we run out of words. So all three verses. Amen. That's good singing. Now we'll have our missionary Q<unk>A time Yeah, so each of the nights that we've had uh missionaries in um on our on our evening time when we normally would do our I um y'all have just about played every hymn that I love Um, including that offertory. That was beautiful. That's one of my favorite songs. Every time I hear that I feel like I could take on an army. You know, it's just uh I'm ready to preach now. Hey man. We're uh we'll be in the Gospel of Luke tonight. Luke's Gospel, chapter number nine. And verse fifty-seven. Luke's Gospel chapter number nine, verse fifty-seven. And uh if you'd had maybe had a question or or if a question pops up in your mind, please feel free to see Naomi or I uh after the service, and we love to answer any questions that you might have. Um to the best of our ability. Uh it's just the uh I love y'all's questions, especially the ones about uh my favorite you know, my favorite verse, 'cause I know it by heart. When you put it on the spot, it's like It's like it's bad for a missionary. You know? It doesn't make me look good. Come on, people. No. It's it's it's been a joy being with y'all. Thank you so much uh for um everything that you have done for us. And uh we really appreciate it. Luke chapter number nine, we'll begin reading in verse 57 tonight. Luke 9, verse 57. The word of God says, And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nest, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead, but go thou and preach the kingdom of God And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but first uh but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house And Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God Lord, we thank you so much for this evening. Thank you for this church, for Anchor Baptist, for uh Pastor Porche and his family. Lord, for uh the love that they have shown Naomi and I. God, I pray as we go further into the service. As I preach from your word, God help me to convey the truth of Scripture. And Lord, let me be used of you tonight. God, I pray there's someone here that is lost that they would be saved. They would recognize their need of salvation. And then understand that it's only through you that they can be saved and they have hope of eternal life. God, I also pray that if there's someone here that is uh uh been uh heart has been broken and lord you might be calling them to missions. Lord, I pray that they would surrender and that they would answer that call and faithfully serve you. Lord, you've done so much for us. It's the least that we can do, but to give our lives to you. We thank you so much in Christ's name. Amen and amen. Tonight I simply want to preach on will you follow? And we see here three different men that the Lord interacts with. And uh we understand that in this passage of Scripture, uh the Lord is telling them, and this is dealing with the topic of discipleship. Now, if you have been born again, you are a follower of Christ Jesus. If you have been saved, you are Christ. You are his. You have been bought with a price. Not with silver or gold or precious stone, but by the blood of Christ. The scripture tells us that we are not our own, but we are his. And so we understand that it's not just this passage of scripture is not just to the missionary. It's not just to the pastors or to or to the deacons or Sunday school teachers. But it's for all of us. If we are Christ, if we are his, then this applies to us And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. And first of all tonight, I want to ask you, will you follow over comfort? Will you follow over comfort? Because Christ answers him, and he says, Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. I almost wonder if in this man is a younger man or uh just that zeal that he the Lord doesn't go to him But he approaches the Lord and he says, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. And if you understand in Luke 9, uh earlier in this chapter, the the Bible says that uh he has set his face towards Jerusalem. And so we understand that this is he's making his way to Jerusalem, his way to the cross. And I have no doubt this this young man uh was very sincere in when he said, I will follow you where wherever you go. Wherever you go. And if you're willing to follow Christ wherever he leads you, don't be surprised if you have to go to a cross. Because Christ says and he answers, and I wonder if this was an issue that was uh bubbling up in his heart and in his mind, that I'll uh I'll follow the Lord As long as it's comfortable. As long as it's something that sits well with me. We gotta be understand that the dis the call of discipleship, the call to follow God's will for our lives. Is a call that is simple, but will not be easy. We must, the scripture says we must crucify our flesh. And earlier in this chapter in verse 23, Christ says, and he said to them all, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself. and take up his cross daily and follow me. This is a day-by-day dedication of our lives. To service of Lord. And the difference, and when we remember the Lord's crucifixion, And when uh Christ lay down on the cross, he didn't resist, he didn't fight back, he laid his life willingly for the salvation of all mankind. But the difference is our flesh, our old man, is not willing to die. How many times have you had to wrestle your flesh? Day after day after day. And there's some times where you just get so weary and tired, but you know this is what I have to do. If I am to be a Christian, if any man will come after me, I must deny myself and take up my cross and follow Christ. That is my duty. That is the calling that God has given us. But what's wonderful is that even though we must crucify our ourselves and crucify the old man. We understand that the Lord helps us. In 2 Corinthians chapter number 4 and verse 16, this is what the Word of God says. For which cause we faint not, but though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. And the Lord renews us, and even though uh uh uh our outrage man would perish, but God gives us strength God helps us. Where do we get strength from? We get strength from the Word of God. We get strength through prayer and daily dedication. To the Lord. We also get strength through one another. That's why it's important to have a local church family. That's why it's important to come here and be faithful to the house of God so that you might get help, but also you might help others. But the inward man is renewed day by day. Just as every morning his mercies are new , He helps us and he renews us as well and strengthens us day by day. Also in 2 Corinthians over in chapter 12 uh he says this And uh we understand in this in this passage of scripture, Paul is talking about the thorn in his flesh. And he says, For this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. And Paul says, More gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities and reproaches and necessities and persecutions and distresses for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then am I strong. Will you follow the Lord over comfort? There are going to be times where you have to be in uncomfortable situations. And not just uh physical discomfort. And you'll when you follow the Lord, when you are obedient to God's call, there will be a spiritual battle. This isn't just a material thing that we're doing. This isn't just a material act of obedience that we're doing. This is a spiritual warfare that we are in. We're not just people on the sidelines, but we are active soldiers in the army of God. We are the infantry, if you will. And therefore, when we go forward and attack, the enemy will attack us as well. There is a spiritual aspect. I have been in places and churches where you could really just feel that. I'm not talking about some sort of mystical thing here. Uh if if you know what I'm talking about, you know what I'm talking about, where it's obvious there's a spiritual battle going on here. And in times like that, or in times where you're going through trial, you're going through tribulation, persecutions and distresses for Christ's sake. Just remember, your strength does not come from yourself. It comes from the Lord. And he is our help. In 1 Timothy, he says, For therefore we both labor and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those that believe. We do this because we trust not just in some idol or some philosophy or some mode of thinking or some tradition, because we trust in the living God. We trust in the Lord who lives forever, who died and had victory over death, who rose again on the third day, victorious. That's how we are able to go forward and boldly proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's how we are able to answer, Lord, I will follow you. Lord, yes, I will surrender to missions. God, yes, I will obey you in whatever you have me to do. Because the Lord is victorious. And he helps us. Will you follow over comfort? That's that is such a uh big hurdle for us as Americans really to get over. How many times have you heard, Lord, I'll go anywhere, but not Africa? Lord, I'll go anywhere, however, and Bowes, but not to a mud hut in South America. We ought to be willing to sacrifice everything in order to fulfill the call that God has given us. Will you go? Will you follow over comfort? And he said, next, I want to ask you, will you follow over convenience? The Bible says, and he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead, but go thou and preach the kingdom of God. Now there are two there are two different um schools of thought about the phrase um what uh let me f suffer me first and go and bury my father There's one that says that this is a phrase that really means uh it's a it's a term of phrase that people would say and said, let me first wait till my dad dies and I have my inheritance and then I'll go. If that is the case, let me just say this. Time is too short for us to wait for a convenient season to answer God's call. Time is way too much too short for us to say, oh, you know what, Lord, let me just wait until I'm more able to serve you, then I'll say yes to your call. Uh there 's not enough time for that. Time is running out. Um But also y let's just say this. Let's say literally his dad is dead. This man's father is dead. And he asked, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Um first of all, if this is such a big pressing event in his life, what is he doing out in public in the way in the first place? Um uh why would he go and um be out amongst the crowd, understanding, oh, I should be, you know, there's this happening Yeah, we can come up with so many excuses, but they all fall flat We must prioritize following Christ. And you know, even if it was a genuine thing, even if it was something that was genuine and a good thing, it would have been a good thing for him to be there to bury his father. But if Christ wants you to do something else, if God calls you to be someplace else, it is better for you. It is the better thing for you to be where God wants you to be. Even in times where elsewhere your family or someone might be going through something, it it would be better for you to be in the uh in the will of God, obeying Him, than doing certain other good things. We might satisfy our consciousness saying, oh, I'm doing something good. I'm doing a good thing right now. But you know deep down that God is calling you to do something else. You have to answer that call for God calling you to do what he wants you to do. If it means sacrificing these things and obeying him for greater things. This is a hard thing, but it's a necessary thing. Let the dead bury thee there, but go thou and preach the kingdom of God. We also must understand not in not even uh in in terms of uh of activity, but even in terms of timing. Uh i in my life I've I have learned to understand and trust God and his timing for my life. I was approved by my board and I started deputation in January of 2020. And my plan was, okay, Lord, I'm going to be on Deputation Trail for two years. I'm going to go to Germany, and I'm going to start as a missionary probably 2022, maybe 2023 at the latest. And then three months later, and we all know what happened, uh, everything shut down, and for eight months I had no meetings. I just had to pop in church after church every day, every weekend. And my plan, and my I thought, Lord, why is this happening? Why would you, in your timing, call me to start deputation Right before everything shuts down. But God's timing is perfect. And you might think, God, I'm doing this thing. I'm serving you and I'm doing what you have uh you have allowed me to do and we're having a wonderful time. Why are you calling me to go this place? In the book of Acts, uh, Philip was preaching in Samaria And there are many people coming to the Lord and receiving the gospel. City after city, he was going and preaching, and people were being saved. People were uh understanding the the scripture and the fulfillment of the prophecies that that Christ is the Messiah And they were and churches were being planted, and the great work was going on, and then all of a sudden the angel of the Lord appears to Philip and says, Get up and go to Gaza, which is desert. Now Philip could say, well, why? You know, he could have said, I'm in the middle of these cities. in a in a place and a people that's receiving the gospel, why would you want me to go in the middle of the nowhere where no one lives, where every in no one there's nothing there living, why would you want me to go there? Because God knew of a man that was there that was reading the scripture that needed to hear Christ preached. And what Philip, you know what Philip did? He didn't question, he didn't ask, he didn't complain, he got up and went. And there was that Ethiopian eunuch. Reading Isaiah 53. And wondering, who is this talking about? And there Philip was able to preach Jesus to him, win him to the Lord, baptize him. And as soon as he was baptized, the the eunuch got up, Philip got out, and Philip was gone. And then the Lord transported him from Gaza to Caesarea. And there he started preaching again. I'm just saying there's time uh and God's timing is perfect for everything, even though in times of grief and times of tragedy and times of sorrow That's not an excuse for us not to serve the Lord. I understand that there's a time for mourning. The scripture clearly teaches that. What I'm saying is, don't let things and don't let tragedies be an excuse for you to stop living for the Lord. But keep going forward. Even if it's step by step. Even if you can't run or jog, but if you can just move one foot in front of the other And this walk with the Lord, He'll help you and He'll give you strength one step at a time. But don't stop, don't sit still, don't sit down, but keep moving forward. and finish faithfully the race that is set before you. Will you follow over comfort? Will you follow over convenience? Then finally Let's see, will you follow over company? We see here the third man. Another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but first let me first go, bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. Isn't this something? Even I'm I'm not sure, Pastor, if you've if you've dealt with this before, but have you ever made an announcement? And said, okay, we need help we need workers for this event. And then someone say goes up to you and says, I'm not going to volunteer, I'm too busy, but good luck. You know? And it's like, well, don't don't say anything. You know Yeah, yeah. It's like, oh I'm not gonna help ya but give you a pat on the back. It's like just don't tell me, just give me the pat, you know? Uh But isn't this something that this this man goes up to Jesus and said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell which are at home in my house. I have uh it's just amazing. How this man said, Let me uh I will follow you, but though Phrase those words should never be uttered by a Christian. God, I will follow you, but Uh how many uh there I I'm assuming there's several parents in here. How many times um Or would it fly? Would you allow it to happen if your child said, Mom, Dad, I was going to obey you, but Blah blah blah blah blah. And then would it be like, oh uh yeah, I understand. You disobeyed me, but that's okay. No, no. Uh I can tell you what happened in my house. Uh Lots of things. But that doesn't fly. W here in the earthing parents, uh that that's that won't fly How do you think that's going to stand when we stand before the Lord on his throne and give an account for our lives? And we would tell him, God, I was going to obey you, but Whatever follows after that is nothing. Whatever follows after that doesn't matter because you disobeyed. You didn't answer the call. We have to determine our priorities. Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. And Jesus said to him unto him, No man having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. When I read this passage of Scripture, the first thing I think is the passage that says, Remember Lot's wife Remember her? She was following the angel. She was following her husband, Lot, out of Sodom and Gomorrah. And there is no doubt she could feel the heat of God's wrath on her back as she was leaving the city. There is there would be no doubt in her mind she knew and you can there's archaeological digs that have happened where they have discovered Sodom and Gomorrah. And there's natural terrain going on and then it's just flat sulfur fields. It was leveled. They thought, Huh, why how in the world has an atomic bomb bomb gone off? It wasn't it was the wrath of God from heaven upon those cities. And so there's no doubt that she Lot's wife knew and understand understood what was happening But yet she still turned back and became a pillar of salt. Why? Because that's where her affections were. That's where her heart was. That's where she would rather have been, as back there in Sodom and Gomorrah, than with her husband and two daughters. Is there something that is keeping you back from serving the Lord? Again, it might be a good thing. For this young for this person, it was um his family. I understand that. And you might think, oh you know, it should it shouldn't be that big of a deal going and say goodbye. We're upcoming the most wonderful time of year, Thanksgiving and Christmas season. And in my family, in my grandparents' house, when you walk in or you walk out, the first room you see is the kitchen. And that is great strategy by my grandparents. Because you know how it is. You go there and you're sitting and you've been there all day long and it's time for you to go home. And you slap your thighs and say, Well, time to go. And you start making your way and you say goodbye for about ten minutes. And then you get to the kitchen. And then You know, grandma who grabbed the spaghetti stain Tupperware, fill it up with leftovers. Here, take this on the road, take this, here take this. Oh, don't forget to pack this. Don't forget this now. And that takes another 15 minutes. And then you get into the garage or about to walk you you know, or in their driveway, and you say goodbye for another ten minutes and you say, Oh, tell Bethel and all of them I said hi and and uh I sure do love it. Drive safe, there's maniacs out there And they g and you go on, that's another ten minutes, you get in the car, roll down the window. Bye I love you, bye, I love y'all. Drive safe now, call me when you get there, and that's another twenty minutes, and and you're finally it's it's New Year's Eve already and you're making your way home. And you know why that is? That must be a northern thing too. That's great. That's really big down south. And uh you know why that is? Because they don't want you to go They want to drag it out as long as possible, and you want to too, and you know you do, and you're dragging it out because you really don't want to go. You don't really want to say goodbye And that's the temptation, isn't it? When it's like, oh, I'll just go say farewell. I'll just say goodbye. And you go back and you look back and you remember all the nostalgia, all the comforts. All the the food, uh the memories, um, all these things, and you start remembering the good times of last year. And slowly and surely, if you keep lingering back there, you will rob yourself of the blessings of the future that God will have for you if you follow His will. Will you follow over company? Will you follow? Will you go on even it means saying goodbye to home? And mine is it's a rather f flat place. There's hills and stuff, but it's rather flat and um it's unusual for me. I am a Tennessee hillbilly. It's a miracle I have shoes on right now And I grew up mountains everywhere, you know? Yeah, haulers and the trees and you see it and you're surrounded. And I love that. It's a sense of comfort. Because whenever stuff goes down, I have hills to run to. And my cousins are there with me. You know what I mean? And so and that that sense of comfort Would it be right for me to say, well Lord, I would go to Mainz, I would go to Germany, but man, those Alps are nothing like the Smoky Mountains. You know? It's not the same. German is uh it's not too easy on the ear sometimes, you know, Lord, and people talk better down here. Or you and the more you say it, you might internally think, okay, this makes sense. But more you say it out loud, you might think, Well, that's kinda dumb. Um that's kind of silly compared to uh if what the Lord is able to provide, what the Lord is able to help. God, this is a completely different culture. This is a completely different thing. And preaching in Germany, when I was there, uh it's a completely different culture than preaching in America, preaching in Tennessee. You know, you go, hey, you hear, hey man, preach it, brother. That's right. And people run the aisles and stuff and some of these churches. Uh I don't do that, but uh people run the aisles and it it's it's different and in Germany they just sit and stare at you. And you can preach and sweat and cry and and you do all these things and they'll just look at you and after the service they'll say Brother, that was the most wonderful sermon I've ever heard. That really blessed my heart. I surrendered my will to the Lord's today. And I think, well, you gotta back me up, you know. You gotta help a brother out. But it's a different culture. And for some people, that is a huge stumbling block. Saying goodbye to home. And comfort's here and going out. Especially for Americans. We think we're the center of the universe. And we think, oh, you know, my will is the center of the universe. My will is the center of God's will because it's mine. We've got to understand whose we are and our rank in this thing. It's God that's above everything. It's God that rules over all. He's the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Not us and our desires. And we've got to be willing to sacrifice those things, sacrifice even being home. To go and preach the gospel and serve the Lord wherever he sends us From the Arctic North to Sub-Sahara, Africa, to the jungles of Amazon, to the Rhine River. to Asia, to Australia, to India, different places, different cultures, different faces, different names. But the same need is there. That need can only be fulfilled by one. That is Jesus Christ. That need is salvation. We are at a we're very blessed in Germany. We have the Germans there, but people from all over the world come there for work or for as refugees. And we're able to go and preach the gospel. God has called me to Germany. But it would be so wrong for me to look at a Muslim man walking down the street or see a woman in a hijab and say, I'm not going to share the gospel with her. I'm not going to hand her a track Because she's not a German. It would be just as wrong for me to do that then as well as stay at home. And not go. Because God has allowed those people to cross my path. And God has allowed those people to come by my way. So that and I have the the word of God, and I'm able to share God's word with them that they might be saved. There might be someone On your heart or on your mind that the Lord keeps bringing up over and over and over again. There might be a coworker that you might not be able to stand That's vile and and and crass and foul language all the time and um it's It's very easy to think, oh great, that person's here. I'm just going to ignore them the whole time. And I'm going to try to have a good day at work. Or you can say, you know what, I'm going to shine my light, the light of the gospel, to that person that obviously needs it. You can say, I'm going to be a hermit, I'm going to hide in a monastery somewhere and shut the world out, or I'm going to go forth and serve my God and my Savior. Which I can spend another thirty minutes preaching about what God has done for us. The uh immense amount Of suffering that Christ bore on the cross for our sins. And the least we can do is go forward and share the gospel. For to someone whose sins were also put on Christ that they might be saved. Because they don't have to spend eternity in hell. But let us at least give someone an opportunity. God has given us a new week. Tomorrow is a new day Will we take advantage of that or just let it slip through our fingers like sand? But let's go forward. In boldness. Why? Not in our own power, not in our own selves, but again, therefore, for therefore we both labor and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God. Who is the Savior of all men, especially of those that believe. Lord, we thank you so much for your Son Jesus Christ. Thank you, God, for everything you've done for us. Lord, we will spend eternity praising you and thanking you for what you've done for us. God, I pray as we go into this new new day tomorrow, and and Lord, I pray as we are approaching new opportunities to share the gospel that we would take advantage of those. and and preach and and without fear or shame and share the gospel with a lost and dying world. God, we thank you for your word. Bless now this invitation hour in Jesus' name. Amen. That's where you go. Thank you for that. Yes, that passage is a very, very important passage. And I was thinking about it as I was sitting there. It is the conviction that God has the right to command us to do things that make us uncomfortable, that are not easy. Uh it's it's his right because he is in charge. And we have an obligation because he owns us. We belong to him. We have an obligation to submit to his will. There's another aspect to it. He can be trusted. And if God is going to tell us to do something, even though it's hard, even though it may be an uncomfortable thing, even though we may be truly giving up certain things in the short term, Um, we can trust that his purposes are best. And so this passage of scripture as it's been laid out is such an important one for us to keep in the back of our minds. And I think back to that song we just sang, not my will, but thine Lord. Lead me to Calvary. May that be on our heart. May that be our burden. May that be our passion. I want to ask you to turn with me to hymn 371 as we sing. A passion for thee. And as we sing that song, A Passion for Thee, I want to challenge you to think of that song in light of what we've just heard. that we have uh a God who says, follow me. And we should not make excuses as soon as we say, but And we're good at excuses. All of us are. I am too. And we need to recognize he has the absolute right. Let's stand together. Sing 371. And let's sing this as a prayer to the Lord and say, Lord, help my heart to have a passion for you and help me to be a person who submits to your will, whatever it is. Whatever the circumstances, may there be no but this. It'll be all yes Lord. Let's sing it together. 371. To the Lord. Set my heart, look here, calmer on thee, and he know me If we are good and beyond me by the Turn my heart and turn on that shot for me for the war than a fire in my storm. Of the bill with I hear me and making more than swear. Lord Christ before him , if we do follow himself submission , be the light joy. And I don't need some for me. It's a good song for us to sing. So think about that. Mark, like you and your wife, you can stand there in the back so folks can come by and greet you. Want to remind you that Tonight we have fellowship for the fuse. And so when I close in prayer in just a moment, I'm going to ask the Lord to bless the food that we will be eating. And We should pray for a miracle that would turn to something nutritious that'll nourish our bodies, right? When I pray, I'm always like, Lord, thank you for the food and may it nourish our bodies. And sometimes I go And you know what, I'd probably take a miracle, but all that good stuff back there. But uh let's put our hearts together in prayer And ask the Lord to really cement these things in our hearts and to bless our fellowship that we'll have in just a few minutes. Let's pray. Father, we're reminded from this passage of Scripture that we need to be willing to follow you wherever that leads. If that makes us uncomfortable, we need to be willing to embrace that. We need to be careful that we don't insert but, but that we simply submit entirely to what you tell us to do. And Father, help us to do that without looking back. Father, help us to be reminded that in fact you have the right to command us, and we have the duty as your children to submit to your will and to submit to your authority. And Father, help us to remember that we can trust you explicitly in all things. Help us to be a people who submit to the Lordship of Christ on a day-by-day basis as these truths are resonating in our hearts. Father, I pray that you'll bless our fellowship, that we will enjoy in just a few minutes, please. Help us to enjoy the food and we thank you for that. And I thank you for this new couple. I pray that you will bless them as they have begun their life together And I pray that we will be an encouragement to them tonight as well. We asked all these things in Christ's name. Amen