Take your Bibles out, please. Turn to Proverbs chapter 5. And we've been going through the book of Proverbs, and we're coming to what I think is an extremely important text For us to spend some time understanding. And one of the things that I would encourage you to do, if you have a teenager, I would encourage you to maybe listen to this message with them. And it's not just going to be tonight. It's actually going to probably probably cover this over a couple of weeks. Um I want to be as appropriate as possible and uh the things that I say, but I also want to make sure that I speak exactly what we have here in the Bible. The truth is that when Solomon is going through and teaching his children. There are several different things that he spends a lot of time talking about, things that he knows his kids really need to guard their hearts against. And they need to think correctly about. He talks a lot about money in the book of Proverbs. And people who don't manage their money well are people who are going to experience a lot of pain in life. And it's going to be something that drags them down. People who are lazy. He talks a lot about hard work. And the fact is that there are a lot of folks they don't work very hard. And you know, a lot of that is really taught in the home. It's when dad takes his kids out, works with them in the yard, and he demonstrates this is how you do a project, and that's something that's really, really important. He talks a lot about work. Uh Solomon talks a lot about alcohol actually. He talks about substances that have the ability to control people, to alter their mind. to create addictions. And so he gives a lot of warnings about alcohol. And when we talk about alcohol, he's not just talking about alcohol, but I think by implication, really any kind of illicit drug Something that can alter your mind, something that can dominate you as a person, an addiction. It's something that you need to be very careful That you don't get sucked into the pitfalls and the traps that come with things like that. But one of the things that Solomon talks about more than anything else in the book Believe it or not, is the issue of sexual morality. He talks more about purity than probably any other topic in the book. In fact, the entire chapter five is dealing with this topic. The entire chapter 7 is dealing with this topic. When we come to chapter 31 , And we have the virtuous woman. It's true that he's not necessarily talking about that topic directly, but he's talking about marriage and he's talking about family, and he's talking about the kind of young lady that his sons should want to marry. And the truth is that Solomon is writing it mostly from the perspective of teaching his boys. But let's understand that what he's teaching his sons certainly has implication to our ladies as well. And so we're going to spend a little bit of time today and probably over a couple of weeks. dealing with Proverbs chapter 5 because Solomon dedicates a lot of attention to it. I think in addition to that, I'm very, very concerned on the pastoral side. that in our culture we are really losing a biblical sense of gender, of marriage. Family, sexuality, all those things. We have lost this in our culture big time. The kinds of things that I'm believe are really mainstream in our culture today, what are very accepted with our young people and their school systems. Things that twenty years ago we didn't really talk too much about at all. We didn't even think about it. You know, when we have a purity conference A lot of times we tend to talk about how our guys and our girls need to make sure they have appropriate relationships with one another. And the reality is at a Pierity Conference in 2019 We need to talk about the fact that you need to respond appropriately to everybody, not just guys to girls, but guys to guys and girls to girls. We have to talk about those things. unfortunately. We have to talk about the fact that God created marriage and he defined marriage and his definition and his purpose is good. And one of the things that I'm really concerned about is that we do not we do not teach our young people that God's ways are not only right, but they're good and they're perfect and they're best. And those are the ways, if you'll follow God's ways, that's the path of blessing. And so we really need to not only, we could say, look at some of these issues on the negative side, don't do this. But on the positive side, we need to explain God's purposes because they're really good. And the truth is that if we want to see our kids do well, we need to do well ourselves. So I want to open up with this illustration. Fire. Is it good or is it bad? I have a fireplace, and I use my fireplace a lot. I'm trying to, you know, save a little money from ECG, and so we burn all the time. In fact, we keep our house a nice, comfy 76, 77, 78, pretty much all day and then by the time we wake up in the morning, it's sixty-four degrees because you know, there's no fire in there. And then, you know, get it started again. And so we heat that way almost entirely. Is fire a good thing? I'd have to say, yeah, it's saving me a lot of money this winter. By by the fact that I have a a stove uh that I'm, you know, heating from my fireplace I'm saving hundreds of dollars, maybe even beyond a thousand dollars, especially considering how warm my house is You know, there are a lot of people throughout human history that they heated over a wood fire. There are a lot of people that their livelihood was connected to using fire for good purposes We drove here today. We still use internal combustion engines in our cars. Maybe, you know, twenty years from now it might not be as common as it is today. But the truth is that what makes fire good is that fire is kept contained and it's used in a confined area and that restriction is what else allows us to use the fire. In other words, if I have logs and they're burning in a in a in a stove and they're heating something that's cooking my food and I'm controlling that environment. I can take that energy and I can focus it and I can use it in a really positive way. If I keep it there in the the hot box It's going to make my house nice and warm. But if I walk away and one of those logs falls out and lands on my carpet and I don't check on that for a while, I'm going to have a house fire. Or if that thing gets out of control and it burns my chimney, I'm gonna lose my house. The fact is that fire is good when it's used appropriately, but fire is very damaging. When it's taken outside of those limited areas of use. The truth is that when God created man and God created woman and God created us unique biologically with physical differences, he knew exactly what he was doing. And when God created our bodies to respond the way that we do, he created it that way for a purpose. It wasn't a bad thing that God made us as creatures that when I see my wife, I go, She's good looking, and that affects me, okay? The fact is that if it wasn't for that, probably a lot of us wouldn't have gotten married, okay? God knew what he was doing when he created us This way it's not a bad thing. In fact, the truth is that when God created marriage and God created that institution so that there would be sexual union and there would be the birth of children He created an environment that would be safe for the kids. He created an environment that would be bonding and unified between two people. He created two different genders. that think differently about problem solving and how we relate to one another. We are different in so many ways. And God wanted children to be raised in that kind of a well-rounded environment. When God makes man and God makes woman and God creates marriage and God gives children and all those things, that is a really good thing. His plan is good. Unfortunately, because we live in a fallen world, all of what is good has the potential to be distorted and perverted and twisted and it can be so destructive A sexual union between a man and a woman within marriage that produces children and bonds that couple and is something that is good and wholesome and right. That exact same union taken outside of the marriage can be the most destructive thing you could ever do in this world. You can bring children into this world who are going to be raised without a mom. Or without a dad. You know, some of the greatest problems that we deal with in society are because we don't have dads and the lives of kids. You know, a lot of times we look at a young person who's so troubled and we can get really, you know, hard in our hearts toward that kid, but we don't realize maybe that kid didn't grow up with a dad. He never had somebody who taught him how to work. He never had somebody who taught him, don't do that. That's destructive. That's gonna hurt you. He never taught was taught how to relate to authority. He was never taught how to manage And how to work through things. He's just floating through life and he's he's learning the hard way. The truth is that God created marriage and gender and all those things for a very good purpose. And Solomon understands this. And one of the things that really is amazing to me about Solomon is that here is a man who was a not just a polygamist, like he had like two or three wives. He was involved. With over a thousand different women over the course of his life. Yet you know what's amazing? When you read this chapter 5 and 7, you realize something. Solomon understood that the lifestyle he chose as an older man was wrong. He understood it was destructive And what we see is that one of the greatest weaknesses and the most damaging things that Solomon did was he didn't take his own advice. But he taught his kids the right thing. And he upholds marriage as a unit between one man and one woman, and it's to be a permanent bond till death parts those two individuals. And he gives us a tremendous balance. And so that's what we're going to look at today and for the next couple of Wednesdays. I really hope that I know it's not easy sometimes to talk to your kids about these things. But the truth is that Solomon talked to his kids a lot. He talked to them more about the issues we're going to address here than he did about anything else. He really did. And so let's begin by looking at a biblical view of marriage and sexual relations. And I'm going to try to be appropriate about this. I know that some some, you know, we may have some younger people that are that are watching this. I'm not going to be uh Out of bounds, okay? I'm gonna stay where the scripture is, alright? But I do think we have to speak somewhat frankly about some of what we have before us. Let me read to you a couple of statements that were made here. Luther writes this, there's no bond on earth so sweet nor any separation so bitter as that that occurs in a good marriage. Another man wrote this: Love within marriage is one of the greatest earthly gifts that God in his mercy has granted to his fallen and rebellious creatures. So enjoy with thankfulness your marriage. I think one of the best things that we can do as parents to give to our kids is a stable home. It really is. You know, there's a lot of kids that don't grow up in stable homes, and it really hurts them the rest of their life. lives. So I really want to encourage you, don't just teach your kids, don't do this and don't do this and stay away from this. Give them a good pattern to see. Give them an example of mom and dad who love each other. They relate well to one another. They know that there's a bond between mom and dad. And they say, I want that. I want that in my marriage. You know, it's a really good thing when kids want to get married. What is it that makes kids not want to get married? Well, it's when they see a lot of trouble in the home. You know, they go up, man, I don't I don't want what my mom and dad have. That's horrible, man. I don't want anything to do with that. I remember there was a couple that I was working with when w when I was doing parital counseling for a couple there in Ghana. And I remember this couple, it was like no question in my mind this is a really good thing that they wanted to get married. And the girl was really nervous. And I said, Why are you nervous? So because of him? She's like, no, he's a great guy. But I I saw my parents and I don't know anybody with a happy marriage. Kinda kinda kinda tough. You know, praise God, she pushed through that and they got a great marriage. But the truth is that if if you have a good marriage Your kids are gonna want that. And if you don't, they're gonna be hesitant. They're gonna be looking outside at what's around them. They're gonna be seeing what what's going on on on the television and Hollywood and in the music industry and all those things and that's what's gonna attract them because they think that's where it's at. So a biblical view of marriage, gender, and sexuality. Fact one, God created man and woman. Very, very important. Genesis 1. 27 says this. God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created them. Male and female created he them. The fact that you're a man, if you are, is something that God gave you. Okay? When you were conceived In your DNA makeup, you are biologically a man, okay? And if you are a lady, the same is true for you. The fact is that's not a social construct. It's not something that culture brings about. It's something that God made. In fact, it's interesting. You know, we study biology, we study plants, and Oh, that that that flower has male and female parts. Yeah, we can look at biology in the plant realm and we understand, okay, that's male and that's female. We talk about animals, we understand that's male and that's female, and all of a sudden for some reason today People think that, scientifically, something has changed. Folks, nothing has changed. But the reality is it's God who creates Male and female. One of the things that causes people, I think, to pull away from what God made them is an internal rebellion. I don't like what I am. I don't like what God made me. And they may not rationally think through it that way, but the reality is we should embrace what God made us. We should learn how to embrace what God made us as male or as female and understand the role that He has for us in the home and society and the church and embrace that and use that position that God has created us for to the very best of our abilities as good stewards of God. God made male and female. Second thing I want to mention is this. God created man and woman with a need for each other. And I know that there are some people who never get married. And that doesn't necessarily, that's not a bad thing, okay? God does give some people the gift of singleness. We we find that in the scriptures. But the reality is when God made Adam, he put him in the garden and he created him alone for a reason. Okay? It's kind of interesting. He didn't do that with any of the other creatures. When he created the dog, he created a male and a female dog. When God created the cats, he created a male and female cat. When when God created all these other animals, he created them male and female. And you know what's interesting? What God did with Adam was this He said, I want you to name all those animals. And he starts seeing this repetition, you know, like two of them. Two of them and two of them and well he did this for a whole day. I mean can you imagine sitting there all day and you and you said two of them two of them And there's one of me. Like, what is this? Where's where's where's my compliment here? You know, what's the deal? I think God had a point in that And the Bible says that God said, It's not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a helpmeet for him. And God creates the woman out of the man and brings her to the man. The fact is that God created us with a need for that compliment. And the reality is that marriage is a really good thing and we need that. And everybody in here who's married can can tell you if they've if they're doing well, they can tell you, you know, I changed a lot after I got married. I had to because that's what helped me to be where I am today, okay? Well why is that? That's what God wants. He wants us to be more well rounded. He wants us to have strength and stability. He wants to chip off the edges. He does that. in that marriage relationship. But we see it's God who creates man and woman and he creates them with a need. The third fact that I have is this. God created and defined and blessed marriage. We go later to Genesis chapter 2, verses 24 and 25, and he says this. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed. Now the question is, what was the cause? The cause was marriage. Now notice the way he refers to this. First of all, he says that a man, he doesn't say men, he says one man. Okay, that's important. And then it says he leaves his father and he leaves his mother. It doesn't say he leaves his fathers or his father and his wives. It says he leaves his father and he leaves his mot Very, very simple, but these are things sometimes you have to state. So marriage is between one man and one woman. And then it says this, and he cleaves unto his wife. He takes one. You know what's interesting? I had this question a lot, you know, when I was living overseas. Does the Bible condemn polygamy? And I say Well what the Bible does is it defines marriage, and by defining marriage we know that anything else outside of that isn't marriage. Okay So when we see that someone says, well, I'd like to call this marriage, God says, no, no. This is called marriage. I don't know what you want to call that over there, but that in marriage, okay? That's something different. You're creating something that's outside of marriage. Marriage is one man, one woman, and they come together, and the two become one flesh. So this is very, very clear that that marriage is not between two men or two women or a man and two women or vice versa, it's between one man. One woman, we call it marriage, and it's supposed to be permanent. In fact, later on Jesus refers to this passage. And he says, What God has joined together, let not man Separate. And he basically does this in the context of divorce. And basically these guys are saying, Can we just put her wife for whatever reason? And Jesus says, Look, go back to the beginning and let me ask you, what did God make marriage for all of a sudden, you know, and he talks to them about it. The fact is that marriage is not something that is culturally created. Now I do understand in cultures there are different customs that are associated with marriage. There's a lot of different customs. Like when I did weddings when I was living overseas, the way that we did those weddings was different than the way we're going to do them here And you know why that is? Because in their culture, there were certain expectations. In fact, they had some really great customs associated with marriage. I I actually really enjoyed being a part of that. Now I wouldn't force that on anybody here, but I won't have to pay for my daughter's wedding down the road if I go the way that we did it over there. Somebody's got to pay me. I like that, right, you know? And I get to set the price. Everybody else in the family gets to set the price. This is a good deal. No, but the fact is that marriage is defined by God and the customs that are associated with those two coming together and what the families do and how that covenant is arranged and how they work out some of those details That's a cultural matter, but marriage is not a cultural matter. And a lot of people today are giving us the impression that it is, but folks, it's not And we need to have a real clear, solid view of marriage from God. Fourth thing is this: God's view that all his creation, including marriage, was very good. Genesis 1. 31 says, In God saw everything that he made, and behold, it was very good. You know it's kind of interesting when Adam and Eve sinned, and God comes to them later on, and he basically tells them what the curse is that follows. It's interesting that the things that God mentions that are associated with the curse on the creation had to do with the fact that Adam and Eve Who had a perfect relationship with one another before the fall are now going to have contention within the marriage. It's interesting when he talks about the wife, he says, Your desire shall be to your husband, and he will rule over you And it's interesting when you look at it in the original, the idea is that he's not going to have his authority the way that he should. He's not going to be as gracious as he should be. And there's going to be a contention. You're going to struggle with that relationship, and it's part of being fallen creatures. But those struggles are not a part of God's original plan. That's what happens when you introduce sin. But marriage is good. And I want to start out with this because if we don't understand this, then everything that Solomon's going to say doesn't make any sense. If we just talk about what Solomon is saying, how he basically says, don't commit adultery, don't commit fornication. You need to have one person that you are intimate with sexually, and that's your spouse, and you are faithful to them, and you don't get pulled to the side. That doesn't make any sense if you don't have a biblical view of marriage. The truth is in our culture, one of the reasons that people have such a careless attitude towards sex is because they don't understand what marriage is all about. And I I can I can tell you there have been times that I talk to young people and they're like, Yeah, we just got married, went on the honeymoon to such and such a place like, well I mean we've been there a couple of times before, so like what was the big deal? And you're like Yeah, I mean that's that's about how it went, you know what was the big deal? It really wasn't any big deal. They don't understand what marriage is. Marriage is a Blessing. Marriage is good. God has a purpose for it. We come to a fifth fact. And pretty much tonight all I'm going to do is talk about the biblical view of these issues and then we'll get into some of the content of Proverbs 5 next time. But fifth, God created marriage in part To satisfy sexual desire that he created in man. If we go to 1 Corinthians 7, maybe take that, take your Bibles and go there. This is a chapter that I don't think a lot of pastors preach on too often. They don't. It's not a not a common text. Actually, a lot of pastors don't preach out of 1 Corinthians, just to be real honest. But listen to what it says in 1 Corinthians 7. Verse 1. Concerning the things whereunto you wrote unto me, it's good for a man not to touch a woman. Now, that verse is not talking about somebody like tapping a person or holding hands or you know giving a hug to a person in a tender way. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about a sexual contact Okay, that's that's the point of what he's saying. And as we get into the context of this passage, you'll understand that that's exactly what he's talking about. But basically what was going on at Corinth was that church was under pressure And as they were under pressure, the people were concerned, maybe we should not get married, because there's a lot of pressure that we're facing, and it would be hard to be a husband or a wife under these conditions. And what's interesting is that Paul actually agrees with that. Considering your situation, it might be good for you not to get married. That's what he's saying However, it's not something that you can't do. And under certain situations, while it might seem prudent to not get married, there are other situations that make it prudent to get married. And he's going to tell us why in just a second. He says this. Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, sexual immorality, let every man have his own wife. And let every woman have her own husband. Now this is kind of interesting. I think that we tend to think that sexual temptation is more of a man problem. Not so much a woman problem. Okay? A lot of times people talk about an issue like pornography. They they they hammer the guys Don't say anything to the ladies, but the reality is that there's temptation to both genders. And we kind of see that here. He says, to avoid sexual immorality, let every man have his own wife. And we would tend to think it'd stop there. But it doesn't. He says, and let every woman have her own husband. The fact is that what helps a man to not get involved in immoral relationships is he's able to marry and he's faithful to his spouse and he is able to have a satisfied sexual relationship with his wife. And it's the same thing for the woman as well. It goes both ways. We tend to not think of that, but the fact is it does. He then goes on to say this. Let the husband render to his wife due benevolence, and likewise also the wife unto her husband. The wife hath not power over her own body. But the husband, and likewise also the husband hath not power over his own body, but the wife. Now, I guess I don't have to explain this too much to you, but Basically what he's saying is this, when you get married, you're choosing not to marry somebody so that you can satisfy your sexual desire anytime you want. It's actually so that you can help that person to be satisfied themselves. And they're supposed to look at it the same way. In other words, when people come to get married, they tend to say, you know, why do you want to get married? And somebody kinda smiles like Yeah. I mean, you know, I mean I I I this is prepared like counseling and I and I look kind of like, why you guys let me get married? And this guy just like Then he started turning a little red, you know, like, well, okay, listen, I know I know why you want to get married, at least part of it, right? And the fact is that we tend to think, I want to get married to meet my needs, but from the standpoint of the passage, you get married so that you can meet the needs of your spouse And when both the husband and the wife have that selfless mentality, and that's how they view the marriage in their own bodies and their relationship. The fact is that that's a marriage that's going to be strong. That's a marriage that's going to be rock solid. They're going to have a great marriage But when people are always thinking about their own desires, they tend to manipulate and browbeat and do what they want to do. But why am I saying all this? Because Paul's making it clear that one of the reasons God created marriage is the sexual desires that we have, they're to be fulfilled within that context. And so when God made Adam man and he made Eve woman and he gave them bodies that had sexual desire, he did it for a reason. And he wanted that to be satisfied within marriage. He goes on to say this: defraud ye not one another, except with it being by for consent for a time, that ye may give yourself to fasting and prayer and come together again, that Satan tempt you not For your incontinency. Basically saying this, when a spouse refuses to be sexually intimate with their spouse, And they say, no, I'm going to use that as a leverage way to manipulate you, they're actually cheating their spouse. And that's a really that's a concept that in our world we probably don't have Have a lot of people that embrace. The fact is that marriage is supposed to be a selfless place. But in the context of our discussion, God made marriage so that we in part could have that satisfaction. In that relationship. Number six, sexual immorality is a serious sin on many different levels. Turn with me to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. I want you to notice how Paul speaks about fornication. He says this in chapter 4, verse 3. This is the will of God, even your sanctification. That you should abstain from fornication. That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. Now when he talks about knowing how to possess one's vessel, there's actually a little bit of a discussion about what that phrase means Some people would say that it's talking about vessel in the sense of a man's wife, he knows how to treat his wife with honor. And because he treats her with honor, he wouldn't cheat on her. He's going to have a good relationship with her and that's potentially what it's talking about. It also could have the idea of your vessels in your body. You learn how to control your body. I tend to kind of lean towards that interpretation of it. But the idea is that we have to learn how to control our passions. You know, just like We have to learn how to push away from the table and stop eating. That was tough, man. You know? The ice cream is just calling to me, man. Like I c I gotta have some more ice cream. You gotta push away. Push it away. Control your appetites. You know, just like you don't wanna get up out of bed and go do your your work. I I remember when I when I worked with Frank Rufin and there were some mornings I'd get out of bed. bed and though just like I don't want to get on that roof today. And you know what? You have to you have to push away from the bed, make your bed, get changed and go to work. You have to learn to control your appetite Somebody says something that's totally inappropriate and the first thing that comes to mind you want to rip apart. With your tongue you want to rip them apart. And you gotta learn how to control that that pressing that you have in your heart to say things you should And you know what? We who have sexual desires have to learn how to control our bodies. We have to learn how to say no. We have to learn how to wait. We have to learn how to say that's not an appropriate way to interact with that person. We have to learn how to control our bodies. And that's something that comes with maturity. Not just physical maturity, but spiritual maturity. He says this, we should know how to possess our body, our vessel in sanctification and honor, not in the lusts of concupiscence as the Gentiles which know not God. Basically he's saying this, that word concupiscence means people who are involved in unrestrained sexual immorality is basically what that means. People who just do what they feel like doing. If I want to do it, if I feel like doing it, I'm going to do it. And let me tell you, that's exactly what our young people are being taught today in our culture. If you want to do it, it's okay, do it. Yet it couldn't be further from the truth. He then goes on to say this: that no man go beyond and defraud His brother in any matter, because the Lord is the avenger of all such as have, and as we forewarned and testified, God hath not called us to uncleanness but unto holiness. And he that despiseth, he therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, but God, who has given us his Holy Spirit. This is an interesting statement. Don't defraud your brother. Now, just think about this. If he's talking to a man and he says, don't deproud your brother, he's not talking about the girl that you're taking advantage of. Now, most certainly he believes that a guy shouldn't take advantage of a young lady. Absolutely, he believes that. But he's got something even beyond that young lady thinking about her dad. Thinking about her husband. Thinking about the guy she's not married to, but down the road she's going to be married to. The truth is that when young people Are immoral, they hurt each other's future marriages. Our job as dads is to protect our kids. It's kind of interesting when people got married in Ghanaian culture, there was a kind of this custom they would go through where the guy would get his uncle, actually a couple guys , And his uncles would go and they'd meet the girl's family. They'd meet her uncles. And they would discuss what was an appropriate amount of money that he needed to bring to basically demonstrate to the family he was ready to take care of this girl and also in some way to pay them For having taken care of that girl. That's a really interesting concept. So if she had an education, who paid for that education? Her dad? Her uncles? So it's kind of appropriate that he should say thank you and he should give them something for the work that they did. If that girl has has maintained moral purity, why is it that she did it? It's because she had a family that took care of her And they were working in her life. The fact is that when they would come together and then when somebody got divorced, they had to go through the process again. The uncles had to go back and meet the girl's uncles. You want to talk about hanging your head low? We don't think that way. People think if I want to do this, it's just me and her, it don't matter. Well, she has a dad, doesn't she? She has brothers, doesn't she? She's got a husband someday she's gonna be married to, and that's gonna affect their relationship. She's married right now. You're married right now. See, all we don't think about all the implications of When he says, don't defraud your brother, he's not just talking about the girl, how she's not treated right. It has implications that go very far The point is that sexual immorality is a serious sin on many different levels. For sake of time, I'm going to stop there. Actually, a couple more things that I was going to mention. But I I want to take my time going through this topic. I really do. I think it's really important that we think about this topic. We talk to our kids about it. As they get old enough to start understanding some of these things and the need to understand these things, we begin to communicate that to them. When they get a little bit older and they want to hide some things from mom and dad. We gotta learn how to relate to our kids so that they'll be willing to talk to us. The fact is, the reason that we teach our kids a biblical worldview is not because we're trying to restrict them. Because we love them. We want them to have a good marriage. We want them to have a clear conscience. We don't want them to go through the pain and the suffering that comes when people don't do things God's way And so let's pray that the Lord will help us as his people to have a biblical view, to teach a biblical view, and to see this perpetuated in the lives of our young people. Let's bear our hearts. Together in prayer, please. Father, thank you for the time we spent in this passage. Actually, an introduction to this passage Help us to think clearly biblically about marriage and family and gender and all those things. I know we live in a delicate cultural dynamic today. A lot of people that reject what the Bible has to say about I pray you'd help us to be people who just trust you and obey and enjoy your blessings because we're doing things in a way that please Jesus, you God. protect our young people, help moms and dads as they work with their kids. Help us to have strong marriages. I pray that you would truly be exalted in our lives as we pass We ask it in Jesus' name, Amen