Proverbs chapter 18. We've been going through a series of topics as we've been studying the book of Proverbs, and we finished a very important study on God's providence. And so really enjoyed that. I hope that that was very helpful to you. Tonight we're going to begin another study, another topical study that's dealing with how to take wisdom and establish healthy relationships or how to re-establish healthy relationships in the light of wisdom. In fact, the book of Proverbs has a lot to say. About developing and maintaining good, healthy relationships. So I want to start in Proverbs 18, and we'll look at verse 24 as our text, but we're going to look at a lot of different scriptures. uh tonight. Proverbs 1824 says this, a man that hath friends must show himself friendly. And there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. The purpose of this proverb, and really all of the proverbs that we're going to be looking at tonight and over the next few weeks. The purpose of the Proverbs is to give young people the basic tools that they need to be successful in relationship building and being peacemakers. And you know, God wants us to be people who have good relationships. And so we're going to look at a lot of basic principles. We're going to kind of first of all answer the question, why is it that we have struggles in relationships? Even amongst Christian people, even amongst people who genuinely want to have good relationships with each other, people who genuinely want to do what is right. Why is it that good people sometimes have conflicts? And then from that section, we're going to deal with some important relationship principles. In fact, we're going to look at six of them, and we'll get into that tonight. We may or may not finish those principles and then from there we're going to move on to some specific skills needed to maintain good relationships. We'll look at five of those. And then once we go through those skills we're going to dig into some kind of self-checks. And when we're going through times where we are having contention with people, there's some probably some very like Introspective questions we should ask of ourselves. And so we're going to look at several self-checks that we should ask ourselves and we are dealing with contempt. So let's go ahead and begin with this question. Why is it that good people have relationship problems? Why is it that Christians People who are married and love one another, people who are in the same church, people who are next-door neighbors, people who are part of the same family, people have been friends for many years. Why is it that good people Sometimes, from time to time, have strained relationships. Well, let me get just give you some practical things that I was thinking about as I looked at this topic. First of all, it's because we're all sinners. Every person in here, no matter how good your motives are, no matter how much you may love a person or like them or enjoy their company, you're still a sinner and you are relating to a person. Who's a sinner? That means we aren't going to have perfect relationships. In fact, it's interesting the study that we've been doing on marriage dealing with the question, what did you expect? One of the things that the writer spends a lot of time talking about is the fact that we are sinners. Married to sinners, living in a fallen world. And because of that, we have strained relationships from time to time. Secondly, we live in a fallen world and things happen to us. That put us under pressure where these pressures eventually strain our relationships. Now it could be that you and your spouse, or you and your children, or your children and their mom and dad or whoever the relationship is, it may be that you yourself don't have an issue with that person. But as pressures of life begin to mount and as they build in your life, you begin to start getting kind of edgy. You get kind of chippy with the people around you. Anybody ever had that it happen? Okay. You know, end of the school year, right, Bruce? And you're you're like you're ready for summer and you're feeling the crunch of all these things that you gotta get done and when you're at college And the end of the semester, you know, your roommates are no longer your friends. You're ready to go home for a vacation, right? To get away from them. Well, this is because we live in a fallen world and we go through pressures. And those pressures, they weigh on us and sometimes make us feel like saying and doing things we shouldn't. Next, we often misunderstand one another because we have different backgrounds and different personalities. You know, it's so interesting when people get married, they get married because they want to, right? That's the that's the main idea. They get married 'cause they want to. And then after a couple of months, they start having these, you know, these problems. One day, husband comes home, he says something to his wife that he didn't think was really a big deal, and she starts Crying her eyes out. And he's like, What did I do? He has absolutely no idea what he did. And when he starts asking his wife, like, what did I do? She's like, You mean you don't know? And all of a sudden it's even worse. And all of a sudden what started out as, you know, kind of a mild problem is now a major problem. And then he starts feeling edgy about it, and pretty soon there is a full-blown conflict. And you go, How in the world does that happen? Well He came from a different family than she did and some of his expectations and some of hers are not the same. His personality, her personality, they're different. Some of the things that seemed so fun and cute when they were dating now aren't fun and cute. They actually come kind of, you know, they're a little bit irritating. And because we are different than the people around us, we have misunderstandings. We often are stubborn and unwilling to forgive when we've been wronged. And this is one of the big reasons that people have contention. Somebody does us wrong. I mean, inevitably we are going to be wronged, and we're going to wrong people. And instead of resolving it biblically and forgiving and truly forgetting about it and moving forward, we hold on to those. Forms of injustice in our minds. We often approach our relationships with other people with unrealistic expectations, which are going to put pressure on our relationships. relationships. And this is a major conflict issue. So if I think that my friend should do A and he thinks that he should do B, and because he doesn't do A, I get frustrated. with him or I think that my spouse should handle this situation this way. Think about the first time that you had Christmas after you were married or after you had children. Is it possible that a few times, you know, people have they have conflict because, well, this is how we always did Christmas. This is how we always did Thanksgiving, and the other person goes, We never did it that way. And what happens? You begin to have conflict because of unrealistic expectations. We are sometimes self-absorbed and unwilling to make the investments That we need to to maintain healthy relationships. When we dig into this first proverb, one of the things that we're going to find out is that to have a friendship to have a strong marriage, to have good relationships with our kids, with our parents, with the people around us. We have to work at it. There's a huge investment of time and resources and energies and sometimes people just say I don't want to put that investment forward. I'd rather be by myself, do my own thing, and not deal with these pressures And so sometimes, because of that self-centeredness, we have problems. We don't develop the skills that are vitally important to establishing and sustaining a healthy relationship. The truth is that communication involves certain skill sets. And as we get older we learn how to deal with conflicts better, hopefully. We could get more manipulative in our ability to handle conflicts as well. But the truth is we should be better at solving problems as we get older. We should be better at communicating with people. We should be better at figuring out what they're really trying to say and how to resolve those issues. And those skills are things that develop over time. The fact is a lot of people didn't grow up with good examples in their lives. You grow up in a family where you don't have a mom or a dad. who's a good example, that does affect you when you get married and when you get into the workforce and when you go into school and all those things. If you've seen poor examples in your home life, it's going to So these are just a couple of the reasons. I think we could go far beyond that, but what I'd really like to do now is I'd like to dig into these scriptures. We need to listen to the counsel that we find in the Word of God. Solomon wanted his kids, specifically his boys, but also in other parts to his daughters. He wanted them to be successful in their relationship. He wanted them to have good marriages. He wanted them to have a good relationship with the people that they worked with. He wanted them to treat their kids right. He wanted them to be good citizens. We need to listen to what the Bible teaches us about relationships. So let's look at some important relationship principles. Principle number one is this: maintaining relationships involves a significant use of time and resources If you do not want to give your time to other people, then you will not develop strong, deep relationships. If you're unwilling to show hospitality, to sometimes use your resources, your energies, you will be a loner and you will not have developing relationships. Look down in Proverbs chapter 18, verse 25. He says, the man that hath friends must show himself friendly. Very simple statement. A man that has friends must show himself friendly. I could put it this way. If you want to have friends, then you have to be a friend kind of a person, okay? That means you have to be willing to talk to people. That means you have to be willing to set aside time and spend time with people. That means if somebody has a need, you can't be stingy every single time they come to you. You've got to be willing to actually help them in time of need. If you're going to be a friend, then you have to be willing to release your rights to the resources, being your time, your energy, your emotions. your money, whatever it is, and you have to be willing to use those as an investment in the lives of other people. He then says this, and There's a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. Now we tend to think of the fact that our relationship with our family is the strongest bond that we have. And typically speaking, that would be the case, but not always. It's interesting, he's not just emphasizing in this proverb, that if we're going to be a friend, we have to be willing to release our rights to our material possessions, our emotions, our time, whatever, and we have to invest those things in other people. But he's also emphasizing the fact that the degree to which we're willing to do that will determine the depth to which we have relationship with that person. So in other words, we could put it like this. If you're a person who has no friends, then when the time of need comes, you will have no people to come alongside and help you. If you're a person who stingy with your time and your resources and those things, then when you have need, then people will not, they won't take the time to be alongside of you. If you're a person who develops very shallow relationships, then when the time comes, those shallow relationships will kind of like go away. But if you're a person who is selective and careful and develops deep connections with individuals that can be trusted, You have a friend, or you have friends, who, when the time of need comes, will sit closer to you than even your own family. And the fact is that that is really what Solomon wants to see his kids have. Our relationships with people come on so many different levels. There are some people we just we enjoy seeing them. There are some people that maybe we don't enjoy seeing them. them. But we learn to put up with the little quirks that the people have. People put up with the quirks that we have. There are some people that we have casual acquaintance with. We we greet them, we say hello to them. We might laugh with them, we might talk to them about superficial things, but there's not a doubt. But then there are people that we trust. We value their input. If they're in a time of crisis, we would drop everything to meet that crisis need. And they would do the same thing for us. The fact is that God wants us to be people who develop deep relationships. And I want to encourage you, don't be a person who's stingy. With your time and your resources and just insulates and isolates yourself. And I will tell you that that is one of the greatest things that we are losing in our culture. is genuine relationships. You do not develop deep relationships on Instagram and text messaging You really don't. You do not develop deep-rooted relationships without a face-to-face, sitting down, spending time, going deep. If you're going to develop relationships, you have to develop skills that we are losing in our culture today. In fact it's interesting I how many times people get together for a family function or for a gathering and if you could just be a bug on the wall and watch you'd see everybody's on the their phone. It's true. There are some people that when we go to visit them, the TV's off, there are no phones out, and we simply talk. And those are the people that we have real genuine heartfelt relationships with. And there are others that it's like whether you were there or not, it wouldn't matter Don't be like that. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 4, he says this look not every man on his own thing, but every man also on the things of others. The Bible teaches us that as Christians, we should be willing to give of ourselves to develop deep-rooted relationships. But principle one tells us that maintaining relationships means that we're going to have to give of ourselves. And friendship is not about you. It's not about me, it's about them. In other words, my relationship to another person will grow and thrive if it's about them, not about me. Our marriages will grow and thrive if it's not about us, if it's about them. And when you have two individuals who have that mentality of selflessness, And a thinking of others kind of an attitude, that is where that relationship will thrive and be deep and prosperous. Principle number two People who are internally who are internally troubled will create problems wherever they go. This is a really interesting proverb. Proverb 15, verse 18. Look at that, if you could. Please. A wrathful man stirreth up strife, but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife. A wrathful man Stirreth up strife, but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife Six important relationship principles. The first one is if you're going to be a friend, you have to invest. The second is this. If you're a troubled person, you won't have good relationships. You cannot have a good marriage. You can't have good friendships with anybody. And I mean nobody if you're a person who doesn't have a settled, calm, restful, right relationship with God. The fact is that when he talks about a person who is wrathful, what he means is this. Under the surface This person is troubled, is angry, is unsettled, and all it takes is one little thing to tick them off, and then boom, there's an eruption. You know, I've been like this at times in my life, have you? I remember a specific situation we dealt with in Ghana. It wasn't a situation, it was a series of situations. That just boom, boom, boom, one after another. And I remember there came a point where I was just edgy. And I was like, I'm not like that with people. I'm a laid-back con I don't do things like that. I don't yell at people. I don't snap at people. I don't do that kind of a thing. But you know, because of the pressure, because there was an unsettleness in my heart, just little things that wouldn't normally bother somebody. Wouldn't normally bother Bother me. They'd set me off. Well, the fact is this, when people are internally troubled, they're going to have problems with everybody. In fact, I'll put out this warning. If it seems like you're always dealing with conflicts with people, please understand that the common denominator in all of those situations Is you. Bottom line. It's true. You know, there are lots of times that people get frustrated. It's like, seems like everybody I deal with is so impatient. Oh Everybody I deal with is so spoiled and they're so selfish. It's kind of funny how everybody's alike. The problem isn't them. The problem isn't them. You know, there are people that have internal problems, and rather than dealing with the real root cause of those problems, They try to put band-aids on it. They say, well, this this relationship's not working out, so I'm just going to move on from this friendship. I'm going to I'm going to move away from this thing, and I'm not going to deal with this. I'm going to find a better situation here. Here. Folks, if you don't change, that better situation's gonna get ruined by you. That's how it works. People who are internally troubled create problems wherever they go. A wrathful man Stirreth up strife. That phrase literally has the idea of a quick-tempered, a hot-tempered, a person who is just boiling under the surface. They are going to have conflicts. And I want to ask this question: how is it that we can have a settled heart? And what is it that causes our heart to be unsettled? Let me just throw out a couple of things that ultimately cause us to be unsettled in our hearts. Unresolved sin undermines our relationships. If I've done something that I know is wrong and I'm unwilling to deal with it, that is going to trouble my spirit It's going to make me cold, it's going to make me callous, it's going to make me feel guilty. And that unsettledness in my heart is going to affect every single relationship that I deal with. So what do we need to do when we have an unresolved sin problem? Do we need to just cut ourselves off from all the people we're having contention with? The answer is no. We need to realize that they're not the problem. It's me. He said I'm not dealing with what's going on inside. It's interesting. The reason that we have an inability to have fellowship with God, and in 1 John chapter 1, he says If we say we have no sin, but then we've deceived ourselves and the truth is not enough. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That passage is not teaching us that we have to be sinlessly perfect to have fellowship with God. If it was teaching that, there'd be nobody that'd have fellowship with God. What it is teaching Is that when we sin and we've become aware of that sin and we're unwilling to deal with that sin, what it does is it separates us from communion with God. In other words, until we actually address the issue, we state, I've done this, God forgive me, until we do that, we clear that matter, that's between us and God. We don't have a settled heart. We don't have communion with God. God. The same thing is true when it comes to our relationships with other people. If we harbor sin in our heart, we're gonna be unsettled in our minds and it's gonna affect our relationships. Relationships. If we don't have a healthy view of God, it's going to undermine our relationships. If we don't have a healthy view of the people around us, if we don't have a healthy view of ourselves, if we don't have a healthy view of how God works in the world. We don't have a healthy view of the Christian life. Those things are all going to affect our heart being troubled. In the bookstore, we have a series called Quieting a Noisy Soul. And that is a wonderful series of lessons It's done by Jim Berg. And the whole point of quieting and noise his soul is basically this. If you have an unsettled spirit, it's got a reason behind it. Okay? Now you may understand what the reason is and you're just unwilling to address it. You may not know what the uh reason is, and it could be a thinking problem about God, about yourself, about how you deal with sin. It could be that you're harboring sin, whatever it is. But those issues that are unsettled in your heart, they need to be brought out where you see them, you address them, and then you're able to have a quieted soul The whole point is, if you don't do that, it's going to affect your relationships. I want to ask you Do you have good relationships? And if you don't, do you have a calm soul? Is your heart settled? Are you at peace with God? The fact is, you cannot and you will not have a settled relationship with others if you don't have a settled relationship with others Principle number three, self-control is one of the greatest qualities needed to have healthy relationships. Look down at Proverbs 1632. If you have a moment, turn there. Proverbs 16. 32. This is what it says. He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty Let me read that again. He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty. He that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city. Now if you're a general of a mighty army and you can take a city, you're a fearless individual. You're a powerful individual. You're able to control people and to get them to what do what you want them to do and ultimately you have a good sense you have power and you have authority. And he basically says this The person who can rule himself has more restraint, has more power than the person that can go and take a city. It's a pretty amazing statement. In fact, I remember when I was playing basketball in eighth grade. It was the worst sports team I was ever involved in. We never won a game. We never came close to winning a game. And I was not a starter. So that talks a little bit about my basketball skills, alright? Yeah. Our team was really bad. And I remember our coach, she had this for that that we had to memorize in Proverbs. It says, He that hath no rule over his own soul is like a city that's broken down and without walls. And so many times our team had to Live in the light of that verse. As we would go down in defeat over and over and over again. If you want to have good relationships, you have to learn how to control your reactions. You have to learn how to harness your passions that are so destructive to relationships. Think about the quickness we are to get angry. When you get angry, you will say and do things you regret. We all do it. Okay? You say, well, when I get angry, I don't talk to people. I just pull away. Oh yeah, pulling away doesn't hurt people at all. In fact, sometimes that silence, sometimes that edginess that people can sense. Can actually be more destructive than saying something that is very offensive. That quickness to assume the worst about people. We're going to talk about assumptions a little bit later. There's a really interesting proverb that talks about when we s assume things about people that when we are thinking, we are actually thinking things that are not true about them. But we are very quick to assumption. I'll just tell you that 98% of the things that we assume to be true are generally not. They're just not. Don't assume the worst about people. Just don't. Don't be quick to go angry at somebody. But you know what? That is a natural inclination for all of us You know, somebody backs out of a commitment that they've made. And we assume the absolute worst about why they backed out of the commitment. Somebody's late for something. We assume the absolute worst about why they're late for something. Somebody handles a situation in a way that was not the best and we assume the absolute worst about them. A lot of times if we could sit down and know the explanation as to why things went down the way that they did We'd realize what we assumed was totally wrong. And our relationship to them changed because of our assumption. Quick to bring out excuses. You know when we've done wrong, we need to just just admit it. Just admit it. I mean, there's nobody in this room that has never been confronted. Nobody. The fact is, when we've done wrong, we just need to come clean and say, I was wrong. I didn't handle that right. But there is this tendency in all of us to excuse what we've done. We need to learn how to control that tendency. Quick to confront. Folks, I'm not saying that we should never confront other people. Absolutely, there are times we have to have confront to. In fact, there are times if we don't confront, we're sinning. But I think we are very prone to confront when we shouldn't, and prone not to confront when we should. We need to learn to control our anger, our tendency to assumption, excuse, and confrontation. Principle number four, we need to learn to be quick. We need to learn to pick our battles with people very carefully. This is a really important one. Not every offense is worth bringing up. It's the truth. Not every offense is worth bringing up. Not every battle is worth fighting Not every hill is worth dying on, okay? We have to learn what is worth going to fight on and what is not. In fact, it's interesting. In Proverbs 19:11 it says this The discretion of a man deferreth his anger. It is his glory To pass over a transgression. Now there might be some folks who would say, wait a minute, Solomon's being kind of pragmatic here, is he not? He's saying it's a good thing to ignore sin. Doesn't the Bible say he that covers the sin shall not prosper? But whoso confesseth and forsaketh him shall have mercy? Yes, the Bible says that It says you need to confess your sin. It doesn't say you need to confess your neighbor's sin. There's a difference between those two things. I'm not responsible for everything everybody does. I'm not responsible to correct every single infraction that I've ever seen. The truth is that when we raise our children, there are times that they do things that are wrong, and you know what? We give them a little bit of grace. Give them a little bit of space. Some of you kids are like, yeah, Mom and Dad, why don't you do that a little bit more? I didn't say you should always do that. Okay? But there are times you do that. There are times that a person confronts another person. The way they did it was completely inappropriate. But you know what? What they said was true. And so you swallow your pride. Take what they said, and you look past the inappropriate attitude in which they brought that accusation or they brought that thing to your attention, and you hear them out and you respond. That could be your husband or your wife or your kid or your neighbor or whatever. It was kind of interesting. There was a situation that I dealt with not too long ago. And my car had a had some leaking uh power steering fluid. Okay. And And my neighbor said, You can uh you can park in my driveway if you like. So I'd be parking in their driveway, and I left a little spot on their driveway. So one day I uh I came out and there's this note on my car. I was like, we're neighbors, right? You know? I couldn't just knock it there and say, can we have a conversation about your car it was a note and I was like Thanks. Thanks a lot. But you know what? They were saying thanks a lot too. Because there was stuff on their driveway. The bottom line is that they probably could have handled it a little better, but then so could have I. And the truth is they probably gave me some grace for a while and I needed to give them some grace. This happens in our relationships with our kids, our spouse, our neighbors, the people in the church, everybody we interact with, people that we work with, our boss, people that are under our case. The truth is there are times that people do wrong, and it's really not our place to go and confront them on that issue. We need to resist the tendency that we all have to play God in people's lives. We need to r resist our tendency that we have to keep a long list of every single time. That somebody has crossed the line in our mind. This is very common. You have a relationship with somebody, it's starting to get a little bit unsettled. And so instead of letting the thing go, you keep track of it. And then you know you don't write it down, but you remember every single offense. And then finally it comes to a point of explosion. And then the person says, I didn't even know there was an issue. They say, you didn't know there was an issue, and you give them the forty five times that they did the thing that they just got blasted for. And they're like, I had no idea I did that. Well I did. Folks, please don't do that to other people. If you have to address something, don't tell them the forty-five times they did wrong. We need to learn to resist the tendency to be God, to keep track of everybody's missteps. We need to learn to relate to people as they are, not how we believe they need to be. You know, there are some character qualities that we all have that that's kind of the way that we're always going to be Not everybody's work ethic is the same. There's some people that you get them out there on a on a on a work day and they will not stop until everybody has dropped. And then they're like, are you guys tired or something? Do we need water or anything? And that is that's their work ethic. That is the way they are. And you say, how'd they get that way? Well some of it is their it's their physical Makeup. That's the way God made them. Some of it is the way they grew up. From the time they're a little kid. Somebody taught them how to work. And there are other people. They will never be like that. It's not your job to make them have your work ethic. On the other side, we have the academic side, okay? There are some people that are so studious and they spend hours and hours and hours studying. And others who that that will never that will never be their personality. There are some people that the way that they approach certain situations is different than the way that you do. And you know what? It may be that the way that they're going about it is not as good as the way that you're going about it. Or at least that's how you see it. And you know what? It's not your place to make them be you. We're all different. We're all unique. And we need to learn to relate to people as they are. This is what happens when people get married. They get married and they're all excited and they think everything's going to be perfect and then all of a sudden they start learning all the little things that, you know, that are different. And then at some point they decide I'm going to change my spouse. And then one day they realize it doesn't work. And then they accept their spouses they are and they love them. And they have a good relationship after that. It's kinda like when a missionary goes to a foreign field and they get involved in the culture and everything seems so neat and that food was so great. I love spicy food. I love my nose running, it's great. And then eventually you're like you're not like and the runny nose and the runny stomach and everything else that you deal with. And you're like, don't invite me to your house again. And you know what? You go through culture shock. And you start feeling like everybody has to change to do things the way we do it in America, because we do it the best way. And then you come to the place where you realize something. It's not my place to be God and to make you like me. We need to learn to pick our battles at people carefully. Not everything is worth fighting for. This is not teaching that we should never confront a matter. And I don't want to give that impression. The fact is that there are times that we need to confront people. And there's a way to do it, but we need to be careful that we don't do that all the time. So let me throw out a couple of questions for you to think about that you should ask yourself when you're kind of dealing with this battle, is this something I should go to somebody about? Or is it something I need to overlook? I need to let it go. I need to show grace. I need to show mercy. I need to let God deal with that situation. I need to learn to relate to them as they are. What are some questions we could ask ourselves? One, have I thought about the matter through carefully? If I'm just wanting to talk because I'm angry and I don't want to get it off my chest, then don't do it. Don't do it. Simple, but very important. Is this confrontation really about their personal growth or getting the matter off my chest? A lot of confrontations are really not about their growth, their benefit, their spiritual maturity. It's that I'm so ticked that I've had enough of this, and you've rubbed me wrong enough times that I'm finally going to tell you what I think, but I'm going to spiritualize it and tell you I want you to grow and mature. Let me just tack that on at the end. We gotta ask the question honestly, is it really about me or them? Have I discussed this matter with a spiritually mature person who's not emotionally connected to the situation? And I I chose that carefully. So, spirit mature, you can find people to tell you whatever you want to hear. Okay? So, you know, if if you're if you're a little edgy and you find an edgy person and you say, What do you think about it? So like You need to get on it right now. You need to go after that person. You give them grief. Because they've crossed the line. A godly person might say, you know, I think you're being petty there. A person who's emotionally attached. Like they already have a per an issue with them. Or they're embrawled in the exact same situation themselves There's a relationship that complicates their ability to think clearly about that issue. Don't go to somebody who's going to just tell you what you want to hear. Go to somebody who loves Christ, has a good, solid character, and is not emotionally attached to the situation. You should ask the question, am I really responsible for this person's actions? If you're not responsible for their actions, then why are you going after the issue? It's not your job. You know, it's sort of like if somebody else's kids are acting up and the parents sitting right there, I mean, are you gonna go and confront the kid in front of their mom and dad? I mean, I probably did stuff like that when I was a teenager. But the truth is if it's not my place, then I just I need to leave it alone. I need to let the person who's responsible to deal with that deal with it. Is this person's actions causing harm to themselves or to others around them? If somebody is damaging themselves or damaging relationships Around them, I do need to talk to them about that. Does this person have a heart to receive the correction? You know, there are times that you realize a person has hardened themselves to the point that your conversation's a total waste of time. So going and you know getting hot into the collar and shouting at somebody who has no heart to hear is not going to help anybody at all. Does my relationship to this person put me in a good position to address the issue? Or should another maybe take on this confrontation? You know, there are times that we need somebody to kind of be a mediator for us. You know, what I see in them is true, but I've lost the ability to be able to say that to them. But this person sees the exact same thing, and their relationship is not affected like mine is. They can speak to them when I can't. And so having a mediator is a good thing, and sometimes that's exactly what we need. Am I refusing to confront because I'm afraid or lazy? Can I confront in a spirit of humility and grace? And have I evaluated myself for blind spots before I take action and address the issue? It's interesting, Jesus says Before you try to pull a speck out of your neighbor's eye, cast the beam that is in your own eye out, and here's the reason: so that you can see clearly. To remove the speck that's in your brother's eye. In other words, if I have a problem, it's going to actually cloud my judgment, and I will not see clearly To help them. And so until I address my issue, I will not be able to see clearly to help them. And so it's very important that we evaluate ourselves for blind spots before we take action. We're going to go ahead and pick up next week with principle five. I need to realize that God is the ultimate peacemaker, and I think this is going to be a great uh a great principle for us to look at. But it's very important that we have godly relationships, and God wants us to have them. So let's, by His grace, try to put into practice some of the things that we talked about tonight. Let's put our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, we ask that you'd help us to be peaceable people. Help us to build good, solid, strong relationships, help us to be willing to sacrifice for the betterment of the people around us. us, to invest our time and our resources, our affections. Father, help us to be people who are self-controlled. People who don't have to badger others around us, but we learn to exercise grace and restraint. We find that the right time to address issues, we do it very appropriately. Father, help us to learn how to To relate to one another in a godly way and help us to communicate that to the people around us who are under our care. Help us to teach our young people, our teens, our young adults, our children. Help us to teach them good good biblical principles about how to deal with one another. I pray that you'd help us to have strong, solid relationships. Relationships. We ask that you'll bless the things that we've talked about and we ask it in Christ's name, amen.