Proverbs chapter 5. Last week we began really with more of an introduction. We didn't actually get too much into the actual text of Proverbs 5. The reason I did that is because I wanted us to take a few minutes to kind of develop a biblical understanding of gender, marriage, family, sex issues, if you want to put it that way. The reason that I wanted to do that is because I think that what is written makes no sense in our culture today if you don't have a biblical understanding of God's view of those things. And so I wanted to start out with God 's view and instruction on those things. And so what I want to do tonight is I'm going to pick up where I left off last time, but I want to just give you a summary of what we talked about last week. A biblical worldview of marriage, gender, and sexuality. Fact one was this, God created man and woman. And I know there's a lot of discussion in our culture about gender and those kinds of issues. But the fact is that male and female is something God created. God created the concept God needs you what you are. And when we uh chafe at that, ultimately our problem is with the Lord. And we saw that from Genesis chapter 1. The second fact is this: God created man and woman with a need for each other. And the concept of marriage is something that is good and it's God's plan and He is very pleased with it. And so when God made Adam and he put him in the garden, he created him for a purpose without a wife initially to kind of help him to understand that he needed one. Okay? So it's kind of an interesting story. How God looks at Adam there in the garden and for the first time he says, it's not good that the man should be alone. In the creation account, God constantly talks about it's good, it's very good, and he he enjoys his creation, but at that one moment he says, this is not good. And uh it's a very interesting concept. And in fact, I was reading uh recently an article about how in our culture, for the first time, in U. S. culture, there is a higher percentage of singles Than married in our culture for the first time. That's something that has just recently changed. And the article was basically talking about some of the reasons why that is the case. But the fact is that we should encourage people to get married. Marriage is a good thing. Okay? Fact three. God created, defined, and blessed marriage. When we talk about marriage, it's not just a cultural idea. Now, we did talk about the fact that cultures have certain customs that come to that moment where that covenant is is established. And so when we look at wedding customs in different cultures, we'll see differences. But when we talk about marriage and we define what it is, that's something that God created. So we saw that marriage is between one man and one woman, and God wants it to be till death separates man and woman. And we looked at several passages dealing with that as well. The fourth fact, God viewed all his creation, including marriage, as very good. We saw a fifth fact. God created marriage in part to satisfy sexual desires that He created in man. When God created us, male and female, he created us with desires. So I know a lot of us like to eat food. All of us like to eat food. Uh we enjoy good meals. That's a natural desire. There's nothing wrong with the desire to eat food. Um we sleep, hopefully, at least Five or six, seven hours a night. I guess some people can sleep less and some people need more. But you know, we enjoy sleeping. That's a good thing. God designed our bodies with the need to rest. And we see that all throughout the creation. It's a desire, it's a natural desire, it's a good desire. God created all of our senses. our ability to touch and our ability to see and our ability to smell and our ability to hear and all those various sensations that God created in us have different desires associated with them. And when God created us male and female, he created us with sexual desire. Sexual desire is not sinful, but sexual desire can become sinful when we take it outside of the boundaries that God has established. for marriage. And so what we saw in the passage was that God created marriage so that not not that this is the only reason he created marriage, okay? But one of the major reasons why God creates marriage is so that desire, that sexual desire, is met within that marriage relationship. And we talked about that as well. Fact number six. Sexual immorality is a serious sin on many different levels. And we talked about that in 1 Thessalonians 4, and then that's where we stopped in our teaching last week. I'd like to pick up with fact number seven. God celebrates sexual desire and fulfillment in marriage as a good gift. You know, there are certain passages in the Bible that, you know, you encourage your kids to read the Bible, and if you're, you know, your kids ten years old, um, there'll be a couple of passages that when he gets to, he's gonna go. What in the world? Now, granted, if the kid's nine or ten years old, he may not understand some of what's being said in those passages. And that's not a problem at all. But there might be some passages that when your kid comes to them, they're going to come to you and say, Dad, I want to ask you about I was reading this in Proverbs chapter 5. Can you explain to me what that means? And all of a sudden you're like, oh boy, here we go. We need to have a conversation. Or maybe your daughter comes to you, mom. By the way, that's who you hope they're going to come to. Because they're going to have these conversations. You know, at at a very young age, it's surprising how young kids start becoming aware of the fact that they're male and that's that's a female and they start becoming aware of things at a very young age, especially because of what people are being exposed to our culture. You realize that statistics say the average eights, well, the average age that a young boy will come in contact with pornography will be between eight and ten years old. And you think about that. So your kids are going to be asking you questions. And you need to begin to teach your kids. And the fact is, what they've come to know, you're going to have to present biblical instruction in those areas. And you need to prepare your kids. to deal with some of these issues. And so some of what I'm doing today is simply giving you a framework that in your homes you're going to need to sit down and have conversations with your kids about. But fact number seven, God celebrates sexual desire and fulfillment in marriage as a good gift. I think it's wrong for us as Christians to give our kids the impression that sex is evil. Okay? I believe it's wrong for us to do that. And I think in some Christian circles, that actually is kind of the impression that people are given. Sex outside of marriage is evil. It's extremely destructive. Sex outside of what God has created it for is extremely damaging and destructive. But the concept of what God has created is not bad. It's good. In fact, here are just a couple of examples I'm going to read to you. Ecclesiastes 9. 9 says this. Live joyfully With the wife whom thou lovest all the days of the life of thy vanity, which he hath given thee under the sun, all the days of thy vanity. That is thy portion in this life. Now when he talks about living joyfully with your wife, I think that he's not just saying, you know, just be good friends like, you know, your friends with your mom, your dad. you have mutual friends. He's talking about marriage intimacy there. That is a major portion of what is on Solomon's mind when he says that. Proverbs 518 says this, let thy fountain be blessed. And rejoice with the wife of thy youth. Now I'm just going to make this statement so that you're aware of it. When you read the book of Proverbs, The way that Solomon gives proverbial statements kind of has two aspects to it. In fact, Jesus did this with parables. There is a sense in which the person who hasn't come to the place where they know what's being talked about, it kind of veils it a little bit for them So that it's kind of said in a way that they don't quite get what's being said yet. And when they get older, all of a sudden they realize, oh, that's That's what he's talking about there. Okay? All of a sudden, now he gets an understanding of that. That's the way that parables are. So if a person is speaking in a parable, those who really want to know And don't understand, they come and they ask questions. What what are you saying, Jesus? And what does Jesus do? He he explains the parable and then they get it. Oh, okay, and now it's an illustration. If somebody doesn't care, it just blows right past them. If they don't have ears to hear, it just blows right past them. Well, that's the way Proverbs are too. So when when when Solomon uses A phrase like, let thy fountain be blessed. Okay? He's speaking in a very proverbial way there, so that if you're a little kid, you don't really get what he's saying, but if you're an adult You get what he's saying, okay? So I just want to make that statement so that you're kind of aware of that. When we go through the book of Proverbs, some of the ways that he talks is in that kind of a way Song of Solomon 2. 16, My beloved is mine and I am his. He feedeth among the lilies. It's a proverbial statement right there, folks, okay? Song of Solomon 5. 1. I'm coming to my garden, my sister, my spouse. I've gathered my myrrhs with my spices. I've eaten my honeycomb with my honey. I have drunk my wine with my milk. Eat, O friends, drink ye, drink abundantly. And He's using language that's saying that the sexual relationship within the marriage bed is sweet and it's intoxicating. I guess is kind of the illustration that he's using there And when Solomon is writing this, he's not being dirty, he's not being perverse. He's basically, under the inspiration of Scripture, He is speaking about how God has created marriage to be a delightful place for sexual fulfillment. Song of Solomon 6, 2-3, My beloved is gone down into his garden, to the bed of spices, to feed in the garden, and to gather lilies. I'm my beloved, and my beloved is mine. He feedeth among the lilies. It's kind of interesting if you read some older Victorian Charles Spurgeon talking about some of these passages. He'll kind of explain it in a very allegorical way, basically saying that, you know, this is Christ's love for the church and he uses it. Listen, the concept of the church wasn't in the Old Testament at all. When you read that and you read it literally, you need to understand that what you think it's saying is what it's saying. Okay? Just being totally straight on that. There is a book in our Bibles that is dedicated to helping you to realize that the sexual union within marriage is a good thing. And it's to be enjoyed, and it's something that God created and that God gave. To people when they get married. Fact number eight: God militantly defends the purity and virtue of what he created. Proverbs 632 says this, Whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding. Basically, the idea is he's a fool. He's not thinking clearly. He goes on to say this, he that doeth it destroyeth his soul. One of the things that happens when we become involved in sexual sin is it weighs us down with tremendous guilt. It weighs us down with tremendous fear. It's like cords have come around us and it drags us down. And so when he talks about this wounding the person's soul and destroying his soul, he's talking about the fact that guilt is associated and a complex life and how it discourages and it weighs people down. The truth is there are a lot of Christians, a lot of Christians, that I believe what holds them back from having a joyful Christian experience is that they are dominated by sexual sin. I don't mean that they're out committing adultery with people around them, but the fact is that they are burdened down. Things like pornography. Just lust in the heart. It so burdens down. Many, many people are very burdened by that. And the truth is that when Solomon talks about how it destroys our soul. He's talking about the fact that sexual sin it i it attacks our conscience, it wounds our ability to have fellowship with God. It brings guilt and discouragement. And the truth is that when we struggle with sexual temptation And it has the upper hand. Boy, Satan has a foothold in our life. And he will take that little beachhead front and he will use it to get into every aspect of our lives and drag us down. He then goes on to say this, a wound and dishonor shall he get, his reproach will not be wiped away. Now, please understand he's writing to young people who have not fallen. And he's basically saying, and by the way, Solomon can talk about this because he knows, like, Solomon was not a moral man. David was not a moral man. I mean, can you imagine how David would have taught his kids when he's got the story of Bathsheba? You know, David understood God's forgiveness, and David understood how God could restore him and bring joy to him. But at the same time, David warns his kids, don't go down this road. Grace is wonderful, but you don't want to be in the position to need it. That's what he's saying. And so God defends purity and virtue. Hebrews 13. 4 says that marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled. But whoremongers, sexually immoral, adulterers, God will judge. You know, it's interesting, he uses two different words. When he talks about a whoremonger, he's saying someone who's sexually promiscuous Not necessarily somebody who's married, just someone who's sexually promiscuous. When he uses the term adultery, he's going beyond focusing on the fact that there has been sexual sin. but the fact that there has been an unfaithfulness to a covenant. And so when he talks about adultery in that particular context I think he's emphasizing the fact that when there is adultery, it's something that has attacked a covenant and a commitment. And so the scripture is so clear on these issues. 1 Thessalonians 4. I mentioned it last week, but I'm just going to hit a couple of little thoughts. He says, the Lord is the avenger of all such. As we've also forewarned you and testified, God hath not called us unto uncleanness but unto holiness. Therefore, he that despis he that despiseth despiseth not man but God, who also is given unto us of his Holy Spirit. So I've tried to develop kind of a biblical perspective on this issue. And I understand in this room Um probably every single person in here to some extent has been affected by sexual sin, okay Whether there's been a moral failure, whether there's been a moral failure towards you, whether it's somebody that you love who you've tried to pour your life into, they have failed. Whether it's been an issue of pornography, whether it's been an issue of temptation in the mind, every person in this room has in some way been affected by this issue. And so, as God's people, I think we need to do two things. One, live in light of his grace when we have fallen, but two, those who haven't We've got to warn them. We've got to warn them. It's a hard road to walk down when we stumble in these areas. Let's move on to section two. We need to learn how to identify and stay away from immoral people. Now remember this is written in the context of a father to his boys. But it's not just instruction to the boys. I think we can we can apply it to ladies too. We can also take the application into marriage relationships, people that we work with, people that we interact with in our community. The first thing that he wants to do is he wants to help his boys to understand listen. There are certain kinds of people That you love them as human beings, you respect them as people made in the image of God. You miss you wish no ill on them, but you do your utmost best to avoid getting close to those people. There are some people that because of the way they think, what they love, what they do, what they want to encourage you to do, you've got to avoid them. He's talking about a person who's going to lure another individual into immorality. And so when our kids in junior high When our kids are ten years old, believe it or not, their character traits already beginning to develop in young people when they're eight, nine, ten, twelve years old. They're not even involved in sexual sin at all, but they're already beginning to develop the seedbed of the things that lead to those areas. It's interesting. The first thing that he mentions in Proverbs chapter 5 is the way that people talk. I'm going to go ahead and read verses 1 to 3, but I want to focus in on this little statement that he makes. The first thing that he warns his son about. Proverbs 5. 1 says this, My son, attend unto my wisdom, bow thine ear unto my understanding, that thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy lips may keep knowledge. For the lips of a strange woman drop as in honeycomb, and her mouth is smooth as an oil. But her ends is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. Now I've studied this passage in Hebrew In English and in Fonti. Alright? And it's interesting. I really enjoyed the Fonti translation when I would interact with that. Because there was a guy in our church, he's an older guy, and um he was uh He knew the fanti better than the younger guys did. And the translation that we are using was a pretty old fanti translation. So some of the words were not being used a lot by the younger generation. Some of the kids didn't realize what those were. So they didn't appreciate the depth and the richness of the translation sitting in front of them. So I remember we were talking about this passage, and I said, Can you explain to me what this means? Lips of the strange woman drop as a honeycomb, and her mouth is smooth as an oil. He said, Huh. The way that this is in in in in the Fanti, it's very, very deep Very deep fanti is how he would put it. He's like, but the idea is like if you look at honey, honey doesn't move quickly. It just kinda it just kinda like it drops It's just kind of like like you know if you're putting hot, you know, you got your tea and you got you got some honey and you and you dip into that honey and you're pulling out and it's just like it's like dripping down. You can't stop it. And then you pour it in and you just you wait and you wait. It's slow. It takes its time. It moves slowly. And it says, that's what this person 's speech is like. Say, what do you mean by that? She's very deliberate. She's a flatterer, is actually what he's trying to indicate. Because her words, they fall slowly And the words are sweet and it's smooth as oil. There's nothing rough about what she's saying to you. It comes slowly, very deliberately, and you're waiting. It's as if, you know, tell me more. I like this. Okay? He says that's the kind of person you gotta be careful about. A person who's a flatterer. Now listen, there's a difference between flattering somebody and being appreciative. You know, if somebody comes up to you and says, hey, you know, what you did, uh, I saw something that you did the other week, and I just want to say I really appreciate that. I appreciate what you did. And probably a lot of people didn't see that, but I know the Lord saw that and I appreciate it a lot. You're not you don't have any agenda. You're just simply saying, you know what? What you did was good and I and I want to say thank you. You can pay a compliment to somebody. What you did was very good. And you have no agenda at all. You state it, you walk away, and that's the end of it. If somebody else did that, you'd be indiscriminate about how you would say those things to other people. But a flatterer is different. A person who's a flatterer is very deliberate, very methodical. They go to you and they drop something. They drop it again and they drop it again. And you know in your heart that what they're saying probably isn't true. Or it's not not entirely true, but it's so nice that you like it, okay? You know what a flatterer does? A flatterer gets you eaten out of their hand. They keep dropping these little sweet morsels slowly, deliberately, and they're doing it because they have an agenda. They want to use you to get something. They want to take advantage of you. They're trying to use your ego to cause you to stumble. You know, when we're really young, we don't typically recognize that kind of a thing. Sometimes you'll have you have kids. Teens, I'm going to just say this to you. There might be times that your parents are watching you interact with another person and they see it immediately. They say That girl is trouble. What do you mean she's trouble? I don't like the way she's talking to you. Well she's saying it's really nice. I know. I know it's nice. But it's not true. What you what are you saying to me, Dad? What are you saying to me, Mom? She's she's setting you up. She she's she she can say that to anybody You know, a parent can pick this out because you know you have experience. You've had a couple flatters in your lifetime and you see what happens to them. You go, man, I don't want to deal with that. I don't want my kids to deal with that. But a young person doesn't have the ability to recognize that You know, the book of Proverbs has a lot to say about flattery. Proverbs two sixteen. He says This is written to deliver thee from the strange woman, the stranger which flattereth with her words. Proverbs 2019, meddle not with him that flattereth with his lips. Proverbs 29, 5, a man that flatters his neighbor spreadeth a net for his feet. When Solomon is talking to his sons, And he says, this person, the strange woman, the one that I'm warning you about, the one you better watch out for, she's a person who when she speaks to you, it's very sweet. It's very deliberate. It's very methodical. And it's going to be very destructive when she pulls the net in. She's going to hurt you. She's going to destroy you. She's going to get you where she wants you. And it's going to bring you down. But it's not just women who do this. It's men too. There's guys that do the same thing. Flatterers. The truth is that when someone flatters us, they're saying, I think your ego is so big I can take advantage of it. That's what they do. And so the first thing that he warns his children about is be very careful about a person who flatters. Second thing that he mentions is this, verse 4. Says her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword, her feet go down to death, her steps take hold on hell. He asked the question, what is this person going to do to you? Okay? While those sweet words are coming , This is where it leads. And this is what's so hard in life. When somebody lures us in, and we follow after that, we don't realize how far we are until it's too late. That's what he's saying. He says, her end is as bitter as wormwood. You were enjoying that honey, but that honey is going to destroy you. He says she's going to wound you. It says, sharp as a two-edged sword, the cut is going to be deep, and the wound is going to affect you for many, many years to come. He says, she will kill you. Her steps take hold of death, go down to death, and her steps take hold on hell. And that word hell in the Old Testament can be used a lot of different ways. I think in this particular passage, he's not talking about you're going to go to the lake of fire, but he's talking about you're going to end up in an untimely death. That's basically what he's saying. So he says, watch out for this person. The way that they talk is very flattering. Two, that person is going to lead you to a very destructive end. 3. What is her father? What does your father have to say? Look down in verse 8, he says this Hear this, verse 7, O ye my children, depart not from the words of my mouth. Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her house. Now, I think there are a lot of folks that they think it's not fair to tell your kids that person right there is not good. I don't even want you associating with them. That seems really harsh. And I'm not saying you should just do that for any whimsical thing, okay? But there are young people that when you identify this person can bring my child down. You as a parent have a responsibility and you have a right and you have an obligation before God to tell your kids you cannot associate with this person. people because they're going to destroy you. The fact is that our kids are very important. Their worldview is not shaped to the extent that their parents are. They're a lot more impressionable than you and I are. The truth is this, you and I get duped too, okay? How much more when we were kids? 15 years old, 16 years old. We didn't think about consequence. We didn't think about what happens 20 years later. We didn't have that perspective. We just were living off of our emotions. The fact is that he says you need to remove your way far from her. That means that where she's going, you don't go there. Well somebody says, well, that doesn't seem very strong. You know, if you're strong, you can associate with this person. You're not going to be affected by them Well, obviously Solomon, the wisest man in the Bible, believed that there was a time where you should choose not to associate with people. Because of the destructive nature of their worldview and how they can suck you in and lure you in. Please be like Solomon on this level, not in some other ones, okay? But warn your kids. When you see that there's someone that you know could potentially be a tremendous harm to your kids, when they're young enough to be able to move and mold and affect. You need to tell them you need to stay far away from that person. The truth is that a wise person chooses their friends very carefully I think we should associate and be friendly with everybody. As much as possible. Try to be a good testament. Try to reach people. Have compassion. I'm not suggesting that we be arrogant and isolationist and all of a sudden. That's not I'm suggesting at all. But what I'm saying is this, the people you walk closely with, you need to choose them very carefully. Section 3 I'm going to spend just a few minutes looking at this here. Several consequences to immorality that he mentions. In verse 9, he says this: if you do this, here's what's going to happen. Lest thou give thine honor unto others. You're going to lose your honor. You're going to lose your honor. He says in verse 9, he says, thy years unto the cruel. You will lose years of your life. You know what's interesting? Solomon didn't live to be a very old man. David didn't really live to be all that old either. I don't even think that Solomon lived to be 60 years old. You realize that? You say, well, why is that? Maybe it's because he was involved in so much nonsense when he was a middle-aged man that it took a toll on him. It affected him. The fact is, when people are involved in immorality, they'll lose their honor, they'll lose years in their life. He says in verse 10, Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth, and thy labors be in the house of a stranger. People will take your stuff. How many people are really struggling financially because they're paying out child support to a bunch of different places? I'm just saying. It's the truth. And I'm not saying that to be demeaning at all. It's very sad. There are folks that are really struggling financially. They have incredible pressures that they're dealing with. Their money is going to lots of different places because they were so foolish when they were young men and young young people. He says in verses eleven and twelve, at the last thou shalt mourn when thy flesh and thy body are consumed. Your body will be affected. It's possible that what Solomon is talking about here is sexually transmitted diseases. That may be what he's talking about. It may not be. He may very well be talking about the fact that you're going to experience guilt. It's going to affect your health. You're going to be weighed down and you're going to be burdened. You're going to always be looking over your shoulder. You're always going to be wondering who's going to be coming up with the story about what went on. And that's a terrible way to live. And you're constantly hiding and you're constantly in fear. It's like you're in bondage. So he really could be talking about a couple of different things, but the point is this, when people are involved in immorality, they're going to pay a price physically. He then says this, verse 11, You will live with regret. He says, Thou wilt mourn at the last. Thy flesh and thy body are consumed. Verse 12, and say, How have I hated instruction? And my heart despised reproof, and have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear to them that instructed me Listen to what Solomon says. I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation, the assembly. Another way to put that is I was nearly at my wit's end in total ruin. I think Solomon is basically telling his kids. I'm telling you because I know what it's like to be in that place. I know what it's like to be in that place. Hey, can I just make a word of encouragement to you? If you've had a time in your past where you have stumbled, that doesn't mean that you can't teach your children. Doesn't mean it. In fact, God's grace, being what it is, may put you in a very good place to teach your kids. And to teach other young people. There may be people that God brings across your path and you're able to pour and invest into that person. In spite of your failures, because of God's grace. God's grace is a wonderful thing. And so I don't want to give the impression that if me as a parent Failed in an area means I can't teach my kids and God can't use it. That's not true at all. The truth is, these are written from the standpoint of someone who hasn't walked down that road to warn them and encourage them, don't walk down this road. The last thing he mentions is this, you will live in fear. When he says, I was almost in all evil, it's interesting. If you look at it in the original language, the idea is that he was a person who was really weighed down internally. I think some of the Psalms that we read about David, where he talks about his bones aching and he feels like he's been crushed, and he talks about internal turmoil. The truth is a lot of what David is describing, I think Is how a person feels when they have sinned and it's weighing them down. And I will tell you that that is the time when Satan he he tells you this doesn't matter, but as soon as it happens. He crushes you with it. And he will continue to crush you. And even when you've dealt with it and God has forgiven you and God has brought restoration and you go through a season of joy, Satan's still going to pull that. Say, hey, take a look at this. You remember this? You remember this? He's going to do that. Folks, when we talk about Proverbs 5, we're talking about a really important passage. And I want to encourage you, teach your kids. I'm going to stop there, and we will look at the last section together next time we're here. I know this is a bit on the Heavy and negative side. It's not my intention to do that. You know, if I if I'm preaching the whole council of God, there are gonna be some really encouraging and uplifting messages, and there are gonna be some heavy ones, alright? That's just the way that it is But I really want to leave you with this. We need to pray for our young people. We need to teach our young people. We need to invest in our young people. We need to be honest with our young people We need to help them to realize that, you know, I'm a I'm a person of flesh just like you are. The reason I'm talking to you is not because I'm, you know, condescending dad. It's because I know it's like to walk down that road. I know what kind of pain can come. I know how it can affect a lot of different things. And I want to be a help to you. I want you to avoid that. I want to encourage you. I want you to go into marriage without guilt and weight and all those things. And I want you to enjoy it as God created it for you. And so that's really my encouragement to us tonight as we think about that. Let's bow together in a word of prayer, please. Father, this is a very important passage. Help us to be challenged by the weight of it. I pray for our young people. I pray that you protect them from moral failure, from being involved in immorality. Whether it's before they're married, or whether it be involved in something like pornography. Whether it be after they're married, being unfaithful to their spouse, I pray you'd protect our young people. Father, help them not to go down that road and experience the tremendous pain. that comes from sin. Pray for our families. Father, please strengthen our families. I pray that you would preserve our families, that we would be folks who from this day forward walk in faithfulness with one another. That we guard our hearts, that we protect our marriages, that we have healthy, thriving marriages as you intended. Bless each person that's in this room. May your hand be very gracious and good in their lives. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.