Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our morning service. Hope that you had a really good week and looking forward to our service today if you're visiting with us today for the first time. or the first time in a long time. We hope that you have felt very warmly welcomed and it we also hope you received a welcome packet and inside of that there's a connection card. If you would like us to reach out to you sometime during the week, just take a moment. to fill that out, put it in a little box in the back, and we will make sure that we uh try to connect with you this next week. I want to draw your attention to a couple of announcements. First of all, we have our Reminder of our house rules and just want to encourage our families with children. Please take a moment to go through those with your kids just to remind them of some real basic things that we ask you to do. Also after the morning service, if you would like to get family picture for the directory for a directory update. Back in the fellowship hall is where we're taking those. Kimberly. is doing those and you might say, well, I'm good with a picture in the directory, but uh we would like a family picture. No problem, you can go do that. You know, don't feel like you have to uh to not do that if if you want to keep the directory photo, but you want a new family picture. And um doesn't cost anything. You might say, well, I'm just visiting and I'd like a family picture. Go ahead and do it. It doesn't matter. It's a free opportunity, so just make sure we have a way we can contact you and get the picture to you. And uh Kimberly does a nice job with that. Don't forget that we have our men, our father and son camp out this weekend on Friday night. And guys, if you want more than hot dogs. You gotta bring your own meat. We are gonna supply hot dogs and breakfast stuff. But uh please take a moment to uh to sign up for that if you have not done that and you're planning to take one of your boys to that. And there's a good number of other activities on there. Don't forget we have our men's breakfast. So guys, please sign up for that. That'll be on the Saturday before Father's Day. And we hope we'll have a really good group out for that. Pastor Josh will come with our opening scripture reading. Our opening reading is found in Ecclesiastes. Chapter 12, we'll start with the first verse, and then skip down towards the end. Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not. Nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them, while the sun or the light Or the moon, or the stars be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain. In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves. And the grinders cease, because they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened, and the doors shall be shut in the streets When the sound of the grinding is low, and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of the music shall be brought low. Skipping down to verse 13 Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments. For this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. Our focus of worship is for us to consider a healthy perspective of God and ourselves. Let's all bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service and ask Him to really speak to our hearts. Father, we're so grateful for scripture we just read. We're reminded that life is short. There are a lot of difficulties we encounter. But you are a rock that our lives can be built upon. That will give us stability in the heartaches and the troubles of life I pray that you'd help us this morning as we open up the Word of God and as we look at it that you would speak to us. Father, strengthen those in our midst who maybe are weary and discouraged. And feel as if life has just turned against them. I pray that they would see that there is strength in you. I pray that as we sing these hymns of the faith that our hearts would be knit together, That we would be reminded of these wonderful truths, and that we would be uplifted through the singing of your word, or singing of these songs And Father, I pray that our fellowship together would be very encouraging, very sweet, very Christ-centered. We pray that you would be glorified in our midst, and we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Thank you so much for joining us for worship. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number 374. 374, Be Thou, My Vision, will sing all four verses. Be thou I miss the Lord of my Not me all else hearing say that I want the day or by not. Wake eagle sleeping, thy presence, my life, be now my wisdom, and now my woman. I am wetning and that place me will lie , I am a great god. Great singing, please be seated as we turn the hill number. Three hundred ninety-seven, three hundred and ninety-seven higher ground The five five was a friend and this doesn't fear here to I 'm friendly on the working Well I want you to lie, and you can only lie, but the way you 'll lie, and you want to find Great singing this evening. Just a few pages over to page number 400. Hymn number 400, Take My Life and Let It Be. We'll sing all four verses. Great thingy. This morning, our scripture reading will be found in the Psalms. We'll be reading Psalm number 39. Psalm number 39. We'll be reading verses 1 through 13. Psalm 39, verses 1 through 13. The scriptures say, I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle while the wicked is before me. I was dumb with silence. I held my peace. Even from good. And my sorrow was stirred. My heart was hot within me. While I was musing, the fire burned. Then spake I with my tongue, Lord. Make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what it is that I may know how frail I am. Behold, thou hast made my days as in handbreath, and mine age is as nothing before thee. Verily, every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Selah. Surely every man walketh in a vain show. Surely they are disquieted in vain. He heapeth up riches and knoweth not who shall gather them. And now, Lord, what wait I for? My hope is in thee. Deliver me from all my transgressions. Make me not the reproach of the foolish. I was dumb, I opened not my mouth, but thou didst it. Remove thy stroke away from me. I am consumed by the blow of thine hand When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth. Surely every man is vanity. Hear my prayer, O Lord, and give ear to my cry. Hold not thy peace at my tears, for I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner as all my fathers were. O spare me, that I may recover strength before I go hence and be no more. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Alright, we're going to continue our singing. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number 411. We're going to sing four verses of the solid rock. We'll sing verses one and two. And after the second verse, we'll pause, we'll take a moment, shake one another's hands, greet one another, and then we'll come back together and sing the final verse. 411, my hope is built on nothing left. My hope is well done, nothing but that Jesus won a Christ as that. I dare not trust the sweetest. But only live on Jesus' name, on Christmas Solomon , what I said all other ground is taking sand, all other ground is My rest on his unchanging grace Andrew I can I hear voice within the veil on Christmas common all on the ground and speaking back all on the ground Reach your neighbor. Alright, but lift it up on that last when he shall come with something, and we have Let me know we always live there and be more than one. But I went with them, but we 're all in the world. Great singing this evening. Our last song before the preaching will be in our blue book, number 109. Man, I love this song. We're gonna sing all three verses. We'll sing the last verse a cappella, but on that one, you all need to sing out on this one. This is a wonderful song to sing a cappella. So we'll sing verses one and two, instruments drop out on the third. Our triune God. Bring God and father upon our baby. We praise you for your glorious reign that prayed before you. You chose us as alone and made us ever with my soul my sovereign grace. Because I know the creative one, because I think it's a great one. We praise you in the full on your pride, and the full art that we 're not. Security spirit given by God to those who are gone We praise you for your right seat that everyone is done. You sound in your call until we stand on me. We for the voice God, where they sing our God. God and praise God give us I know. Amen. Please be seated. Yeah, I'm not sure. Oh God, beyond everything we worship. Beautiful and sing the love amazing that songs can I For we have only one and we get to sell. And blessings with bath number and mercy with We lend our hearts before you are made upon your word. We are not going to mind all the word Or we can only wonder you drop things. With thou number and mercy with thou death for Christ given heaven from death and Let us free and we will declare. And you progress the devil that are lovely. We would have your favorite and where you are. We will try and do our song and my two. God joined with sacrifice. Second points all the time. Okay, well our children who are junior church age can be dismissed with the help of a parent. The rest of you would like to ask you to take your Bibles. Let's all turn to Psalm 39 together. On the first Sunday of the month, we pause and we work our way through the Psalms. And so We have been at this since 2019, believe it or not. So before COVID is when we actually started working our way through the Psalms. And the psalm that we're at this morning is a psalm that, unless you understand the progression of thought from Psalm 38 to Psalm 40, I think you're going to miss the point of what is in front of us. You'll be able to pick out some details if all we looked at was just a portion of this psalm. But it's important for us to understand that Psalm 38, Psalm 39, and Psalm 40 are in a succession, and they are really painting this picture. Now when we're looking at the Psalms, we're not reading chapters. So someone gets up and says, Turn to Psalm chapter 39. That's not really correct. It is an individual psalm, but some of the psalms are put in a sequence To paint that story. This is an example of that. So let's read it together. Psalm 39. We're going to begin in verse 1. I said, I will take heed to my ways. that I sin not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle while the wicked is before me. I was dumb with silence. I held my peace even from good, and my sorrow was stirred. My heart was hot within me. While I was musing, the fire burned. Then spake I with my tongue, Lord, make me to know mine end and the measure of my days what it is. That I may know how frail I am. Behold, thou hast made my days as an hand breath. Mine age is as nothing before thee. Verily, every man at his best Is altogether vanity. See Law. Surely every man walketh in a vain show. Surely they are disquieted in vain. He heapeth up riches and knoweth not who shall gather them. And now, Lord, what wait I for? My hope is in thee. Deliver me from all my transgressions. Make me not the reproach of the foolish. I was dumb. I opened not my mouth because thou did it. Remove thy stroke away from me. I am consumed by the blow of thine hand. When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth. Surely every man is vanity. Selah. Hear my prayer, O Lord. Give ear unto my cry. Hold not thy peace at my tears, for I am a stranger within thee and a sojourner, as all my fathers were. O spare me. that I may recover strength before I go hence and be no more. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to help us to understand this psalm and really what is being communicated in this succession of Psalms. Father, as we read this text and as we open our Bibles and work our way through these verses I pray that you speak to our hearts. Help our hearts to be tender to the Word. You know every situation in this room, you know every situation of someone who has dialed in on the live stream, there may be those who are in great affliction. Their hearts are heavy, they are burdened, and they are wearied. You may have some that feel as if life has dealt them so harshly they can't continue on. And I pray that as we open up our Bibles and we think about these truths, that we would understand how we as your people are to process some of the most challenging and difficult seasons we endure. Help us to be encouraged in the Word of God this morning. Help me to communicate it effectively, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen I summarize Psalm 39 in the following way. It teaches us that since life is short and we are frail, we need to properly orient our lives to God. Such a simple statement. It teaches us that life is short and we are frail. We need to properly orient our lives to God. No exceptions in this room. Whether you live to be a hundred years old, or whether you live to be fifty years old, or whether you have a life that is very full and rich and you have lots and lots of blessings, or you've lived a very hard life, it doesn't change the fact that all of our lives are short. And we are frail in this life that we have. And God allows us at times to be confronted with those two realities in a very personal way so that we will turn to him And our lives will be oriented back toward him. And that's what this psalm is here to teach us this morning. God wants us to ponder life from an eternal perspective. Not just what we experience in the here and now, or not just how we feel as we sit here this morning or wherever you're listening to this sermon, but that you would ponder life from his perspective, an eternal perspective. So let's do that together this morning. First part of this message I'd like us to consider is the relationship between Psalm 38, 39, and 40. As I stated earlier, all three of these Psalms together paint a picture of how God's people should view suffering in general and suffering because of sin in particular. Now there are some kinds of sufferings that we experience. They are not the result of a choice that we made. They may not even be the result of a choice that someone that we are in close proximity to has made. There are certain physical issues that we could experience, certain hardships in life that they're not the result of a sin on our part or the sin on the part of another person. They're just The challenges of life, it's a part of living in a fallen world. But there are other situations that are not like that In fact, when we read Psalm 38, and then we read again Psalm 39, what we would see is evidence that part of the suffering that David experienced was a suffering that was connected to sinful choices that he made. We have no idea what those sinful choices were. But we have a lot of examples of David's life of him making sinful choices. And we have a lot of examples in his life of sinful choices that brought very painful consequences. And so this helps us to understand how to relate to general suffering, but also particular suffering. And so let me remind you of this succession of Psalms. Psalm 38 is a psalm about growth. When we suffer, we can, we should, we have the tools available to us to mature and to grow in the midst of those trials. David was caught in a cycle that was emotionally draining, but we saw the evidence as we moved our way through the 38th Psalm that David grew in his perspective. He matured. Now, Psalm 39 is not David on the other side of suffering. It's David still going through these challenges. He cries out to God. He pours out his heart to God. He cries again with a slightly improved perspective. The cycle continues over and over and over again until God in his mercy delivers him from the miserable state of mind that he's in. And we really cataloged that when we looked at Psalm 38. Each time he looked at himself, you know what he saw? More heartache. Each time he turned away from himself and he looked to God, you know what he saw? He saw strength. He saw grace. He saw help. He was strengthened and he was encouraged. And we saw that in Psalm 38. The Psalm taught us That when we find ourselves in these places, we've got to turn to God. And we see a great example of this. First of all, he pours out his heart transparently to God and reminds himself that he cares. Verse number nine, it says, Lord, all my desire is before thee, and my groaning is not hid from thee. You might find yourself in a situation like this today. You know what you need to do? Do exactly what David did. Get alone with the Lord. Get in a room by yourself or you're not gonna be uh you know your focus is on the Lord and you're not thinking about who's in the other room or what's going on around me and you just say God here is what's on my heart Here is how I feel and remind yourself. He hears. He sees. He knows. The second thing we saw is that he reminded himself that he was not abandoned. God heard the cry in verse 15, it says, In thee, O Lord, do I hope. Thou wilt hear, O Lord my God. What is David saying in those verses? As I pour out my heart to God, it's not just hitting the ceiling. He might have felt like it was hitting the ceiling. He might have felt as if God had turned away his eyes and he wasn't looking toward David anymore, but that's not true. The way he felt and the reality was not necessarily the same. And he reminded himself, God did not abandon him. He cares. He cares. And the third thing Was that he reminded himself that that is his salvation. Verse 22, make haste to help me, O Lord my God Now, what do we see in those verses? We see a great pattern that we can follow. David was a godly man, but David was a flawed man. And at David's highest moments, he's a great example, and at his lowest moments, he's a warning to us of what can happen to even a person who fears and loves the Lord. But in these verses, he shows us how to turn to God, how to think when we are struggling, and what to remind ourselves of. But then when we move to Psalm 39, guess what we see? He is still in this state of mind. He has grown a bit. But he's not on the other side of suffering. And sometimes the things that we encounter in life, they are seasons that we endure for some time. And and and they come in waves, and we're like, okay, I'm past this, but we're not past this. It comes again, and then we think we're past it, and then it comes again, and we think we're past it, and And it comes again, that's what we're seeing in Psalm thirty eight and Psalm thirty nine And I'd summarize it like this. This life is short and we are frail. We have to orient our lives to God. Verses four and five of the text that we read this morning. He said, Lord, make me to know mine ends and the measure of my days But I may know how frail I am. Behold, thou hast made my days as an hand brush. You say, what in the world is a hand brush? It was one of the smallest measures that they used. It would have been About that distance right there. A cubit would have been about that distance right there. It's a very small measure. He says, my life is short. It doesn't last very long. It's a hand breast. Mine age is nothing before thee. Verily, every man at his best is altogether vanity. Silah, ponder. Think about that. And then in Psalm forty, this is where it's all pointing, we see that that there is Praise after suffering. So David is experiencing growth, he's experiencing reflection, and he's experiencing, we could say, comfort and praise on the other side. Be patient as God brings healing and comfort to your weird soul. In verses 1 and 2, he says, I waited patiently for the Lord and he inclined to me. Realize He can restore the broken and put a new song in our heart. Verse 3, he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God. Now, the reason that I went back over that is to help you to realize that the content that we are examining this morning is packaged in the center of the movement of those three psalms. Growth, reflection, praise. If all we look at is the first one, we don't see the reflection and we don't see the praise. And if all we look at is the second one, We don't see the growth and we don't see the praise. And if all we look at is the third one, we don't see the struggle on the front side of all this. They all go together. It helps us to appreciate what is in front of us. So what I'd like to do secondly is I'd like us to look at the structure and the flow of Psalm 39. What are the pieces? How does David put them together? And then how do we apply what we're looking at this morning? So, first of all, let's look at part one. David's trouble caused him to become conscientious and reflective And I think we can all kind of appreciate this. Something bad happens in your life, and guess what? All of a sudden it's like, oh I need to start reading my Bible again. Has anybody ever done that before? Oh yeah, I've kind of been drifting away from church. I need to get back to church again. You know, if something bad happens in our family, well, we need to start doing family devotions again. And, you know, for the first couple of weeks, we're everybody gather around. Let's sit down, let's sing a song. Let's Read the word, let's talk about this text of scripture, and then you know a couple weeks later, Lord, we're kind of like that's our old red again But notice that when bad things happen and troubles happen, what do we do? We turn to God and we start saying, I've got to get back on track. That's what David is doing here. He is becoming very conscientious. And he's reflecting a lot on the shortness, the brevity of life, and how weak he is. In verses 1 through 6, the first half of this psalm, that's what he's doing. Notice what it says in verses 1 to 3. The conscientious nature of his reaction to God. He did not want to sin against God in his words. In verse 1, he says, I will take heed to my ways that I sin not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle while the wicked is before me. Is there anybody in this room? Don't raise your hand just to think with me. Is there anybody in this room that when you're angry you say things you regret? Two people. Yes, everybody in this room would have to raise their hand and say, oh yeah, there have been a couple times that I've said things to people that I really regretted when I was angry You ever said something when you were angry about someone that got back to them and you really regretted it? You're like, yeah, I've done that one too. You ever said something when you're angry that somebody used against you down the road? Yep, we've been there. Now what is the point? The point is that when we are feeling this pressure inside, sometimes we say things we really do not. We kind of mean them and we kind of don't mean them. You understand what I'm saying? We feel it in the moment, but if we were to step back and look at this thing objectively and say, I don't feel that way towards that person. I don't really mean that I should never say that. And David is feeling this way. He's saying, I don't want to speak in front of these people about God. When I am overwhelmed and I'm frustrated and I'm burning in my heart about God and my circumstances, I don't want to vent, and then that get turned against me down the road. That's what he's saying. The second thing is this internalization of his thoughts became like a fire burning within him I remember when I was a little kid that my mom got my dad a series of, I think they were Kyle and Dalich Old Testament. uh c commentaries and she got him like two commentary set. This is when my dad was in seminary and I was a really little kid. I mean I was old enough to remember this but I was young enough to not remember all of it if that makes sense. So I'm probably like five, six years old, something like that. And I remember when the UPS guy drops off these big boxes, we were all excited. We're like, Mom, what's in it? What's in the box? What's in the box? She's like, It's not for you, it's for your daddy. Like What is it? I can't tell you. It's a birthday present. Oh, please tell us. Please tell us. You can't tell Dad they came. What do you think we did? As soon as my dad gets home from work, walks in the door, hey dad, guess what? Something came today in a box. He's like, oh, really? Oh but we're not supposed to talk about it. Oh really? What kind of a box was it You know what I'm talking about. Inside we're just like, oh, I gotta tell him. I just gotta I can't tell him, but I gotta tell him. Like that's the way that we are feeling But David's not quite in that kind of a sense. It's not, I can't wait to talk about something. He's like, inside, I am boiling and I am breaking. And I'm trying not to say anything, but I can't contain what's inside. Do you see that? The grief is like eating away at David's soul. And David says in verse 2, My sorrow is stirred, and my heart was hot within me while I was musing, the fire burned, and then spake I with my tongue. David is trying so hard to behave himself so that his words aren't used against him, but he can't do it. And what does it tell you about it? He's not doing well. He's not doing well internally. He's struggling. He is being governed by his emotions But then David goes from that response to the second part where he ponders how short life is. In verses 4 to 6. He talks about this in verses 4. He says, Lord, make me to know mine end and the measure of my days what it is, that I may know how frail I am. Behold, thou hast made my days as a hand brass, and my age is nothing. Before thee, verily every man at his best is altogether vanity. David says, I'd like to know how long I'm going to live. How long am I going to handle these kinds of issues? What is the sum and summation of my life going to be? Because the fact is I know it's small, I know it's short, I know it's weak. God let me know what this is. That's what he's saying. And let me ponder that for a few minutes. He wanted God to sober him about how short life is. And then he saw that life outside of God is empty. Verse 6, surely every man walketh in a vain show. Surely they are disquieted in vain. He heapeth up riches and knoweth not who shall gather them. Now this is kind of a sobering thing for us to think about, but sometimes it's good for us to do this. You know, I this week I got to go to a baseball game with my wife. We watched the Orioles like crush Boston. I mean they like they stomped them Anyways, it was a fun game. We had a good time. Love going to baseball games. But there's something that pops in my head at this stage in my life. I don't love baseball like I used to. I really don't. I mean if you would have talked to like a sixteen year old version of me, I was I was more consumed with baseball than my own children are, which is saying something because they're really into it. They know the history and they know the players and They love, what's the score, what's going on? I used to go down and pull out the newspaper not to read anything substantial except the box scores, because I wanted to know what happened that day before. I loved baseball. On this side, you know, it's just a game. I mean it's it's fun. I enjoy it, but it's an entertainment. It's not life. Not making it. They're taking my money. I'm not making money from anybody on baseball It's such a simple little thing. And the fact is, what churned that in my life was an injury when I was in high school. It was an injury in high school that just kind of like reoriented how I looked at who I was and what I was doing at that stage in life. All right, think about going to the hospital and visiting someone who you know you know that they were they made a lot of money in life. They They were they're very well respected in life. They live in a beautiful house, and you could just lay out all the different things that are the positives of life. But when they're sitting in that hospital bed on hospice, guess what? All that stuff doesn't seem to matter very much anymore. I mean, it mattered a lot as you lived through it, but doesn't seem like very much anymore. And all of a sudden you realize that you're sitting in a hospital bed here, and there's somebody in another room in the ICU sitting in a hospital bed there. And there's another person down a little bit more. And at this point in life, what we made in life doesn't matter at all. We're all in the same situation. We're feeling the same physical pains. People are looking at us with the exact same compassions Some of us might be 10, 15, 20 years old, different amongst ourselves. Some of them could have changed diapers for others, but at that point in life, it's all the same. David's like, you know what? Life's pretty empty outside of God. If you don't have God , you don't have the gospel , And you don't have a soul that's secured for eternity. You got nothing. You got absolutely nothing. The money that you make, somebody else is going to get it, and they're probably going to waste it. They're not going to appreciate and somebody's like, I'm going to change my will now. No, I'm not encouraging you to do that. The bottom of the line is you don't know what people are going to do with what you gave them What do you think the founding fathers would think if they'd come and live today and look at this country? They'd be like, wow, we sure gave up a lot for that A lot of people here don't want to talk about those people and the sacrifices they made. They have disdain for them. Yet they enjoy so much because of those sacrifices. I mean it's a stunning thing to consider. So what does David do? He says, surely every man walketh in a vain show. Surely they are disquieted in vain. He heaps up riches. and knoweth not who shall gather them. He says, here's a person. They live their life so burdened down by making the right financial decisions and doing everything just the right way. And they're all going to die. And somebody's going to take what they left. And who knows what they're going to do with it. And they're going to have no, they're going to have no power over how that's going to be used. It's a crazy thing to consider. You say, well, Joel, I didn't come to church to get discouraged like that. Hey, we're just going verse by verse with the Bible, folks, but it's not going to end this way, I promise. Because the next verse is the hinge. It's where things turn a little bit in the Psalm. And by the way, it's where they turn towards the next Psalm, not just through the rest of the Psalm, because the rest of the Psalm doesn't entirely resolve itself. Life apart from God is empty, verse number seven, and now Lord, what wait I for? My hope is in thee. David looks at life and he says, there's a lot of trouble out there, but there's somebody who's beyond this, bigger than this, stronger than this, outside of this. And that's somebody cares about me, and that's God. Lord, my hope is in you. That's what he says. Then we move to the second part of the Psalm, David's meditation on these facts about life. makes him turn to God. In verses 8 through 13, we see that he correctly realized that he needed God to work in his life. Look at verse number 8. He says, deliver me from all my transgressions. Make me not the reproach of the foolish. Remove thy strokes away from me. I am consumed by the blows of thine hand. When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth. Surely every man is vanity. He 's like, God, if you don't show mercy on me, if you don't pour out your grace toward me, if you just deal harshly with me, I'm broken, I'm undone, I have no hope. This is the way that he's thinking as he processes these things. And at the end of the Psalm, he feels this deep sense of desperation. He says, if God does not act quickly, he's in trouble. In verse number 12, he says, Hear my prayer, give ear unto my cry, hold not thy peace at my tears. I am a stranger with thee, a sojourner as all my fathers were. Spare me, that I may recover strength before I go hence and be no more. So we've looked at the psalm this morning. The question is, what are the truths that are found in that text of Scripture? that we can grab a hold of and we can plant our feet on and those truths will give us strength and stability. What are those truths? Well, let me work our way through them. And some of them, they're not going to sound positive, but they're an important piece of this picture. The first truth is that sin creates pain. This fact is repeated numerous times in these three Psalms. Psalm 38, 6. I am troubled, I'm bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day. Verse 8, I am feeble and broken, sore broken, I have roared. by reason of the disquietness of my heart. Verse 10, my heart panteth, my strength faileth, for the light of mine eyes is all gone from me. Chapter 39. There I go. Psalm 39, verse 2. I was dumb with silence. I held my peace even from good. and my sorrow was stirred. My heart was hot within me while I was musing the fire burned. Verse 20 of chap or of Psalm 40. He brought me up also out of an horrible pit And out of the myriad clay. What is David saying in Psalm 38, 39, and 40? He's saying sin really hurts people. Sin is destructive. Sin affects our souls and our circumstances. There are natural consequences that flow from sin's nature. Proverbs 4. The way of the wicked is as darkness. They do not know at what they stumble. When a person moves down a path of sinful choices, it brings complications that didn't have to be there. It brings a deadness and a blindness that did not have to be there. It brings pain and misery. Why? Because sin, when it's finished, brings death. That's why. Sin is destructive. These are natural consequences that flow from this inner sense of right and wrong that we have as God's people, as image bearers. We're creating God's image. That means we have a conscience. Romans chapter 2, verse 14. The Gentiles which have not the law do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not a law are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts. Their conscience also bearing them witness. Fascinating statement. What does that tell you? You know, when you sin and you don't feel good inside, that makes sense. Why? Because you were made in the image of God. You say, well, how do I get away from those feelings of guilt and sorry? Well, you deal with sin biblically. You look at the cross, you look at what Jesus has done for you. You turn to him. God resists the proud. He gives grace to the humble. A person places their faith in Christ, and after they have trusted Christ, they continually remind themselves of the blood of Jesus Christ that cleanses us from every single sin. You can't ignore sin. You can't bury it. You can't cover it. You gotta deal with it. But you gotta deal with it the right way. These are natural consequences that flow. And so sin actually hurts people. We see that in these verses. The second truth is this. Pain causes us to stop and to reflect. Now everybody in this room knows what it's like at some point to have gotten a headache And when you got the headache, what was the first thing you wanted to do? You wanted to take Tylenol. You wanted to take ibuprofen. You wanted something to diminish the pain. But the fact that you have pain means that something needs to be addressed. You know what Tylenol does? Deadens the pain. Doesn't address the issue, just deadens the pain And so four, five, six hours later, depending on how bad it is, they're going back to get more Tylenol, going back to get more idea proof. And why is that? Well, because it deadens The pain. Why do cars have check engine lights? So that we can ignore them, right guys? No, that's not why they're there. To help us to realize there's a problem, we've got to address the issue. Why does God allow us to experience pain? Oh, I know, because he just wants us to be miserable. No, that's not why he does it. It's because when there is trouble, you need to be drawn to see that there's a problem that has to be addressed. When you have a problem in your marriage, guess what? It's not time to cover it up. It's time to ask, why is it there? You have a problem with one of your kids? You have a problem at work, you have a problem with somebody that's over you, under you, whatever the situation, when there is a contention, you need to ask the question, what's the cause of this? A lot of people don't do that. You know what they they run from those issues. They are they're totally unwilling to address those issues. And guess what happens? At some point a husband and wife who loved each other when they got married were ready to kill each other. Like literally, they really are. Why? Because they didn't address the issues. People who love their children, when they held those little babies in their hand, they say, oh, I'm so thankful for this little boy. What a gift from God. And then they're like, so tipped with this child. Why? Because they don't address the issues. And so God uses pain to make us stop and reflect. And that's exactly what we see in these verses in front of us. Initially, this reflection is usually counterproductive because we're not thinking, we're feeling. And because we're we're making decisions based on the impulse and based on the feeling, we don't do it the right way. And that's what we see in these verses. For instance, in Psalm 38, verse 1, what does David say? He says, Rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. Your arrows stick fast in me, and thine hand presseth me sore. He felt as if God was his enemy. He's using the language of someone going to battle and shooting an arrow at them, but is that the way God deals with his children? It says him the Lord loves he chastens. God isn't there trying to crush this man. He loves this man. David doesn't feel that way. The scriptures say that there's now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Yet what does this man say? He says, Don't rebuke me in your wrath or chasten me in your hot displeasure. David's immediate response was not one that was helpful. It was totally out of emotion. We feel that he's abandoned us in verse 21 of Psalm 38. He says, Forsake me not, O Lord. O my God, be not far from me. But was God far from him? Well, no. He'll never leave us or forsake us. So why did David say that? Because that's how he felt. You say, well, is that how I feel? Well, you've been there. Yes, you felt the exact same way with God. We're afraid to speak to him about our innermost thoughts, as if God is unaware of what's going on right here with us. God said, David writes in another passage of Scripture that you know my thoughts afar off. Before I speak, you know what is in my mouth. Yet in Psalm 39, verse 2, he says, I was dumb with silence and I held my peace even from good. My sorrow was stirred, my heart was hot within me, while I was musing, the fire burned. Why is David saying that? He's afraid of God. He's afraid to speak up. Now there are some situations where maybe we should be afraid to speak. If you're in front of a person that's got a really bad temper and every time there's a conflict it becomes really dangerous. Well, I can understand a person being uncomfortable in that situation, but is God like that with us? No. He loves us worse children In Psalm 39, verse 13, he says, Spare me, that Amy recover strength before I go hence and be no more. You know what David's saying there? God leave me. Leave me alone. Leave me alone. You ever done that with a person who cares about you? A person that they get up the courage to walk up to you, say, are you okay? G get away. I don't want to talk to you. You ever done that? He's doing that with God. Why is that? Well, because our initial response sometimes isn't very good. If not processed in the light of Scripture, it will lead to despair and further misery. But here is the key. If processed in the light of Scripture, it will eventually lead to deeper communion with God, strength, and wisdom and spiritual maturity. str Do you see how there's like two different roads there? Same circumstances. One could lead to more misery. More trouble, the other leads to spiritual maturity, strength, growth, and we see God like we never saw Him before. What's the difference? It's how you process it. It's not the circumstance, folks. It's what you do with it. It's whether or not you let the word of God come to bear on your life in that situation, or you blow it off and you do your own thing. You may be in a crossroad right now as you sit in this place this morning. Or maybe you're on the live stream and the bottom line is you're at that crossroad and you can take that path or that path. And God says, take the right one. You see how how do I do it? Get in the word. Get in the word. Truth number three. Our lives really are short Verses 5 and 6 he says, Mine age is as nothing before thee. Verily, every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Surely every man walketh in a vain show. Surely they are disquieted in vain. He heapeth up riches and knoweth not who shall gather them. People live their life to greedily take as much as they can and they store it up and then they die It's like the story where Jesus is talking about a man who loved his riches and he he looks out over his stuff and he builds up barns and he says Soul, you have so much ease. Build up barns and just enjoy the rest of life. And Jesus says he didn't know. At night, his soul will be required of him. You know how many people save their whole lives to build their dream house house and they never live in it? It's true. It happens. Why is that? You don't know what's coming down the pipe. You don't know what's next in life. Our lives are short. Even those who live to be very old live very short time in the light of human history and eternity. Even those who live very meaningful lives in their generation are forgotten or misrepresented by later generations. Pastor Josh went to uh to DC with his family. They walked around the Capitol. And at the end of that walk around the Capitol, he asked His wife asked the tour guide, aren't there a lot of scripture references in this building? She said something like, Yeah, there might be Really? Somebody put them there? Why'd they put them there? Because they believe they're important. Yeah, here's somebody who's doing a tour of the capital. Not taking the time to say, hey, let me tell you about that person right there and the contribution they made to this nation. Hey let me tell you about that scripture right there and why that was so important to the people that said we need to put that there. They didn't take the time to do that. Why is that? Well, because when a generation comes and it goes, sometimes it's forgotten. I remember I was in England several years ago and we went to these old, old cemeteries. And there in the cemeteries we saw the names of some very, very well-known people, uh writers. theologians, historians. People that if I if I mentioned their name, you'd go, I know that person. Might have sung one of their hymns recently. I was reading a a a book that was written by one of these men recently. And the fact is that most of the people that live in that part of London who walk right past those graveyards don't know anything about the people that were buried there They don't know anything about them. They don't know about their contribution to literature. They don't know anything about their contribution to theology. Didn't know anything about their contribution to hymnology? None of it. The point is, even those who distinguish themselves and their generations are quickly forgotten. Even those who are strong and wise and deeply motivated are only highly effective for a short portion of their lives. Think about this. How much of your life was lived in folly as a young man or young woman? You know, it's like You learn all these lessons the hard way, and then you have the wisdom and the sense to actually do something with that knowledge, and then you don't have the strength to do it. It's like it's like the torture of life right there, right? Strong, wise, motivated, effective. But your whole life is not like that. The fact is life is short. Truth number four. God cares about us despite the brevity of our lives. Don't miss this. This sounds so negative, but do you realize God cares about you even though you're only here for a little while? Even though there's all these limitations to our lives, God cares about us God wanted to redeem your soul. God worked personally in your life to bring you to the point where you heard the gospel, understood the gospel, were convicted of the gospel, trusted in Christ alone. God personally works in our lives through all the ups and the downs. He cares. Truth number five, a correct worldview does not insulate us from the deep discouragements. That are around us, but it does give us the tools to see the redemptive value of these seasons. If you're a Christian, you're going to suffer. But you have the tools to overcome. There's a difference. If you're trying to insulate your children from every single hardship in life, you will never accomplish it. You know what you need to do? Give them the tools to deal with that stuff. Teach them how to function in a fallen world. So that when it comes, they will meet it triumphantly. Choose six, our feelings do not necessarily reflect our reality. The final words of Psalm 38 are these Forsake me not, O Lord my God. Be not far from me. Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. Does that sound like he's real confident? I don't think it does. The final words of Psalm 39, oh spare me that I may recover strength before I go hence and be no more. Does that sound very positive? The first words of Psalm 40, I waited patiently for the Lord. I don't even know how David could write that. I waited patiently for the Lord. The language is in waiting, I was waiting. That's what he said. I waited patiently for the Lord and he acclined into me. He heard my cry. He bought and brought me up out of a warble pit. Out of the myre clay, he set my feet on a rock and established my going. He put a new song in my heart, even praise to our God. Many shall see and fear and put their trust in the Lord. What's the point? The point is, David didn't know he was going to write Psalm 40 when he was finished in Psalm 39. And he didn't know he was going to write Psalm 40 after Psalm 38. He said, please come to me and help me. Leave me alone. God says, I'm here. And he does it. That's the God we serve. That's the God that sometimes we get so angry with and we get so frustrated. With. He's working in our lives. How do you apply this? Well, we've got to prepare for difficult seasons. We cannot hide ourselves from all. There are some things like, yeah, we We paved the road for that. A lot of things like that. But not everything. We've got to arm our minds now with truth so that we are prepared for these seasons. The time to prepare is when you are not yet there. You prepare for battle before you're in the battle. That's the way it works. When they come, we've got to turn to God quickly. We've got to immerse ourselves in Scripture. We've got to allow ourselves to be strengthened through the counsels of godly people. God gives us the church so that we could get into the Word together and we can turn to God together and we can bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ and we can stir one another up to love and to good works. That's what it's all about. We need to be sobered by the shortness of our lives, but comforted by God's condescension and concern for us in a very personal way. We need to learn to distrust our emotions and speak to ourselves when how we feel and reality are not aligned. That's a big one, folks. You know how many people they make decisions based on how they feel? They are throwing their lives in the garbage because they have made reality how they feel. That's what they've done. You've got to distrust your feelings, folks. What is true is what your feet need to be planted on. And so we need To speak to ourselves with truth when our feelings are not aligned with reality. And lastly, we need to take comfort in the ultimate end that God has appointed for these seasons. Psalm 40 is coming. It's going to take us a month to get there, but it's coming. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Before we close in prayer, there might be someone in our midst who you're very overwhelmed and you need to reach out. Please don't hesitate to do that You can reach out by email, call the church office , you can speak to me after the service. There's lots of different ways you can reach out. But if you are in a situation where you need the word of God to be brought to bear, please don't hesitate to reach out. There might be someone here that doesn't know the Lord is their Savior. The fact is, if you haven't trusted Christ as your Savior, there's no way that your feet can be planted on these truths. Because you've got to start with the basics. You need to be saved from your sin and reconciled to God. And if you don't know the Lord as your Savior, I hope that today you'll reach out so that you can know for certain that when you die, you're going to heaven. So please don't hesitate to reach out if you need to do it. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Our Father, thank you for the Word of God. Thank you for this psalm and the movement from Psalm 38 to Psalm 40. Help us to be strengthened by what we've heard today. Help us not to leave this place without getting the help and the encouragement that we may need. Help us to find godly people who can help bear our burdens if that's what we need. Help us to be willing and ready to encourage and uplift those who maybe need that. If there's anyone here who's not saved, I pray they turn to Christ before it's too late. We pray for you to work in our midst and in our lives, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's take out our hymn books and turn to hymn number three hundred and seventy-one. 371, it's a passion for thee. We're going to sing the first and the last verses. So let's stand together, please, and this will be our closing hymn. 371. Said my heart, oh dear father, for me and he will be on the For me, my forget some me , a team, can I? And a thirst for my God. I can have in part, not just to men of my heart. Father, fill me thy given and give me for service. And love for Christ and before given. Lead me to the mother in the submission. In now my joy will be that Ah God for me Ordinary my soul and then for my God here I prefer what I have in part, not just winter, but in love me with all my heart. Great song. Well, hopefully you'll be able to join us again tonight as we'll be back in the Word of God. Also, we will be have the Lord's table this evening, so I wanted to remind you of that as well. We're working our way through Saul and David, and the passage we're looking at this evening is an important one in that story as we will transition focus toward David. A lot of it hinges on the text we're looking at tonight. So hopefully you'll be able to join us again for that tonight. And I know it's the summer season, so please pray for those who are traveling. And there are a lot of folks that are going to be in and out over the next several months, so let's keep them in prayer. Brother Suit, can you come and close in prayer, please? And it's good to see each of you this morning. If you're visiting, I hope that you'll stop by and greet my wife and I when you're heading out. Dear Havenry Father, we thank you for this day, Lord. We thank you for that coming and hear your word. Thank you for the freedom. For all the people that gave their lives, that we have this freedom, that we're able to come and hear your word. We remember the Solomon said, Our life is in the butt of vapor. And that we need to give it to you. I pray that there's anyone, anyone here that's not sure that they're saved, that they would take the time to speak to one of us. That maybe today would be the day that they come to be one of your sons or daughters, Lord. We thank you for meeting our needs, Lord. We thank you for taking care of our church and protecting us. I pray now as we go out into our friends, our families, and our jobs, Lord. Pray you might use us as beacons to be able to reach out and share your word to our friends, our families, and our neighbors. We thank you again for all you've done for us, Lord. But thank you for our pastor and for giving him the words to say this morning, Lord. And I thank you again for all you've done. Amen.