Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. Today we are back in Ecclesiastes chapter seven. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and let's look together. at Ecclesiastes seven and we're reading verses seven through nine together. Here's what the scriptures say Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad, and a gift destroyeth the heart. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof, and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry, for anger resteth in the bosom of fools. Now as we come to this passage of scripture, I think it's ironic that we're going to be talking about bridling passions, especially after watching what was called a debate last night. So let's go ahead and look at this important topic. Which obviously is not something that either of the national candidates um were going to live in the light of, but we should ourselves Anyway, here's a summary statement. The following section of Ecclesiastes reminds us that learning to control our passions is an essential discipline when walking in wisdom. And when Solomon deals with this topic, what he's going to do is he's going to give us several situations that we can look at as tests of whether or not our passions are being bridled. When we talk about passions, we could be talking about things like anger. He's going to address that. We could talk about something like greed. He could talk about something like fear. Really, these are different kinds of passions, responses that we can experience when we're in certain kind of situations. So he gives several test scenarios. In fact, we're going to talk about four of these tests today where our passions need to be bridled, and we really will demonstrate the kind of character and the kind of wisdom that we're walking in in those kinds of circumstances. So the first test that he talks about is the test of oppression. When he talks about oppression, he's talking about a person who's either under authority or he's it he's in a situation that he really can't control and he's being treated unjustly. In verse 7 he says, oppression maketh a wise man mad. Now when he talks when when we when we see this word mad, I don't want you to think of it as something that's anger as much as someone who's lost their sensibility And we talk about anger, a person many times has lost their sensibility, and in their responses they are demonstrating that they've lost a sense of sensibility. But when we talk about a person being mad, he's saying this is a person who's lost their senses. They're not thinking clearly. They're not acting in a rational manner. And he says, when a person's under oppression, in other words, they're feeling this pressure, this injustice that they're under, he said that's one of those scenarios where our control of self is going to be put to the test. In other words, pressure is something that exposes what's actually going on inside of a person's heart. A person can say, I believe such and such, but the reality is that it's circumstance, and how we respond in circumstance that demonstrates if what we call our beliefs are actually core values that that really guide what we say and what we do and how we respond. People who are in desperate situations often do desperate things. People that would normally be very honest will be dishonest because of the pressures that they're under. People who wouldn't who wouldn't steal something. All of a sudden because they're afraid, because they're thinking about themselves and not the people around them, they may steal under a pr a an oppressive situation We could talk about a person using manipulation and force to get things that they want. Basically what Solomon's saying is you could have a person that appears to have wisdom, sound judgment, but under the test of being oppressed, dealing with an injustice, that person will begin to act in a way that is unsensible and undisciplined. A second test that he talks about is the test of flattery or the test of bribes. So he goes from a person that's under an oppressive rule to a person who is the ruler. And the question is, how does this person who is the ruler respond when he is put to the test? Because it's not just people that are poor, not just people that don't have a lot of strength in position. It's people in every single walk of life that ultimately will be tested as whether or not they have godly wisdom. And so in verse 7 he says, a gift destroyeth the heart. When he talks about a gift in this context, he's talking about a person who's giving a bribe to distort judgment. In other words, this person needs to make a judgment call. They're in the position to make the judgment call. They need to act justly. And somebody who is under them is going to use a gift, some kind of flattery. It could be words, it could be something of substance, it could be an opportunity And they use that to distort the judgment of the person who's supposed to be making a justice decision. In other words, this gift This these sweet words are things that can play into a person's pride and can play into a person's greed And so Solomon says, look, a person that's in power can demonstrate a lack of control of their sensibilities because of something that's given to them in a moment. He then gives a third test, and that's the test of process. The idea is that when we set out to do something, it takes time And in the midst of that process taking time, we're going to encounter difficulties. And how we respond under those circumstances is going to demonstrate whether or not we're successful in what we're doing, or whether or not something ends up becoming a failure that we quit at. And verse 80 says, better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof, and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Now what's interesting is when he talks about something beginning and something ending, and someone being patient versus someone being proud, we need to understand that really these two ideas are connected together. In other words, the process is something that reveals whether or not a person is proud or patient. The process reveals whether something that is started actually ends up getting finished and someone being successful. And so when we set out to do something, it's really easy to be self-confident, to convince other people that we know what we're going to do, we have a plan. We have the tools that we need to accomplish the plan. We're going to be successful in an endeavor. And so when we set out, we can we can really talk about it as if everything is set and it's going to work out just fine. But the reality is that in the midst of the process, over time we'll see whether or not our endeavor was successful or not. I'll give you an example in my own personal life And that's this issue of missionaries going to the foreign field. When you meet a missionary on deputation, that missionary on deputation many times is probably spent maybe a month, couple of weeks in the country that they're going to. They basically have information about foods, a little bit about culture, a little bit about about some knowledge about language. But the person that's preparing to go to the mission field and raising support on deputation really has very little practical knowledge of the context that they're walking into. But if you talk to a missionary who's on deputation, who's getting ready to go to the field, it's amazing the things that they'll tell you they're going to do and that they're planning to do. And I say they I've been in the same situation So it's personal. I understand what it's like to be in this place. But the reality is all the things that we say we're going to do when we're on deputation. We go to a church and here's our here's our philosophy of ministry and this is how we're going to set out we're gonna plant churches and this is how we're gonna train people and these are our goals and how many churches we're gonna start in this period of time. We can talk about all those kinds of things. But here's the reality. Once you get to the field and you start working with real people in a real context. All of a sudden you realize that your plans may not come to pass even remotely close to what you thought was going to happen. Nearly every missionary that ends up on a foreign field, their initial plans are completely set to the side and they have to make adjustments and they have to actually work within the context that they have or they will not actually accomplish anything close to what they started to set out to accomplish. Well the reason for that is because process is a is a very difficult test. When we start a process, we can be overconfident We can believe that we've got everything figured out, but when we get into the midst of the con of that of that that process We start realizing that there are difficulties we never even thought about. There are difficulties we never prepared for. There are adjustments that we need to make. There are changes that we have to make. And how we respond in those circumstances. If we're inflexible, if we quit, or if we're going to be patient, we're going to listen to other people, we're going to humbly admit I was wrong in that context. If we're not willing to do that, then we won't be successful. And that's the sense that Solomon's trying to express. It's better when we finish than when we start. It's better to be patient. That means we keep bearing under that load. We make the changes we need to make. We adjust. We learn. We change. Rather than being proud and inflexible and saying, I said I was going to do it this way, I purposed to do it this way, I'm going to do it this way, and you won't complete the task. Actually completing a task involves solving problems, making adjustments, admitting failures, working through difficulties to find good solutions. And the person who's patient and the person who's not proud and the person who's going to keep working in the task is going to make those adjustments Many people quit when those first things arise. And so Solomon is indicating that look, one of the ways that our passions are going to be tested is through process. Through that long duration, through the changes we need to make, how will we respond? The fourth test we're going to mention is this, the test of frustration. And verse 90 says, Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry, for anger resteth in the spirit of fools, or excuse me, in the bosom of fools. And this next little test he talks about, he talks about the test of frustration. And the idea that when we're involved in something, there are different difficulties we'll encounter. And we're going to respond to those difficulties. And the reality is that when we feel the pressure and the frustration of unmet expectations of things not going the way that we anticipated them going We , can either get angry, which will lead to destructive ends, and we can get frustrated, or we can make a calculated change that leads to a constructive resolution. And so Solomon basically says, frustration is a test of passion as well. Am I going to quit? Am I going to become angry? Am I going to do something destructive? Or am I going to make a calculated change based on good judgment? Am I going to learn from the people around me? Am I going to draw strength from those around me? Are we going to work together as a team and have a constructive resolution? Or are we just going to explode in anger? And it's interesting in this verse, he kind of alludes to two different expressions of anger. The one is that hasty, explosive kind, where he talks about being hasty in spirit, being soon angry. And then he talks about kind of that smoldering, boiling, seething, kind of this bitterness that's under the surface It's not necessarily explosive, but it's just as dangerous. It's just as potentially destructive. In fact, it could be even more destructive because It's under the surface. It's not seen at the time. It just comes at moments. And so he talks about someone having anger resting in his bosom. So when Solomon talks about frustration and how a person who has unbridled passions responds He's talking about explosive anger , and he's talking about a boiling anger. So we've looked at four different tests this morning The test of oppression, the test of that flattery or bribe, the test of process, and the test of frustration. And so the question we have today is, how can we practically apply what we've talked about? Well let me give you just a couple of simple thoughts that I jotted down this morning as I was reading this passage and reflecting on it. The first is this, we have to learn to control our passions. It's absolutely necessary. It's essential. In fact, it's interesting. Last night as I was watching the debate, I'll call it a debate. I don't know if that's really what it was. But as I was watching that night, as I reflect back on it I asked myself the question, how would I have felt had my children been awake and sitting in the room watching two grown men who are in their 70s who 've really done a lot in life, who've been involved in the public forum for a long, long time, basically screaming at each other and talking over one another and lying about one another and lying to one another. How would I have responded if my kids were sitting there? I would have had to stop the debate, turn off and say, son, that's not how we resolve issues That's not how we get to good conclusions. That's not how we talk to one another. That's not how we respond. We don't call people fools and we don't tell them to shut up and things like that. The reality is that we need to actually control our emotions, control our passions. And the fact is, what we saw last night in a debate between three people, a moderator included The reality is that that's the way a lot of people talk to each other in their homes. That's the way a lot of husbands and wives talk to each other. That's the way a lot of siblings relate to one another. That's the way a lot of people relate to one another in their jobs. We can be appalled by seeing two politicians talking to one another in a public debate that way, but the reality is, the sad reality, is that within our culture, that is all too common in our personal lives And when we see two people doing it, it's repulsive to us. But sometimes we just step back and realize we're doing the exact same thing in our personal lives. And the bottom line is we need to control our emotions. We need to control our passions. And Solomon says, listen, here are four places where our passions are going to be put to the test. And we're either going to respond in humility and in grace and in dignity and in self-control, or we're going to respond in outbursts of passion, greed. Anger, frustration, whatever it may be. The second point is this: we need to realize that self-control only develops through a process of dealing with difficulties. The way that we grow and the way that we mature, the way that we actually develop in our character is by going through difficulties and process. When we go into a situation and something begins to get very frustrating and difficult to us, we can throw up our hands and say, what did I do to deserve this? Or we can realize that this is an opportunity for me to mature and to grow deeper and to grow more settled and to respond correctly. In other words, I learn how to bridle passion as I go through frustration and difficulty. I won't grow if I don't experience those difficulties. And because we are fallen people, dealing with fallen people, living in a fallen world, then there are endless opportunities for us to learn how to bridle our passions so that we grow in depth and maturity. And the third point I want to make is this. Self-control, in the sense that we see it in the scriptures, is really a fruit of the spirit And so the reality is as we grow in spiritual maturity, our ability to control those emotions and those passions is something that grows over time. And it's really not about us controlling our emotions. As much as it is being a person who is filled with the Spirit, who's dominated by the Holy Spirit's presence in their life. A person who the Word of Christ is dwelling in them richly, and as the Word of God is what dominates our hearts What dominates our minds, what changes our dispositions, what changes how we relate in circumstances. As the Word of God takes root in our hearts, the response will be guarded, self-controlled uh uh uh when it comes to this issue of passions. In other words, rather than us responding in an arrogant way, we're going to respond in a way that is self-controlled and spirit guided So as we think about this passage before us this morning, I hope that it'll be a challenge to you. I hope that it'll be an encouragement to you. I know in our nation there is so much going on. And last night was just another example of that. We're just able to see the two sides debating one another in the way that they did it. But I want you to realize as we see that, let's realize that That might be the way that we live on a daily basis. And so if it bothers us there, it should bother us in our homes as well. I hope that this has been a challenge to you today. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then I hope that you have a great rest of your day. Father, I thank you for the opportunity to study the passage in front of us. Help us to be guided by the Holy Spirit, dominated by your word Not people have unbridled passions. Help us to walk in godly wisdom. I pray that you be with our nation. Father, we're reminded that we are a nation that has departed far from you. And the reality is that we are experiencing the fruit of years, almost generations now, of people who have rejected God and the Bible. I pray that you'd help us to be a nation who humbles ourselves. And recognizes our need to turn back to you. I pray that Christians would be salt and light, would be very distinct and different in a world that is so broken and so dark. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to talk to each of you this morning. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, we'll meet back together in Ecclesiastes chapter 7 tomorrow. Bye now.