And the rest of you, let's take our Bibles, please, and turn to Proverbs chapter 16. Proverbs chapter 16. And the topic that we're looking at tonight is a very, very important topic, and we will actually this will go into a couple of uh sessions to I don't know, maybe three. We'll see. Kind of at the rate that we go. But the study that we're going to be looking at here is wisdom in God's providence Wisdom in God's providence. And so as we're going through the book of Proverbs, I think one of the things that sometimes people misunderstand about the book of Proverbs is they kind of look at The book of Proverbs as if it's just a book of practical insights, whether God's in the picture or not. It's practical insight, it's wisdom. And it is true that there are certain uh things about our work ethic and things like that that whether you're a Christian or not, if you apply those principles, you're going to have an effective working environment. But what we need to realize when we come to the Book of Proverbs is that the Book of Proverbs is just not about practical insight, as if God couldn't be in the picture or not, but the book of Proverbs is wisdom in the light of who God is. And so when we look at this this important topic, we need to understand that when it comes to decision making, when it comes to dealing with things practically, something that needs to shape our worldview and how we look at our circumstances Is that there's a God in heaven who is in control. He is sovereign. He works providentially in our lives. And so what I want to do is I want to begin by looking at that particular topic. And we'll go to Proverbs 16. We'll look at verses 1 to 33, though we'll not read all 33 verses. We'll read the first several verses and then we'll skip to verse 33. Proverbs 16, 1. The preparations of the heart in man and the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes, but the Lord weigheth the spirits. Commit thy works unto the Lord, and thy thoughts shall be established The Lord hath made all things for himself, yea, even the wicked for the day of evil. Every one that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord. Though hand joint in hand, he shall not be unpunished. By mercy and truth iniquity is purged, and by the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him Better is a little with righteousness than great revenue without rights. A man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. A divine sentence is in the lips of the king, and his mouth transgresseth not in judgment. A just weight and balance are the Lord's. All the weights of the bag are his work. The lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. When we read the book of Proverbs and we come to chapter 16, the primary theme that just dominates that chapter is that God is in control. Now when we say that God is in control, that doesn't mean that we don't have a free will, where we have no ability to make choices, or that God micromanages every single detail about every single decision that we make. When we talk about God's providence, we need to understand it's a very deep topic. It's a topic that nobody fully understands. And we're going to look at some verses that really articulate that with clarity. But when we talk about God's providence, there are certain guidelines, there are certain principles, there are certain truths that we can look at that are very clearly stated in God's Word. And those truths are going to help us to stay on the right path as to how we look at this issue of God's providence or sovereignty. So the purpose of this passage is to give godly wisdom in the context of God's providence. Why does Solomon write these things to his son? It's because he wants his son to rest in God's providence. That's what God wants for you. That's what God wants for me. And so the question is: how can we do that? I'm going to begin in section one by looking at this topic or this truth. We need to understand the mystery of God's providence. Now, when I make a statement like that, you're probably going, understand a mystery. Great, that sounds really good. Well, part of understanding a mystery is you're understanding it to the extent that you can, and you're willing to leave alone what you can't understand, okay? And so to the depths that you can dig in and understand that topic, you need to do that. But we need to make sure that we don't assume things that God doesn't state, that we don't add to what the scripture says. Or when we come to other passages that maybe we have a hard time with, we don't cut them short and refuse to maybe say what God says. So in this section we're going to look at this topic. The first is this, God's sovereignty defined. What do we mean, or what do what do I mean when I use the term God is sovereign? God's sovereignty is his right to rule as he sees fit, all that he has created. It's his right to rule as he chooses or as he sees fit. All that he created. Now let me give you an example of God exercising sovereignty. God creates Adam and Eve, he puts them in the Garden of Eden, and this is what he says to Adam. Every single animal that you see, I want you to name it. And so God observed as Adam named the animals. Now did God tell him what to name the animals? No. Well, someone would say, well, then Adam was sovereign, not God. No. Adam was fulfilling a duty that God had given to him. Okay? That was God's sovereignty. He was exercising his rule in that way. Or another example is this. God tells Adam, he says, you can eat the fruit of every tree in the garden. Save one. And that tree, if you eat that fruit on the day you eat it, you're gonna die. Okay? God's sovereignty So he didn't tell Adam, You can eat this one, go eat that one right now. And that one's good, go eat that one right now. He said, You can eat the ones that you want. Except that one right there. If you eat that one right there, on the day you eat it, here's the consequence So Adam decides to disobey God. He violates God's law. He only had one law. If you want to put it that way. One thing he was told, don't do it. And he goes and he takes the fruit and he eats it, know exactly what he was going to do. And God exercises his sovereignty again. What did he do? He kicked him out of the garden. He held him responsible But then after that event takes place, what does God do? God tells him here's the curse that's going to be on you and on your wife and on the creation and the role that you're supposed to play. Here's how sin and being spiritually dead is going to affect you But he says, I'm going to send a savior. Again, God exercises his sovereignty. So when we say that God is sovereign, what we're basically saying is he has the right to rule what is his. If he made it, it belongs to him. And he can rule it however he chooses to rule it. So we don't have the right to say, well God, the the fact that you let that situation go as long as it did, you didn't have the right to do that Or the fact that you cut short that particular situation as quickly as you did, you didn't have the right to do that. We can't say that to God. Because He is the creator and we're the creature. Colossians 1. 16 says this, by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions. or principalities or powers, all things were created by him, and here's the next phrase, very important, and for him One of the biggest problems that we encounter in our lives is that we fail to remember and live in the light of that truth that we belong to God. He doesn't necessarily belong to us, okay? We're under his authority. He's not under our authority. He created us for his glory And his power is demonstrated in that. And then he says this, and before all things, and by him all things consist. That verse goes beyond just saying that God made the world, but he literally holds it together. And so the fact that you and I get up in the morning and we breathe and we enjoy the things that we enjoy, it's because God is holding things together. If God removed his hands and just let the world go and do its thing, it would self-destruct. That's what would happen. And so when we say that God's sovereign, we say that he is in control, he has the right to rule, and by all means he is managing his creation by his own way and for his own purposes. Another passage that talks about this is Daniel 4, 34. And I really love this passage, and I want to kind of highlight a couple of things that Nebuchadnezzar says It says, I Nebuchadnezzar lifted up my eyes to heaven, and mine understanding returned unto me. And I blessed, here's a very important phrase, the Most High. Now there was nobody in the world who had the power that this man had. Yet he acknowledges, because he was humbled by God. He acknowledges that God is the most high. He says, I prayed and honored him that liveth forever. And then he says, whose dominion is an everlasting dominion. Or we could use another term. We could use the term sovereignty. Or his kingdom, because that's really they're they're kind of parallel ideas. So when we say that God's sovereign, we're saying he's the king, he's the ruler of his creation. It says his kingdom is from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. And he doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand. You know, if I shake my fist at God and say, God, I'm going to do what I want, and you can't stop me, he's going to go, Really? You can't stop God. Now that doesn't mean that God won't allow me to live for a while thinking I can. Okay. But I can't. I can't I can't just do anything that I want. One day I'm going to be held to account. One day God's going to say, enough's enough. No. And he's going to remind me that I'm a creature. It's exactly what he did with this man Nebuchadnezzar. He goes on later and he says this, all whose works are truth, and his ways judgment, and those that walk in pride. He's able to obeys. I don't want you to miss what he says. All of God's works are truth. That means that the way that God manages and governs his creation is according to what is true. And that knowledge of what is true is everything, it's unlimited. God manages the world based on perfect knowledge. Two, his ways are judgment And that word judgment means that they're righteous. What God does is not only based on infinite wisdom and knowledge, but it's based on what is right. God will never do what's wrong. God's never going to manage his creation in a way that's immoral or wrong. It's always right. And Nebuchadnezzar understands that And then it says, those that walk in pride, he is able to obey. That is a really interesting statement. What that statement tells us is that God lets people walk in pride. Okay? And while they're walking in pride, they're thinking, I can do what I want. What does God say? He's able to abase them No matter how strong, no matter how vicious, no matter how arrogant, that person can be stopped by God at any moment. I mean, it was Alexander the Great who conquered the world and then died in his 30s. Okay? It's it's what happened. And it's interesting. Medical science talks about they've revisited the symptoms of what happened, and there are medical doctors today that believe that he probably was actually in a vegetative state for a period of time long enough to hear the men that were going to take over his kingdom fight about who was going to get it. And he couldn't communicate. He just laid there in a vegetative state. He couldn't do anything. And they said he probably had the ability to hear what was being said. Can you imagine the most powerful man in the world at that time, 37 years old, and he's cut like that. The point is this. God manages the world based on infinite knowledge. He always does what is right, and God gives people freedom, but he limits it. And when God says no, it's done. That's the way he handles things in the world. Number two I want to define God's providence. You say, well, I thought providence and sovereignty were the same thing. Well, they're actually not. They're closely associated with one another. Sovereignty is talking about the fact that God is the ruler. Providence is talking about how he rules. In other words, when we talk about how God manages a situation , How God deals with people who are proud, who are humble, how God deals with people in prayer, all those things. How God deals with somebody as he's convicting them of sin, righteousness and judgment, and they come to place their faith in Christ. God's providence is the description of how God manages and how God rules. It's the way he chooses to personally govern as the sovereign. And this is really important. I use the term personally because there are a lot of people today that think God doesn't personally work in our lives. Lots and lots of people will tell you, you know what? If you ask me, does the God exist, they'll say, Yeah, I think so. I mean, there's no explanation for the way this world is. If there wasn't a being that made it But then if you ask them, do you think that that God who made the world, he still cares about it, they'd say, eh , not sure. Do you think that he's actively involved in the world today? They'd say, hmm , I don't know. Why don't they think? Why don't they know? Because of the way they observe what goes on in the world, they say, certainly a God who can make this world and has that kind of power, he isn't going to let people do what they're doing. Why doesn't he work more actively in my own life? And it's not that God isn't working in people's lives, it's that they don't have the eyes to see it. But we talk about God's providence. We're talking about the way that he chooses to personally govern as the sovereign. God chooses to work in very significant ways. There are times that God works in miraculous ways. Maybe you're praying for somebody who has a major health crisis. And there's no way that the doctors can help that person come around. It's impossible. You ask the doctors what are the chances? They're like I I don't want to say zero, but i it's not good. Ten percent? Five? I don't know. It I'd never seen a person pull through this before. And you pray, and what does God do? He answers. And the doctors say, I don't understand how this happened. This is a miraculous situation. What I saw on that CAT scan is gone. I can't explain that. I mean I'm looking at a picture, it's right here, and I'm looking at it again, and it's not. I don't I don't know how to explain that Well, there are times that God does the miraculous. Jesus did feed 5,000 people for the little boy's lunch. He's breaking it and he just keeps passing it out. It just keeps going. There are times that God works that way. Even today, God can perform the miraculous, and He does. I'm not saying it's something we see all the time, but the reality is we wouldn't pray if we didn't believe that God can do that, and God does do that. But a lot of the ways that God manages the world are through ordinary means, ordinary circumstances. Things that you and I don't necessarily recognize God's hand until after the fact. After we look back sometimes, we're like, why did I make that decision? And all of a sudden you see all these things. That you didn't notice them before, but as you look back, you go, man, God did that and he did that. And he did that, and he put all these things together. And if it wasn't for the arrangement of those details, this could have never happened. It just, it was God who did it. And as Christians, we have the great privilege of seeing that that is how God works. The primary way that God manages his creation is through ordinary means. And you might say, well, you know, what about like when I get sick? And what about when I have a terrible situation at work and a relational problem and all these kinds of things? The things seem to be falling apart. Does God care about that? Is his hand still involved in those things? That's not outside of his control. It's not outside of his control. And we'll talk about that in a little bit. But notice some of these scriptures. Colossians chapter 1, verse 17. I mentioned it before. He is before all things, by him all things consist. God manages. God holds the world together. He keeps things moving as they need to be, function properly. Romans 11, 25 to 36, a very complicated passage, but I want you to kind of see what is being stated here. He says this, I would not, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery. Interesting word. It means there's a lot that God didn't reveal. And up to that point, there's a lot he didn't explain. But he's talking about the fact that the Jewish people Who God entered into a covenant agreement with. He gives these unconditional promises to Abraham and then to Isaac and then to Jacob. That group of people, as Paul is writing this letter to the church at Rome, They are as a nation rejecting the Messiah. There are individual Jews who are saved, but as a nation as a whole, they've rejected the Messiah. And he says, how in the world are they still God's people? And what about all these promises that God made? I don't understand how all this works out. And here's what he says Lest you should be wise in your own conceit. Blindness impart has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles become in. Now notice what he says. Blindness in part. There's really two ways you could look at that. Either one, he's saying that not all Jews are spiritually blind. Some are saved. And that could be what he's saying. Or he could also be saying this. This is a part of what's the reason behind what has happened. In other words, I can't give you all the reasons that God has done what he's done, but I can give you one. And this one's really important. And this piece is one that is confounding you. And if I just explain it to you, then you go, okay, now I think I get a better picture of what God's doing. He says, blindness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles become in. And so all Israel shall be saved. What's interesting is he's saying the Jews rejected the Messiah. God sends the gospel to the Gentiles. Gentiles get saved in large numbers. And at a certain point in time, God says, now I'm going to start focusing my attention back on the Jews. And I'm even going to use the Gentile nations to bring the gospel to the Jewish people and to provoke them to jealousy. And through the preaching of the gospel These people are going to come to understand it and place their faith in Christ. And so I'm actually managing this situation as a sovereign God. It doesn't mean that people uh are being forced according you know against their will to not be saved or they're being forced to get saved. The fact is those who are rejecting are rejecting because that's what they want to do. And those who are embracing the gospel are embracing because God has convicted them, and there's a repentance of heart, and there's faith in Christ. But God is ultimately behind the scenes working these events. bringing individuals into place, bringing circumstances to bring that person to repentance and faith. Very, very powerful thought. He then goes on to say this, even so have ye also now not believed that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy. God has concluded them all in unbelief that he might have mercy upon all. It's kind of interesting how there are times that as we look at what God is doing in our lives, we expect Him to move a certain way right now. And we feel like if God doesn't do it right now, it will never happen. Anybody ever felt that way before? If it doesn't happen now, it'll never happen. That's not true. Okay? So Paul's saying, you think that because the the Jewish people at this point as a nation have not embraced the Messiah, that it'll never happen. He said, That's not true. He's saying there's going to be a day that in huge numbers Jewish people are going to place their faith in Christ. And we've been studying the book of Revelation. What do we see? We see the examples of that. 144,000 Jewish evangelists going all throughout the tribulation preaching the gospel. That's what he's talking about. So he says, God hath concluded them in unbelief that he might have mercy on all. In other words, at this time they're not receiving the gospel, but because of their rejection, There's going to be a time that it comes back and they will receive the gospel. It's a really amazing thing to think about. And God works in this way in lots of different situations. You know, you might have a person you've been praying for for a long time. And as you're praying, you see that circumstances seem to, in your mind, be really going against what'll make them more receptive to the gospel. And so your prayers are like trying to micromanage God. It's like, you know, your kids getting ready to go to school and you're like, oh and you forgot this and you forgot this and you forgot this and you're telling them all the things they forgot And your, you know, eighteen year old is really proud to be a man now or proud to be a grown woman. I'm going to school. They're like, Mom, Dad, just leave me alone. Let me go. And we're like that with God. It's like we're over his shoulder saying, God, don't do this and don't do this. And you need to do it this way and do it. He's like, please. You want the person to get saved. They're gonna get saved, but you gotta wait. What's going on? Doesn't seem like it's gonna unfold to a positive end, but you know what it is going to. What I'm doing here is ultimately gonna bring them to their knees. And bring them to that point where what you've been that that seed you've been planting for so many years, it's gonna finally come to fruition. And that person's gonna understand the gospel and their heart's gonna be humbled and they're gonna get saved. Now he didn't tell us that. But what I'm saying is that's the way God works. And so he's doing that with a nation in this passage. But that's God's providence. Why God chooses to let a person run down a path that we know is self-destructive and God knows it's self-destructive. And we think it's the end. They're going to hit this brick wall and they're finished. And God's saying, actually they're going to hit a brick wall and that's when they're going to be in the place to get saved. saved. That's when they're going to be in the place to get turned around. That's when I'm going to finally bring them to their senses. I'm sure as the prodigal left his father, his father was thinking, I don't know if I ever see that boy again. I don't know if I ever see him again. Yet the prodigal had to go so that he'd come back. Pretty interesting. situation there. God's providence. It's a mystery, folks, but it's a wonderful thing. Next, I want to mention our limitations. Exposed in this area. And I'm not going to go beyond this little part of it tonight. The way of God's providence, the ways of God's providence are guided by unlimited knowledge, infinite wisdom. And good purposes. When I say good purposes, I I hope that doesn't sound too trite, okay? God's purposes are perfect I think the best example of this is the cross. Acts 2. 22 says this, Ye men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know. Him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken And by wicked hands have crucified and slain, whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that he should be holding in it. Why did Jesus go to the cross? Well, some of you would say, well, he went to die for our sins. And that is one explanation. Why did Jesus go to the cross? It's because he was betrayed by Judas and he was hated by the Pharisees. That is one explanation. Why did Jesus go to the cross? It's because when he had the power not to, he Laid that aside and said, I'm gonna willingly go and I'm gonna follow the Father's will. As he is praying in the garden, he says, Not my will but thine be done. And that is an explanation of it. Another explanation is that when Adam and Eve sinned, God said, It's not over, folks. I determined even before you sinned that I was going to send the Savior. And so we can look at it from that angle. The reality is, if you want to answer the question, why did Christ go to the cross, you can really come at that question with an answer from a lot of different angles. Do you understand what I'm saying? And so when you look at a question like that, the angle that you're coming from has some limitations to it. For instance, from man's perspective, you look at this situation and you go, This is not fair. Pilate is a spineless, unjust man. Is that true? Yes. In fact, if we study history we find out a little bit more about why Pilate was so spineless, because he was in a dangerous position with Rome and If an insurrection came, he was he was gone. So he was, you know, he was in league with some people to try to get peace really quick. And so from our perspective, or somebody living in that day who is a follower of Christ, they say, This is not right. What is God doing? He's letting Pilate, an unjust, spineless man, take Christ and send him out to be crucified. That's wrong. And that's true. If that's all that that's all that's involved, that's wrong, and that's true. The mob is full of illogical rage. You look and go, how in the world can these people be thinking like this? He's he's giving sight to blind people. He raised Lazarus from the dead. He's only preaching the gospel of the kingdom, the good news that God is going to establish his kingdom with Israel. This is a good man. And this mob is full of just rage. It's illogical. Just a few days before they were saying, Hosanna, Hosanna, help us, save us. This is ridiculous. How in the world? And if that's all the information that you had, and that's the only way that you were looking at it, then you say this is this is a travesty. This is wrong. The Roman soldiers are killing an innocent man. That's true. The punishment is vicious and far beyond anything close to the kind of guilt that he could have had if he was guilty. I mean it wasn't just that they killed him, it was let's humiliate him in the worst way possible. The people think about all the people that Jesus could have healed if his ministry hadn't been cut short I mean he only ministered for three years. You know, how many people could he have healed if he had ministered for fifteen or twenty years? Why couldn't have God let him have a longer ministry? And then at the end of that long, long ministry, then he goes to the cross. But just a few years that it's cut short. Some people would be looking and saying, Satan got the victory here. He came, taught, he's dead, it's over. And that's how some of the disciples felt. People looked and said, These religious leaders have abused their authority and they've gotten away with it. Now everything that I've stated is true. It is true Was Pilate unjust? Yes. Was he spineless? Yes. With the mob illogical? Yes. But the question is, why did God choose to allow all those injustices? It's because there was a big picture. And God was accomplishing something that was far greater than anything that those people who were involved in that whole process understood. The fact is, God in his in infinite wisdom was saying, I'm doing it this way because I'm going to demonstrate my love. And my love for those people is going to be demonstrated in my son 's willingness to suffer all those things and go to the cross. God's patience is demonstrated. You realize that Paul was a part of the Sanhedrin. Yep, Paul becomes the apostle that sends the gospel all throughout Rome. Peter, when Christ is standing there before that Sanhedrin, they say, Do you know this man? I thought I saw you with him. Three times and say, I don't know this man. You talk like one of them. Let me tell you I don't talk like one of them. God's patience is demonstrated. God's grace, unmerited favor, demonstrated. God's humility, the humility of the Lord Jesus Christ. The seriousness of sin is demonstrated by the severity of the cross. God's justice is being fully satisfied as Christ hangs on that cross. Our salvation is purchased in full by the work of Christ. You and I are the beneficiaries of this event, and God's forbearance before judgment is all being demonstrated. My point is this. When we talk about God's providence, God's providence allowed those people to do all those terrible things Because God in His providence said those decisions that they're making is ultimately going to accomplish my purpose for the Savior to secure salvation for all those people. Are going to be saved. God was letting all those terrible decisions be made. Now, God wasn't making Judas go out and do what he did. God put Judas right there. And Judas full well did what he wanted to do. But it wasn't outside of God's control. It wasn't outside of God's managing. And so you say, well, I don't understand how all that fits together. Again, it's a mystery. Why God says, I'm gonna let it go as far as I do here, and I'm gonna stop it here. Sometimes we'll never understand that. And that's okay. But many times if we're patient and we look back, we go, you know what, God, when I was in that circumstance I was saying this is terrible, this is wrong, and on some level that's true, but you use this to accomplish this. Like Joseph did. You meant it for evil. God meant it for good. Next time we meet together, we're gonna get into the proverbs that are in this particular chapter. We're gonna look at ten truths. Probably not all of them next week. We'll look at about five or six of them, I'm guessing. But these are principles that help guide us to understand how God's providence and wisdom work together. And my encouragement to you is this: when you are in the midst of very difficult circumstances, you need to trust in God's providence. You need to realize that if God's allowing this, he has a purpose in it. If God hasn't stopped this, he has a purpose in it. Just because things are really bad now doesn't mean that down the road they'll continue to be that way. You don't know how God will work. So trust him, obey him, and give him the glory when you see what he's doing. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father in heaven, I ask that you'd help us to have a firm and solid conviction that we serve a God who's in control. Yes, it's true that people do terrible things in this world. It's also true that when they do, you're limiting how far they can go. You have many times stopped atrocities at just the right time. Sometimes you use these things to accomplish Tremendously good things that we didn't understand at the time. Help us to be people who trust you. As we come together for prayer and as we lift up these many requests to you tonight, I pray that we would recognize that we are praying to a God who can manage and do wonderful things. You can do the miraculous. You may even do that in some of these situations. You often work through ordinary means, yet that that's not saying that you're not working in special ways. Bless our prayer time together tonight, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.