And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. We have a special guest with us today. Pastor Eric is with us from Ghana. And so glad to have him. He's gonna get to hang out at our house tonight and tomorrow we're gonna eat local local food. So if anybody wants to get in on that. Let me know after the service. We are open to having a guest with us. But anyway, we're looking forward to just a good time of fellowship and so glad that you can be with us Okay, for those of you that uh weren't here last week, I want to go ahead and talk a little bit about what we were talking about last week. We're going to the book of Proverbs. We've been going kind of verse by verse through a few sections. And now we're getting into some important topics. And the book of Proverbs is really laid out in a way that it's pretty difficult to go verse by verse through the entire book, because if we do that, we'll be there for a really, really long time. Okay? But the section that we're dealing with right now is wisdom and appetites. And last week we started with this passage. I'm going to read 1 Corinthians 6, 9 to 14, and then I want to just kind of give a general statement or two about that passage. This is what Paul writes. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Be not deceived, neither fornicators nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates. nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you, but ye are washed, ye are sanctified, ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God. That's a really important passage because what it does is it tells us this. When a person trusts Christ, not only are they justified, declared righteous before God, not only are they forgiven, Not only are their sins cleansed, but they receive a new nature. And that new nature is going to manifest itself by change in the person's life One of the things that we could summarize this passage by saying is this. When a person is an unbeliever, their life is characterized by being dominated by their flesh. Their flesh is the main source of appetite. And so when they do what they do, it's because they're following their heart's desire. They're following, we could say, their own fleshly appetites. But when a person trusts Christ, they become a new creature in Christ, and the Holy Spirit indwells them, and what the Holy Spirit begins to do is he begins to change that person from being a person who's dominated by their flesh to being a person who's temperate. And what I mean by temperate is I'm not just talking about they're not drunkards, okay? They're a person who's not dominated by their flesh, but they're controlled by the Spirit of God. In other words, their appetites are not things that dominate them, they're things that they manage correctly. And so as we got into our passage last week, we talked about how each of those things that are stated Fornication, idolatry, adultery, thieves, covetous, effeminate, revilers, drunkards, all those things are basically statements of people who are dominated by their flesh. And so something in their life is dominating them and it comes out in those kinds of activities. And so when a person entrusts Christ, God gives them the power to overcome those things. We also looked last week at this comment uh at this section that the body and the physical realm are not necessarily evil. In other words, there are fleshly desires that we have. They're not in and of themselves sinful, but they become sinful when we take them out of the context that God has created them for. So there's nothing wrong with sleeping. I mean we need to sleep. If we don't sleep, well everybody will start noticing, okay When we don't get enough sleep, we start getting cranky, contentious. We need to sleep. We enjoy sleep, hopefully, right? But if we enjoy sleep so much that that's pretty much all we do Then we are dominated by a laziness, a passion to be lazy, a love of sleep Money is not evil. If I pull out a dollar bill and I set it on this stand, I don't say, ooh, look at that evil money sitting on that stand in front of me. There's nothing evil about the money. What's evil is maybe how you got it. or how you want to get it, or what you're willing to do to get it, but the money in and of itself is is not evil Even when we talk about something like sexual desire, sexual desire is God created it. A man's desire for a woman, a woman's desire for a man. That desire, when kept within the boundary of marriage, it's not evil, it's not sinful, it's not wrong. It's the way God made us. But when a person takes those sexual desires and perverts them or twists them and wants to satisfy them outside of God's plan of marriage, one man, one woman for life, then what happens is we have Sin, we have fleshly desire. And so the point that I was trying to emphasize is that things like sleep and hunger and thirst and rest, sexual desire Clothing, shelter, creativity, all these things, they're not in and of themselves evil. But because we are fallen creatures, we have a tendency to take those good gifts of God and twist them, pervert them. Section two, and this is really where we got into and what we're really going to get into today, is some specific misuses of God's good gifts. We're going to go through the book of Proverbs. We're going to look at several different topics. that are areas of misuse. And I want us to see what the Bible says about those things because I want us to understand that we need to be very cautious. that we're not a person who is dominated by our appetite for this particular matter. The first thing we talked about was the issue of covetousness. An appetite for wealth. And we looked at several passages. I'm not going to re-go over them, but tonight we'll start with the second one. The example of laziness, an appetite for leisure or rest. Let me tell you that it's wrong for you not to ever take rest. Okay? The scripture does tell us that in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth and the sea and all that in them is. And on the seventh day he rested, and it says he Sanctified it. He hallowed it and he basically said, You should work six days and rest on the seventh day. It's actually sinful for us not to take a day off. It actually is. And so I want to encourage you to not look at rest as sin, okay? Rest is not sin, but it can become sinful. And when a person is dominated by their desire to rest and relax, they are dominated by a sinful passion. Go with me to Proverbs chapter 6, verses 1 to 11, and we'll see the first passage we're looking at tonight. This is what Solomon says to his son, My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, the word surety basically means this. Let's just say your friend doesn't have enough money to get a loan to buy something that he wants to buy. And so your friend comes to you and they say, hey, I don't have the money to buy this. They won't actually give me a loan. Would you be willing To help me get this loan. Will you take that loan on and the responsibility of that will you be surety? You're a close friend to me. You love me, I love you. I won't cheat you, but I need you to be able to help me get that loan. Lots of people do things like this, okay? I didn't say they should do it. Okay. A lot of times a parent will help a child get a car. You know, the first time you get a credit card, your parents have to co-sign on that. Because you can't do that, right? But this is what Solomon says. My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, if thou hast stricken thine hand with a stranger He says this, thou art snared by the words of thy mouth. Thou art taken with the words of thy mouth. Do this now, my son. Deliver thyself when thou art Come into the hand of thy friend, and go humble thyself, and make sure, thy friend, give not sleep to thine eyes nor slumber to thine eyelids. Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand of the hunter. He basically says this, when you shake hands and you guarantee someone else's liability there, you have taken on a very dangerous and very risky situation. And he says, if you do that, don't delay. Humble yourself and tell your friend, I need to step out of this arrangement. And he basically says this. Don't go to sleep and get lazy about it. Don't slumber. Deliver yourself like a roe from the hand of the hunter. And I you know we have deer back here in it's not a lot of woods here, but you go back here during the right time of the day and you'll see deer And as soon as that deer sees you, that tail flips up and it's gone. And if you had a gun in your hand Then it'd really be gone fast. And he says, that's how you need to respond to that kind of an arrangement. He then goes on to say this: He says, Go to the ant thou sluggard. Consider her ways and be wise, which having no guide, overseer, or ruler, provideth her meat in the summer and gathereth her food in the harvest. How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? When wilt thou rise out of thy sleep? Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep, so shall thy poverty come, as one that travaileth, and thy want as an armed man. If you want to summarize this passage, it's basically saying this. Don't be lazy. When you have made an agreement with someone that you shouldn't have, Don't be lazy and don't sit on it. Go and try to get that matter resolved. When you need to go out and do some work , Don't sit back and be lazy, but go and do the work. Do your responsibility. And he basically gives the example of the ant. He says nobody teaches the ant to do what he does It's ingrained within its nature. That ant is busy and that ant works hard. Why? Because its survival depends on it. If that ant doesn't work during the warm season and gather all the food into the ground where it's going to stay during the winter, if it doesn't do that, it dies. Its survival is dependent on it. And he basically says you need to learn from the ant. Another passage is in Proverbs chapter ten, verse four, he says this. He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand. The hand of the diligent shall be made rich. Proverbs twenty-one, seventeen. He that loveth pleasure shall be a poor man. He that loveth wine and oil shall not be rich. Now another way to put that phrase, he that loveth wine and oil, is this a person that loves to have a good time and he loves to party is going to be poor. That's basically what he's saying. And you know, one of the classic examples in the Bible is the story of that prodigal son. What happens? He says, Dad, give me my due. And I'm gone. And it says he went to the far country, and there he wasted his substance on riotous living. How many young people Who are take out huge loans to go to college, or their mom and dad takes out a huge loan to go to college. That first year, they do nothing. But party. And just they waste their parents' money, they waste their own money, they're not serious, they're not diligent, they drop out of school. Lots and lots of kids go to college simply 'cause they want to have a party. And basically he's saying this, if you love pleasure, if you're the person who loves the wine and the oil, you want to have a good time all the time, guess what? You're going to be poor someday. Because you can't sustain a life like that. Proverbs 19, 15, he says, Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep, and an idle soul shall suffer hunger. That little phrase slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep is a really interesting phrase. Basically, what it's saying is this laziness produces more laziness. Okay? In other words, when you begin to start to establish lazy patterns and lazy habits, you become more lazy over time. When you don't get up early and don't take your responsibilities seriously, what happens? You drift in those areas. And pretty soon as you drift, you become more and more entrenched into those patterns. And so he says a slothful person is cast into a deep sleep. Doesn't even realize how lazy he's become. Proverbs 20, 13, love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty. And then Proverbs 24, 30. If you could have turned there, this is the last passage I'm going to look at. Actually, I'll mention one other after this He says, I went by the field of the slothful, Proverbs 24, 30, by the vineyard of a man void of understanding, and lo, it was all grown over with thorns and nettles, and had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down. Then I saw and considered it well, I looked upon it and received instruction. Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep, so shall thy poverty come, as one that travaileth They want as an armed man. He says, you know, it takes a lot of time, it takes a lot of energy, takes a lot of wisdom, common sense To manage a piece of property and to make it a fruitful, productive piece of property. Keeping the walls up. Keeping everything cut down, keeping everything growing vibrantly, it takes a lot of work. And when somebody just starts taking a little bit of a cutting corner here and a cutting corner here and a cutting corner here, over time it all starts to add up. And so he basically says this, you go and you look at the person who is slaughterful. They're being lazy, they're not working like they should. And you look at that field and you say, that's what your life looks like. I want to ask you the question. Are you a person dominated by the appetite for leisure, for pleasure? Proverbs 23, 20. He says, be not among winabobbers, winebibers. Among riotous eaters of flesh, the drunkard, the glutton, shall come to poverty. Drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags. The third example I want to mention is this. That's the example of flattery. The idea is that there's an appetite for self-promotion or self-promo Exaltation. There's nothing wrong with people affirming other people. You know, when your kids do well, I hope that you say, hey, good job. Okay? Your kid gets a great a great grade. They do well in some activity that they're involved in. You know, tell them that they've done well, encourage them, instruct them, bless them. Say, you've done well, and they need to hear that. A husband needs to hear that from his wife. A wife needs to hear that from her husband. People need to hear that from those who are over them in employment. People who are under others need to be encouraging to those who are over them. We need to hear that instructive encouragement. But there's a fine line between being encouraging and being flattering. Flattery is something that the book of Proverbs talks quite a bit about. And I want to mention just a couple of the verses. Proverbs 5. 3 says this. drop as in honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil, but her end is as bitter as wormwood, and sharp as a two-edged sword. When he talks about the strange woman's lips dropping as a honeycomb, you know, if you watch honey, honey doesn't drop like water. You know, water, drip, drip, drip. Honey just kind of it drips like that. Yes, okay. It's slow. It's sweet. And that's how some people talk. You say that guy's a smooth talker. You ever heard that before? That guy's a smooth talker. Don't trust him, man. Be careful about that person. They're a smooth talker. That's what he's talking about. He makes this statement. He says, her mouth is smooth as an oil, but her end is bitter as wormwood. And this is a person who has a heart that wants to deceive, a desire to take somebody down. And so what does she do? She uses flattery. Proverbs 23, 1-3 says this: When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before thee. This is a really interesting statement. Put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man given to appetite. Be not desirous of his dainties, for they are deceitful meats. Now what is he talking about? You have two people that are about to sit down for a meal, and what is being put in front of that guy It's very deliberate. There is a reason that when people do business, a lot of times they go to a place where they surf a lot of alcohol. Why is that? Because it might ensure that there's more opportunity to get a deal there Why? Because the person's feeling a little little bit giddy. They're not thinking as carefully. They're having a good time. They're much more likely to do what the other person wants them to do And so basically here is Solomon telling his son, who's going to be a king, he assumes, that when you sit down with another ruler and he wants to do business with you, you better be really careful about what you eat and drink right there at that table. Because he's trying to set you up to get you where he wants you so that he can get a good deal out of you. That's basically what he's saying. That's really what flattery is. People can flatter with their lips. They can flatter with the money they give. They can flatter with the things that they say. They can flatter by what they present you with. Flattery is something that we have to be very, very cautious about. Proverbs 26, 28 says, A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it. A flattering mouth worketh ruin. Example number three. Example number four. The example of the promiscuous, an appetite for forbidden sexual satisfaction Proverbs chapter 5, I know we spent a lot of time dealing with Proverbs 5, but I want to read this and just think about it in light of this issue of wisdom and appetites. Verse 15, he says, drink water out of thine own cistern and running water out of thine own well. Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad and rivers of water in the street. Let them be only thine own and not strangers with thee. Let thy fountain be blessed and rejoice with the wife of thy youth. You know what's really interesting when you read those verses. You know, Solomon is not he's not holding back at all here. He's emphasizing the fact that within the marriage relationship, that is a really good thing. It is refreshing, it is satisfying, it is something that is sexually satisfying. On the other side, that sexual satisfaction can be removed from marriage and become very destructive. It can destroy a person. He goes on to say this. He says, Let her, your wife, be as the loving hind and present roe, let her breast satisfy thee at all times. Be thou ravished always with her love. That's passion, okay? Can't put it any other clearer than that. But then he says this Why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman? And embrace the bosom of a stranger. The ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he pondereth all his goings. His own iniquity shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cord of his sins. So we have this sexual desire. Within marriage, it is good and it is right and it is wholesome. It is how God intended it. You take the exact same passion and you remove it from marriage, and what do you have? A destructive fire. Something that can consume somebody. Something that can be so destructive that is so displeasing to God. Proverbs 23, 26, he says, My son, give me thy heart, and thine eyes observe my ways, for a whore is a deep ditch, and a strange woman a narrow pit. She lieth in wait for prey and increaseth the transgressors among men. Just put it very simply, when we talk about sexual desire Obviously, that is one of the areas where we can be dominated by appetite and it can become so destructive. Example five, being intoxicated. An appetite for mind-altering substances. You know, the Bible doesn't say a lot about mind-altering substances apart from the book of Proverbs, but there's a lot there in Proverbs. Proverbs 20 verse 1, listen to what it says. Wine is a mocker. Strong drink is raging, and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise. That appetite to have alcohol, a chemical that's ultimately going to alter how you think and your inhibitions, and you're going to do things you shouldn't. Proverbs 23, 29 to 35, and this is probably the strongest passage dealing with this in the entire Bible. Who hath woe? Misery, regret? Who hath sorrow? Sadness Who has contentions? How many times do people get in fights and do such foolish things because of alcohol? I believe it was my grandmother's father, this is my great grandfather. He was a drunk. He'd come home and he'd beat people in the family. When he wasn't drinking alcohol, he's like a normal guy. As soon as he'd get the alcohol, what would he do? He'd become like a monster. And how many people are like that? Who have contention, who have babblings, saying nonsensical things. Now, how many times do you go to a baseball game, football game? Athletic event. And you know, when you go to the event, everybody's in the right mind. When you come out of the event, there's a bunch of stumbling drunks there. And people are fighting. People are saying crazy things. I remember I was on the light rail coming back from an Orioles game. Baltimore, New York, I was wearing a Yankees hat. And the Yankees killed the Orioles. Sorry guys, that's just what happened. So here I am riding on the light rail with my wife and Joel was really little and this guy, he'd been drinking a lot, and he started saying crazy stuff. And it was it was really bad. And he was ready to like start a fight right there with me because I'm where Yankees had. Needless to say, I haven't ridden on the light rail from a baseball game in quite a while. Why did he do that? This guy like this tall. I'm like, what are you doing? He wants to fight because the alcohol has clouded his judgment. He did get to meet a police officer when he got off the white rail too. But what is it? When a person puts this substance in their body, they'll do such foolish things. He says, who hath wounds without cause? Who hath redness of the eyes? As that tarry long at the wine, as they go to sink mixed wine He says, Look not on the wine when it is red, when it giveth its colour in the cup, when it moveth itself aright. At last it biteth like a serpent and stingeth like an adder. He says, Thine eyes shall behold strange women. Thine heart shall utter perverse things. Yeah, you think about it. Every person here, we're made of flesh. How many times does something pop into your head that you're like, that is really bad? Because you're in your right mind Root that thing out and you start thinking about something that's right. Well, how many times has that happened? It could be an immoral thought, it could be just some foolishness that comes into your mind and you begin to dwell on that. But because you're in your right mind you say, I'm not gonna do that. Yet the person who's been drinking has the same thought pop in his head, and you know what? He didn't have that inhibition. He goes for it. And you know what? The end is so destructive. He says your eyes will behold strange women. Somebody that you know in your right mind how foolish that is. You'll go right into that relationship So destructive, so hurtful. Things that you'd never say in your right mind. You'll say them because of the substance in your body. Yea, thou shalt be like he that lieth down in the midst of the sea. What happens when you get on a boat and you're out in the ocean? Well, I'll tell you what happens to me. I get sick. That's what he's talking about, okay? You could be like a person getting seasick. It's gonna be throwing up. It's not very nice, is it? Not very pleasant. But that's what happens He says you'll be like he that lieth on the top of a mast. Could be swaying back and forth. You've lost your ability to control yourself. You say, They have stricken me, and thou shalt say I was not sick. They've beaten me, and I felt it not. When shall I awake? I'll seek it yet again. You know, the way that Solomon describes how alcohol affects a person is very descriptive. He talks about the stumbling, he talks about the things that people say, he talks about how people throw up. He talks about how people will go right back after their folly again and again and again. And the idea is this We need to be people who are not dominated by an appetite for things that will alter our sensibilities. Alcohol, drugs, that's what he's talking about in this passage. Section 3, some areas that we should ask tough questions about in light of these wisdom principles. You know, there are a lot of things that Solomon would have never even thought to address. Because they didn't exist in his generation. But if he's living today, and he pulls out what he wrote in those days, and you say, What do you think about this issue? He'd say, Well, I addressed that. No, you didn't. It didn't exist back then. Yeah, I did. And he he reads you one of the proverbs he wrote. And you say, well how does that apply? He says, the principle's been established here. This is a case. And this is exactly what was going on here. Let me throw out a couple of things like this I want to ask you this question, and this is a question for all of us. This is not just for you, it's for me, it's for all of us. Are you a person who is dominated by social media? We just use the word addicted. How many people, first thing they do in the morning, last thing they do before they go to bed, if they wake up in the middle of the night, social media. Used to be Facebook, I guess Facebook's kind of Not the young guy thing anymore. Instagram and all these other things. Social media. Internet smartphones. How many times You know, we pick up the phone and we talk about, you know, like if a person has a smoking habit, it's not just a chemical issue. It's a it's a habitual thing. I've got to have something in my hand. Okay? And that's part of the reason why it's such a difficult pattern to break. Now we can see in an issue like smoking that that's a problem, but if it's my phone, I don't think anything of it. Yet that phone can be just as much an addiction problem as a chemical substance. There are folks that cannot sit in a room with other people without pulling out their phone and going through it. Folks, that's addiction. That's wrong. An addiction to visual entertainments and gaming. When I say gaming, I don't mean Um necessarily going down there to Life Casino and Arundel Mills, but I guess we could put that one in there. But something that just dominates our time and our minds. Addicted to sports, athletics. Something simple like, you know, home decoration. I love getting out in my yard. It can be an addiction where all I want to do is go out there and, you know, put something new in the garden. Yet that grasp's just perfect. And any kind of substance, any kind of thing in our life that's not evil, can become evil because we become entrapped by it. Social events, music, public discourse, news, politics. As soon as I get home, man, it's whatever your news station is. Probably most here it's Fox, but Maybe at CNN, MSNBC, I don't know. But how many people? I mean, they watch the news literally the entire time they're home. Work. How many people hardly spend time at home because they're addicted to their work? And I didn't even put this in here, ministry. And you know, as a pastor, it's kind of hard to say that ministry could be an addiction for somebody, but it can be. It's possible for someone to be so consumed in doing the ministry work that it's something that actually takes them away from some of their other responsibilities. This is particularly true for pastors. Because truthfully, the ministry is your work as a pastor. I'm bringing out things, none of those things that I mentioned, in and of themselves, would be sinful. The fact that you're involved in those things or that you enjoy those things is not necessarily sinful. My question is, has it become sinful for you? You might say, well, how can I know? Let me throw out a couple of tests that I think might be helpful for you. And these are things I put down. It's not like these are Bible, you can find a verse and chapter for this. But as I think about this issue of something that dominates me, here are some questions that I think I personally ask myself, and I'd encourage you to consider asking yourself as well. Number one, does this activity keep me from giving appropriate thought and energy to my work responsibilities? 2. Does this activity undermine the health of my interpersonal relationships? 3. Does this activity keep me from my responsibility to the local church Four. How will I respond if this activity is suddenly taken away from me? That one right there is like hits you between the eyes, okay You ever had, you know, you your your phone smashes? The internet goes out at the house and it's like, I don't have internet. What am I going to do with myself? Well, what you used to do 20 years ago? When the thing didn't exist, right? It's true though. I mean it's like a little thing, like you don't think it really is that you're not that impulsive about it, but as soon as it's taken away, just for a moment All of a sudden you just feel this urge. I've got to have this in my hand. Has this activity taken the place of God in my life? In other words, does that really grab my attention and my time? And God really is on the back burner. Like I don't even I don't even think about Him. Can I in good conscience do this activity to the glory of God? Someone might say, well well Pastor, then you couldn't play baseball because you can't do that to the glory of God. You can actually do that to the glory of God. God created your body. It needs to be exercised. God created your body and the things that you enjoy, and the truth is there's nothing wrong with diversions. But there are some activities that we really couldn't do to the glory of God. It's the truth. And we know full well. And I think we need to ask that question. Does this activity harm my body? Is this something that ultimately is going to kill me? You know, it's kind of interesting. In Ghana, you don't see a lot of people smoke. The only people that you see smoke tend to be f from China. Chinese Folks in Ghana, uh you know that's when you smell cigarette smoke, there's someone from China sitting in a van next to you. I I I'm not trying to be stereotypical, it's just the truth. All right. It was it's it's it's really the truth. And you say, well, why is that? Well, because when you go into a shop and they pull out this little box, on the front it says, this will kill you. And it and it says it like in huge words. And it's got like it's got like uh skulling crossbones on it and it's like, Oh, I don't want to do that, you know? W well the truth is that there are lots of things that we can do that harm our body. Believe it or not, if we spend too much time in front of a a screen, it's harmful to our brains That's the truth. If we don't eat properly, it's harmful to our bodies. If we choose not to exercise, it's harmful to our bodies. If we exercise too much. It's harmful to our bodies. If we don't sleep as much as we really should, it's harmful to our bodies. So it's not just about chemical substances. It really can go into so many different areas of our lives. Does this activity cloud my judgment? The idea is that when I'm doing this or when I'm taking this or when I'm enjoying this , Do I lose my ability to think clearly because of what I'm doing? And does this activity leave me dissatisfied longing for more? The truth is when we talk about something that's addictive, it's something we go back to for satisfaction, but it just leaves us with a bigger hole. And so every time we go down that road, we dig a deeper hole that we have to go farther into. And that is really the way addictions work. I've put those tests out there because I think that they're helpful for us to think about what we're doing. I want to conclude with this thought. God wants us to live productive, God-centered lives. That's why he calls us to temperance. Titus 2. He says the aged men should be sober, grave temperate. Titus 2. 4, he says that the older women should teach the younger women to be sober. Titus 2. 6, he says, young men likewise exhort to be sober-minded. Do you get the idea that as Christians we should be sober, temperate, clear-headed people? 1 Corinthians 9, I'll finish with this last statement. Paul writes, Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth a prize. So run that ye may obtain, and every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. I therefore shall run not as uncertainly, so fide they not as one that beateth the air, but I keep under my body and bring it into subjection lest that by any means When I preach to others, I myself should be a castaway. We talk about wisdom and appetites. God wants us to be people who are not dominated by our fleshly appetites. but are controlled by the Spirit of God. May God help us to be those kinds of people. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Actually, before we pray, any questions about some of the content? I just wanted to give you an opportunity. Any questions? There's always more room to flush things out. So I want to give you that opportunity if you need that. All right, let's pray. Father, thank you so much for the time we've spent together tonight. It's our desire to be godly people. It's our desire to be controlled by your spirit. It's our desire to live lives that um are pleasing to you. And so I pray that you'd help us to think clearly about the issues in our life. If if we have areas where we're struggling, help us to personally begin to address those issues. And by your strength begin to have victory and overcome in those areas where we are defeated. And Father, help us to be willing to get the help of other Christians who can encourage us in the Lord, who can help us to have accountability where necessary. Father, help us to be willing to ask the hard questions so that we can answer correctly and move forward in a way that honors you. We ask that you bless each person tonight. Thank you for our time together in Christ's name. Amen.