Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. If you are joining us today, I'd like to ask you to take your Bible and let's look together at Ecclesiastes chapter 8. Ecclesiastes chapter 8, and we are looking together at verses 1 through 2, but we're also recognizing that verses 1 through 9 is a section that we'll be dealing with a little bit at a time. Ecclesiastes chapter eight, verses one and two Who is as the wise man? Who knoweth the interpretation of a thing? A man's wisdom maketh his face to shine, and the boldness of his face shall be changed. I counsel thee to keep the king's commandment, and that in regard of the oath of God. Be not hasty to go out of his sight, stand not in an evil thing, for he doeth whatsoever pleaseth him Where the word of the king is, there is power. Who may say unto him, What doest thou? Now I'm going to stop there, but I want you to realize that when we look at verses 1 through 9, it's a section. And the section is dealing with how people are to relate to those who have absolute authoritarian power. How is a person that is a counselor to the king supposed to relate to the king? How does a person that regularly works in his presence suppose to relate to him? And you may think, well, there's not a whole lot that I can learn about that here because we are living in America in the 21st century, a democratic republic. We don't have a king. We don't have counselors that work for a king. I'll never be in a position like that. Well, the reality is that the culture that we live in today is very rare in human history But the principles that are really going to be brought out in the context that was a very common context in pretty much all of human history is uh very instructive for us today. And the reality is we may be dealing with people that are not absolute authoritarians in their ruling, but we deal with people that have authority. We have bosses Uh we have people in certain authority structures that we relate to. If we're in the military, obviously we have people that are over us in the military. Even within the church context, there's an authority structure in the classroom And so we need to recognize that we can find ourselves in a position where we're relating to someone who has authority, someone who has to make decisions. And as someone that God has put in that position to relate to that individual, there are ways that we should relate to them that would be a demonstration of godly wisdom. And so Solomon's going to talk about that from his observation. So here's a simple summary statement of these verses. Based on years of observation, Solomon is presenting good counsel regarding relating to kings and others in high positions of authority. Now today we're really just going to look at two main points. The first thing that we're going to look at is three facts that Solomon talks about when it comes to someone who has wisdom. And then from those three facts about someone with wisdom, he's going to talk about, excuse me, the sacred duty that a person has who's in a position of being a counselor. So here are three facts that Solomon gives us about wisdom. The first is this wisdom can make sense of what is complex. In verse 1, he says, who is as the wise man? who knoweth the interpretation of a thing. Now when we think about that, we need to realize that from Solomon's viewpoint, the wise person was the one who was able to take a complex situation and was able to break that complex situation down and was able to skillfully m maneuver all of the various nuances of that situation, the challenges of that situation and was able to understand the best way to resolve the situation in front of them. Now it's interesting. One of the things that we find in the Old Testament, we're looking at at wisdom literature is th that these proverbs many times are given like a riddle. In other words, there'll be a statement, there'll be two parallel ideas that are either similar or they're contrasted, or one's an illustration of the other. And when you first read that proverb, it may not make a lot of sense, but as you chew on it, as you kind of meditate on it, as you think it through, or if you have experience in life. Then as you think about the proverb, it makes sense because it's an illustration, it's a teaching mechanism. So the wise person is the person who has years of experience They've heard these proverbs. They can take this riddle and they can break it down. So in one sense, that could be what Solomon's talking about. But I think in another sense, and perhaps primarily what he's talking about, is that the person who has wisdom understands the nuanced response that is necessary to handle difficult problems in the best way possible. In other words, they can take a difficult situation and they're able to quickly diagnose what the problems are and what the pitfalls are. and what the long-term effects of a thing are. They're able to take principles that they know to be true, and they take those principles And they carefully weigh those principles and they properly time the use of those principles so that the answer that they give or the the the the counsel that they give to the person in authority is a very wise response. In other words, wisdom has the ability because of experience, because of the use of principles, because of conviction on principles. is able to take those things, is able to break down that situation, and they're able to actually apply those principles in a skillful manner You know, one of the things that we see about those who don't have experience is that they aren't able to make that diagnosis quickly They're not able to process the information quickly. Or a person who's unprincipled doesn't actually have a conviction about the principles that are there. A person that has experience is able to see the long-term effects of a thing, and so they're able to work through that. And also one of the things that we see is that a person with wisdom and experience understands the proportion or the balance to which these various principles are connected together. And so when a person has wisdom they're able to take the complex and they're able to give a simple and appropriate answer to how to resolve the complex. Well let's be honest, people in authority need this themselves But they also need people around them who have this kind of ability. We get in our minds that in the ancient world when someone was a king and they were an absolute authoritarian, that they made all the decisions and what everybody else thought didn't matter. But I tell you that's not Not true. Even look at Nebuchadnezzar, a man who was an absolute tyrant and authoritarian, a ruthless man. He had wise men around him. Daniel and Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. These men were around him. And the reality is he had tremendous trust and tremendous respect for Daniel. He recognized that Daniel was a man of incredible wisdom. And so when a person was a king, they were drawing from the wisdom of the people around them. When kings made bad decisions It wasn't just a reflection on them. It was a reflection on the people around them as well. And so when people suffered under a king, it was not just the king, but it was the people advising the king And when people prospered, it wasn't just the king, it was the people around the king. And so that's a really important concept for us to recognize. The second concept is this: white wisdom brightens our countenance. Again in verse 1 he says, A man's wisdom maketh his face to shine. People have wisdom have a balanced perspective. So they see the highs and the lows in life in light of the big picture. What does that do? That brings stability. A person who has wisdom makes Fewer avoidable mistakes. Why is that? Because they understand what is appropriate and what isn't. And when they make fewer foolish decisions They have to deal with fewer painful consequences. What does that do? Well that that gives peace of mind and a soundness of mind to people because they're dealing with less ridiculous, complicated situations based on the bad decisions they made. People have wisdom invest wisely, and when they invest wisely, guess what? There are benefits Excuse me. Congested this morning. There are benefits and there are blessings that flow out of making good choices. And so when people invest wisely over years, it gives them wonderful blessings in their life. It adds richness to their life. Their state of mind is improved by the good choices that they make over time. But the last thing I'll mention is this people of wisdom have a healthy view of God They have a reverence and an awe and a fear and acknowledgement of his authority and his sovereignty and his goodness. And the fact that they are under his care, and they're responsible to follow his ways. And the fact is that when a person walks through life with a proper view of God, it comforts them in sorrow. It gives them confidence when they're going through challenges. It causes them to be humbled when they're prosperous. The fact is that the choices they make follow under what God says is right and what God says is wrong. And life will be better for the person who makes godly choices because they reverence God and their perspective of God is right than for the person who blows off God's authority and just lives life according to their own whims and impulses. And so what's the ultimate result of that? Well a person who has wisdom is a person who has a bright countenance. It's a person whose life is rich and full because the choices that they make in life are far better than those Who make foolish decisions that don't consider God in eternity? The last thing I'll mention is this: wisdom keeps people from being arrogant. In their interactions with others. In verse 1, he says, the boldness of his face shall be changed. Maybe another way to put that is he's not going to be arrogant. In other words, wise people are not arrogant people. Wise people are humble people. And arrogant people are not wise people. Arrogant people are foolish people. We need to keep this in our minds. Now, why does Solomon bring this up? Solomon brings this up to emphasize the fact that the kinds of people that should be in the presence of a king are people who have wisdom. In other words, the reason that a king draws those people around him is because he recognizes that they have a good sense of life. He recognizes they can take complicated situations and they can find the right resolution to those complicated situations. They can take the principles that God has established and they can apply them appropriately so that the people that are under the care of the king and under his authority will have blessed lives rather than troubled lives. because of the kinds of decisions and the kinds of leadership that's established by the king. And so really in the context of Ecclesiastes chapter 8 He's talking about how we relate to kings. He's basically saying this is the kind of person you need to be. If you want to be in the king's presence, you need to be wise. You need to have these qualities. The second thing though, excuse me, that will point out, is that a wise man in the king's presence has a sacred and solemn duty before both the king and God. In verse 2 he says, I counsel thee to keep the king's commandment, and that in regard to the oath of God. Now when you read those words, you say, What does he mean, keep the king's commandment? Is he suggesting that the person needs to make sure that he obeys the king? Or is he suggesting something different? Well, most of us, probably when we read that verse, think, well, he's saying, make sure you obey the king, because you don't want him to get angry at you And maybe he's talking about that. But that's really not within the context of what Solomon is saying in Ecclesiastes 8. He's talking about counselors to the king. And so when he talks about someone keeping the king's commandment as a counselor, what he's really saying is, keep the king's commandments in check because you have wisdom. In other words, you're in that position. So that when the king says do this, what he's saying do isn't foolish. It's wise. In other words, you are there to be a check and balance to the king. We understand that even people who are wise need wise people around them. Even people who generally make good decisions need to draw from the intelligence and the perspective and the ways of the people around them who have good judgment as well. When I'm going to make a decision, it's very difficult for me not to allow my emotions or biases that I have to begin to affect the kinds of decisions I make. And so what do I need to do? I need to talk to people who are not emotionally involved and who don't carry the same bias that I may carry. And if what they're saying is what I'm thinking, then what I'm thinking is probably online But if what I'm thinking is very different than what they're saying, it's possible that the bias has gotten to me. So his point is keep the king's commandment. In other words, do your job Be a wise counselor. Relate to him properly. Earn his respect so that he cherishes your input. And when he cherishes your input, guess what? You'll have a positive effect on the decisions that he makes. And the question is, why do we say that that's what he's saying? He said, in that regard, you need to regard the oath of God. In other words, God puts you in that place and you have a solemn responsibility, not just to the king And not just to the people that are under his care, but to the God who in his sovereignty puts you in the presence of the king. You have a responsibility to speak the truth and to give good, solid counsel to the person that you're dealing with. Basically the rest of the chapter or the rest of the section is going to talk about how to relate to a king so that guess what? You keep his commandment. So that he actually values your input. He has confidence. We need to realize that just because you have good judgment doesn't mean people will listen to you. The fact that you think you have good judgment doesn't mean that people have earned your respect or that they have confidence in your judgment. And so the way that we get to the place where people value our input is we walk wisely so that they begin to actually respect and value and have confidence in what we're saying. And Solomon's going to talk about how you do that in the rest of these verses. So this is a really important section. So here's the question. How do we practically apply the verses in front of us? Well, let me give you a couple of thoughts that I jotted down this morning as I was reflecting on. The first is this. The possession of wisdom is what makes people rich. When I say makes people rich, I don't mean they get a lot of money. I mean, it's what brightens their countenance. It's what gives them what really matters. It's what gives them a clear head. It's what gives them a clear conscience. It's what gives them the ability to actually cope with life. It's what gives them the ability to enjoy what they have. It's what gives them the ability to enjoy the benefits of something that takes years of investment to actually appreciate. Two, it helps us work through the most complex challenges imaginable. It blows my mind how complicated life can be sometimes. I mean just stop and think about this year 2020. You think you've had a bad year? How would you like to be the president of the United States? This guy's brother died this year? This guy was impeached and he went through all that. This guy got COVID. He's way behind in the polls, depending on which one you look at. The reality is he's incessantly attacked by the media And the reality is that this is a man who has had to carry. He went from having one of the best economies in American history to basically massive unemployment And all kinds of bickering in the House and Senate. And now we have this issue of the Supreme Court justice. Now why am I bringing this up? I'm not bringing this up to make it political. I'm simply trying to say this. If you were that man Can you imagine how complicated the decisions would be that you have to make on a daily basis? The reality is the position you take on something as simple as how to handle a lockdown measure Is going to cost people to lose jobs, okay? It's going to create all kinds of potential outcomes And no matter how you handle the situation, you're going to have people on both sides screaming at you and saying, you're responsible for the deaths of people. This is what leaders have to deal with. And the reality is life is full of all kinds of complicated, unimaginable situations that people have to deal with. And so guess what? We need wisdom. We need to be people of wisdom because this will help us work through the challenges that we deal with. And that moves me on to my third point. It actually strengthens us physically and emotionally. The truth is that a person who's wise is a man of conviction, a woman of conviction, a person who makes choices without a compromised conscience. A person who has wisdom is a person that sees better outcomes in the decisions that they make. The wisdom that leads them to making the right decisions ultimately benefits the people under their care. And so what does that actually do? It actually strengthens that person physically and emotionally, as opposed to a person who makes constantly foolish decisions that trouble them and the people around them. Wisdom is important. Fourthly, it improves our interaction with other people. A person who walks in wisdom is a person who will have better interpersonal relationships. Because wisdom is humble, wisdom works through issues, wisdom listens, wisdom processes, wisdom improves relationships. Fifthly, people in authority need wise people around them. Doesn't matter who is in charge, that person needs to listen to the people around them. That person needs the input of others who are around them. And the truth is, it's not just the caliber of the leader But it's the caliber of those who are on the team that help guide that leader that are extremely important. You know, we think about a presidential election, we're not just voting for the president of the United States We're also voting for a vice president. We're also voting for an agenda. We're also voting for a cabinet and for a whole crew of advisors. And the reality is it's not just the individual who's going to be on the top of the ballot that really matters, but it's the entire administration of that person, because the administration of that person will ultimately determine the direction that the country takes and the ultimate outcomes that will flow from that administration. So just an encouragement, please consider not just the person on the top of the ticket. but the entire administration that ultimately will shape the flow of the decision making of that administration and the long-term implications of that administration, not just that person. And lastly I mentioned this. God puts wise people around influential people for the good of those under them. You know, God in his sovereignty, the scripture says the king's heart is in the hands of the Lord. And as the rivers of water he turneth it whithersoever he will. You know how God does that? One of the ways that God does that is he puts people around the king who actually get the king's ear He put Daniel before Nebuchadnezzar, and that's how this powerful, arrogant man, Nebuchadnezzar, would actually do the kinds of things that God said to do, because he had a Daniel in his administration. And the reality is that there are times that even people who are not the best leaders make the decisions God would have them to make Because God puts the right people around them at the right time to speak up in the right way, and they get the confidence of those in leadership, and God uses it to maneuver the whole administration in the direction that He wants. I hope that this has been an encouragement to you this morning. As I read it and as I try to process this, I found it to be an extremely important discussion to consider. The rest of this section is also very interesting. So, Lord willing, we'll do that as well tomorrow. Hope you're having a wonderful day. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Our Father, thank you for the opportunity to study your word this morning. Use it in the lives of each person that's listening. May you richly bless them as they internalize these truths and live in the light of them. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you today, and uh Lord willing, uh, we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now.