Let's take our Bibles, please, turn to Proverbs twenty-four. Proverbs twenty-four. The scriptures do say we're supposed to do all things decently in order. That includes the kids heading out, right? Do the best we can All right. Proverbs 24, and we're looking at verses 27 down to verse 34. It's kind of our starting point, but really this is going to be a topical study. And the name of our study is Wisdom and Work. Final section. So we're kind of coming to kind of coming to the end of our study on the book of Proverbs. And there's a whole lot more that I really could have had us dig into, but I don't want it to be an indefinite uh study. I want us to get into some other uh topics as well. So once we finish this, we're going to be getting into the pastoral epistles. And I'm really looking forward to that. That study is going to be a little bit more like the way I would do a class if I was doing like a Bible institute class. I'm going to do a little bit more of that kind of a style. It's not really going to be sermons, it's going to be more of a teaching time. And I do want to open it up to questions too, because sometimes when we get into the content in a section like that we will uh have good questions that will come up. And sometimes there are tough interpretive sections that um, you know, there are differences of opinion and I want to be able to address those kinds of things when they come up. But I want that to be a really practical time. So that's kind of giving you a little bit of an idea of where we're going once we finish our Proverbs study. Proverbs 24, we'll begin in verse 27. Prepare thy work without, and make it fit for thyself in the field, and afterwards build thine house. Be not a witness against thy neighbor without cause. And deceive not with thy lips. Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me. I will render to the man according to his work I went to the field of the slothful and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding, and lo it was all grown over with thorns and nettles, had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down. Then I saw and considered it well. I looked upon it, and I received instruction. Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep, so shall thy poverty come. As one that travaileth. And I want as an armed man. The purpose of this little proverb that we're dealing with and the ones that we will deal with from uh really this one down through tonight and maybe another night as well. The purpose of these sections is to help us to understand the contrast between the character, disciplines, and the ultimate end of people who are diligent and people who are slothful or Guess we could use use the word lazy. Okay? Same thing, but I'm gonna use the term slothful because it seems a little soft or how's that. Nobody wants to be called lazy, but slothful, we'll just go with that All right. But it it contrasts, so there's a comparison, there's a contrast of the character, the disciplines, and ultimately the end. of those who have good character, good work ethic, and those who are slothful. The reason that we're looking at this is because we want to understand that God wants us to be diligent in our work and He wants us to do it to His honor and glory. So that's really simply what this is all about. It's about us being diligent workers For God's glory. That's really what all these proverbs are about. So I want to kind of give you a little bit of a explanation of the approach that I'm going to take. I'm going to deal with three sections. The first section is going to look at four distinct character traits that separate the diligent and the thoughtful. The second section is going to deal with six disciplines that separate the diligent and the slothful. And the third is the end or The end result of being diligent and the end result of being lazy, flawful. So that's where we're going with our study. Let's begin with contrast one, four distinct character traits. That separate the diligent from the slothful. Every person in here, no matter what stage we are in life, has some work that God wants us to do. And when we talk about work, don't just think nine to five job. Your work really involves how you upkeep your home. It involves how you raise your children. It involves how you do your homework. Involves how you sit in school and pay attention to what's going on in there. Really it takes it encompasses all of our lives. Work is not just nine to five, get my paycheck, but it's really about the way that we live our lives. The first distinct character quality that we're going to talk about tonight is the quality of being honorable, honorability. Look down with me in Proverbs chapter 10 verses 4 to 5 if you could. Proverbs 10 verses 4 to 5. I'm going to read it and then comment on that, kind of summarize what I think it's talking about, and then we'll comment a little bit on it. Proverbs 10. 4 says this. He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand. In other words, he doesn't use his hands. Okay. But the hand of the diligent maketh rich. He that gathereth in summer is a wise son. He that sleepeth and harvest is a son that causeth shame. Now these two proverbs are set side by side, and basically when he talks about somebody having a slack hand, there's a parallel. It's the person that during the harvest he sleeps. And the person that is diligent is the person who during the harvest goes out and he brings in the harvest. Now he's using an agrarian kind of illustration because in those days everybody lived on a farm basically. I mean you would basically live off of the land that you owned and the land that you managed. But the thing that's interesting is that he talks about the fact that a person who is lazy will become poor, and a person who is diligent will become rich. But there's more to it than that. And the second proverb, he talks about a son who is wise versus a son who causes shame. Now he's not just talking about the fact that if you don't work, you will become poor, or if you work hard, there's going to be benefit to that. He 's emphasizing the fact that the person who works hard is honorable and the person who doesn't work hard is shameful. In other words, the quality that he's emphasizing is the difference between being shameful and lazy and being diligent and being honorable. It's important for us to understand that when a person doesn't have good work ethic, that's shameful. It really is. It's shameful on the name of the family. I think it's really important that when we raise our kids, we teach them, you need to work. You need to work hard. You need to be diligent in what you do. When you go to the job, you're going to develop a reputation. And that reputation is either going to be an honorable one or it's going to be a dishonorable one The fact is that if a person is a good worker, he's going to get more hours. Why? Because they want to work with somebody like that If a person's hours are constantly getting cut back, I think that speaks volume. It's basically the boss's way of saying, I can't fire you, but I want to do with you. Very important. Honorability. The second quality that's talked about is found in Proverbs 13. I'd ask you to turn there. Proverbs 13, verse 18. This is a really interesting proverb dealing with work. Poverty and shame shall be to him, listen carefully, that refuseth instruction But he that regardeth reproof shall be honored. The second quality, character quality, that really sets apart those who are good workers, diligent people Those who are honorable and those who are lazy, those who are slothful, those who are shameful in the way they do their work is this concept of being teachable. You know, in our American culture, we're kind of taught to be independent, taught to be self-reliant. And I don't think that's all a bad thing, okay? I think it's good when people have some of that self-reliance But that can become a fault. We can get to a place where we are so self-reliant that we don't listen to what other people have to say. When we are not teachable, we will not prosper. It's that simple. You know, it's interesting. A lot of people are are concerned about, you know, what am I going to When am I gonna major when I go to college? I know a y a lot of young people get to that stage in life. When am I gonna major when I get to college? And there are some majors that could be a total waste of a lot of money. But I'll tell you what'll really carry a person into the workforce is not what they major in and not what school they went to, but their work ethic. Are they teachable? When they get into that environment and they're given a task, can their boss actually shape how they do their work or are they stubborn and they don't need help and they just do it themselves? People who don't listen to advice will not prosper. That's what this Proverb is saying. They also won't be respected either. Number three, prudence. Well turn with me to Proverbs chapter ten, verse sixteen We talk about prudence. We're talking about the idea that a person has the ability not just to see what's in front of them and what they're in the middle of, but they can see what's ahead of them and they prepare for what's ahead of them. Proverbs ten sixteen says this. The labor of the righteous tendeth to life. The fruit of the wicked to sin. That's a really interesting problem. Let me read it again. It says this: the labor of the righteous tendeth to life, the fruit of the wicked to sin. It's kind of interesting. There are some people that make a lot of money. They have very good jobs. They have a lot of skill. But because they have poor character, they never get ahead. Basically, your character determines what you do with the fruit of your labor. This idea of prudence, a person's character determines what they do with the fruit of their labor. Let's say that you have a person who has good character, they're a righteous person, they work hard. When they get paid for their work, what do they do They use that money and they use those things that are given to them. They use it to benefit life. And the other person, the wicked, what does he do? The moment he gets his paycheck, he wants to cash it and he wants to blow it. You ever you ever notice how next to a package store there's like these places where people can cash their checks? You know why that is, right? Because, you know, a guy gets his check and he's like, The bank's closed. I gotta get to the package store and get what I want here. And they go and they they get their cash. That's really exactly what the proverb is saying. A person who's righteous, a person of good character. They work, they get paid, and they take that money and they use it for good, wholesome purposes. The other person takes that money and they waste it and they use it for sinful and even evil purposes. Number four, thrift When we talk about thrift, I don't mean that somebody is stingy or cheap. I use the term thrift in the idea that someone values what they get and they use it carefully and they use it wisely. Proverbs 12, verse 27 says this. The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting, but the substance of a diligent man is precious. I remember when I was a young boy growing up, my dad used to talk to us about the fact that if we ever When we got old enough to be able to go hunting, if we shot something, it was our responsibility when you take a life that you're supposed to use that wisely He always told us a story about when he was a boy and he got his first B B gun. And he had his BB gun and he's you know, he's doing his target practice and all that. And he saw Robin land on his grandmother's bird feeder. Probably know where this is going, don't you? So my dad, you know, gets his red rider bee gun Points it right at that robin and pop, he shot it. Fell down, it was dead. Of course his grandmother was horrified. So you know what my grandfather made him do? He made him clean that robin. And roast it. And this is what he said. You shoot it, you clean it, you eat it. There's a responsibility when you take the life of that animal, then you need to use it wisely Well, basically what he's saying is this a lazy man he goes out in the woods, he gets a deer, he gets whatever, and then he just lets it rot He doesn't care about the value of what he's done. But a diligent person values as precious what he gets. So let's say a person's a farmer, he does all that work. He doesn't waste his produce. He uses it effectively. Someone goes out into the woods, he hunts, he he shoots a deer or whatever you're hunting, okay? I guess deer's the big thing but You know, waterfowl, all that kind of stuff. Going fishing, all right, you get that animal, you have a responsibility. You've taken the life of that animal. Now you need to use it. You need to eat it. You need to clean it. That's basically what he's saying But the point really of the proverb is that when people are lazy, they squander what they have. They don't value it. They haven't understood. They haven't appreciated the value of their own labor. The point of these proverbs here is to teach us that there is a distinction in the character of a person who's hardworking and industrious and diligent and a person who's swathful. Or lazy. I want to move to the second section. That's a contrast that gives us six disciplines that separate the diligent and the slaughter. Now when we talk about a discipline and we talk about a character, in some ways it's kind of hard to separate those two things. It really is But when we talk about a discipline, we're talking about the fact that someone has a certain character quality that has allowed them to develop good practices that have a result of the kind of character that they have. So let's work through these one by one. The first is this, patience. Proverbs 13. 11 says this. Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished. He that gathereth by labor shall increase. I'm going to read this again. Proverbs 13, 11. Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished, but he that gathereth by labor shall increase. This is the idea of the proverb. Those who patiently plod will prosper, while those who use gimmicks to get rich quick will lose what they get. You know, it's kind of like a person who's an investor and he gets one really big, you know, he puts money in some account and he does really, really good And he gets greedy. Decides, I'm gonna put it all in there now, because I'm gonna be able to really, you know, blow the the top off of this thing. I'm gonna really be able to triple my earnings. And he Loses half of what he's got there. He wants to get rich quick. It's like the guy who goes down to the down to the Wawa and he's like, Okay, like where's my jackpot here You know, and he he pulls out his scratched cards and he you know he just he's just burning money hoping that he can get a little bit of extra money. He wants to get rich quick. It's like a person who goes and they hear this scheme that they can be a part of, and if I can be a part of this scheme, then somehow I can make a lot of money really, really fast. I remember when I was living over in Ghana, we would have guys that would they'd come up to me and they're like they're like, You'll never believe what I learned I can make this amount of money every single day and I don't have to do anything for it. I'm like, really? Tell me more about it. And they'd start telling you about it. And you're sitting there going, You know what that is? That's called a pyramid scheme, man. You're basically just getting all these people under you to support you, and then they're getting all these people under them to support them. And the guy at the top, he's making all the money, and he's just laughing at you. And I looked and I looked all these different things and it was all about getting rich quick. But you know what's interesting? The person that goes to work, he does his job, he pays his bill. Feeds his family. He saves, he invests wisely, and he does it year after year after year after year after year. He doesn't make a huge profit year in and year out. He's just consistent. That guy, at the end of it all, goes well beyond this other person. The person who is just rushing to get rich quick and going after this scheme and going after that schema Trying this new trink thing and trying that new thing, they don't ever get ahead. And that's not a new problem. That's something that goes all the way back to the time of Solomon People that believe they could get rich quick. You know, when we talk about something like gambling, there's no verse in the Bible that says, thou shalt not gamble. It's really the principle that we find in the passage like this one that leads us to say, you know what, I don't want to be consumed by greed and I want to get my wealth in an honest and responsible and respectful manner. You hear stories about someone who wins the lottery and they end up losing it all. It happens over and over and over again The truth is that the character that is developed over that plotting process is the character that enables someone to manage wisely what God gives them. And ultimately it's God who lifts up and God who puts down. And so one of the disciplines that a person learns is to be patient. Those who patiently plod will prosper, while those who use gimmicks to get rich quick will lose what they get. Number two, initiative. Proverbs 1423. This is an interesting one. It says, in all labor there's profit. But the talk of the lips tendeth only to penury. Basically, this is what he's saying. People who talk about what they're going to do don't get anything done And people who put their shoulders to the plow, get their hands to work, and they start walking, they get somewhere. People who are initiators, not just dreamers. And there's nothing wrong with being a dreamer. Some people are dreamers. And if you're not a dreamer, you don't sometimes accomplish things. But sometimes all we do is theorize and philosophize and sit down and think about what we can do. It's sort of like One day I went by a coffee shop when I was back in Pensacola and there's a young man that I I ran into there, someone I grew up with. Almost every time I would meet this young man, he was telling me about something new he was gonna do. Tell him about something who he's gonna do. And here we are twenty years later, do you know what he's doing? Sitting in front of a coffee shop with no job. I'm like like what in the world? Talk's cheap folks. Get a job and do something. Go out there and get the job done. People who theorize rather than get work stay poor. In all labor there's profit. The talk of the lips tend to fall into penure. And the idea is to poverty Number three, priorities. And this is the text that we read at the beginning. Proverbs 24, 27, prepare thy work without And make it fit for thyself in the field, and afterwards build thine house. Be not a witness against thy neighbor without a cause. Deceive not with thy lips. Say not, I will do so to him that he hath done to me I'll render to the man according to his work. I went by the field of the slothful, by the vineyard of the man void of understanding, and lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettle had covered the face thereof, and the stone walls thereof were broken down. Then I saw and considered it well. I looked upon it and received instruction. Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, little folding of the hands to sleep, so shall thy poverty come, as one that travaileth, and thy want as an armed man The word that I put here is the word priority. People who are diligent learn how to put priorities in the right place. You know what's kind of interesting? The first verse says, prepare thy work without and make it fit for thyself in the field. Now there's actually a little bit of a disagreement about what this proverb is talking about. But this is what's not in disagreement. Those who look at this proverb realize that Solomon is telling his children, the first thing that you need to do is you need to prepare yourself To be able to support yourself. That's really what he means when he says, prepare thy work without and make it fit for thyself in the field. He's basically saying one of the first steps that a person takes to being a responsible adult is being able to provide for their own needs. They need to get a job. And in those days it was you have a field, you need to go out into the field, you need to mark out your land, you need to go and you need to start tilling that land, and you need to get that land to be able to work for you In other words, that land is going to feed you. That land is going to be your employment. You need to first of all provide the ability to support yourself. Then go and build your house. It's kind of interesting. Some people say that when he says go and build your house, he's saying, go and build the structure that you live in. Others are saying he's actually talking about his household. In the sense that before a person gets married and starts a family, they need to be responsible where they can support themselves. Well, I'll be honest with you, I think probably both have very valid points there I want to encourage our young people here. Do you want to be viewed as an adult and support yourself? Support yourself. Get a job. Support yourself because that is the first step you take to demonstrating that you're an adult. It's not about being eighteen or twenty-two or whatever. It's about being able to support yourself. And that's really what this passage is talking about. I really want to encourage our young guys, okay? I know we got our young guys around here. Please Right away, get yourself a job, start providing for yourself. Don't de and I 'm when I say don't depend on mom and dad, I I know mom and dad love supporting their kids No, you don't. Okay, all right, never mind. I'm treading on white water here. Mom and Dad wanna see you, wanna see you take responsibility. And you know, we need to start thinking about being mature adults when we are young, when we are teens. And I think we also need to realize that in the culture that these people lived in These guys were 13, 14, 15 years old. They were getting married and they were starting families. And they had land and they supported themselves And we got guys 30, 35, and 40 that are still living in mom 's basement. That's not cool. Okay. It's not cool. I know Maryland's an expensive place to live. I know it's a tough place to live. I know that. But this proverb teaches us, hey, we need to be prioritizing. We need to decide this is my first responsibility, I'm going to set to it, and once I get that established, then I'm going to take the next step And we see this throughout. He talks about the fact that you need to you need to prepare your work, prepare your field, then build your house. He talks about the fact that if your neighbor is somebody that has given you grief, don't lie about them so that you get 'em back. Okay? And say, well they did it to me, I'm gonna do it back to them. Let God be the judge of those issues. Don't prioritize getting evil even with people. He talks about the fact that people need to maintain what they have and he says, you know, you have a field and you have walls and you've taken care of this, but if you don't maintain it on a day in and day out basis, it's going to crumble and you're going to lose all the work that you've done. This entire section is all about priorities. Priorities, very important. Next, planning. Proverbs twenty-one five says this. The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness. But Of every one that is hasty, only to want. This is a really interesting proverb. The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness, but of everyone that is hasty only to want. The point of this proverb is that people who are diligent plan before they try to do something. People who make quick decisions rather than patiently planning will end up failing in their pursuits. When he talks about the thoughts of the diligent leading to plentiousness, basically what he's talking about is the fact that somebody says, you know, I want to do this Before I do this, I need to plan out how I'm going to do that. I need to sit down and think about all the factors that are involved. I need to be asking myself, am I willing to take this risk Am I willing to push through the challenges? And they set themselves to be diligent in that matter by thinking it through carefully. Those who think it through who plan are going to be prosperous in what they do. But the one who's hasty will want. The idea is the person who says, I'm going to do this, and they just strike out on it and they don't think it through, they fail. They will not be successful. This is a this is a hard lesson that well we try to learn in our use, but the truth is that You know, sometimes we just it's a hard lesson to learn. Some people are naturally very impulsive. They just they do things just like that. There's a part of me that's like, let's do this, you know? But you've got to plan. You gotta think it through. Now, this passage is not teaching that you're supposed to be petrified by your planning. And you know we can like over-plan and over-analyze But he's basically saying this. A person who plans is successful. A person who's hasty fails at what they do. Next, self-control. This one is extremely important. Be careful that you keep your appetites in check because they'll be your downfall. Proverbs twenty-three verses one to nine. Let's read this together. I'll give you a second to find this. This is a really interesting passage. Proverbs 23, verse 1. When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before thee. And the next statement's really interesting. And put a knife to thy throat if thou be a man given to appetite. Now this is interesting. If you are sitting next to a person who's extremely powerful, extremely wealthy, and potentially very manipulative. You better be careful about what they're trying to do when they invite you to sit down and eat with them. It's the truth. That's the bottom line. You know, so like if somebody's doing a business dealing, what are they gonna do? They're gonna go to a real nice restaurant And the guy says, Hey, you can order whatever you want, man. You order whatever you want. It's all on me. 'Cause I'm gonna have you for lunch after I pay for yours. Okay? That's pretty much what he's gonna do Basically saying this, you need to have self-control when you're in the position where somebody who has power, they got money, can manipulate you. He says you better be careful that appetites don't drive you in the moment. And that could be the appetite to want to eat and eat and eat. By the way, to drink alcohol, there's a reason that people like to introduce alcohol when they're doing business Because you don't think as clearly after, you know, you've had a couple. And there's a little bit more of a willingness to strike a bargain that maybe in your right mind you wouldn't struck He says, don't let your appetite dominate you. You better have self-control. He says, be not desirous of his dainties, for they are deceitful meat. He's got this huge spread in front of you and he's making you think you're the guest to honor. You aren't the guest to honor. You're the guy that's going to pay for the next guest to honor. Okay? He's setting you up. You've got to be careful. He says, labor not to be rich. Cease from thine own wisdom You know, it it's not sinful for a person to be wealthy. It's sinful for somebody to want to be wealthy and be consumed by greed It's sinful for somebody to be working to become wealthy and they don't care who they crush and what they do to get there. It's sinful for somebody to be upset that they're not wealthy when their neighbor is Basically what he's saying is this, don't be consumed with greed, and make your chief aim to accumulate wealth. God is the one who gives and God is the one who takes away. God is the one who lifts up and God is the one who puts down. And we need to trust God and we need to be self-controlled. He says, Eat thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither desire his dainty meat. As he thinketh in his heart, so is he. Eat and drink, saith he, but his heart is not with thee The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up, and lose thy sweet words. Speak not in the ears of a fool. He will despise the words Of wisdom. He's basically telling his son, you need to be really careful that you are not dominated by your appetite. Proverbs 21, 25, the desire of the swathful man killeth him. He refuseth to labor. Here's a guy who wants to work. He wants to actually be successful, but his desire to sleep and to enjoy ease is stronger than his desire to do his duty Don't allow your appetites to dominate you. And lastly, maintenance. Be diligent to maintain what you have. Proverbs 27, 23. Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flock. Look well to thy herds. If a person is going to have a business, there's a lot of potential gain there There's an opportunity to bless a lot of people. If you become a prosperous business owner, there are people who are going to make their livelihood and they're going to support their families because you took the initiative to start something that they're able to benefit from. But the fact is, if you're going to do that, you're going to have to maintain what you have, and that takes work. And so we've learned that there are some serious disciplines that are associated with being diligent. The discipline of being patient, the discipline of taking initiative, the discipline of prioritizing, the discipline of being a planner, the discipline of sel Controls And the discipline of maintaining what God puts under your care. I want to go ahead and close lastly with a third contrast. I think we can probably finish this up. Five outcomes that separate the diligent and the slothful. I'm not going to develop these much. I'm just going to put them out there. The first ultimate outcome is that those who are diligent will be satisfied Proverbs 134 says this, the soul of the slugger desireth and hath nothing. The soul of the diligent shall be made fat. Now I know in our culture being fat does not seem like a good thing, but if you'd have lived in the ancient world And you were, you know, living off of the land, and you are looking lean, you'd like to be able to have a little bit of weight on you. Because it basically said, you're in a place where you can have a little bit of ease. You got more than enough food. You're in a good place. You are very satisfied. The idea is that laziness leaves people frustrated. Diligence provides satisfaction. What's interesting is that laziness is a type of lust that we have We want to just be at ease all the time. And the more we're at ease, the more frustrated we get. The person who's focused and is diligent finds satisfaction. And that's really what Solomon's telling his son. Don't be lazy. Two, advancement. The diligent rises to the top while the lazy sink to the bottom. Proverbs 1224, the hand of the diligent shall bear rule, the slothful shall be under tribute. If you really want to take that verse literally, basically what he's saying is this. In their culture, if you worked hard, you'd be a boss. If you were lazy, you'd be worked in somebody's field. Bottom line. If you're a hardworking, diligent person, it'll be your field that people will want to go to. There's a reason that Ruth was gleaning in Boaz 's field. Because he was a mighty man of valor. There's a reason that he employed lots and lots of different people, and he had more than enough so that she and lots of other people could come and glean. Because he was a hard-working, diligent guy. The idea is that if you'll work hard and you'll be diligent in what you do, then you're the person that's going to get the advancement in the job. You're the person that's going to get that position of authority. And if you're not getting those advancements, it's an indication that your work ethic is lacking. Three, honor. Skilled workers will end up in high demand from people who want good quality. Proverbs 22, 29. Seeest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings. He shall not stand before mean men. And when he says mean men, he doesn't mean cranky people. He's talking about people who are insignificant. He's basically saying the king chooses the best people to work with him. And that principle maintains today. There are some people that because of the quality of their work, they don't even really have to advertise. They are known for the work that they do. And they get more calls to work than they can handle And they don't even advertise. Why is that? Because they are known to have good quality in what they do, and they are known to get the job done, to be honest and fair. When a guy does not have a good reputation, he can advertise all he wants. Nobody's gonna hire him. And the person that does hire him is going to put the word out after the job doesn't go so well. The person who works hard will be honored Next, people who use deceit to get rich will pay for it later. Proverbs 20 verse 17, bread of the seed is sweet to a man, but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with grapple. You ever been out at the beach playing in the sand? Get hit by a wave. And then you crunch, crunch, you know what I'm talking about. And you got it's like you're you got you got grit in your teeth for the next week. 'Cause it's all in there. And he's basically saying when you steal from somebody, initially there's a sweetness there. Look what I got. I got it for nothing. So in the end It's gonna mess you up. And so be honest in what you do to get gain. Lastly, this people who live for pleasure will not be able to get ahead Proverbs twenty-one verse seventeen says, He that loveth pleasure shall be a poor man. He that loveth wine and oil shall not be rich. Think of the example of That boy who wanted his dad's inheritance. He says, Dad, give me my inheritance. And he goes to the far country. And what does it say? He there wasted it on riotous living. And he got lots and lots of friends to come and hang out with him. The fact is that he was living for pleasure, but there came a day when his resources ran out And when his resources ran out, so did his friends. Nobody wanted to hang out with them, and what does he end up doing? He ends up slopping pigs. And he's so hungry, he's willing to eat what the pigs are eating That is a perfect illustration. A stunning illustration of what this is talking about. I want you to think about people in Hollywood. And I'm not saying I'm not saying all actors are this way at all. I'm not saying that at all I want you to think about some really talented musicians, some really talented uh actors and actresses, people who have incredible talent and ability. But because of drugs , alcohol, and crazy living, they die really young But they don't live to be they live to be old, but they are punished in their midlife. Why? Because they lived for wealth. Think of America think of athletes. Who make millions and millions of dollars and at the end of their life they have nothing to show for it. The point that he's trying to make is this Be content with what God gave you. Don't be a person who's always living for the party. You live for the party, you're gonna get crushed when it's over I'll conclude with this thought. God wants us to be diligent in our labor for His glory. I want to encourage us To pattern godly discipline, especially in front of our young people. I think we really need to work to maintain a mentoring relationship as much as possible with our kids. with our teens, with our young adults. The truth is that good work is something that people really want If your children have a good work ethic and are diligent and have good character, they're gonna do well in life. They really will. People will want them to work for them people will want to promote them because they know they got skills to manage things. But if we don't raise our kids right and we don't mentor them well, then we're gonna have young people have struggles with life. Now they're responsible to take these things to heart and to do it. You can tell, you know, I can tell my boys this is the way you work and they can choose. I'm not going to do that And they'll get punished if they do that. Not by me. By life. It's gonna be a hard lie. But I really believe if we'll mentor our young people and we'll work to to to help them to develop these disciplines they will. So let's pray to that end. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, I thank you for the study that we've had through the Proverbs. So many practical and rich concepts, so many simple things that we often overlook so desperately need. Father, help us as a church to have good discipline and good character. Help us to be diligent, hard working people. I pray especially for our young men and women that as they as they grow up and as they mature, they'll go into the workforce as very diligent, very trustworthy, hardworking people who will advance, who will be blessed in their labors, and who you will use in mighty way in the spheres that you place them. Help us to take these things to heart and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.