Proverbs chapter sixteen, if you could take your Bibles and turn there. Proverbs sixteen, and we are looking at verses one Down to verse 9, and then we will look again at verse 33. But we're actually going to refer to the entire chapter throughout our discussion on wisdom and God's providence. Proverbs 16:1 says this. The preparations of the heart in man, and the answer of the tongue, is from the Lord. All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes, but the Lord weigh the spirits. Commit thy works unto the Lord, and thy thought shall be established. The Lord hath made all things for himself, yea, even the wicked, for the day of evil. Every one that is proud and hard is an abomination to the Lord, though hand joint in hand, he shall not be unpunished. By mercy and truth iniquity is purged, and by the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. Better is a little with righteousness than great revenue without right A man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. A divine sentence is in the lips of the king, and his mouth transgresseth not in judgment A just weight and balance are the Lord's. All the weights of the bag are his work. And then verse 33, the lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. The purpose of this section is to give godly wisdom in the context of God's providence. One of the things that we need to understand is that There is one side to the book of Proverbs, and that's the responsibility that you have. The fact is you need to make good decisions. You make bad decisions, there are going to be bad outcomes. You make good decisions, there's going to be good outcomes But one of the things that sometimes we fail to realize is that when people make bad decisions toward us What's going to happen? And one of the things we struggle with is I know I'm responsible. For me, I know I need to make good, wise, godly decisions. But when other people don't Does that throw it all off? And the fact is that God is in control. And so when we talk about the book of Proverbs and we talk about wisdom, We need to understand that a very important aspect of godly wisdom is understanding that God is in control. and understanding how he governs and how he moves and how he works in the lives of people. God wants us to be people who rest in his providence. And that's what we looked at last week. We began with, first of all, this section, understanding the mystery of God's providence. We defined his sovereignty, we defined providence. Basically saying that God is the king or the ruler over his creation, and providence describes how God administrates his rule. We also went on to talk a little bit about, I'll move through here, uh the limitations that we have when it comes to studying this topic. The fact is that there's a limit to how much information God gives. There's a limit to how much we're able to process even the information that God gives. And so one of the things that we have to recognize is that we can speak on what God says. But we shouldn't assume where God is silent. We need to just leave it there and trust God with those things. And so we need to understand there's an aspect to God's providence, that really is a mystery, and we can't fully understand it. And we have to be content with that. We have to be content to trust the Lord. We also talked about probably the most interesting example in the Bible of God's providence. And that is the the the the story of the cross. And so we have this situation where God has purpose. He's going to send his son, and his son is going to die on the cross, and he's going to do that so that we can be safe from our sins. Yet if we look at that that example as it falls out in history, we're seeing people do terrible things. We're seeing people that are angry, we're seeing people that are basically dishonest, we see a miscarriage of justice. And so we look at all this and we go, what in the world's going on? Well, God is allowing people to make decisions that ultimately he's going to use to accomplish a good purpose. And that's really what we have there. And so we can in the big picture understand what he's doing, but you can see how it falls short in some places. Well now I want us to move into the actual text here, Proverbs chapter 16. And as we look at this text, we're going to look at several truths. that are, I believe, clearly laid out and stated in this passage. And I want us to see how all these things work together and how we're supposed to respond to those things. So the first thing we're going to do as we look at this topic of God's providence is we're going to look at verse 1. I'll read it and then comment on the truth that is being taught here. Proverbs 16. 1 says the preparations, and that that idea of preparation has the idea of the planning process or the deliberating process. You have a decision to make and you're thinking through, like, what should I do? What are the factors that determine whether or not I should do this, whether I should do that? So the preparations of the heart in man, the planning process, and the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. Very interesting statement. So a person is going to make a decision, is thinking through certain facts, and based on those facts They're determining what they want to do. Clearly they are thinking, they are choosing, they're making a decision. Yet according to Solomon, it's not just them thinking through and making the decision. But the Lord is involved in that process. Whether they're aware of it or not, He is ultimately behind, bringing them to a point of decision and the ultimate outcome. In other words, wisdom understands that God governs the hearts of men. And I think that this particular concept is something that if we're not careful, we can begin to ascribe to God certain things that are not true. Or we may miss the point of what he's saying. Let me kind of give you this explanation of how I understand this. All the factors that influence our innermost thoughts are guided by the invisible hand of God to move us in the direction he ultimately wants us to go. I'll put it like this. I'll say it again. All the various factors that influence our innermost thoughts are guided by the invisible hand of God to move us in the direction He ultimately wants us to go. In other words, the things that cause us to make a decision sometimes is just a little it's just a little thing. I mean think about you know why you chose to go to the the college that you went to, why you chose to major in the thing that you that you majored in. The thing that made that decision for you, the ultimate thing that pushed you in one direction or the other, may have been a very small and insignificant thing at the time to you. You know, you may not have thought much about it. It might have been one conversation that you had with your dad, your mom, a friend, or something like that. Now, it's not always that way, but sometimes the difference between one decision and direction and another is just one small little detail. And the question is, what was it that caused you to make that decision? Well, you thought through it and you wanted to do it, but what was the factor that brought you to think that way? It's something that God did. In other words, even when we look at the decisions that people are making, God's hand is involved with those things. And that's both for positive ends and for negative ends. For instance, look at the situation of Joseph in Egypt. Joseph is down in Egypt, and he didn't go down there because he wanted to go and visit the pyramids Joseph went there because he was he was captured by his brothers. And when his brothers captured him, they were trying to decide: should we kill Joseph? And they saw some people that were going down the road who they knew were slave traders ultimately. They were cousins to them. They knew these people, and this thought popped in the one brother's head, well, why don't we just sell him instead of kill him? So what is it that ultimately determines them deciding not to kill their brother? They had decided they were going to do it. Okay. They were going to kill him And just these people coming down the road and it was like one guy said, Hey, why don't we make some money until Daddy died and everything will be good. We won't have to deal with him. We'll make a little money off of it and you know he won't even die. Maybe he'll have a good life. Who knows? So what is it that caused them to make that decision? Well it was in their own head, but God worked through circumstances To cause them to do that. And what was the big picture reason that God was doing that? It was ultimately because he was going to preserve his people And so, you know, when that situation was unfolding, there were a lot of bad decisions being made. And God's not causing these people to sin. It's completely within their own heart. God in in other words is putting some parameters here to where they can work, but when they start nudging beyond where God wants them to go, He presses them in another direction and they decide, we're not going to kill our brother We're going to go ahead and sell him. Think about Daniel in Babylon. What was it that caused Daniel to rise consistently over and over and over again? In spite of all the opposition that he received, why is it that he constantly is found in favor with people in that land? It's because God did that. In other words, God would bring to people's attention certain qualities about Daniel. And when they looked at Daniel, they looked favorably at him. And so it's not like God flips a switch and he's forcing them outside of their will. No, but he is arranging events quietly, behind the scenes, doing things that you can't see, they couldn't see, that ultimately were bringing Daniel to places where he would have influence and God would use him in a powerful way. Think about Ruth in Bethlehem. How in the world does this Moabite girl Who is worshiping idols, doesn't know the true God, how is it that she ends up being a part of the lineage of Christ? Well, it's because God's hand is in all those details. The idea is that as people make a decision, they're really doing what they want to do, but God is working through details and little factors that play into those decision-making processes. that they can't see that ultimately work to accomplish God's good ends. We see Esther in the palace, we see Nehemiah before the king. and he's going to go and rebuild the walls. We see Jonah preaching in Nineveh and the people repenting. God is the one who is behind the scenes working in those ways. We also see on the negative side, I think one of the most interesting examples is Pharaoh. Now, the Bible tells us that God hardened Pharaoh's heart, but I want you to think about how this process unfolded. Think about somebody that you know is being very, very stubborn. If you want them to do what you want them to do, is the best approach to go into pretty much Demand that they do what you want them to do. Is that the best approach? Scott 's laughing. We know from experience that when someone's heart is set in a certain way and we say, I demand that you do this , They stiffen up and they bristle and they say, there's no way I'm going to do what you want me to do Now are you forcing them to become hard by demanding that they do something? Maybe you're their authority, you're their dad, or you're their boss You demand it. They need to obey and do what you say to do. And they bristle. Is it your fault? Well, it's in their heart. But the way that you handled that situation, and maybe that was really in that particular situation the only way you could handle it. they ultimately become more steadfast and hardened in their position. That's exactly what happened with Pharaoh. God did not flip a switch with Pharaoh and say, okay, now I'm gonna, you know, I'm just gonna make an example of you. The fact is that Pharaoh was very proud He was very bull-headed. He was stiff-necked. And God says, I'm God, and you're a creature. You need to obey and let my people go. And Pharaoh's like, uh-uh. But ultimately, what's going on? God is going to use that situation to make a statement to God's people, to leave it in the Bible for us, to make a statement to the people In other words, as Pharaoh is hardening his heart, and God is dealing with him as he does, God is going to use that to accomplish his purposes. And we see this over and over and over again in the Bible. Wisdom understands that God governs the hearts of men. How God works in circumstances ultimately causes people to make the decisions that he wants them to make to accomplish his purposes. Truth number two Wisdom understands that God evaluates the motivations of men. How many of you have ever had a situation where You did something and you really did in your heart do it for the right reason you believe and somebody looked at you and said, I know why you really did that. Anybody ever had that situation And they're telling you, you did it for this reason. You're like, that's not true. You don't know it's in my heart. You can't understand that. Well, maybe sometimes people do peg us, but they don't always. Sometimes we think we've got people pegged, and we don't always. The fact is that what goes on in the heart of a man, what goes on in somebody's mind and heart, is very complicated. When you go to make a decision, many times, you have lots of lots of different factors that are pulling you in various ways. Notice carefully what it says in verse 2. All the ways of a man are clean, meaning that they're pure in his own eyes. But the Lord weigheth, and the idea is that he ponders, he thinks about, he analyzes, he looks at the spirits. Now it's kind of interesting. He talks about the ways of a person and the spirits of a person. The idea, I think, that Solomon is communicating here is that the inner man is very complicated. You know, how many times do you want to explain something to a person and you can't find the words to say because you kind of overhear a little bit and you kind of overhear a little bit and you kind of overhear a little bit. And to kind of give the whole picture, you can't even fully lay it out. We don't even understand our own motivations many times, but God knows all of it God understands what's going on in people's heads. He understands what's going on in people's hearts. And this is very important. Wisdom understands that God evaluates the motivations of men. There are times that you and I look at a situation, set of circumstances, the way an individual is handling himself or herself. And we look at that and we say, I believe that God should have dealt with them in this way right here. Anybody ever kind of been there before? I think God should just drop the hammer right here and stop them. I think God should do it this way or God should do it that way. One of the things we need to understand about that kind of thinking is that we don't know all the complexities going on in that person's head. And that person's heart and in their mind. And there are reasons why God chooses to move and work in one way when we would have been inclined to move and work in that way if we were God. It's because the information that I have and the information that he has are different. He's got the whole picture. He knows all the various facets going on in the heart. And I don't. In other words, God understands not only what we do, but why we do it. He understands what would happen if And all the various nuances of the decisions that we make. Isn't that kind of fascinating? The only thing you and I can really analyze is what has happened. To us everything else is a hypothetical. But to God it's not. He knows the what-if. If I do this, that's going to be the outcome. If I do that, that's going to be the outcome. So this is how I'm going to handle this situation. He knows that you and I don't know that. He knows if it's going to go like this to get to here, or if it's going to go like this to, and we don't really know those things. And so this is one of the reasons why we should be very cautious about questioning how God works in our life and the lives of people. Because God understands and evaluates what's going on in the heart. And He works and moves in people's lives, including our own, the way that He does for reason. He takes into account all the details as he works and circumstances when he executes justice. The what-ifs that plague us never plague God. They're simply some of the factors that he considers in the way he works. To me, that's really significant. Number three, wisdom understands That trusting in God's sovereignty is the only way to have peace of mind in a troubling world. Wisdom understands that trusting in God's sovereignty is the only way that we can have peace of mind in a troubling world. You know, we live in a troubling world. There is no end to the kind of complicated situations that we can find ourselves in. It is true that we see certain patterns repeated over and over and over again in people's lives, but it's also true that there are things that we've never seen those before. And we never even thought that that was a possibility. And that that is the situation I'm looking at right now. That's the situation I find myself in the middle of. That's what I'm dealing with. God is the one who knows what's going on. He knows the what-ifs and the possibilities and how to resolve those things, and we don't. And if we think that we are in charge, we are going to be so troubled. We're going to be so frustrated. We're going to want to bury our heads in the sand. And run away and hide. We're going to try to escape in some way. But if we rest in God's providence, we realize He's big enough. He's wise enough. He's strong enough. He's skillful enough. To manage things how he knows his best. It says in verse 3, commit thy works unto the Lord. And thy thoughts shall be established. When he says commit, that means roll it on the Lord and leave it there. That's the idea. Commit your works to the Lord. Roll it on his shoulders. Let him bear the burden and leave it there. Don't go and take it back. Think about what Jesus says in Matthew. He says, take my yoke on you and learn of me. I'm meek and lowly of heart. You'll find rest for your soul. My yoke is easy and my burden is light. What makes Christ's burden light? Well, he's actually the one pulling it. Okay? He's the one really carrying the load. The fact is, we need to commit to the Lord the things that trouble us. And he says your thoughts will be established. The idea is they're going to be stable. There's going to be stability in your heart. If you're resting in God to carry your burdens. And if you're not, there's going to be constant turmoil constant worrying, constant discouragement, constant irritability, constant anger, constant fear. If we don't roll our burdens on the Lord and leave them on his shoulders. We're going to be in big trouble. There's a reason that the Bible talks about us walking by faith. Faith means you trust. In other words, God doesn't say, let me explain it all to you right now. And now you can just understand it, and that's how it all works out. He says, I'll let you know who I am. I'll let you have the history of how I've worked in your life. I'll let you have the history of how I've worked in the lives of other people. But what's in front of you is a mystery to you, but it's not to me. You have to trust me. Based on what I've given you already about who I am and how I work, you're gonna have to trust me. And the truth is he's gonna work whether we do or not. It's just we're gonna really get beat up in the process. I remember this illustration that my one of my pastors when I was uh I was in high school, I was in a doctrines class, and he was talking about God's providence. And he told the story about how one time he was not a mechanically kind of inclined person, okay? He got a lawnmower, and when he got that lawnmower, one of the four wheels was sticky. It was sticking. Now, you know, he should have like replaced it or done something to fix it. But he was just in such a hurry to get using his lawnmower. He didn't do that. So the first day he goes out there and he go he mows his lawn and you know what? It didn't stop him. He was able to get it done. And you know, every time he'd put gas, I almost said petrol. Every time he put gas in the lawnmower and he'd you know crank it up, he'd look at it, oh man, I need to take care of that wheel Well, this went on for months and months and months, and it was into the years. One day he's out cutting his grass and One of his neighbors is kind of looking at him and waving, and he's like , something wrong Stops his mower and the guy walks up to him and he's like he's like what's the deal with your lawnmower wheel? He's like, I don't know what what do you mean? He's like, that thing is beat up. He looked at it and sure enough it was all beat up And he said, why is it like that? And he said, Well, I guess it's been sticking and I just never, you know, fixed it. And it's been like that for, you know, for a year or two now. And he said, you know, after I reflected on that, he said I realized that that is a really good example of how God works in our lives when it comes to his providence. The fact is that when we don't trust God, we get beat up in the process, but he tells Takes us where he wants us to go. us But when we trust God, we're like those other wheels, we just roll right along. And he's working in our lives. And the fact is, we have to be people that commit our works to the Lord. And he will establish our thoughts. Go to Psalm 37. Because in Psalm 37 we see this concept really kind of kind of laid out by the psalmist. Psalm thirty seven one says this fret not What is fretting? It's worrying. It's choosing not to roll that burden on the Lord, all right? So fretting is the opposite of trusting, and it's the opposite of committing and rolling on to the Lord our burdens. He says Fret not thyself because of evildoers. Neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. The psalmist makes it clear that there are times that people in this world they're evil They do evil. They focus it on you. You actually get caught in the fire between individuals and between people and God and people and circumstance. You get caught in the middle of that. It's really not your fault And so you get afraid. He says, fret not because of evildoers. There are times you look at other people and you go, you know what Serving God really kind of slows me down. There are things that I'd love to try to do, and there are places I'd like to be, and my life kind of gets cramped down because of the way that God tells me to live. Maybe I should live like the people out there Says don't be envious against the workers of iniquity. Why? They shall soon be cut down like the grass. Maybe not your grass, but they're getting cut down to the grass. And they're going to wither as the green herb. He says, trust in the Lord. Do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord. He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy ways unto the Lord. Trust also in him, he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospers in the way. Because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass, cease from anger, forsake wrath, fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. Let me tell you, what the psalmist says here is a wonderful explanation or expounding of this one little proverb we have right here. Commit your works to the Lord. Roll it on him. He'll establish, he'll make your heart stable. He gives a couple of commands. One, don't be a warrior. He says, fret not. Later in the passage, he says, commit. Later in the passage, he says, rest in the Lord. Later in the passage he says, fret not thyself in any wise to do e He o over and over and over again in that section, he's basically saying, don't worry, trust God too. Don't envy. I mean social media is great at making us think our lives are miserable and everybody else's is great. Well, the fact is that I mean we don't tend to like put negative things about ourselves on social media. We we tend to put out like the best we have, right? And there might not be a lot to put out there, but we'll put it out there. And we get the idea that we're miserable and everybody else has this amazing life. And when somebody's living for the world and doing whatever they want to do, it's We often don't see the pain and the hardship and the complications that come as a result of that kind of a lifestyle. We just see, you know, the 30 seconds of enjoyment. The time that they're having their fun. We don't see the consequence that follows. Don't envy. Three, he says, trust God. Walk by faith. Four. Do what he says is right. I mean we sing this little this song with the kids. Trust and obey. There's no other way to be happy in Jesus. But to trust and obey. Such a simple little song. We've sung it since we were a little kid. But that's what the psalmist is saying to do. He said, trust and obey. That was the first trust and obey song right there. The psalmist. Have a God-centered worshipful life. He says, delight thyself in the Lord. It's not just about, well, I believe God exists and yeah, he's, you know, he's there and I'm here and I mean all the evidence seems really strong that God exists, but I don't really like him very much. Kind of rubs me the wrong way. No, delight in the Lord. Truth is, if we know him as he is, then how can we help but not choose to love him? He then says this, trust him to shape your heart's desire. He says, delight and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. It doesn't mean that he's a genie in the bottle, and so like, okay, rubbing the the lamp is basically the delighting in the Lord. No, that's really not what's going on. When you're delighting in the Lord, He changes what you love. He changes what you want. And He doesn't do it instantaneously. It takes time. The fact is that a lot of things that we enjoy in life, there was a time that we didn't enjoy them. We develop appetites through testing and trying things. Yeah, I mean how many times you give a child a food and they go, ah And when they're 20, they're like, you got any more of that? What changed? Well, you gave them the food a couple of times, and eventually one day they decide they liked it. I mean how many of you drink coffee? Did you like coffee the first time you took it? I doubt it. Maybe somebody does, but it's an acquired taste. The truth is a lot of things in life, a lot of the things we enjoy, they are acquired. If we are in the right environment, we begin to actually develop appetites for those things. We like them and we respond to those things. And the fact is that when God is our delight, He shapes what we love. He shapes what we want. He shapes how we feel. And when we distance ourselves from God, our flesh is the one that dominates what we love and what we want and what we think. And it's going to be all about ourselves versus the God-centered life. He says, submit your plans to his plans and his enabling. He goes on to say this, commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him. He shall bring it to pass. If you got something that you want to do, you got something that's in your heart, a burden, and it's it's not a sinful thing, it's a good thing, it's a right thing. It's something that is there ultimately because as you've walked with the Lord, He's beginning to shape your heart. You don't have the power to make that thing come to pass. Now you do have the power to make steps or to be responsible, take the steps that are part of the process God uses. But you don't have the power to make it happen. Ultimately it's in the hands of the Lord. And so you roll that on him and you trust him. And what does he do? He begins setting those things in order. I remember some of you remember Tyler Nichol, he was here um the This would be about this time last year. He and his wife were in Papua New Guinea. I remember when we were in college. One day we were walking back to the dorm. And he said, you know, I'm really burdened about something. I want to share it with you. And I don't know if this is something that is ever going to be able to happen or not, but it's something I'm interested in. And he said, you know, I'm really interested. And learning how to fly. I said, okay, that's good. I'm not, but I was like, is there is that an extensive processor? And he's like, yeah, it's very expensive. I was like, well, like Three thousand dollars? He's like, Ah no, not three thousand dollars. Try like thirty times that. I was like, oh that was like buying a house. He's like, yeah, kinda like buying a house on almost. I mean you gotta you gotta go to school and you have to have all these hours and he just went through all this process and I was like, that's scary. I don't think I could do a thing like that. like that. He's like, well do you think that God can make that happen? I was like, sure, I guess. He's like, well, why don't we pray that God will? I was like. Sure, we could do that. I wasn't real confident about it, to be very honest with you. But we talked about it. And you know what's amazing? God, in circumstances that were completely out of Tyler's control, He brought him through that entire process. Uh he did. I mean he met he met a guy who was in the seminary who had formerly been a pilot, an airline pilot, and The guy struck up a conversation with him and he said, you know what? I can actually help you through a lot of that process. I can save you a lot of money. He's like I can teach you some of these things and and I can get you in a plane and he went through this process with him. It's amazing how God worked in that situation. The fact is, he had a desire, and that desire at the time seemed kind of unlikely. But he just took little steps and he let God work in the situation And God did that. And the truth is that's one example, but God does that in lots of other ways and lots of people's lives. Submit your plans to Him, and He will do what He wants to do there. And the last little command here that's important is this, be patient through the seasons of the process. He says this, rest in the Lord and wait patiently. For him, fret not thyself, because of him who prospereth, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass Cease from anger, forsake wrath, fret not. That's all together. He's basically saying, as you trust God It's not like he flips the switch. It's not like he claps his hand and boom, it happens. It takes years. It takes months. It's a process. He doesn't tell you how long the process is going to take. He just works in his own way, at his own pace, and he accomplishes what he wants to accomplish And so when you're rolling that on the Lord, you have to learn to be patient. You want to be here, but He's got to be here. And you're going to be there eventually. But it might be a while. And as you're waiting and as you're going through the process, what's your tendency going to be? It's going to be to fret because I'm not moving fast enough for you, God, or you're not moving fast enough for me. I'm moving as fast as I want to go, and you're pulling me back. He says, No, just be patient, don't fret. He says Cease from anger. We get angry at God because He is not moving at our speed. We get angry at other people who seem to be advancing quicker than we are And so part of being patient is learning to not become angry. He says, fret not to do evil. A lot of times we try to take matters into our own hands. And we try to short circuit God's process. And what do we do? We just lengthen the process And so I'm going to stop on this point. Truth three. Wisdom understands that trusting in God's sovereignty is the only way to have peace of mind in a troubling world. This is a really important topic for us to grab a hold of. And you know what's amazing? This particular truth, we know it intellectually, but what happens is we get pressed a little bit through circumstance. So you know when you're 14 or when you're 16 or when you're 18, you have a situation that to you is huge. And to you it is huge. But you know, to your mom and dad or to you know an adult in the church, they go, eh , that's a small thing. That's gonna pass. But to you it's a really big deal. And you struggle through that process. You get on the other side of that process and you learn a lesson and you say, I'm reminded again that wisdom trusts in God's sovereignty and I can have peace of mind and I I've gotten it. I figured it out. And then You go through that process again a couple years later. And that situation is more intense, more severe, longer duration, you get pressed. The fact is that our entire life we will go through this process over and over and over again. And it's not because God is mean. It's not because he doesn't love us. The fact is, he's trying to mature us. And maturing, what does it do? It stretches what you're able to handle. It strengthens your trust in him. The fact is, even to the day that we're Maybe feeble and weak. At the end of our life, we will still be learning this lesson. And I remember talking to my grandfather every time I asked him, how are you doing? He's like, I'm doing pretty good for an old man. Yeah, I've heard that a few times. I remember one time he said, Joel, getting old is not for the faint of heart. You know what he's basically saying. Those lessons I learned when I was a young man, I'm still learning them Let's be people who trust in God's providence. We have a few more truths we'll look at next time, but I really think this is an important topic. And thank the Lord for what we've been able to look at tonight. Let's pray. Father, help us to be a people who trust in your good hand. Father, it is it is it is difficult sometimes to be patient and to not fret. Not to become angry, not to try to take matters into our hands and short circuit the process. Help us to be a people who rest steadfastly in your good hand. And I pray that you would give little reminders in the coming weeks to everybody in this room. Reminders that just strengthen their conviction that you You are in control of their lives and that you love them and that you're working for their good and for your glory. coming weeks so that these truths are not just in their heads but in their hearts and that they experience them and recognize them. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen