Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We are back in Ecclesiastes 7 today. So if you have a Bible, I'd encourage you to take it. And let's look together at Ecclesiastes 7, verses 10 through 14 Here's what the scriptures say. Say not, thou, what is the cause that the former days were better than these? For thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this. Wisdom is good with an inheritance, and by this there is profit to them that see the sun. For wisdom is a defence, and money is a defense, and the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom giveth life to them that have it. Consider the work of God, for who can make that straight which he has made crooked? In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity, consider God also hath set the one over against the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him. Now when we come to this passage, I'll give you the simple summary statement. Wisdom learns to keep our circumstances in perspective. So that we enjoy what is good, learn from what is difficult, and always live with the recognition that our days and our opportunities are numbered. It's kind of interesting when Solomon's talking about the section in front of us. He talks about a person who receives an inheritance. When a person receives an inheritance, he's receiving a large sum of money or possessions that are going to strengthen him at least in that moment. But in that moment of prosperity or that moment of financial increase, the person really needs to stop and he needs to think clearly about what's going on in his life. And that's what Solomon is expressing. In other words, he's going to give us several counsels about a person who's in a position and how they should respect how they should respond to the circumstances they're in, both good circumstances and poor circumstances. So when we talk about this topic, let's look at those wise counsels that Solomon gives, just one at a time. The first of those counsels we find in verse 10. Here's what the passage says. Say not thou what is the cause of that of the former days, they were better than these Let me say that again because I messed it up. Say not thou what is the cause that the former days were better than these. You say, well, what is the counsel that Solomon is giving us as it relates to wisdom and circumstance in that verse? And here it is. Choose not to live your life in the past. Maybe another way to put it is this. Don't be crippled today by what happened yesterday. or what happened last week or last month or ten years ago. Don't allow your past to keep you from seizing the present. That's basically what he's saying. It's unwise to sit in your circumstances as they are today. And say, you know, why is it that what I'm dealing with now isn't as good as it was back then? There's actually a couple different ways that a person can be crippled in the present by his past. We think about the fact that we can carry the burdens of the past. And the the reality is that we cannot change decisions that we made in the past. Things that we did well Things that we did poorly. We can't change them. And in some ways we are we are unable to change the consequences of those decisions I mean there are certain situations that we're able to rectify. There are times that we can kind of respond and we can learn and we can make decisions that maybe make those consequences less severe We can certainly exasperate those those consequences, but the fact is once a decision is made and once a course has been set, you can't go back and change it. So that's one way that we can look at how the past can cripple us in the present. But the way that Solomon emphasizes it in this verse is he's focusing on the fact that we can look at what's happened in the past that was good. And by the way, our perspective changes as time goes on. Sometimes things that were not as good back then begin to look a lot better now. But he says the failure to embrace the joys and opportunities of the present are often rooted in comparing today to yesterday and comparing it in a way that keeps us from actually enjoying what we're dealing with now. How many people don't enjoy their present circumstance or their present opportunities? They don't seize those opportunities because they are so fixated on the good old days and how it used to be. Basically, Solomon's saying, embrace the moment. Don't live in the past. The second counsel that he gives is this keep your inheritance in perspective. You know, imagine you have this person who grows up in a family, he he lives with his parents, his grandparents, and then it comes to a point where his family member passes on, and when they pass on, they leave an inheritance, a possession. for you or for the individual that's being looked at. In that moment where a person is receiving an inheritance which is going to strengthen their position in life It's going to give them things that they can work with and they can use. At that moment when they're experiencing a strengthening of position. Solomon says you need to keep the inheritance in perspective. Here's how he puts it in verse 11. Wisdom is good. with an inheritance, and by it there is profit to them that see the Son. Now there are a couple of interesting statements that are made in this proverb. The first is that he's combining an inheritance with wisdom. He didn't just simply say an inheritance is good. He says an inheritance with wisdom is good. In other words, one of the things that makes the inheritance beneficial is the reality that you receive it with wisdom. In other words, the stuff that you get is not going to destroy you. In fact, it's going to be something that you use wisely and you keep in perspective. The second thing that really stands out to me about this is he says It is profitable for the person who sees the sun. In other words, when you receive an inheritance, you're being reminded that the reason you're receiving the inheritance is because the person who worked for those things, who earned those things, who accumulated those things, who built those things, is no longer alive to actually use them He's no longer alive to actually invest in those things. And so the fact that that person has now passed away means that someone has to take possession of those things. In other words, when we receive an inheritance, we need to be reminded that as our position is strengthened, one day our position will end, and we will no longer be living in this world, and we're going to be in eternity In other words, that moment where people often fight and bicker over stuff ought to be the moment that they're most reminded that the stuff doesn't stay with them forever. Wisdom keeps an inheritance in perspective. By its very nature, it should remind us that we can accumulate things in this life, but it's only for this life. He's emphasizing it's only profitable to those who are alive. And so the one who receives the inheritance should receive it coupled with wisdom, so that he recognizes this is a temporary possession. Just like I've received something from someone who has passed on. One day I will pass on, and when I do, someone will take the stuff that I'm building right now and accumulate it. The third counsel that he gives us is in verse twelve. And that's that we need to realize that wisdom is something that can actually extend our days. It can give life to our life. He puts it like this in verse 12. Wisdom is a defense, and money is a defense, but the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom giveth life to them that have it. In other words, what Solomon is saying is, listen, there are two things in life that can give you strength and can defend you and give you a strong position. One is money and another is wisdom. And by the way, when he talks about inheritance, he says the person who is strengthened by the inheritance needs to have that strength coupled with wisdom. Because if he doesn't have that strength coupled with wisdom, then that inheritance may actually end up being a detriment to him because he will squander it He won't keep it in perspective. And when it's his time to pass it on, he may not have it to pass on because of the decisions that he made In other words, Solomon's saying both of these commodities or these principles, they they actually do strengthen and benefit people. However, one of the two has a greater influence to benefit a person in this life than the other. And that's not money, but it's actually wisdom In other words, wisdom is something that can extend your days. Foolishness is something that can shorten your days. That's because wisdom shapes the decisions that we make. And the decisions that we make have consequences, both good consequences and bad consequences. Wisdom shapes our state of mind and how we look at circumstances, how we relate to people, how we think about the stuff that we have. And our frame of mind can strengthen and lengthen our days, or it can diminish and shorten our days. Wisdom shapes the patterns in life that we establish. And those patterns in life can be beneficial to us, or they can be very destructive to us. In other words, the decisions, our frame of mind, our pattern of life is something that is ultimately going to strengthen us. or weaken us. Lengthen our days, shorten our days. And so he says, I want you to realize that it's not money that lengthens your days. It's actually wisdom. It's actually having the discernment to relate properly to material things. Then he gives us a fourth, an extremely important counsel. And that is that we need to realize that God ultimately is the one who governs circumstances. In verse 13, he puts it like this: consider the works of God. Who can make that straight which he hath made crooked? You know, Solomon's talking about this issue of how we're to think wisely about circumstance. And he throws in this very important principle. You can make all the right choices. You can sow wisely. You can receive an inheritance. You can be strengthened by that inheritance. You can develop good patterns, live by a good frame of mind. You can make wise decisions. But in the end, you need to recognize that you are a creature. You are not the creator. You are under his authority. He is not under your authority. And so the bottom line is that God's providence is what ultimately governs our circumstance. And we need to realize that the choices we make have a huge implication on so many things, but that's not the final say. What does this do? It humbles us. You know, on the other side, I think it should actually encourage us. Because there are times that we make foolish decisions. There are times that we stumble. There are times that we look back with regret on things that we've done. And God in his goodness and God in his grace is able to still work in those circumstances. He's even able to take those difficult circumstances. and those tragic circumstances, and he can still weave them together to accomplish good purposes in our lives In other words, Solomon reminds us the providence of God is something that should always be on our mind. As we make decisions, we recognize that our decisions really still fall under his governance and his care. And that should both humble us and it should also encourage and strengthen us. So here's the question. How do we practically apply the passage in front of us, those four simple counsels. Well you know what's really interesting? Verse 14 actually is the application. It actually gives us, here are the implications. This is how you're supposed to respond to these four counsels. And let me read to you what he says in verse 14. He says, in the day of prosperity, Be joyful. But in the day of adversity, consider. God also hath set the one over against the other. to the end that man shall find nothing after him. This is really interesting. Solomon makes basically three statements in verse 14. The first statement is you need to enjoy the good days. Hey, are you in a position of blessing? Are you in a position of prosperity right now? Are you in a position where God has given you joy and you're experiencing fullness? Well please don't take that for granted. That will not last forever. If you have good strength and good health and you're in a good position, you better enjoy that. It's a gift from God. Don't take it for granted. Far too many people enjoy the blessings of or have received the blessings of God, but they don't have the perspective to actually recognize that that's what it is. They don't enjoy it. They're so stuck in the past that they don't enjoy their current their current situation. One that God has actually fully and richly blessed them with. And so Solomon says, Enjoy the good days. They don't last forever. There does come a point where your health will break. There c does come a point where your body will deteriorate. Well, your mind won't be as sharp. The strength that you had will diminish. You will not live forever on this planet. There will be a day that you pass into eternity. So enjoy the good days. Secondly Reflects in your difficult days. In other words, when you do go through the hardships of life That's the time to pause. That's the time to reflect. That's the time to learn. That's the time to sharpen perspective. We should enjoy the good days, but when God allows us to experience hardship and difficulty, it's time for us to learn. It's a schoolroom. It's God's training ground. It's where He matures us and perfects us and changes us and challenges us. He gives us depth. He teaches us those most important lessons in life. And so Solomon says, enjoy the good days and reflects on the difficult days. Realize that it is in God's hand to bless you and also to humble you. He does it for a purpose. He wants you to enjoy good days, but he wants you to grow and he wants you to learn. And so the fact is that God is going to do both in your life, and you have to recognize that that's the case. But the third thing that he mentions is also very important. Live with the expectation of the unexpected. You say that doesn't make sense Live with an expectation of the unexpected. Yes, that's exactly what he's saying. You do not know what tomorrow holds You don't know if tomorrow will come. You don't know if tomorrow will be a day of blessing or a day of tragedy. The reality is God knows tomorrow. He knows where he's taking us. He knows what he's doing. He knows how many days he's given us. He's numbered those days And we need to live each day recognizing that today is a gift or today is an opportunity to learn, and so I need to embrace what God has for me today. I need to enjoy those blessings as gifts from his hand. I need to learn those lessons and allow him to shape me and mold me and to mature me. Because I don't know what tomorrow holds. And so as we come to this passage of Scripture, we need to understand that God wants us to have wisdom and how we relate to our circumstances. And this passage gives us several very practical and important counsels related to that topic. I hope this has been a challenge to you today. As I read through this passage and as I reflected on it and jotted down notes, there was a lot to think about here. If this has been a blessing to you, I hope that you'll share that. Perhaps just leave a note of encouragement, share it with a friend on Facebook or through some other social media means. And Lord willing, tomorrow we'll plan to come back together. and talk about the rest of our section that we're dealing with. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study from Ecclesiastes chapter 7. Help us to have wisdom as we relate to our circumstances. Help us to embrace the blessings that you give us and to enjoy them as gifts from your hand, to have a proper perspective of those things. Father, help us to learn in those difficult moments and allow you to shape us and mold us. And Father, help us to live with the understanding that we do not know what tomorrow holds And so we need to be faithful today. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to talk to each of you this morning, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue in our study. Have a wonderful day. Bye now.