Proverbs nine. For the rest of our Proverbs series, what I'd like to do is do pr primarily either character studies or topical studies that we find in the book. And the truth is that some parts of the book of Proverbs, uh, you can kind of handle them in an expositional way where you deal with an entire chapter, twenty verses, fifteen verses. And then there are other parts of the book of Proverbs that, quite honestly, if you did it that way, you'd be there for a year or two. Actually, probably longer than that. Because the truth is that each verse is really just a series of somewhat random topics. And so they're not necessarily put in a topical order. Instead you have lots and lots of different topics all spread throughout the book. And so one of the easiest ways or maybe one of the most practical ways for us to take a lot of the rest of the book of Proverbs is to take some of those themes that we find in the book and kind of camp on them, see what Proverbs are stated about that particular theme. And then try to pull it all together and be very practical with it. So what I'd like to do tonight is I'd like to talk about the simple person The simple person. And when we read through the book of Proverbs, there are a lot of different kinds of people that are talked about. We have the wise person. Which obviously is what we want to be, right? We have the virtuous person or the virtuous woman. We have the simple And actually there's a lot said about the simple person. In fact, when we're going through Proverbs chapter 7, it talked about I beheld among the youths A simple man. He talks about the simple man. We have the person who's a scorner. And a person who's simple and a person who's scorner, they're not the same. We have the person that's the fool. And believe it or not, while the fool and the scorner have some similarities, there still is a distinction between those individuals. And so what I want to do is I want to talk about some of those character studies. And I think it's very important when we talk about character studies to understand these are generalizations. Okay? When we examine our own lives or when we look at the lives of other people, if we zeroed in on simply one aspect of that person's life, we would probably not have a real good view of the entirety of that person. The fact is, every single one of us on a certain day, at the wrong time, somebody could analyze you and come to the conclusion that you're a fool based on what you just did. Or what they just saw in that situation. That might not be your general disposition in most areas of life, but on that day, at that time, in that situation, you played the part of the fool. You played the part of the simple person. The truth is that these are generalizations, and we need to keep that in mind when we're talking about that. But I want us to talk tonight about the simple person And before we look at that, let's read Proverbs chapter 9, verses 1 to 10, and we're going to come back to this section at the end of our study tonight. This is what it says. Wisdom hath builded her house. She hath hewn out her seven pillars. She hath killed her beasts. She hath mingled her wine. She hath furnished her table. She hath set forth her maidens. She crieth upon the highest places of the city. And I'll talk about some of the word pictures that are used there when we come to the end of our section. But here is what wisdom is saying, and she's being personified here. Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither. As for him that wanteth or lacks understanding She saith unto him, Come, eat of my bread and drink of my wine which I've mingled. Forsake the foolish and live, and go in the way of understanding. He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame, and he that rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot. Reprove not a scorner lest he hate thee. Rebuke a wise man, he will love thee. Give instruction to a wise man, he will be yet wiser. Teach a just man, he will increase in learning. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom The knowledge of the holy is understanding. When we read those verses, we see that wisdom like a woman who has prepared a banquet for someone is crying out to those who are simple, saying, You need to come and you need to partake of the blessings and the benefits of wisdom. So when the Bible talks about someone who is simple, what's it mean? What's the difference between someone who is wise and someone who is simple? Well, I want to give two definitions, and these are my definitions, so they're probably not perfect. You can probably pick them apart, but these are how I think we could communicate the concept of being wise. and the concept of being simple. First of all, wisdom. Wisdom is first of all knowing what is right and doing it. And that's been stated by many different people. That's not new to me necessarily. But I've taken a couple of different concepts and put together. Two, it involves the consistent and properly motivated application of knowledge. It's not simply knowing what's right. It's not just doing what's right. It's not just doing what's right every now and again. There's a matter of knowing, there's a matter of doing, there's a matter of consistency, and there's a matter of motivation and application. And I think all of those concepts are bound up in the idea of wisdom. You cannot be wise if you don't have information. You can have information and not be wise because you don't apply it. You can have good solid sense And you can apply those things, but your heart and your motive is really wrong. We couldn't necessarily say you're wise. In fact, there are a lot of people as they get older that have really good sense. They can tell you what's right, but if you analyze them, they don't do it. They just they don't do it. And you ask the question, is that person wise or not? And the fact is no, they're really not They've got knowledge, they know what to tell you, but they haven't developed the discipline of doing it themselves They don't have the heart for it. And so we wouldn't necessarily say that that person is wise. Then we come to the second, and that's simplicity. Simplicity is not knowing what's right. We could use the term there's ignorance here. Naivete. Not knowing what is right, meaning you will not do it because you're ignorant of the truth. And here's another point that's really important. And you're content. To stay that way. There's a difference between someone who doesn't have knowledge but wants to have it. They know that they haven't matured, but they desire to mature, and so they listen to people who are teaching them. The simple person doesn't really have a heart to learn. They're very comfortable, they're very complacent. And so it's not that they're openly rebellious and they're hard hearted and they're constantly resisting the truth. They really don't have the information. But they're too lazy, they don't lack the motivation to actually get the information that they need. And so there's a reason that in this passage, Proverbs 9, wisdom is crying out. And saying, listen, you need to come because the simple person's going, I'm not really sure if I want to do that. Well, the truth be known, this is how we are when we're young. I mean when you're dealing with kid that's in junior high or high school, that's where most junior high and high school kids are. There's naivety, not necessarily this militant rebellion. But there's a lack of knowledge and there's kind of a willingness to stay that way. And I think a lesson like this can give us a lot of insight into how to deal with somebody in that situation. And how to pray for folks and how to kind of recognize where someone is. We need to be able to realize, am I dealing with a fool or am I deal or am I dealing with somebody who's simple? Because who I'm dealing with kind of depends on how I address them. So let's get into the second question. What is the natural disposition? Of every person towards wisdom. This is a really interesting question. And so I want us to kind of deal with this a little bit from kind of the theological side. We're not going to pull all the way out of the wisdom side, but we're going to look at it a little bit theologically here. And we're going to kind of put side by side what's said in Proverbs and what's said and some other portions of the Bible. So turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 2. And in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, we're going to see how we are by nature. In fact, in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, the phrase that's used is the natural man. Natural man means that that's how we are, if there's no influence. If it's not for God changing my heart, if it's not for mom and dad working in my life, if it's just me left to myself doing what I want to do, this is how we are Natural man. So here's what it says in chapter 2, verse 9. As it is written, I have not seen Nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for them that love him. I want to just kind of summarize that little statement by saying this. The word that comes to mind is the word ignorance. Eye hasn't seen, ear hasn't heard, neither has entered into the heart of man the things that God has prepared for those who love him. Unless God steps into the picture and opens your eyes to see truth, you are simple. You are ignorant of the truth. That is theologically where we all are. And what we will see is that's basically exactly what Solomon's saying in the Proverbs. We continue on, verse 10. But God hath revealed them to us by his Spirit. The Spirit searcheth all things, yeah the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the spirit of a man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the spirit of God. And so basically, what the scriptures are telling us is that we are simple. We are unaware of truth. So, what does God do? God's Spirit gives us truth through the Bible. That's basically what he's saying. God interrupts our world with his word. And so basically the parallel to what we see in the Proverbs here is Proverbs chapter 9. Wisdom is crying out, saying, I have prepared a banquet. You need to come to my banquet. That's exactly what Paul is talking about here in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. God has revealed to us truth by his Spirit. He then goes on and says this, which things also we speak, not in the words with manned wisdom, teach it. But which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. And Paul is basically talking about his his responsibility as apostle. He's teaching with the authority of Christ. As he's writing these words, he's writing by the Holy Spirit moving him. It's the breath of God coming through Paul. Then he says this in verse 14. The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. They are foolishness to him Neither can he know them, because they're spiritually discerned. But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is judged of no man. What's interesting here is that not only are we by nature ignorant of truth, but we're very comfortable to stay that way. And that's exactly what he's saying. The natural man doesn't receive what God says because it's foolishness to him. It's not so much that the natural man knows the truth and says, I reject it and I rebel against it and I don't want it. In his natural condition initially, he is ignorant and he's complacent. He's not looking for the truth. He's not seeking for the truth. He's fine where he is, or so he says. And so what does he not have? Discernment. He doesn't have wisdom. Do you see this parallel here between what Solomon is saying in Proverbs and what Paul is writing here in 1 Corinthians? We all naturally possess a degree of it of innocence when we are born into this world. Another word for innocence, though, is ignorance. We are not aware of certain things. We also naturally possess an internal rebellion against God. Ephesians chapter 2 says, You as he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins. Ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience Among whom also we had our conversation in times past in the lusts of the flesh, and fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others Now I want to ask this question, why is it that an unsaved person walks the way that they walk? Is it because they are in their mind saying, I hate God, I want to rebel against God, I want nothing to do with God? They may get to that point. That actually may be what their actions are saying, but is that really what they're thinking? No. The truth is that when they come through that simplicity They are just following what they know. They're doing what seems natural. And what is natural is opposition against God Next point I want to make is this, we're naturally complacent in that disposition. Romans 3. 10 says, there is none that understandeth There is none that seeketh after God. I want to just draw your attention to this very, very important truth. When you're dealing with a person who is simple, recognize that that simple person may very well also be a natural man who's uns. And that's really the starting point. You know, when we're dealing with our kids, I mean we can deal with teaching them to obey and we should. and training them. But the reality is we've got to get their heart, and the only way we can get their heart is through them actually being born again. And so I really want us to keep in perspective that when we're dealing with the simple person, the simple person may also be an unsaved person. Now you could have a young Christian who is a simple person. In fact, probably every person when they first become a believer could be in that category. They don't have godly wisdom. They don't have maturity. They don't have experience. They don't have information. They're like a baby. But we could be dealing with a simple person who's lost, who needs the gospel, or a simple person who's saved and needs to be discipled. We come to question three. Why is a simple person Let me just give this little con con uh this little comment. It's because their belief system 's not yet been shaped by the truth. Going back to that passage in Second Corinthians chapter two or 1 Corinthians chapter 2. It says that he doesn't have discernment. The fact is that you have to have a biblical worldview if you're going to have discernment. His natural fallen disposition has not yet been properly confronted. He doesn't have the ability to discern between truth and an error. I want to move to question four. What causes people to stay simple? This is really important. I'm just going to give you some quick ideas here. And I think that we can find a lot of these things all throughout the book of Proverbs. One is laziness. If you are unwilling to get up, to listen , take advice, if you're lazy, you're gonna stop Stay simple. And simplicity can very quickly move to folly. And folly can very quickly move to being a scorner. Two, a fear of what the truth actually is. And there are a lot of folks they don't really want to know what is true, they'd rather stick their head in the sand and just be ignorant of it. Lots of people like that. Three, a fear of being labeled as an extreme person I don't want to be the oddball. I don't want to investigate this. I don't want to shake the system. I'd like to just go with the flow. Comfort. A lack of loving people who will speak the truth to them. You know, if if they don't have a godly mom or dad who's going to speak the truth to them They're going to stay that way. They don't have a godly mentor, a godly pastor, a godly teacher, godly friends, people who will speak the truth into their lives. They're going to stay simple. And this is something that I think is very common today, too, and that's this. A lot of people are living in the subjective a little bit too much and not in the objective. What I mean by that is their emotions are everything. They do not base their lives on what is objectively true. They base their lives on how they feel. And that is going to be a sickening roller coaster. So, section five. What does the Proverbs say about the simple person? Let's look at a couple of statements. First of all, let's begin in Proverbs 9, verses 1 to 10. What does it say? Wisdom hath builded her house. A house is a place that you live Wisdom is something that involves every dimension of our lives. Wisdom is not just something we pick up here and we enjoy it. It's like a little It's a little little triffle that we eat, it's a little little meal that we enjoy, it's a milkshake, and then we walk away and it's in. It's the sum and substance of our daily lives. It says that wisdom has hewn out her seven pillars. What is the purpose of a pillar? It's to support something. It's to give stability and it's to give strength. And the fact is that wisdom is something that is to bring security and strength and stability. To the environment. It says in verse 2, it says, she wisdom has killed her beast. And what's the purpose of killing a beast? It's to eat it. It's to nourish you. It's to give you strength physically. And that's one of the things that wisdom does. She has mingled her wine. That's a really interesting statement right there. But the idea is to bring refreshment, enjoyment. Wisdom is something that should be a part of our daily lives and everything we do. It's to bring stability and strength. It's to bring nourishment and it's to bring refreshment. We continue on. She's furnished her table. What do you do at a table? Well, you eat, but you also have fellowship You have communion. I don't mean communion like the Lord's table. But you have interaction with people. In fact, it's one of the most social times. Now, not in every culture, and some cultures isn't quite that way as much But in a lot of cultures, especially in an Eastern near in an ancient Near Eastern culture, mealtimes were like that was the time you had fellowship with people. And you didn't sit in a chair, you reclined and you you just enjoyed the time. It was the big deal. And so she furnishes her table because this is the place where you're going to have relationships built Well let me say something. All the things that are stated here, they're word pictures to tell us something about the nature of wisdom and what it brings into your life. And if you don't have it, what's What's being neglected and what's missing in your life? He continues. She hath set forth her maidens. She crieth at the highest places of the city. Wisdom is not the only one trying to get your attention. Wisdom is sending other people to try to get your attention too. And the fact is that wisdom comes at you from so many different places. But a lot of people it just it just passes them by. It's and here's the message that is coming. Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither. As for him that wanteth or lacks understanding, she saith to him, Come, eat of my bread, drink of my mo my wine which I have mingled. Forsake the foolish and live, and go in the way of understanding You know it's interesting, there's an invitation. The proverb tells us that the simple person is someone who needs to accept the invitation that is constantly coming to them. And that's the first thing that I wanted to emphasize here is that if you want to be wise, you have to heed that invitation He goes on in verse 9. He says this. Give instruction to a wise man, he'll be wiser. Teach a just man, he'll increase learning. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. And he connects wisdom to knowing God, having a proper respect and honor and reverence for God. If you want to be wise, if you want to have understanding, if you want to make sense of the world that you live in, if you want to have communion with God, you need to be a person who fears God and grows in a knowledge of Him. We come to a second point about what the Proverbs say about the simple person. The simple person is someone who is ignorant Now I've already mentioned that, but look in verse 13. It says a foolish woman or chapter 9, verse 13, it says this: A foolish woman is clamorous, she is simple. She knoweth nothing. The idea is that she doesn't have good common sense. She doesn't have the information to make the right kinds of decisions. And that's not just saying only a simple woman, a simple man would be in the same category. We have another one. Proverbs 14, verse 15, a simple believes whatever you tell them. It says in verse 15, the simple believeth every word, but the prudent man looketh well to his goings. Now it's interesting when we read the Proverbs. A lot of times the way that Solomon quotes these Proverbs is you'll have two statements that are made side by side, and they're kind of like parallel contrasting ideas. For instance, a simple person believes everything that you tell them. Why is that? Because they're not analytical. They're not taking facts. They're not thinking through the facts and then making a judgment about it. They just accept it there. On the other side, the prudent person or a person who's wise is someone who looks well to his goings. He doesn't just accepts what's said, he analyzes, he processes The difference between the simple person and the wise in this particular context is that the simple person does and doesn't think. The wise person thinks and doesn't do. Or he thinks and then he does. In other words, by thinking, he determines either I should do this. Or I shouldn't do this. The simple person doesn't make that judgment. They just do it because somebody says, Hey, why don't you try this? You ever heard the rednecks famous last words, hey guys, try this? We used to always laugh about that with my brother. Hey guys, try this out. Yeah, it might be the last thing you say. And then somebody does something crazy. Why? Because they didn't think it through before they did it. We continue on. Proverbs 122, the simple person likes being in that ignorance. It says, how long Ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? And scorners delight in scorning, and fools hate knowledge. We could talk about squinners and fools another night, but focus in on the simple. The simple one loves being ignorant. You know, sometimes what happens is that God allows us to experience some kind of hardship. Some kind of like slap you upside the head kind of a moment. And what does that do? It shakes us out of simplicity. You know, we like that comfort comfort of being in that naive position. And what does God do? He He gets our attention. But it's not all negative. The simple person is someone who can be taught. Look at Proverbs 19, 25. It says this Smite a scorner, the simple will beware. Approve one that hath understanding, he will understand knowledge. You know, there's a difference between someone who's a fool Who the Bible says you can beat him with a rod and it won't change him. He'll look at you and go, I don't care. The simple's not like that. The simple see someone else get punished and all of a sudden and they go, huh. That's interesting. I guess I don't want that to happen to me. You see how there's a difference between being simple And you say, Well how how is this pa practical? I'll tell you how it's practical. When you're dealing with your kids. When you're dealing with some kid, you know, in the youth group or some, you know, kid in a Sunday school class or something like that. No, a very young believer. That person may say some crazy stuff. They may do some crazy stuff. You just shake your head and go, How can you do that? How could you make that decision? You didn't think it through. If that person's a fool, there's not a whole lot of hope. But if they're simple, there's hope. You can correct them. In fact, that moment of consequence might be the thing that shakes them. And so I want to put that out as a word of encouragement. When you're dealing with people, If they're simple, that's not good, but it's not as bad as being a scorner or a fool. And that person can change. And that person can learn and that person can grow and God is not done with them. Proverbs twenty-one eleven says this the scorner is punished, and the simple is made wise. When the wise is instructed, he receives knowledge. God isn't finished with a person who's simple. He can mold them, he can change them, he can make them what he wants them to be. Next we see this, the simple does not think before he acts. Proverbs 22, 3 says, this a prudent man foreseeth evil. Hide it themselves. The simple pass on and are punished. I'll give you an illustration like this. I love my children, but they're not all real street savvy. Or should I say parking lot savvy Okay? Get 'em out of the park get 'em out of their chair and their feet hit the ground. What's the first thing they're gonna do? They're gonna whip right around the car. And guess what? In a parking lot nonetheless. parking lot. No, is that because those kids are just like rotten rebels who hate life and their parents and they hate God? Is that why? No, it's because they don't know any better. They do not know any better. They do not understand that if they run around that car, they're very short, and somebody's driving, and he can't see them And if somebody happens to hit them, it will not be very nice. It won't be nice at all. And they just they don't think about it. They just run and they do it. You know, there's a lot of people that live their lives that way. They make huge decisions like a child whose feet hit the ground and they run around the back of a car. And they're 18, 22, 30, 35, 40 years old, and they're making decisions like that. The prudent man is different. He foresees evil Instead of his feet hitting the parking lot and he whoops around the car, his feet hit the ground and he goes, I'm gonna wait until mom and dad tell me it's okay to walk. I think I have one child who's a little bit more wired that way than some of my others. Why is that? Because they think about what happens if that car comes when they whip around That corner. And they don't want to deal with that. And there are also people that live their lives that way. They think before they act. Simplicity doesn't think before it acts. And lastly, the simple man gets hurt by his lack of thinking. Proverbs 27:12 says that a prudent man foresees evil, and the simple pass on and are what? They're punished. They're punished. How many people go through life making horrible decisions because they don't know any better and then when they experience the pain of those things they don't know how to make make sense of it. There's lots of people like that. Lots of people. In fact, maybe some of you are like that at one time. You know? You you make you make a decision and and an an experienced person can go, That's a horrible decision. But you didn't even think about it, you just went and did it. And then when you experience the pain of it, you don't you can't make sense of it because you don't have the information to process all that That's how the simple person is. So the question is, what should we do with someone that is simple? Be patient with them Love them. Realize there's hope for them. Pray for them. You need to be able to figure out, is this person a believer or are they an unbeliever? If they're an unbeliever, they need the gospel. They need to be saved. If they're a believer, they need discipleship. They need to come alongside and help mentor them and strengthen them and work with them. But I want to give one sixth final question, and that's this What warnings should we give to someone who is simple? Here's what Solomon says in Proverbs chapter 1, verse 23. He writes, Turn you at my reproof. I think another word that we could use there is repent. Your thinking has to be changed Two, behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you. I will make known my words unto you, because I've called And ye refused. And I have stretched out my hand and no man regarded. And ye have said it not all my counsels, and would none of my reproofs, I will laugh when your calamity At your calamity, I will mock when your fear cometh. When your fear cometh as desolation, your destruction cometh as a whirlwind. When distress and anguish come, then shall ye call on me, and I will not answer They shall seek me early, but shall not find me, for that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the Lord. They would none of my counsel. They despised my reproofs. Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way and be filled with their own devices. The turning of the way of the simple will slay them, the prosperity of fools will destroy them. destroy them. But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from evil. I'll tell you what we need to do when we're dealing with with a person who Who are simple, we need to emphasize to them that wisdom's call does not go on forever. The fact is, the time to respond to the call of wisdom is now. Life will punish you if you don't listen to that invitation at that time. This is what the passage emphasizes. You reject wisdom. There's gonna be a day When you're gonna have fear, destruction , distress , anguish. I think he's talking about what happens in your conscience, talking about the pain that comes from complex situations And the fact is, you'll want to change what you've done, and you can't. He says, if you hearken unto me, you will dwell safely Safely and be quiet from evil. Wisdom brings safety and calm. Here's my conclusion. We need to realize how important it is to be be loving true speakers. God has appointed each of us to be people who are supposed to influence people in our lives. All of us. Could be your kids, could be a a younger person that you're able to mentor, it could be another person in the church. Be a truth speaker. I don't mean be a a jerk who's a truth speaker. Be a loving, gracious truth speaker, but speak the truth in love. Realize that while we are born with naivety, there's a de and a degree of innocence. We need to be confronted by God's word. Think of our kids. Don't allow yourself to be comfortable where you are ignorant. Develop godly discernment and pass it on to others. May God help us to be wise people who instill wisdom. Those who are simple in our lives. Father, we ask that you'd help us to be people who take This passage and the many passages we discussed today, we would internalize them, we'd think about them, we'd digest them. Would live in the light of them. Father, help us to be people who handle conversations and relationships that you have brought into our lives. Help us to handle those things. In the wisest way possible. I pray that you help our young people to develop discernment, to love truth. Help us to be truth. Truth speakers to them. And I pray that they would respond before life punishes them. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.