What I'd like to do is invite you to turn in your Bibles to Malachi chapter 3. I'm going to give you a little scenario. This is not a real story. It's not about my family. It's not about Joel's family. It's not about your family. But I think we've all seen enough around us. We've all seen our own behavior that I think it'll make sense to you. And I think it'll help you understand the direction of this passage. Would you imagine there's a lady, his mother, she's in her kitchen. It's late in the afternoon and she's getting supper ready. And in the family room is her younger son. He's got two of his friends over. And she's listening and she's working hurriedly and she hears them talking about sports. They're having a great time talking about sports. Then all of a sudden it gets a little bit quieter. And one of the boys says to uh her son, you gonna be able to hang out with us this Saturday night? He goes, I haven't asked mom and dad yet. The other boy goes, I can't believe they never let us do what we really want to do. He says, well, I haven't asked yet About that time, the mother hears the front door open, and her older son is coming in. They've traveled from out of town. And uh he's got his wife with him. So they they come inside the house and the wife is so excited, she goes, I love coming home to your family. They are so nice. And he says, Yeah, you see those pictures up there on the wall? That's when we were growing up and they'd come and watch us play our sports. And she goes, you know, as we start having our family, I want to do that kind of stuff too. I want to have these pictures in our house. And about that time she hears the other boys one of them goes, we better get out of here because uh I think your older brother's here now, so we better just get on out of the house. and uh let you let your family get back to what they were doing. He says, okay, well I'll see you guys later. So they leave. And the mother quietly goes into the family room. And she says, you know, son, I love you. And I just want you to know that I always have your best at heart. I want what's best for you. And the conversation I'm having you with right now, I had with your older brother several years ago. I just want you to know we love you. We want you to do what's right. We want you to serve God. Okay, for the text, I'd like us to look at Malachi 3, verse 16. It says, Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened and heard it. And a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord and that thought on his name. So our passage is taking two groups of people and putting them side by side. One group complains about serving God and another group fears the Lord. So that's why I gave you the scenario. Here's this mom. She's got two sons, and right now those aren't thinking the right way. One is and one's not. And God's got two groups of people and he's going to talk to really the complainers is who he's going to talk to. The verse gives God's perspective on our words, on our thoughts, and on our value, how important we are to Him. I'd like to preach a message entitled Words Worth Remembering. First of all, in our text we see that God hears our words I'm going to look at the paragraph in Malachi chapter 3 verses 13 to 18. Now we're not going to read it all through right now at once, but we're going to go through it. It gives a contrast between two types of conversations that the Lord listens in on. In verse 13, it says, ye have said , Excuse me, he says, your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. So he's listening in on a conversation. He says, I'm hearing what you're saying, and your words are stout against me. And down in verse number 16, there's another conversation he's listening to. It says, Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened and heard it. Now the Hebrew verb right there is talking about both verbs are the same. And you can see that your King James doesn't just say they spoke. They spoke often. And the idea is this is their normal, habitual conversation that they talk about. One group's doing some complaining, and one group is really pleased to talk about their Lord, the one that they love and they fear. The Lord hears our words, and Jesus warned us in the New Testament, every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. So we need to be careful about what we talk about. So we're talking about God hears our words. Kind of on the negative side, avoid complainers. Be careful about complainers. Look at verse number 13 and 14. Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, What have we spoken so much against thee? Ye have said, It is vain to serve God. And what prophet is it that we have kept his ordinance and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts? So Lord's speaking directly to a group of people in verse 13 saying, your words have been stout against me. That word stout with the preposition against is talking about a very firm and obstinate resistance. And in fact, you're not going to do this to God, but against people, it'd be getting to the point of being violently opposed to somebody. The pronoun your is a plural right there, and it can refer to professional Jewish priests. Now Malachi is a very short book. It's only four chapters. In chapter 1, the Lord rebukes the priesthood. So it could be referring immediately to them. Chapter 3, earlier in this chapter, is talking about the general people, the descendants of Jacob. And in our text right here, really anyone, I'm a Gentile, and I'm thankful that the Lord saved me from my sin. But anyone who complains about serving the Lord, that message is to us. So it's like God is interrupting these people. I went to public school. There was no Christian school that I could go to. And I remember sitting in the lunchroom and all the chatter going on. I had my little group and there were groups all over the place And it's like God in heaven is hearing us when we're talking to our friends, to our acquaintances, to the people that we know And he's saying, I don't like what I'm hearing from you, the folks that complain. And they look surprised. They kind of retort, what have we spoken so much against you? Perhaps you have heard someone complain, this is a big waste of my time. Why do I need to go to church on Wednesday night? Why do I need to go to that special service? Why do I need to tell people about Jesus? So this is a big waste of my time. That's complaining about things that God would have us to do. Here's another one. I can't believe that guy gets away with it. You know, even King David in the Psalms, he had problems like that looking around. How come that guy gets away with it I wish I could have a little fun now and then. I remember being a teenager. I remember being told, no, you can't go there. I don't want you listening to that. Don't you watch that. This was way before the internet. But We ought to know that God always has our best at heart. What prophet is it that we have kept his ordinance, that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts? A complainer against God It says it's worthless and boring to serve him. There's no beneficial gain in obeying his commands that he gives us to keep And that it is pointless to surrender one's will to the omnipotent Lord over all creation. We need to choose friends who fear the Lord not those who complain about serving him. So avoid the complainers. In fact, as I look at the text It uses the word in verse 14. It's vain to serve God. In my opinion, the most basic way we think about him is the word God In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. He's the Almighty. But it also has the word Lord in all caps. And that seems to be the word in the Old Testament that's used the most for our God. It's where we think of him as personal. That he is important to us. He is not just God. He is our personal God. And is also called the Lord of hosts. I'll get into that a little bit later in the message. So God hears our words. And then on the positive side, edify your friends. I've chosen as the text, verse 16. If you remember anything from the message, I hope verse 16, Anchor Baptist Church will anchor on tonight. Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought on his name. God is speaking directly to this first group, the complainers, about a second group. It says, then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another. The focus of these verses is more on God's attention to these people than their actual conversations. It doesn't tell us in the text what they were talking about. There are thousands, millions of ways you can get excited about serving God and talk about it with your friends and your family. And people that you meet on the street. There's just loads of ways you can do that. But God is looking down and He's listening carefully to every word. This is what He's pleased by. It says, they feared the Lord. Now, in Hebrew and Greek, for a lot of nouns, they'll use a participle. Now I've got some grandsons on the front row, and if I asked them who pitched the world who was the pitcher in the last game of the World Series this year? Now we use the word pitcher. We add an ER, but what we mean is who was the guy that was pitching the game? Who was the one that was pitching the game? He had the entire game or at least five or seven innings of it. So here it says, they that feared the Lord. In the Hebrew it says, here are the ones that are fearing the Lord. They do this in the morning. They do this at noon. They do this at night. If they wake up in the middle of the night, if they encounter somebody that scares them, if they encounter somebody that makes them excited. They fear the Lord. They're the ones all the time fearing the Lord. Now, when I say all the time, yeah, they're going to mess up, okay? Even Abraham messed up. But their pattern of life is that they fear the Lord. The Lord listens attentively while they speak together as colleagues, as acquaintances, as friends. At times that the complainers are speaking, and after those messages, those complaining messages disseminate, these believers still choose to continue to fear the Lord. Nobody stops them. This is the thing they've chosen to do. They show reverent awe toward God. I don't have time to talk about the fear of the Lord in detail, but. If you stand in awe of God, you fear him. They acknowledge dependence on him. I depend on the Lord for my food. Take a breath. Do you know that your breath is in his hands? We take that for granted every second, but God holds our breath in his hands. So we depend on him for food. We depend on him to sustain us. And we obey him. The ones who fear the Lord obey his commandments. He is our creator. Earlier in the book of Malachi, the Lord pointed out that he as master deserves our fear. That's in chapter 1. He promised to judge the ungodly who do not fear him. That's in chapter 3. There's a passage about Levi and the priest, the priest that were doing right. He says, I will give them life, I will give them peace because they fear me. That was in chapter 2. Choose friends who love the Lord. and seek to edify one another. We're talking about God hears our words. And now, secondly, God knows our thoughts. And we all know that. God knows our thoughts. The Lord commends the faithful group that thought on his name. Recall that one of the Ten Commandments teaches the importance of God's name. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God. in vain. Our hearts are hidden from one another. I don't know what you're thinking right now. You don't know what I'm thinking as I get ready to talk a little bit more in this sermon. But guess who knows everything that's going on inside our heads. the Lord does. He is omniscient. Jesus warns us to guard our hearts, for from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts. which lead to sinful actions. So we're talking right now about God knows our thoughts. Kind of on the negative side, reject foolish conclusions. Reject foolish conclusions. I'm looking at verse number 14. I know I've already read it, but I'm going to read it again. It is vain to serve God, and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance, we kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts. Now I'm saying reject foolish conclusions. God is our creator. The Lord is Jehovah, and the Lord of hosts is the Lord of armies. The complainers in verse 14 concluded that it's vain to serve God. It's unprofitable to live by his word. So when they're sitting around a lunch table, that's the kind of conversation they got going on. They continued their reasoning by asking, what prophet is it that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts? They failed to reverence the name and authority of God. He is the Lord, whose proper name Jehovah is linked to the verb to be and reflects the eternal existence of Almighty God. Now that may sound like a lot of jargon. The verb to be. Jesus said, he is the I am. God told Moses, Moses said, what should I tell them your name is? Elohim? What do you want me to tell them in a minute? You tell them that I am that I am. I am the one that sent you. Alright, now the word Jehovah, the J is behind is giving you one of the letters in Hebrew. The H is another letter in Hebrew. The O is another letter, and the H is another letter. It's called the hetergromaton, it's four letters. And we're told that the Jewish people would not even pronounce that. They kept it so revered. That seems to be though the most prevalent way that God prefers to be called in the Old Testament. And Jesus kind of adopted that because in the New Testament We keep calling him the Lord. Now we don't spell it in all capital letters. It's just capital L, little O, little R, little D. So he's the Lord. The I am that I am. The Lord is the ever-living one. He's the everlasting one. He's the one who is all I need. I was listening to the radio on the way up here. Jesus said, I am the bread of life. I am the light of the world. I am the resurrection and light. He is everything that we need. That is our God. But these complainers don't think about his names and what it means. They got their mind on complaining that, hey, we can't do what we want. The word host refers to a large army. Alright, now I went up to Quebec several years ago and I had to preach out of a French Bible. L'éternel des armées, the eternal of armies, was the way that French Bible read. Now, if we know our English words well enough, we know that the word host is talking about this large army. At this time, the complainers are under the heathen Persian Empire. And God is telling, they're complaining, they're saying, hey, why should we serve the Lord of hosts? They've forgotten that God can whip the Babylonians. God can whip the Persians. God can whip the Greeks. God can whip whip the Romans. God can whip the Nazis. God can whip anybody. He is the Lord of armies, the Lord of hosts. And here they are complaining. It's vain to serve him. What they should be doing is talking about, we better listen to what Jeremiah wrote. We better listen to what Micah said. We better get right with him. That's what they should be talking about. They're unwilling to surrender to Almighty God who commands the greatest armed host. And they were callous to their need to repent of their sins against the Lord. It's easy for us to complain about our circumstances if we forget to meditate on the promises of our God and we forget to meditate on his attributes. and the significance of his names as revealed in Scripture. So we're talking about God knows our thoughts. Reject those temptations that the complainers bring. We know him and let's trust him. All right, on the positive side, God knows our thoughts. Meditate on the name of the Lord. Meditate on the name of the Lord. This is the third time I've read it, but I'm going to read it again. There's a group that fears the Lord. Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened and heard it And a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord and that thought upon his name. So here's a group of people that their habit in life is to think about the Lord, to think about his name. The Lord hearken to the faithful believers who feared him and thought on his name. The picture is of someone who diverts his attention to another person to listen eagerly to what is said. And I've got 13 grandkids. I got some tall ones, I got some that are taller than I am, and I got a bunch of little ones. And when they start talking, I sometimes have to bend my ear down. Give them my attention. I think that's a good picture of what God's doing here. He bends that ear down to hear what you're saying when you talk about him, when you talk to him in prayer. He listens eagerly to what is said. When our thoughts are anchored on the name of the Lord and God's character and his promises, we will more faithfully obey his will and act wisely in various circumstances of life. In our personal thoughts, we should meditate on his name. And in our routine conversation, we should honor his name. Think about the manifold aspects of his name. Now I said manifold. I'm not going to take all night. I got about seven. Help me out. They shall call his name Jesus, for he shall what? Save his people from their sins. So the guided is hammering nails on the construction site, hits his thumb, and uses Jesus' name vainly. He isn't thinking about what that name means. Jesus has come to save us from our sins. That's what his name means. They shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. His name shall be called. Well, where's uh, hmm, Lydia, I told you you could read this off that little card you got this morning. His name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection and the life. This one's from 2 Peter. I'm going to have to give you a little Greek word here, but you'll know it because there's an English word that's based on this. There shall be false teachers, even denying the Lord. That word Lord in Greek is despotate. despot. It's used two times in the New Testament. Once in the book of Acts and once by 2 Peter. near the end of Peter's life. The despot, boy, do you remember that parable about the guy that buried the treasure? And the Lord said, I know what my master's like. He doesn't love me. He just wants this. I'm going to bury it. So nothing will happen to it. The Lord came back and he took that talent and gave it to one of the ones that invested it. Our God loves us and gives freely to us. So, yes, he will be a despot to the ones who reject him. Then there's the one in 2 Peter 2 2 Peter chapter 1 verse 11, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That word Lord is curious And that's the one that's used many, many, many, many times in the New Testament. And that's the one that disciples enjoyed talking about. We were with the Lord. They've been out there fishing. I saw, and that's the Lord, John says, and Peter jumps into the water and swims to shore. That's a term of endearment, but he's still our master. We need to know him, and we know what his names mean. Search the scriptures and the hymnal to see how prominent the name of the Lord should be in our thinking. Now we all know this hymn. I'm not going to sing it and ask you to sing it, but consider this hymn stanza. Jesus, oh how sweet the name. Jesus, every day the same. Jesus, let all saints proclaim its worthy praise forever. That's a sweet song to have bouncing between our ears when we're doing something working in the yard or doing housework in the home to think about him. Learn to meditate on the name of the Lord. So we looked at God hears our words. We looked at God knows our thoughts. And then lastly. God rewards our faithfulness. The Lord's trying to persuade a group of complainers to repent from their errant thoughts and grumbling He testifies about his faithfulness to the righteous and warns the complainers that they will eventually witness his judgment against the wicked. Malachi 4 verse 1 says, For behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, and all that do wickedly shall be as stubble. And the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, and it shall leave them neither root nor branch. I was burning some branches and leaves the other day, and the grass has gone dormant where my wife and I live, and an ember came out. and caught some of the grass on fire. Now it didn't spread very far, but I could hear a crackling sound and I'm looking at the uh we have a little burn pit. I was looking at that and I was like that seems to be normal. And I looked off to the side and I could see It's probably about three feet by two feet. Just like that, it caught on fire. That's what stubble is like. It's just like dry grass that easily burns. And God's trying to tell. Now I had now a little scenario. The mother goes to the younger son, and the other , the people that are tempting him have left. And she's trying to reach that young man. Because her her older son's living for the Lord. She's trying to get that. And that's what God's doing. He's talking to a group of people that are complaining about serving him. He says, I want you to realize what you're doing. I want you to think about what you're doing. He's trying to persuade a group of complainers to repent of their errant thoughts and grumbling. He testifies about his faithfulness. to the righteous. He warns the complainers that they will eventually witness his judgments against the wicked. He said, those judgments are coming. You think they aren't coming. They're coming. They shall come. All right. God rewards our faithfulness. First under that, the Lord shall punish the wicked. Verse 15. This is the complainers talking, and now we call the proud happy. Yea, they that work wickedness are set up. Yea, they that tempt God are even delivered. Then we have the verse I kept reading to you where God's commending the group that fear him. Look at verse 18. He's talking back to those guys that were complaining. He says, Then shall ye complainers return and discern between the righteous and the wicked. Between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not. He's trying to tell them, I am the Lord of hosts. I am God who created the heaven and the earth. I'm Jehovah. I will punish. I shall punish. All right, the Lord shall punish the wicked. The complainers in verse 15 have continued their conversation by agreeing together. And now we call the proud happy. Yea, they that work wickedness are set up. Yea, they that tempt God are even delivered. All right, that verb set up. Don't let this get past you. Number one is passive. They aren't saying these guys have earned it. They're saying somebody has set them up. And this is set up in the in the sense of construction, like setting up a wall. When people construct a house, they'll build that wall and then they'll set it up in place. He's saying, now the wicked are set up. It's passive, indicating that someone else is to blame for the success of the sinner. There are psalms where David was saying, why are the wicked prospering? And what he's saying is, God, why are you letting this happen? So this is what the complainers are saying. These wicked guys, they're set up. Somebody is letting them have all their wealth and all of their power and they're causing us all this trouble. Alright, the verbal root for happy is translated in Psalm 1 by blessed. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. Remember that Psalm? It gives, and Psalm 1 gives the proper contrast between the righteous and the wicked. So, you know, God's going to deal with that. The Lord's providing a rebuttal. to the complainers after stressing his personal interest in the godly, the people that fear him, that he's hearkening to, those people that think on his name. He's already told them about them. He says, let's go back to what you were complaining about. In verse 18, the Lord addresses the complainants directly and says, Then shall you return and discern between the righteous and and the wicked between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not. The Lord has an eternal perspective. Now listen This is probably one of the best points we can get out of this. You and I are bound by finite earthly lifespans. Followed by everlasting life. So we live on the planet. We watch people around us that aren't doing what's right. They seem to be prospering. Peter as a disciple once took judgment into his own hands by cutting off the ear of Malchus in Gethsemane. John chapter 18 and Luke's account also talks about it. Peter had that sword. They came to arrest Jesus, and Peter took that sword and swiped off the ear. Luke's account says that Jesus put the ear back. And I don't doubt for a minute that there was blood all over that guy's shoulder. And probably dirt had gotten on that ear, but Jesus put it back. And I hope that guy got saved. We have no idea. He was a servant of the high priest. And many Pharisees did get saved in the book of Acts. So here's Peter taking justice into his own hands. Later, though, he understood God's perspective The eternal one sees one day as a thousand years, and he sees a thousand years as one day. And Peter understood that God is long suffering before he brings the final fiery judgment. The final fiery judgment. The stubble like I saw burn in my yard. That day's coming. But God doesn't want sinners to perish. He's giving them opportunities to be saved. We must learn to give God time to extend mercy while remembering that He will punish the wicked at the appropriate time. We're talking about God rewards our faithfulness. The Lord cherishes his beloved. Verse number 17 It's talking about the people that fear him. They shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels, and I will spare them as a man spareth his own son that serveth him. These Jewish people should have thought about Queen Esther and Ahashawiraus. Those Persian kings kept chronicles. They had all kinds of stuff written down. And one night Ahashiarus asked for those chronicles to be brought forward and it was read about Mordecai. And he says, what's been done? Your God is keeping a record of what you say. What you do and what you think. Let it be pleasing to him. Now that word jewel It's a precious possession. It can be treasure. I think the Spanish Bible uses the word treasure right there. In English, we talk about it as like a term of endearment, a person that's precious to you. That person, my wife is the jewel of my heart, I might say. a valuable possession. The word spare, I actually see two ways to look at this, and I think both are okay. We can be spared from punishment we deserve, that's the way I normally think of it, but we can also be spared from the possessions that a benefactor has. I might say to someone, can you spare me a $20 bill? And they've got $100 in their wallet, and they sure Sure you can have it. I'll pay you back tomorrow. You don't even have to do that. Just take it. And we'll say, Can you spare me a twenty? And I think Of a verse in Corinthians that says, I have not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of man the things that God hath prepared for them that love him. And it's like God saying, can't you people be patient? Can't you understand if you'll meditate on my name, if you'll fear me? I am preparing great things for you. And it says, I will spare them as a man spareth his own son that serveth him. The Lord will pardon those who deserve punishment, but he also gives of his bounty freely to us. That's what grace is. The Lord cherishes his beloved. In conclusion, that one verse I want you to take home with you, verse 16. Let's be like these folks. They that feared the Lord spake often one to another in your homes at your place of work with your friends, with people you help. God gives you an opportunity to help a stranger somewhere here in Baltimore and you tell them about the great God that we love and serve. The Lord hearkened and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord and thought in his name. God is attentive to our words. and our thoughts. Ensure that whatever we speak in our heart and whatever we share with others honors and pleases Him. Ensure that our words are worth remembering.