Philippians chapter 2. And we're looking at verses 12 to 13 tonight. Philippians 12. Philippians 2, verses 12 to 13. Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not only in my absence, but also or not only Well, let me try that again. Here we go. Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Again, I'll focus on that second verse. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. You might ask the question, first of all, why did Paul write this section in the book of Philippians? And we can answer it with this statement: after reminding the Christians of their responsibility to put on the mind of Christ, He then commands them to take personal responsibility for their own growth with a humble dependence upon the Lord. Personal responsibility and dependence on the Lord. So he's telling them basically, you have a responsibility. There's something that you need to do. At the same time, while you're doing your responsibility, you have to depend on God to do that. That's the big picture of what Paul is trying to communicate here. And he's communicating that because God wants us to progress. He wants us to grow in sanctification and in our Christian life. So how exactly can we do this? How can we grow and how can we progress in our Christian lives? I want to begin with this thought. And that thought is this. If you have a mission, there are some components that make up a successful mission. And that could be a mission that is something as simple as trying to fix a problem under your sink Okay, let's say that your your pipe cracks and it's leaking, or maybe you have an issue in your bathroom, maybe you have an issue in your kitchen, maybe you have an issue with your fence after we have a storm You have a problem and your mission is you want to fix that problem. So what are the steps? What are those essential components to making that mission work? Well the first one is You have a need. Why exactly do you need to do something? And you don't pick the need. The need kind of comes to you. You know, you don't want to get under your sink and you don't want to, you know, get in there and get wet and start sweating and cracking your knuckles against stuff. You don't want to deal with all that. Something happens and so the need is there and you have to step up and you have to do that. Once you have a need, then you need to assess that need with a clear objective. What am I trying to accomplish? Now when you're analyzing that issue in your kitchen, you might go, I think it's over my head. I need to call somebody and have them do that for me because my objective, I don't think I can get it. But if you think that you can, then what do you move to? You move to a course of action. You think about the steps that it will take to fix that problem. So you say, okay, I have these tools. I don't have this tool. I need to go out and I need to get it. And then we go out and we get that tool. And then we think about the parts that we need. We look at those steps. And then once we have the steps, We need a motivation to get it done. For me, that motivation would be, Joel, the sink is still leaking. Why haven't you gotten this done yet? Okay? And maybe for you it's just I need to do this because every time I go in here I see a puddle on the floor. I see that there's kind of this brown stain because there's some kind of rust and there's water flowing. But to have a mission, you need a need, an objective, a course of action, and a motivation. And we find that all of those things are found in Philippians chapter 2, verses 12 to 13. The need, Christian, is for us to grow. The objective is that we become like Christ. The course of action that we take. is we need to work out our salvation in a certain way with fear and trembling And then what is the motivation? It's God who works in you to will and to do of his good pleasure. All four of those essential components. are found in this text. And so with that in mind, let's look at the first truth that we find in the passage. And this truth is simple yet very important. I alone am responsible to do what Paul and ultimately God commands. I alone am responsible to do what Paul commands us to do in this passage. Look down at verse 12. He says, Wherefore, my beloved brethren, or my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation. He's giving them a command. It's not a suggestion. It's not something like, I hope you will do this. It's a very straightforward thing. You must do exactly what I'm telling you to do. You need to work out your own salvation with fear and trembling You have a responsibility, Christian, and nobody else can seize that responsibility but you yourself. I can't do it for you. You can't do it for me. I can't do it for my kids. I can't do it for my spouse. I can't do it for anyone. I have to do it myself. And when I think about this, I think about this illustration. When we were in Ghana, just think about when we are coming to the end of our time. And I had been teaching and investing and giving the gospel to people and discipling people and trying to train the future leadership of the church. There was a point in that time that I looked and I said, okay, I have done what I need to do. I've given them all the tools that they need. I think it's time for me to step back and it's time for them to step up. And when that decision is made and when the baton is passed on, guess what? It's now in their court. They may have all the tools that they need, but if they don't take that responsibility, Then it falls flat. You know, it was kind of interesting that this this uh today Deanna and I were were watching a video from a work day that they had at the church. And I remember we used to set up work days and it would be like me and like two of the young guys and we'd be working and we'd be sweating and all this stuff and people would kinda come, you know, in a little bit at a time. And I was kind of amazed Indian and I were talking about it and said, look at this, all those people, the whole church is there. Like everybody's there. And I said, you know, when we step out of the way. They step up. And as long as we're there, they're just gonna let you do it all. Well, you know what, Christian, we have to step up. We have to take responsibility. As much as Paul wanted to hold those Christians by the hand, he had to let go. And he had to say, you're responsible. You've got to do this. Let's notice a couple of the words and a couple of the phrases that we find in verse 12. The first thing that comes to mind here is the phrase, wherefore my beloved. He's writing to people who are in a position and he's described their position all throughout the first couple of verses of the book. He talks about the fact that have fellowship in the gospel He says that God, who has begun a good work in you, he's going to perform it until the day of Christ. And I'm absolutely confident about that. When he talks about them in verse one, he says, if there is any consolation in Christ, any comfort of love, any fellowship of the Spirit, any bows and mercies, he's talking about the fact that he knows that these Christians have an experiential Christian walk. Not just that they claim to be Christians, but their lives have been impacted by the gospel. What does that tell us? This command isn't just given to anybody. It's given to the believer. It's given to people that are in Christ. And so one of the reasons I have this responsibility is because I am in Christ. And one of the reasons that I can do what he tells me to do is that I'm in Christ. If I wasn't, then I wouldn't have that motivation. I wouldn't have that enabling. We then see a second phrase, and that's this, work out. Now that little phrase work out actually comes from one Greek word. And it has the idea of being committed to a labor that is focused on accomplishing a goal of some kind. I guess I could use this illustration. Somebody is running a race and they have labored and they have trained and they're focused and their goal is to finish the race and maybe to finish it in a certain time. So they devote all their energies to that labor of finishing the race at that time that they want to accomplish it. So when he talks about working out, he's talking about an energy and a focus and a laboring and it's focused on a goal. Notice though, he doesn't say work for. He says work out. There's a really big difference. If he said work for, then he'd be writing to people who are not believers who are not in Christ, and he would be suggesting by that statement that by working they can get their salvation. He doesn't say that He says, beloved, people who are in Christ, work out what you already possess. In other words, that energy and all that labor is going into something that you already have, not something that you're working to get. It's a really important thing for us to not miss out. He says, work out your responsibility. We are responsible to put into practice the things that He thinks that we can grow as Christians There's another passage that comes to mind that has a very similar idea to it, and that's found in 2 Peter 1. In 2 Peter 1, this is what Peter writes. He says, beside this Give all diligence to add to your faith virtue and to virtue knowledge into knowledge self-control. And he mentions several different qualities And the idea is furnish out your faith. In fact, I think that's even how it is translated in some translations. The idea is that you need to take your faith and you need to add into that these qualities. And he says, if these qualities are in you, they'll make you that you will not be bare nor unfruitful. in the knowledge of God. This is the same kind of idea. Once you're saved, once you possess eternal life, there are still some responsibilities that you have to do some kind of work or labor in that we could say eternal life that you are holding. In Colossians 1. 29, he makes a similar statement. He says this. He says, I also labor Striving according to the working of him which worketh in me mightily. And this is kind of interesting. This is very much a parallel statement to what we're looking at in Philippians chapter 2. He says, I labor and I strive according to the working of him who works in me So you see that he is focusing his attention and he is laboring and he's being diligent, but he's not doing it in his own strengths. Very, very important. We then come to a third word or phrase that we want to observe, and that's this. He says, work out your own salvation. He doesn't say work out your your your husband's salvation, ladies. He doesn't say work out your your wives salvation or work out your sons or your daughters. He says, work out your own. It's your personal responsibility. You know, we are masters of excuses, aren't we? We really are. We like to put all of the burden and the blame when we fail on somebody else. It's their problem. They're the reason I didn't do what I was supposed to do. There was a passage that came to mind, and that is in Proverbs chapter six. Listen to what Solomon says to his son. And in the context, he's talking about His son getting in a in a tangling relationship where he has become surety for a friend. Basically, he's the guarantee for his buddy. His buddy can't get alone and so he's gonna he's gonna help him out. Or his buddy can't do something that he wants to do, so he's gonna put his neck on the line for his friends. And Solomon says, that's really dangerous. Don't do that Listen to what he says though when you're in that situation. He says, My son, if thou be shirty for thy friend, if you have stricken your hand with a stranger, then you are snared with the words of thy mouth. Thou art taken with the words of thy mouth. You're in trouble. Okay? Now listen to the way he describes how his son should respond when he's in that situation. He says this. Do this now. Deliver thyself. When thou art come into the hand of thy friend, go humble thyself and make sure thy friend. Give not sleep to thine eyes nor slumber to thy eyelids. Deliver thyself as the roe from the hand of the hunter, and as the bird from the hand of the fowler. Go to the ant, thou sluggard, consider her ways, and be wise. Having no guide, overseer, or ruler provideth her meat in summer How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard, and how wilt thou arise of thy sleep? A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep, so shall thy poverty come as one that travaileth, and thy want as an armed man To put it really simply, he says, son, if you get caught in a situation like this, you're in a really bad situation. Don't be lazy. Don't make excuses. Don't procrastinate. Go immediately and get that situation resolved so that it doesn't destroy your relationship and it doesn't damage you personally. And so he's basically saying, don't make excuse, don't be lazy, don't take time, go and do it When he talks about in this passage working out your own salvation, he's basically saying this. Don't be lazy about this matter. Don't make excuse. Go and do what you are responsible to do. And then that last word, salvation, he's talking about that progressive growth into sanctification. That is what he's talking about here in this passage. Then we move on to truth number two. Truth too is this, my responsibility is sobering. Not only does he say that we need to work out, not work for, work out our own salvation. He tells us how we are to do it. What is the attitude? What is the mentality that we should take into this work that we are doing in growing into Christ's likeness? He says, do it with fear and with trembling. I'll put it in this way Have a sober mind about how serious that responsibility that you are engaging in is. Think about some times in your life when you were struck with the seriousness and the weight of a decision that you were about to make or that you had just made. How many of you remember the first time you held your firstborn in your hands? More than anything I've experienced in my life, I remember when little Joel was born and I held him And it was just like this unbelievable feeling of like, this is scary. This is exciting, but this is really, really scary. And this is sobering, and you just feel this incredible responsibility when you're holding that little child in your hands. A lot of people experience this when they're getting ready to get married. They they they're afraid to do that. I mean they've they've been planning their wedding and they're all excited about getting married and then That day comes and they're really getting nervous and they're really getting scared. And the weight of that commitment is beginning to settle down in their mind and they go, this is very, very scary. This is for life. It's kind of like when you're gonna buy a house and you're gonna sign your name and you're just like 30 years paying off this thing. What if something happens? You know, these are the kinds of things that cause you to think about the seriousness of the decisions that you make. When you make a decision that affects others, it's a big deal. But when you are told by God that you need to work out your salvation, With fear and trembling, he's saying this. What you're doing is really important. It's extremely serious. You need to be diligent and focused. on this issue. There are lots of scriptures in the New Testament that talk about how sobering the Christian life is. 1 Peter 1. 17, pass not the time of your sojourning here Or pass the not not past that past the time of your sojourning here with fear. Hebrews 12, 28 Wherefore we receive a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and with godly fear. The scriptures talk a lot about the Christian life as if it is a fight, as if it's a battle, as if it's a warfare, as if it's a wrestling match. Ephesians 6. 10, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you will be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities. Take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. 1 Peter 1 13, gird up the loins of your mind and the images that you have these men that are going out into battle and they're getting ready to fight. And what do they do? They roll up that garment and they tuck that robe into their belt. Because they're getting ready to fight. And if they stumble, it's going to be their life in the balance. 1 Peter 5. 8, be sober. And vigilant because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Christians, our experience as Christians is a weighty and a serious and a sobering thing. And if we're not diligent, we are going to get ground up by Satan. He's going to crush us. He's going to hurt us and harm us. We are going to experience the devastating consequences of laziness and procrastination if we don't take this responsibility seriously. True three, I cannot progress apart from the work of the Spirit of God. You know, this is amazing. He's telling us that we need to do something with fear and trembling. We need to be focused and we need to be driven and we need to be striving to grow in our Christian experience. But then he says, just in case you think it's your power, you're wrong it's not. It's God's power that's going to help you to do this. You can't do it in your own strength But remember, you're in Christ. You're a new creature. You have the Holy Spirit indwelling you. You can do what God's telling you to do because He's enabling you. He says in verse 13, for it is God which worketh in you. Both to will and to do of his good pleasure. That little word for tells us that this is the motivation. For the command that He's given. You know, one of the things that comforts us when we are striving to walk with the Lord and grow into Christ's likeness. is that God is working in us to will and to do of his good pleasure. I remember speaking of hurricanes back when I was in college, we had a pretty bad hurricane in our community in Pensacola. And after the storm, the col my dad is an administrator down at the college. They couldn't get a hold of my dad. He was a no-cell phone guy at the time. So he they couldn't get him. And my parents' house had been flooded. My parents actually stayed in the house and they had to leave at around two AM uh in the morning. They had to wade through some nasty water and they had to go to somebody's house who wasn't uh affected by the flooding of that that hurricane. And so the next day, once we were able to get everything settled, a friend of mine and I went down to where my parents were. Now the bridge that normally you would take to get to where my parents were, the interstate bridge, had been completely destroyed. Huge sections of the bridge were not there anymore and you couldn't drive across it. So we had to go a different route. In fact, we there were two bridges that had been uh taken out. So we actually had to drive probably an extra hour just to get to their house. And so I went with my friend and we had a full tank of gas. Well, when you have a storm like this, a lot of the filling stations get destroyed. There's no power. The National Guard was there. You couldn't get gas. And I remember we went to my dad's house and we pulled out carpet and we pulled out drywall and we just piled trash all up in the front yard in a huge pile. And then we headed back. And I remember watching the tank go down and down and down and down and it was on empty. And we still had a long way to go. And I remember we just were like, are we gonna make this? And we were just like, Lord please, like Like when when when when Elijah was able to tell that lady, you know, just fill up the oil pots, like please do this with this car. And we did make it. How uh we were running on fumes by the time we got back. But I'm making a point here. That vehicle, as soon as the fuel's gone, it ain't going anywhere. It's not going anywhere. The ability of that car to do what it does is dependent on the fuel because the fuel is what gives it the power to to haul and to drive and to work. If it's not for the Holy Spirit working inside of us, folks, we're like a car with no fuel. We're not going to be able to do what God wants us to do. But what he says is The Holy Spirit indwells you and He's working in you. In fact, that word work, that phrase, it is God which worketh in you, is actually a different phrase. than the phrase, work out your own salvation. It's actually a different word. It has the idea of energizing, internally strengthening and enabling that individual. So he's basically saying that God is enabling and strengthening you. As you do your responsibility, God strengthens you in that work. Colossians chapter 1, 29, he says, as I labor, striving according to this working, which worketh in me mightily. He's saying, I'm laboring, but the power and the enabling is coming from within, and it's coming from God, not from me. Ephesians 3. 20. Now unto him that's able to do exceeding and abundantly above all that we ask or think According to the power that worketh in us. We actually see this thing going on several times in the New Testament, where as we labor, God empowers us. You know, think about your practical situations. You have a situation in front of you and you know what you're supposed to do and you say, I can't do it. You ever felt that way? I can't do this. I need to have this conversation. I know it's what God says to do, but there's just I don't have the will to do it, I don't have the wisdom to do it, I don't have the courage to do it, and I have the motivation to do it. And you know what the Bible says? That's true. But if you will take your responsibility, when you take that step, God's going to empower you in that step. That's basically what he's saying And there are two ways he does it, to will and to do. That desire to press us on when we lack motivation, to keep us going when we feel like quitting and we're downcast. That's from God. He is motivating you. When you feel you're at the bottom, yet there's something inside of you that's saying, you can press on. That's not coming from your mind. That's not coming from your gut. That's the Holy Spirit strengthening you and saying, keep on moving. When you feel like procrastinating, and there's something inside that says, you can do this. That's the Holy Spirit. He's pressing you in your will, motivating you to take the action that you need to take. On the other side, He strengthens you to accomplish the task. You know, think about a football team. Now I'm a Clemson fan. If you're an Alabama fan, then you probably hate me. I'm sorry. But I've been at when Clemson was horrible back in the 80s, when they fired their coach and all that, you know. Or in the nine, not in the 80s, the nineties. The nineties, that was different. And I remember the first year they went to the national championship, they lost to Alabama. I was so disappointed. But one of the things that they said the next year is the team's hungry to win. You know what it was? It motivated them. When they lost, they were motivated. They said, we can do this. It was the loss that caused them to be that way. The Holy Spirit motivates us when we feel like we can't do something to do it. He presses us. He's the one that helps us to dig down and take that step that we need to take. So he says, the reason that you can do this is because God who indwells you is pressing you to will and to do of his good pleasure. There's a last point I wanted to bring out today, and that's this. This process is something that brings wonderful joy to God. In verse 13 it says, it's of his good pleasure. I'd encourage you, look at that little phrase of God's good pleasure And see how many times it mentions that in the New Testament. A couple of places. Ephesians 1. God has predestined us to adoption of children by Jesus Christ according to the good pleasure of his will. Why did God save you? Because it brings him joy. He delights in saving a person. He delights in seeing that individual grow into Christ's likeness. It brings him joy. Ephesians 1 9. He has made known unto us the mystery of his will according to the good pleasure which he purposed in himself. that in the dispensation of the fullness of time he might gather together one and all things in Christ. He's talking about how the Jew and the Gentile were put into the same body. And he's basically saying it was the good pleasure of God. When he thought of the Jew and the Gentile, these two groups that were so different and they were so antagonistic towards each other in the ancient world, he says. It brings me tremendous joy to put those people together. 2 Thessalonians 1, he says, wherefore we pray always for you. that our God would count you worthy of his calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness and the work of faith with power. And in that passage, he's talking about how God's pleasure is to build that believer in his faith and to work in and through that believer. One of the reasons that he tells us to do this. is because it brings God tremendous delight to see his children grow. I don't know if any of you like watching uh the Home and Garden channel Okay, or maybe some of the ladies like Pinterest and you like looking at how they can take an old piece of furniture. You know, something that's really beat up and it's, you know, just on the side of the road and it looks like it's lost its glory. Or an old house that just looks like it's good for nothing. And somebody comes in there and they can envision how to make that a beautiful house. They can envision how to make that piece of furniture that looks so rough and rugged, they can make it beautiful. And so what do they enjoy doing? They enjoy taking that thing that is so beat and making it beautiful and usable. It brings them pleasure, it brings them joy. God is pleased when he takes us, these sinners, who have no hope apart from him, and he can make us into the image of Christ Brings him tremendous joy. So I want to conclude with this simple thought. Don't be lazy. Don't procrastinate. Don't make excuses. Don't quit when you're worn out or discouraged. Don't be overconfident. Don't be afraid. Work out your own salvation with fear and tremble. For it's God who works in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. May the Lord help us to be people who take up those tools that He uses. And diligently apply his word and be motivated to walk in such a way that he can mold us and mature us in the faith. Let's bear our hearts together for prayer. Father, help us as your people to be obedient in this area. Help us to be diligent, laboring to take up those means that you use to mature us and to build us and to change us and to mold us. Father, we want to be godly people But we can't put off that responsibility to another person. We have to take it up ourselves. I pray that you'd help us to not be excuse makers. Not lazy, not discouraged and overwhelmed, but diligent in your service. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.