Deliver me, lest he tear my soul like a lion, brending it in pieces. Well there's none to deliver O Lord my God, if I've done this, if there be any iniquity in my hands, if I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me, yea, I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy. Let the enemy persecute my soul. And take it. Yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth and lay mine honor in the dust. Selah. Arise, O Lord, in thine anger Lift up thyself because of the rage of mine enemies, and awake for me to the judgment that thou hast commanded. So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about. For their sakes, therefore, return thou on high The Lord shall judge the people. Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness and according to mine integrity that is in me. O let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish the just. For the righteous God trieth the hearts and reigns. My defense is of God, which saveth the upright in heart. God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every day. If he turn not, he will wet his sword. He will bend his bow and make it ready. He also has prepared for him the instruments of death He ordaineth his arrows against the persecutor. Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood. He made a pit and digged it. He's fallen into the pit, or into the ditch which he hath made. His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent dealings shall come upon his own pate. I will praise the Lord according to his righteousness, and will sing praise to the name of the Lord Most High. I'd like to invite you to bow together for a word of prayer as we ask God to bless our study in the Word this morning and also as we bring to Him some other requests that are, I know, heavy on the hearts of many in our congregation. Let's pray. Father, we are reminded from this text that there are dark days that face even the godliest of people We're reminded that even when we walk in just ways, there are sometimes people who can viciously attack your people. Can undermine their integrity before others and can even put them in dangerous places. And Father, I thank you that in your infinite wisdom, as you Move the psalmist to write these words that you've preserved these words so that we can see into the heart of a godly man who faced injustice. And Father, I pray that as we examine the text before us, that we would be taught from you and our souls would be ministered to in a very mighty way. I pray that the Holy Spirit would take this text before us. And sink it deep within our souls and do the appropriate works that each of us need in our hearts in the face of these facts before us. Father, we want to lift up to our congregation. We're reminded that this week there are some in our midst and some who have family members who have gone through major surgeries and have had very serious accidents this week. And I pray that you would strengthen those individuals as they are recovering and going into surgery even today. I pray that you would strengthen their bodies. I pray that you would encourage their spirits. I pray that you would guide the hands of physicians. Who will be involved in taking care of these issues and treating and also uh operating on these individuals. We pray for strength. We pray for healing. We pray for a quick resolve to these issues. Father, we pray for those in our midst who may be carrying very heavy burdens. And Father, you know those burdens. You are well acquainted with them. And Father, I pray that this morning as we look at this text That you would minister to hearts that might be hurting, hearts that may be very burdened and heavy. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be a people who are fed deeply through the Word of God this day. I pray that we would be a strengthened people, that we would be a more matured people, that we would have a much greater understanding of how to face the challenges of life that we most certainly will encounter I pray that you'd enable me to communicate this text in a way that is very simple and very consistent with the text, and I pray that your spirit would work in your people's life. Lives. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. When we come to a passage like this, I think it's always helpful to begin with just a simple understanding of the big picture. And so the big picture of the psalm before us is that it's a reminder of how we should respond in the face of injustice. We talk about injustice, we're saying this. There are times in life that what we have done is right, but the way that we are being dealt with is very wrong. And the truth is that there are times in life that every single one of us, it doesn't matter uh how carefully we try to walk in the ways of the Lord, it doesn't matter how cautious we are that we don't find ourselves in vulnerable positions. The reality is every person in this room at some point may very well find themselves in the position that the psalmist finds himself here. In fact, as we get into the text, we're going to learn a lot about how David felt and how David thought. And really it was a very complex situation, a very dangerous situation. For this man David. But the fact is this, this passage is all about helping us know how to respond when we face injustice. Why would this passage be given to us and preserved for us so that we can read it? Well, it's because God wants us to learn how to worship Him even when we face injustice. It doesn't matter what you're facing today, it doesn't matter what you will face in the future, and it doesn't matter what you have faced in the past. You can and you should worship God in spite of how you may feel. In fact, what's interesting is that when we work through the thoughts of the psalmist and the emotions of the psalmist and we put ourselves into his shoes and we think about what he was experiencing, it's quite remarkable. That at the end of the Psalm he says this, I will praise the Lord according to his righteousness, and will sing praise to the name of the Lord Most High. Do you realize that even when someone has viciously attacked you, and even when you are truly just on the matter, and even when your life could potentially be in danger, David was most certainly in danger. You can sing praise to God. That's an amazing thing. That's something that the world can't do, but you can, because of the grace that God pours into the hearts of his people And so as we dig into this text, we're going to see God wants us to worship Him in the face of injustice. So the simple question that is very difficult to answer, but the text answers for us, is how in the world can we do that? That defies logic, that defies reason, that defies experience, but that's exactly what David did in this passage, and you and I can as well. How can we worship God in the face of injustice? The first truth that we will see in this passage is really going to take us not just to this passage, but we're going to remind ourselves back of the sixth psalm. The reality is if you were a Jewish individual and you were worshiping and going through your hymn book. in those days, you would have sung the sixth psalm and then you would have sung the seventh psalm. And you would know that these two psalms are side by side and you would understand the comparison and the contrast between really the themes of those two psalms. The fact that we'll see when we compare these two psalms is that not all suffering is equal. In fact, it's an oversimplification of life to say that all suffering is equal. The truth is some suffering is brought on us by bad decisions. Some suffering is brought on us by the bad decisions of others. Some uh suffering is brought on us that has nothing to do with the decision we made, a decision somebody else made The reality is sometimes we get caught in difficult circumstances that we were not really involved in at all, but it ends up affecting us. Not all suffering is equal. But sometimes suffering is the result of God's justice dealing with us. Sometimes it's the result of injustice from others And we see the difference between the sixth and the seventh Psalm. Let me give you a couple of similarities that we see between these two psalms The first is that there is a mixture of intense emotion and thought. When you read the sixth psalm and you read the seventh psalm, what do you see? A man in agony, a man who experienced deep heartfelt emotion. We see intense physical and emotional suffering. In both Psalms, the psalmist expresses that he is concerned that he could die as a result of the traumas that he was feeling as an individual. It's not just that the psalmist felt that way. It was reality. There were people that wanted to kill David. And so it's not just that David felt that weight It was really there. And in both Psalms we see that. A third similarity is that there was a passionate prayer to God for deliverance. In both Psalms, David realizes deliverance is not found in him, it's found outside of him, and it's in the Lord. And so he cries out to God for deliverance. And the fourth similarity is that in both Psalms he expresses a confidence in both God's character and God's providence. When we talk about God's providence, we're saying This is how God governs in the affairs of men. Because of God's goodness, because of God's wisdom, because of God's power, how he manages circumstances in real time is providence. I trust his character, I trust his judgment, I trust the way he will manage my circumstances. In both Psalms, David expresses those thoughts. There's a lot of similarity between these two Psalms. But there's also a lot of difference. And I don't want you to miss that. Let me give you three very simple distinctions. One, in the sixth Psalm, his eternal pain and fear were the result of his own sin. In the seventh psalm, they were the result of someone else's sin. That's a big difference In one psalm, David was clearly in the wrong and he knew it. And everything that he was feeling and experiencing was the result of his own guilty conscience. In the second and the seventh Psalm, it's not that. He has done right. In fact, David is saying something that I actually would have a hard time saying. God, if I've done injustice at all, judge me. You ever felt like you could say that? David said it He couldn't have said that at every point in his life, that's for certain. But in this circumstance, he felt so just in his dealings that he felt he could do that. Yet he was feeling the same pain. A second very big distinction is that in the sixth psalm he's appealing to God's mercy. Well in the seventh, he's appealing to God's justice. There's a really big difference. Justice is saying, God, deal with me as is appropriate, what I deserve. Mercy is saying, please don't deal with me how I deserve to be dealt with. Please look on me with kindness. Look on me with compassion. I'm in the wrong. I admit it. I know it. Please deal gently with me. He does not appeal to God's justice in the sixth psalm, his mercy. Same God, same man, a lot of the same feelings, but a very different approach. Why? And third distinction is in the sixth Psalm, he's asking God how long he would continue this hand of chastening. In the seventh, he says, How long will you allow people to persecute me and oppress me? That's a really big difference between those things. We could say it this way: the sixth psalm is David responding to God under his chastening hand, and the seventh psalm is him crying out to God. To free him from the injustices that he's feeling. There is a big difference between the sixth and seventh Psalm, and we need to realize not all suffering is the same. When you have a person that you're that you're ministering to, that you're encouraging, just realize you better not handle it the way that Job's friends handled him. They said your suffering, you did it wrong. There it is. It's that simple. It's not that simple, folks. We see that in these two texts. The second truth we see is this. Our thinking rarely flows in a consistent stream. This is a really important point that I don't think we should move too quickly from, but we really need to understand this. Our thinking rarely flows in a consistent stream. Here's what I mean by that. While our thoughts really flow in a consistent stream, they should always flow in a consistent body too, a consistent body of facts. rooted in the person and work of God. I could put it this way. If I'm suffering and you ask me how I feel right now and then you ask me how I feel ten minutes later and you ask me how I feel the next day or the day after You might get a lot of different answers if I'm truly honest. Do you know what I'm talking about? It's the truth. Yet the constant flow of my life is towards a consistent source. But I bounce back and forth in my feelings and my internal thoughts, my confidence, my weakness. Folks, that's how people are. Even godly people. Even David. We're going to see in this text, and as we refer back to the sixth Psalm, that David, though he was moving in the right direction , He bounced and vacillated quite a bit from confidence in God, from fear of God, from concern that God was going to punish him to confidence that God was going to vindicate him. David goes back and forth, but he's moving towards the right location. We rarely have thoughts that flow in a consistent stream. But they should always flow to a consistent body of facts. Rooted in the person and work of God. Many psalms express passionate laments. Bitterness of soul, frustration with God's apparent inattentiveness. That's the negative side. The very same psalm that you will see David be frustrated with God and say, Do you see me? Do you know what I'm going through? He will say things like this, God, you are just. You are righteous, you are good, you are wise. What is that? It shows you that as we are thinking, as we move through circumstances in life, we vacillate. That's the way life works, folks But we need to keep focusing our mind to the same source. Reflection reflecting on God's character and ways. Trusting in God's character and ways. Worship that flows From the rehearsing of these truths, confidence in God's current and future ways. You know, when we deal with temptation, there are days that we can go through the spectrum Hour by hour. You know what I'm talking about? Especially when we're going through very intense and difficult times. We can go through the whole spectrum. But there needs to be this steady flow towards the right source, a consistent source. And what we see in the Psalms is that fact that even godly people in the face of difficult times, they vacillate significantly in their thinking and in their feelings. But the same source. Let me talk to you for a moment about the flow of the seventh Psalm. I'll break it down this way. In verses 1 and 2, it says that David begins the Psalm by crying out to God. for salvation from a vicious enemy. In verses 3 to 5, he calls on God to examine him and judge him if he's been guilty of these same vicious attacks. In verses 6 and 7, he pleaded with God to come to his defense and to judge his enemies. In verses 8 and 9, he reminded himself that since God would one day judge the world, he should appeal to God. to establish proper judgment now. In verses ten to thirteen he reminds himself that God's patience with the oppressor was only a temporary thing. It's kind of interesting. We get into the language of those statements in verses 10 to 13. It's worded in a very interesting way. Verses 14 to 16, he's reminded That evil would one day come back on those who were unrepentant. And then in verse 17, he closed his prayer and worship because these unjust circumstances reminded him to meditate on the righteousness. In other words, what we see as we move through this Psalm is though David ends up over here at some times and he ends up over here at some times. He learned to develop this internal discipline to focus his thinking on what was consistent, what was factually true. What he knew about God, what he knew about God's ways, he developed this discipline in spite of all of the back and forth of his emotions and internal thoughts. He could focus his attention on what was true: meditation. And when it was all done, you know what he could do? He could worship God. Because all the noise got focused on what he knew to be factually true. And folks, we have to learn to do what David did. We have to learn to do that. But what does that tell us? We don't have a steady flow of thought. There's vacillation. We could summarize the psalm this way: lament, appeal to examination, appeal to come to defense, a rehearsal of God's character and ways, and worship. We come to a third truth. Man's unrighteousness is one of our greatest sources of pain and fear. Now when I say man's I'm including , me and you, all of us, okay? So it's not just your injustice, it can be my injustice. It's not just your unrighteousness, it can be My unrighteousness. In other words, I could be the source of my problem just as much as you can. But a lot of our pain, a huge amount of our pain, and the fears and the internal struggles, the noise that we experience in our souls, It's because men are unrighteous. We all are. Notice what he says in verses one to three. Save me from all them that persecute me. Deliver me, lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces Well, there's none to deliver. Don't forget what David did when he was a kid. And when he was a young man. David was a shepherd. David killed a lion, and David killed a bear with his own bare hands. That's an amazing thing to consider. But if David ever experienced the attack, he also saw the result of what the lion could do. You know what I'm talking about? If you were a rancher and you lived out in Wyoming or Montana or Texas and you had animals that could come and attack the the herd, there would be times that you'd come out and you'd find a carcass that had been shredded to pieces. David had experienced that. And you know what he says? Because my enemy and those that this individual is coming in contact with, because of him and them, I'm afraid they're going to do that to me. That's how it feels. He was afraid. In other words, the unrighteousness of people is something that causes tremendous internal pain, noise, and fear Our own righteousness unrighteousness, it creates trouble in our conscience. When we sin, we feel troubled. It's that simple. It creates conflict with others. When we sin, we have poor relationships. We have this cycle that is very difficult to break. Our unrighteousness creates unnecessarily complex situations. You know how difficult it is to resolve an issue between stubborn people? It's very hard. You know? I mean you do with your kids. You You deal with family members, you deal with folks in the church, you deal with so many different situations, people at work. When folks kind of like dig into their corners. What could have been simple is very complicated. Why? Because we're unrighteous. All of us are. We're unjust in our dealings in so many ways. But the unrighteousness of others is something that can plague us as well. Anger. Think about when somebody treats you unfairly and you boil inside. You've been there, I know. I've been there Fear. That person has authority. That person has power. That person has the ability to make my life miserable and hard. What are they going to do? Fear. And heaviness of heart. When I say heaviness of heart, what I mean is that we get to the place where we say, I don't feel like I can go forward. I'm burdened down. Unjust injustice from others causes anger, fear, heaviness of heart. Why do we have these problems? It's because we're unrighteous, and so are the people around us. So let's look at the specifics we find in this text. First of all, we are introduced to this man named Cush. We know very little about this person. But from reading the text, looking at David's life, and thinking about the details of this passage, it appears that Cush was probably somebody who knew Saul pretty well. Someone who was an advisor, somebody who was a family member, someone who was a friend. But Cush was likely an enemy to David who motivated Saul to pursue and to destroy David. You know, it was one thing that Saul was full of bitterness and hatred towards Saul, or towards David. It's another thing that he had people around him that were encouraging him to be that way. That's what we think Cush was. And in these circumstances, David was completely defenseless. If the king wants to kill you, who do you appeal to? What army do you appeal to? What judge do you appeal to? He is the highest court in the land. You can't go any higher. Except God. And that's who he goes to. This is what David is experiencing. He's unjustly being slandered. It says that he's saying unto the Lord concerning the words of Kush to Benjamin. In other words, Cush was going behind the scenes, and he was stirring up somebody who had a lot of power to become an enemy to David. David is being slandered. And David believed that it was completely unjust. He said, what he's saying about me isn't true. David was unjustly being pursued by his enemy. In verse 1 it says, Save me from all them that persecute me. He focuses on this one individual, Cush, but Cush is not the only one he's afraid of. It's the people that Cush is instigating against David. He says, I am being pursued That word persecute has the idea that there is this very persistent desire to destroy this man. Isn't that what Saul did to David? He was willing to set everything aside just to kill this man. Who instigated this individual here? The third thing we see is that David feared that their injustice would tear him apart like a lion. I mentioned this. Tearing apart a helpless sheep, lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces while there is none to deliver. This is not just an emotional thing that he is experiencing. He literally is in danger physically. If Saul could have done it, he would have. Let's not forget he threw a javelin at David multiple times. Let's not forget that he threw a javelin at his own son. Let's not forget what they did to those priests when they were chasing David in the land of Nob. Saul was a vicious individual. David is speaking not just figuratively, but very, very specifically on literally what can happen. And then we see lastly that David saw the evil directed at him as a product of a deliberate, fully matured plot. Verse 14 is worded in a really interesting way. Notice what it says. Behold he, this is the guy Cush. Travaileth with iniquity. Now that word travaileth, how is that typically used? That's typically used in the process of childbearing. Okay? So you have a lady who is in travail about to give birth to a child. This is the language. That David is using to describe what's going on in this situation. He travailleth with iniquity and hath conceived mischief and brought forth falsehoods. Basically, what he's saying is this this guy has plotted internally. He has gone to this individual, has a lot of power and has the ability to kill me. And he has stirred up this individual, and over a process of time, they have plotted together for my own demise. In other words, it's very deliberate. Very directed, very matured, very meticulous, and it's very scary to be in David's position. What's the point? The point is this. The unrighteousness of this person was something David was terrified about. We come to a fourth truth. God's righteousness is one of our greatest sources of comfort and confidence. Look down in verse 11 to 13. He says, God judges the righteous. God is angry with the wicked every day. If he turn not, he will wet his sword. He hath bent his bow, he hath made it ready, he also hath prepared for him the instruments of death. He ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors. I think it's very important that we understand that the statements being made here need to be seen within the context in which they're being talked about. In other words, David is thinking about a very specific situation here. The way that God viewed this man Cush, the way that God viewed the enemies that were coming to destroy David, is exactly as it's stated in this text. David recognizes that God's delay in vindication was not rooted in a discontentedness or inattentive disposition toward David and his sufferings. In other words, the reason that God hadn't stepped in and stopped this man and stepped in and stopped Saul and whoever else was trying to kill David, it's not because God was uninterested. It's not because God didn't care. It's not because God was inattentive. It's not because God was sleeping. He wasn't paying attention. God had a reason for the patience that he exercised in bringing vindication. In fact, I think about some texts that tell us about God's patience. Genesis 15, 16. In the fourth generation, they shall come hither again. The iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full For 400 years, the nation of Israel was enslaved in Egypt. Do you know why God took four hundred years before he removed them from Egypt and brought them to Canaan? Because of his patience with the Canaanite cultures. That's what the text is telling us. I think of the example of Lot and Sodom and Gomorrah. In Genesis 18, 32, there's a conversation. And in the conversation, basically, God communicates to Abraham that he's going to judge the city because it's a very evil city. And in that city is Lot and his family. And he basically, Abraham starts out and he says, Well God, if there's like a hundred people in the city who are righteous, would you spirit? It's like, of course I would. Okay, how about like fifty? Yeah, but like twenty. He just he goes down this list. Why does he do that? Because he knows that God's patience He knows it's God's patient. And this is where it ends up. He says, I won't destroy it if there's even ten righteous people in that city. Just ten righteous people. What's sad is there weren't. But do you know what that tells us? God's patient. In fact, it's interesting. Think about The story of Jonah and why he didn't want to go to Nineveh. Do you know why Jonah didn't want to go to Nineveh? Because he wanted to see God crush the Ninevehes. And they were a wicked people. In fact, you don't just have to read the Bible to understand how oppressive the Ninevehes were. If you read history and you have the stomach to handle what is there, then go ahead and read about the Ninevehes and find what kind of people they were and the way they treated people that they conquered. Not pretty at all. And you know what's amazing? Jonah would rather die than go to Nineveh because he knew that God was merciful. It's an amazing thought. In fact, when the city is repentant , Jonah is angry at God because he says, I wanted you to judge them. That's why I didn't want to go to this city. I wanted you to crush them. Look what they've done to our people. Look what they've done to all the people surround. How can you do this? Who 's going to tell us? God's patient. He's very patient. In 1 Peter 3. 20, it says that the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah while the ark was preparing were in few as eight souls were saved by water. Every day that Noah went out to that huge boat that could have been seen for miles, for years, decades , over a hundred years, he and his sons worked on this boat. You know what that was? The patience of God. The fact is, when God judges, he is very slow. And when you are being treated unjustly, you get frustrated with that. It's true. And that's how David feels. Notice what the passage tells us, verse 6. David calls out to God to act in justice. He says, Arise, O Lord, in thine anger. Lift up thyself because of the rage of my enemies. Awake for me to the judgment that thou hast commanded. He says, Arise. You're sitting down and you're letting him do this to me. Stand up and do something. That's what he's saying. He says, Lift up thyself. You're laying down. You're laying down. You're not fighting for me. That's how he feels. He says, wake up. You're sleeping. He understands that God is omniscient. But that's how David feels. David remembered that God's justice is absolutely certain. It's sure. Verse 8. The Lord shall judge the people. Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness. The word judges the idea, vindicate me. He says, Let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end and establish the just. My defense is of God. He saveth the upright in heart. God judges the righteous. God is angry with the wicked every day. You know what he's reminded of? While God is patient, His patience is wearing thin. In other words, he's watching this individual who is treating David with such disdain and hatred. And God says, I am going to judge him. The fact that I've been patient does not mean that I'm unaffected emotionally by what I see. That's what he's saying. David remembered that man's sin has a natural consequence. Verse 15, he says, he, that's this individual, made a pit. Why did he make the pit? Because he wanted to s to snatch David. He wanted to catch him. He says he's dug a pit and he's fallen into the ditch which he made. His mischief shall return upon his own head, his violent dealing shall come down upon his own pate. He's saying, not only do I understand that that God works in measured justice, and God's justice is sure, But I'm reminded that there are natural consequences when people are unjust. In fact, I actually skipped this section about his measuredness. Let me go back and read this. He says, if he turn not. It's an interesting statement. God's patient. He's holding on. If this guy will repent and he'll turn from what he's doing and give David a break, show him kindness, God will hold back. But if he does not return, what does it say? He says he will wet his sword. That word literally means he's going to go and sharpen his sword and take it into the battle. He has bent his bow. Anybody owned a bow before? I remember when I was a teenager, I wanted a bow so badly. Okay? That was like that was the thing in our neighborhood, and we we all made bows. And one of the things that you have to do when you get it, not a compound bow, but like the old school bow, is you have to string that thing. And so you have to step on that long bow. And you bend it and you pull that cord and then you pop it in place and now it's taunt. It's ready to be used. And if you're not using it, you remove it and you just let it stand there. So it's so it's not flexing. And he says, this is what God's doing. He's taking his bow, bending it, setting that notch there. He's preparing himself to use it. As he is holding back his justice, he's preparing himself to execute justice. It's all about what this person's going to do. He says he's prepared the instruments of death. He's ordained his arrows against the persecutors. In other words, as this person continues and persists in their injustice, God sets his mark. And he says, God is measured in his justice. But here's where the psalm closes, and this is what's so significant. David worshiped God because of his righteousness. Look down in verse 17, he says, I will praise the Lord. According to his righteousness. David didn't say according to my righteousness. He said his righteousness. He says, I will sing praise to the name of the Lord Most High. Don't miss some of the things he's saying. First of all, he's saying, I can sing praise to God. I'm reminded that he's righteous. That means God judges perfectly and justly. He says, I'm reminded that he is the most high. There's no higher court than God's court. And he says, I'm reminded of his name. Capital L O R D. You know what that stands for? God's covenant name. God's covenant name, which indicated that he is self-existent. He's eternal. He's omnipotent, all-powerful He's omniscient, he's all wise. God is going to step in and do the right thing. And so while God has not stepped in and done it, David knows that he will, and so he trusts God, and he worships God, and he praises God. In other words, our last truth is this: we can still worship God even when we are broken and troubled. Notice some of the things that trouble can do to become a catless that causes us to worship. In fact, sometimes God allows us trouble, not because he's cruel, but because he knows that's what we need to put us in the place that he wants us so that we can think correctly and we can respond correctly to him Trouble forces us to recognize and express our limitations. If God never let you go through trouble, you know how proud you'd be? Think about how proud we are, even when he lets us go through trouble. I'm serious. I mean, it's amazing. Just the smallest blessing, all of a sudden our head can be, you know, far bigger than it needs to be So what does God do? He lets us go through trouble to help us to see, look, you are not limitless. You are limited. You are a creature. You are under my authority. You're dependent on me. You know what that does? It causes us to worship him. Trouble forces us to examine ourselves. Sadly, we don't always do that. But when we have trouble, you know what we need to do? We need to stop and ask, have I contributed to this? Can we honestly say what David said? God? Judge me according to how I've acted. I couldn't do that many arguments that I have. But David could. He knew absolutely for certain that he had done right. But that examination is a good thing. We need to examine ourselves from time to time. And what does that do? It reveals our sin, it reveals our brokenness, it reveals our fallenness, it reveals our dependence on God, and it presses us to worship Him Trouble forces us to see the evil nature of sin. Folks, this world is a fallen world If everything in this world was perfect, would you really want to go to heaven? I mean, honestly, that's where we would be. So what does God do? He allows us to understand How bad fallenness is, how evil sin is. He allows us to walk through the valleys so that we'll understand the glory of eternity and how destructive sin is. Trouble forces us to appreciate the patience of God. Every time we get frustrated that God doesn't step in , On our behalf, against someone that we are not happy with, we ought to realize there are times there are other people thinking the same thing about us. You know what that ought to do? That ought to cause us to be thankful that we are That God is patient. He really is patient. He's patient with us. He's patient with them. We can trust him to do the right thing. Trouble forces us to see the glory of God's righteousness. Folks, justice is actually a wonderful thing. Justice is a good thing The righteousness of God is something that is glorious to behold, something that's worthy of praise and worship. Trouble frees us to let God be the ultimate judge. This is really important. You know how David could sing? Because he realized he didn't have to judge Saul. He realized he didn't have to judge Cush. He realized that God was God. God is the ultimate judge. I can worship you because I know you're going to do the right thing. I can trust you to do it. And now I'm free to focus on you as I should. Trouble frees us to let God be the ultimate judge. There's nothing more frustrating than feeling you need justice and realizing you can't do it And there's nothing more liberating than realizing that's okay. That's why God's there. You let him deal with it You let him handle the situation. This man's life was in danger, in potential jeopardy. Yet he could sing praise to God. And lastly, these treatise examined, meditated on, internalized, press our hearts. And a heart-filled worship of our great God. I don't want you to think that we should ever feel that pain is good. That God wants us to feel pain. But pain serves good purposes sometimes. And we have to trust God in those times. God wants us to worship him in the face of injustice, and I want to encourage you, based on what we've seen this morning, you can do that. Let's do that. Let's put our hearts together in prayer, please. Father in heaven, we are reminded that not all pain is equal. When we face difficulties, we bounce around a lot. Every one of us do. But there is a consistent factual measure of truth that we can look at, your character and your ways, and we can focus our attention on you. We can have stability. We can move forward correctly. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be a people who learn to trust you when we're wronged. And Father, help us to learn to be a people who don't wrong others. Father, help us not to put others in difficult places. Father, help us to learn to trust you and let you be judged. And Father, help us to realize that the pains we experience are the tools that you use to bring us to our knees, to press our hearts, and to praise for you. We ask these things in Christ's name.