Take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Psalms. And we are looking at the 47th Psalm this morning, Psalm 47. And uh uh uh yes, forty-seven. Almost thought I said seventy-four for a second. And um for those of you who maybe are are have not regularly been attending our church on the first Sunday of the month. we take time to work our way through the Psalms. So as you can see, we've been doing this for a while. This is the 60th uh passage that we have dealt with in our sermon series, which We only do 12-ish a year, so we've been doing this for quite a while. And one of the things that's very helpful for us as we work our way sequentially through the Psalms. is that we're able to kind of take those psalms and see them within the context of the other psalms that are written around them. And this psalm this morning that we're going to look at, I think It's really going to drive home some important truths when we consider the Psalm before it, Psalm 46, and then the Psalm after it, Psalm 48. Let's go ahead and look down and read, beginning in verse number one. It says, O clap your hands, all ye people, shout unto God with a voice of triumph. For the Lord Most High is terrible. He is a great king over all the earth. He shall subdue the people under us. and the nations under our feet. He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob, whom he loved. Selah. God has got up with a shout, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet. Sing praises to God. Sing praises. Sing praises unto our King. Sing praises. For God is the king of all the earth, singing praises with the understanding. God reigneth over the heathen. God sitteth upon the throne of his holiness. The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong unto God. He is greatly exalted. Let's bow together. Ask the Lord to take his word and impress it on our hearts this morning. Our Father, as we dig into this passage and we consider the tremendous truths that are a part of this passage, I pray that you would help us To have the truth settle deeply into our souls. I pray that when we walk out of this service, our hearts would be knit together as a body, that we would recognize that in fact the Spirit of God has ministered to us and uplifted us. and drawn us to ponder great truths, and that we would respond to the Spirit's work in us by expressing heartfelt, passionate worship and praise and gratitude to you. I pray that the Word of God would root in our hearts this morning. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a very interesting one. And before we actually dig into the content, I want to begin with a few background things to ponder. One of the things that is a part of the background of this psalm is a problem that the Jewish people at the time that this was written would have had. And I don't think it's a just them problem. This is a problem that I think we are prone to as well, and that is this us versus them mentality. What I mean by that is if you were to look at the attitude of the people during this time in their history, the attitude was the Gentiles are barbaric, they are pagans. In fact, even if you look The words that are used here, these aren't t typically terms that we would use, the heathen. But the idea was that the way that the people would have processed the nations around them is in fact we have God and they have idols. They are outside of us. And we can see this mentality really described in the life of Jonah. And this would be very interesting because there's a lot of similarity to what we're going to talk about this morning. We can see Jonah's attitude, which really was a reflection of the typical thinking of the people of his day. Here is a man who is clearly a prophet of God. If there's anybody in the nation that would love the nations and desire them to be saved, you think it would be a guy like Jonah. Yet this is what we read in chapter 1. When God says, go to Nineveh and cry against it, it says, then Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarsus. from the presence of the Lord. He said, No way will I do what you've told me to do. I'm going as far away as I can. And then a few verses later in verse 12 when there's a mighty tempest and the people wake him up and say, hey, cry out to your gods. He says, well I don't have gods. I have a God, the one true God who made heaven and earth. They say, Well, cry to your God. And he said, I can't do that because uh I'm the reason this problem is coming on. And they said, well, what are we going to do? And he said, just throw me in the sea so I can drown. He wasn't going to go to Nineveh in verse 12 it says, take me, cast me forth into the sea. So then the sea was calm, and I know that this is for my sake that this great tempest is upon you. He would rather die than go to Nineveh. And then in chapter 4, verse 1, after God has dealt with Jonah, and he has been humbled, and he's sent back, recommissioned to go to Nineveh , As a missionary, if you will. Okay. In chapter 4, verse 1, when the people repent. And they humbled themselves. We're talking from the king all the way down to the poorest in the city. They basically said, have mercy on us. Maybe the God of heaven will spare us. And what did Jonah do? He got angry. It says in verse 1, it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry. He wasn't wanting to see converts. He wanted to see chaos and destruction. He wanted the people to be wiped off the map. And there are reasons for that. But that was his attitude. But then it really comes ahead in chapter 4, verse 2, where it says, as God says, do you have a right to be angry? He says, I fled before unto Tarshus. For I knew that thou art a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. Therefore now, Lord, take, I beseech thee my life from me. It is better that I die than live. Now what's the point? That is how the people thought about Gentiles. And then there's another aspect to this dynamic that I think is very important too. I wouldn't say that their attitude was entirely unjustifiable. I'm not saying it was right, but there is a cause for their attitude. And you can see this in some of the conflicts between the land of Judah and then the nations around them. For instance, think about David and Goliath. As Goliath is standing out there in that valley and he sees David coming to him, this is what it says in 1 Samuel 17, 43. Am I a dog that thou comest to me with staves and the Philistine cursed? David by his gods. What's the point? He believed his gods gave him the power to kill this little boy who's coming and giving him grief. Or in 2 Kings 19, 12, when we have the story of Hezekiah, and there's Senacrib, and he sends warning. We're going to dig into this a little bit more this morning. As they come to the city and they present this letter, here's what the letter says. Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathers have destroyed. What's the point? We see a clash of world views. We have people who believe their gods will cause them to triumph, and we have the one true God of heaven and earth who is delivering and preserving his people. But I will tell you this, while we are called out of the world and we are to be separate, we shouldn't have disdain and pride and self-righteousness towards the world around us. Second thing I want to mention is this. There's a great danger of bypassing the mind in worship. What I mean by that is one of the things that we're going to really draw out as we dig into this passage. is how much the attention of the worshiper is drawn to think about God. Think about his character. Think about his authority. Think about how he works. Think about what he's promised. Think about how he's dealt with you as an individual. He is drawing attention to think before praise. And there's a reason for that. Because when we go straight to emotion, we ignore what God has properly ordered to press the emotion, and that is the mind. What God wants us to do is contemplate truth and dwell on it and think on it. And as we chew on the truth, it presses our soul in passionate worship. John 4, verse 23. The true worshipers are those who worship the Father in spirit and in truth. He didn't just say spirit. He didn't just say truth. He said spirit and truth. They go together. What I know about God should move me in the heart, and that is what true worship is. And so worship should be passionate, involve the entirety of the person, but it should start in the mind with the scriptures. It should flow from premeditated reflection on objective truth about God. And we're going to see this laid out in the Psalm before us. As truth grabs my heart, the response will be heartfelt. Praise to God The last thing I want to mention in beginning here is that sometimes God uses moments to force us to reflect because we don't do it on our own. The truth is that as we go through life, we get into ruts or patterns. I'm a very routine-oriented person. There's a certain time in the morning I cannot stay in bed beyond that time because if I do my back hurts and I feel like I'm being lazy. And if I told you what it was, you'd be like, what? It's true. It's because I'm, it's a routine. It's something that I've done for many, many, many years. Or there'll be certain activities. If you don't, if I don't eat breakfast, I feel miserable. Why is that? Because I'm a routine person. You are probably a routine person too. You may not realize this, but we get into these ruts. We get into these patterns. And what ends up happening is we stop thinking about what's going on around us And we stop contemplating the things around us, and we just become kind of a little mechanical in what we do. And you know what God does? He uses circumstances to interrupt the pattern. Sometimes it's sickness. Sometimes it's some kind of heartache or difficulty. And it's not that God is lacking in compassion. It's that we need this disruption in our routine so that it causes us to think about God and to ponder what is true and to respond to Him. And there are two potential scenarios. that are birthing this psalm. One being the Ark of the Covenant being brought into Jerusalem by David in 1 Chronicles 15 and 16. The other being 2 Kings 19, where there's this stunning reversal, where there's a deliverance of Jerusalem from Sennacherib. Some would say it could be the first example because it talks about God's presence going up with a shout, and we know it happened when the Ark of the Covenant was brought into Jerusalem. There was a lot of rejoicing and there was a lot of excitement. Because the first time they didn't do it right, the man died. But the second example is probably the one that is most Likely the scenario. And there's another reason for this. Psalm 46 and Psalm 48 appear to be addressing this particular issue. So if you remember back to the last Psalm that we dealt with last month. We talked about 2 Kings 19. And so I will come back to this in a minute. But keep those things in your mind as we work our way through this text. As we look at this passage, what we're going to see is that God's people are to praise him with passionate worship as they contemplate character, ways, and kindness. Let's see it in the text. First thing I want you to notice is this in verse number one. We are called to worship. God made us to be worshipers. And you know, one of the reasons that I could say that is because we see that that's ultimately what we're going to do for all of eternity. But God created us with the ability to reason. The ability to feel, the ability to choose, and he gave us these capabilities, these capacities as image bearers. so that we could have relationship to him, and part of that relationship would be that we voluntarily worship him, knowing who he is. From the heart, we give of ourselves to the one who is worthy. That is something we are created to do. And you see a couple of words here in these verses that draw attention to that. For instance, in verse 1 it says, clap your hands We also see later, shout unto God. We see another word, sing. In fact, four times he commands us to sing. And you say, well, what's the point? The point is this, there are times. Where we are to praise God from our hearts with all of our emotion, but not just our emotion, with our minds guiding and shaping this expression of heartfelt praise. Worship was supposed to start with a disposition of we are overcomers. Look at verse number one. Clap your hands, all ye people, shout unto God with a voice of, what's the next word? Triumph. Why triumph? Because something happened that had backed the people up into a corner and God was tested and God's promises were validated and God delivered. Triumph. What is he saying? Your praise is connected to what God has done. Secondly, in verses 6 and 7, this is later on in the Psalm. He says we're to sing praise to God, sing praises, sing praises unto our king, sing praises, sing praises with understanding. So they might say, well, you could have just said it once. Well, it is Hebrew poetry, and sometimes the way that something is going to be emphasized is stating it over and over and over again so that we get the point that God wants us to sing to him. But notice that last word, understanding. This is not just singing for singing's sake. It is singing with an understanding of who he is and what he's done. And so he's calling them to worship as overcomers and to be very thoughtful and very passionate in their worship. Second thing I want you to notice here, and this is kind of the bulk of what we will look at this morning. is that we are called to prepare ourselves to worship. Now this might be something you haven't really thought much about. Most people say, I'm just I'm just trying to get here, okay? And I and I get that, okay? Uh I understand there's a lot involved with getting here. We have six children, and so We have this you know thing on Sunday mornings that you know there are things that my wife does on Sunday mornings, the thing that I do on Sunday morning. If she didn't do what she did, we'd have huge problems. If I didn't do what I do, we'd have huge problems. So we We work together to get the family here. But I'm not just talking about getting here. I'm talking about getting here with a mindset that is prepared to focus on God And to give exclusive attention to him, and then for that to filter into how we relate to one another. I would guess a lot of us this morning didn't do that. Say, how do you know that? Well, I don't know that. I said I guess. But if in the car ride here you were fighting with your spouse, you probably didn't prepare well to worship. If you're yelling at your children because they couldn't find their shoes or their Bible, you probably didn't prepare to worship. If you're late really la you were up very late last night playing video games or watching a ballgame and now you're tired because you went to bed too late, you probably didn't prepare to worship. Why am I saying that? Because it's not just about being here. It's about being here while you're here. It's about our minds, it's about our hearts being engaged in what God has done and who he is. In fact, one of the great blessings of corporate worship is even when we come and we're a little off, the gathering is something God uses to lift us up. And I I will tell you, there are times That we come to corporate worship and we're we are off. There's just no way to put it any other way. We are not thinking the way we should think. Our heart is not where it needs to be We are not engaged. That's wrong. I'm not excusing it. That's why God gave us the church. So that as we come into this place And we lift up our voices together as we focus in on the Word of God, as we sing praise to God, as we listen to the preaching of God's word. He uses All of these people in this place to help us to set aside those things and to focus our attention on the Lord. You've ever been there? You might say, I'm going to try to get there today. Good. I'm glad to hear that if that's the case. I'm making this point because of one word in the text. And that's the word for. In verse 2 it says, for the Lord most high is. And here's what's very interesting. Over the next several verses, he's going to give us statements about God that are the basis for which we worship. And all of these statements about God are making us think about Him. Christians are not just supposed to be feelers. We're supposed to be thinkers. And worshipers who feel deeply but think deeply about truth first. Notice the things that he emphasizes here. The first thing is that we are to reflect on who he is. Now The the truth is that the psalmist could have talked about lots and lots of things about who God is, but he's really focused in on one, and that is his authority as the ultimate king over all things, and there's a reason for that. And then the fact that When the enemies of Israel came against them in this moment, God devastated them because he's the one true God, not their God. That's really the sense. In verse 2 it says, For the Lord most high is Now, I want to step back into the context of when this was probably written. And if you remember what we talked about last month in Psalm 46, we we dealt with this context quite a bit. And that was the story of Sennacherib coming against Judah when Hezekiah is the king. And ironically, Isaiah is the predominant Prophet in Judah at this time. And that's important because I'm going to talk about things that Isaiah says, and I'm going to talk about this interaction because I think it really helps us to appreciate what's being communicated in this Psalm. In 2 Kings chapter 18, verse 19, it says this. Thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria. What confidence is this wherein thou trustest? On whom dost thou trust that thou hast rebelled against me? I said this last time. But if you were to look at the Assyrian Empire at the time that we're talking about, the Assyrian Empire went all the way up to what is now the southernmost border of Russia. And all the way west to what is today modern-day Turkey. And all the way east to what is today modern-day Iran. And all the way south to what is today modern-day Egypt. They had this massive chunk of land that they took by force. They came to city after city after city. They said You make a league with us, or we will wipe you off the face of the map, and we will control your city with our people. And guess what? Some people went out to fight, and they made an example of them. And some people came to terms of peace. and they made peace with them and the arrangement wasn't nice, but that's what they did. And he basically says, you're next. Here's what's really interesting. If you were to look at that map. There's a spot in the center that Assyria did not control. And you know what that was? Judah. What made Judah strong enough to push back the Assyrians? Well, what we're going to read about right now. He says in verse 33, hath any of the gods of the nations delivered at all this land out of the hand of the king of Assyria? Answer, no. Why is he saying this? Because he is saying your God can't deliver you from our gods. How did Hezekiah respond? Well in Hezekiah 19, it says he takes this letter, he rolls it before the Lord, and this is what he says. Thou art the God, even thou alone. Of all the kingdoms of the earth, thou hast made heaven and earth. Lord, bow down thine ear and hear. Open, Lord, thine eyes and see, and hear the words of Sennacherib. which hath sent him to reproach the living God. Of a truth Lord, the king of Assyria hath destroyed the nations of their lambs. He has cast down their gods into the fire. They were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone, therefore they have destroyed them. Now Therefore, Lord our God, I beseech thee, save thou us out of his hand, and here is the reason that he gives. Listen carefully. That all the earth may know that thou art the Lord God even thou only. It's a pretty amazing statement. You know what he's saying? Your honor, your authority is on the line. We're backed into the corner, but this is about you, not us. Pretty interesting, isn't it? And this is at the background of this psalm. More than likely, that's what was going on after this, or before this psalm was written. We then see in verse 3 that there is reflection on promises that were made to God's people. In verse 3, he says, he shall, that's future tense, not he has or he will or he is, but he shall subdue the people under us. and the nations under our feet. Now the question we should ask is, where did the psalmist get this idea from? And the answer is from the Word of God. God gave promises to his people that are standing even to this very day that have bearing on what he's going to do with his people. Listen to these statements from Isaiah. Isaiah was the prophet who wrote during this time. Isaiah 9, 6, unto us a child is born. Who's that? Jesus. Unto us a son is given, the government will be on his shoulders, his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Now listen to the next statement. Of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end. Upon the throne of David, upon his kingdom to order it and establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. So when you look down in Psalm 47, and he says in verse 3, He shall subdue the people under us, there was a cause for that confidence. And that cause is something that was stated about the Messiah coming. There's another promise that I think is very interesting. Chapter 19 of Isaiah. In verse 21 it says, the Lord shall be known. This one really gets me. The Lord shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the Lord in that day. The Lord shall smite Egypt and shall smite and heal it, and they shall return even to the Lord. He shall entreat of them and shall heal them in that day. There will be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria. And the Assyrians shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptians into Assyria. And the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians. In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land. Him the Lord of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt, my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel my inheritance. Now that's a stunning statement when you consider the fact that those promises were given when Egypt and Assyria were the greatest enemies of Israel you could imagine. Here are the Assyrians who have taken the northern kingdom of Israel and they've brought them back and made them slaves. They've decimated every civilization they've come in contact with. And God is saying through Isaiah to the people, there's going to be a day that those people will be my people, and the ones in the south, they'll be my people too. And you will be in the midst of them a blessing. And you go. How in the world is that possible? Well, God said it. Do you believe it? That's what he said. We then see Revelation 4. 11, what I would say would be an ultimate fulfillment of what is being stated here. Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they were created. Weep not Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals. And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take up the book and to open the seals. For thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us unto God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue. and people and nation and has made us unto our God kings and priests and we shall reign on the earth. Well, guess who's a part of that all? Assyrian descendants. Egyptian descendants. People from every people group are going to be a part of God's everlasting kingdom, and only God could do so. We see a third thing that he mentions. Reflect on his stunning choice to set his love on you. Now one is this is who he is. Two is here's what he promised. Three is here's how he dealt with you In verse 4 it says, he shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob, whom he, what's the next word? He loved. So he's saying, worship God with understanding from the heart, sing praise to him, because he's the king over everyone. Because he has made these promises, and out of all the peoples of the earth, in his mercy and his grace and his love, he chose you, and there was no reason he should have done it. You say, how do you know that Well, because of other parts of Scripture and what they say about these people. Listen to Deuteronomy 7. Thou art an holy people unto the Lord thy God. And don't miss this. The Lord thy God hath chosen thee to be a special people unto himself above all the peoples of the earth that are upon the face of the earth. The Lord did not set his love on you or choose you because you were more in number than any people. You were the fewest of all the people, but because the Lord loved you, you say, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, hold on a second. He loved me because he loved me? That's what he said. What does that mean? It means he loved you because it was in his heart, not in yours. It's because he loved you because he's good, not because you are. God set his love on these people not because of what they had to give him, but because he is entirely good. And that is true of all of us. No exceptions. God didn't set his love on you because you're lovely. He set his love on you because God is love. We see another statement in Romans 5, verses 6 through 10. When we were yet without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. God commanded his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. When we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Do you see how what he said to Israel is the same thing he said to you and to me? It's all of his grace. It's all of his love. Our salvation isn't about us and our goodness. It's about him and his goodness. And then 1 John 4, love is of God. God is love, and this was manifested the love of God toward us. Because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him here in his love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. What's the point? He says, worship God because of who he is. Worship God because of what he promised. Worship God because out of no reason but his pure goodness, he has dealt so well with you. Nobody in this room has the right to look at God and say, you owe me anything. God is good. But there's a fourth. Reflect on his might to reverse the seemingly impossible. Now we've kind of already talked about this slightly, but we're going to expand it just a little. And verse 7 it says, For God is king of all the earth. God reigneth over the heathen. The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham. I love that statement. The people of the God of Abraham. He didn't say Abraham's children. He says the God of Abraham. There's a difference. You and I serve the same God that Abraham thousands and thousands of years served He's the God of the living, not of the dead. This is what Jesus talks about. As Jesus has this combative conversation with the religious leaders, he says, before Abraham was, I am. They said, are you saying you're better than Abraham? This is what he said. Abraham rejoiced to see my day. He saw it and was glad. So when you and I embrace the gospel and we place our faith in the finished work of Christ, we're trusting in the same God who has brought us salvation through the same gospel that Abraham thousands and thousands of years ago embraced. Yes, it's true. He didn't have all the details that you and I have. But he had enough to believe that God who has promised is faithful and he looked for that fulfillment. But I want you to think about how practically improbable what he's talking about here would be. To think about peace between Assyria, Egypt, and Judah. Think about all the tensions going on in the world today. There are a lot of people going, how in the world are these conflicts going to be resolved? How in the world are we not going to end up in greater conflicts than we already have right now? Can you imagine people living at this time hearing that God is going to call the Assyrians, his people? He's like, the same people that have camped around our city and they have given us this letter and they're like, we're going to destroy you, like everybody else. He says, yeah, those people You mean the Egyptians, who they've even conquered them? There's no way in the world that there could be peace between these three peoples. But God says, it'll happen. Think about how practically improbable the Assyrians being humble and being called God's people. By the way, even when you look at the story of Jonah , Did God spare Nineveh when Jonah preached? Yes. But guess what? The next generation was totally destroyed. Why? Because they went right back to who they were before. And for these people to think about the barbaric nature of the Assyrian Empire, how vicious, how evil, how destructive, in their minds they had to go, how in the world could God ever save these people? How in the world could they ever humbly worship in this city our God? Think about how improbable the Egyptians being humbled and being called God's people could be. Yet what does God say? I will do it. I didn't think about the text that we read this morning when we opened our service. Daniel chapter 4. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. He doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. None can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? God is the sovereign ruler over all. And what does he say? He will reign. Listen to some of the things that are stated in Isaiah. Isaiah 2. It shall come to pass in the last day that the mountains of the Lord of hosts Shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills, all nations shall flow into it, and many people shall come shall go and say, come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us of his ways. And we will walk in his paths. Out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem, he shall judge amongst the nations. Zechariah 8, 20 and 23, he says the same thing. Zechariah 14, 16 through 19, he says the same thing. What's the point? God's going to do what humanly speaking is impossible. The third thing I want you to notice is this. Our worship should shape every area of life. In Romans chapter 12, verse 1, it says this, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And here's what's really interesting about this text in Romans 12 verses the text that we have here. When he talks about worship, he uses the word for. You know what that tells me? These are all the reasons. That you should worship God. And when I come to Romans chapter 12, I see the word, therefore. And you know what that tells me? Look back at all the reasons. You should worship God. You know what this you know what you know what this shows us? It shows us that worship starts with facts And by the way, the same kinds of things that are talked about in Psalm 47, these are the same kinds of things that are emphasized in Romans 1 through Romans chapter 11. You say, well, how do I do this practically? The first word I want you to remember is the word mindset. The Bible calls us overcomers. We may not feel like it sometimes But if you've trusted Christ, in the end, you'll be kept. You are his. Psalm 46, it says that the heathen raged and the kingdoms were removed. And what did God do? He demonstrated his faithfulness. Psalm 46, 8. Behold the work of the Lord, what desolations he has made on the earth. He makes wars to cease unto the ends of the earth. He breaks the bow and cutteth the spear and sunder. Look at the next Psalm, Psalm 48. Walk about Zion, go round about her and tell the towers, mark well her bulwarks, consider her palaces, that you may tell it to the generation following. This God is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even unto death. What does that tell you? You're on the winning side. We're on the winning side. It doesn't always feel that way. It doesn't always look that way, but we're on the winning side. Mindset of an overcomer. Secondly, is the word focus. God is in control. God is in control. He does what he wants. He guides circumstances. Does that mean that God never allows people to do terrible things? No, that's not true at all. What it does tell you is God uses all things to accomplish his purposes. Psalm 124 verse 1, if it had not been for the Lord who was on our side, then they had swallowed us quick, when their wrath was kindled against us. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. We see that God delivered his people. Isaiah 1, 9, this is an interesting one. Except the Lord of hosts had left us a very small remnant, we should have been as Sodom. And Gomorrah. What is that saying? God in his mercy preserved people even during the darkest spiritual moments in the history of that nation. Lamentations 3. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are consumed. His compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. And this is all about focus. This is all about us seeing things through his eyes. The third word is the word passion. We should love him with everything we have. Deuteronomy 6. 5, thou shalt love. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. Obedience isn't the focus. It's the caboose. When you love God, you obey him. People can try to obey God out of sure determination, grit , even spite , fear. God wants us to obey him because we love him. And the last word is gratitude. Do you realize that ingratitude is the ultimate fountain of all idolatry? Romans 1. 21 it says this, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. They became fool vain in their foolish heart fool imaginations and their foolish heart was darkened. Why has humanity gone into such religious chaos? One word, ingratitude. The reason that people create idols and they worship them is because they do not have gratitude towards the one true God who made heaven and earth. The reason that God created idols in their own heart, even when they use the terms that are in the Bible about God, the reason that we are so prone to do that is because we are ungrateful. Our hearts are so prone to make idols when we step away and see God as someone who owes us something as opposed to someone who's been unquestionably gracious to us. So how do we apply it? Some very final simple thoughts. The first is this. We need to regularly stop and reflect on who he is. what he has done, and how personally gracious he's been to us. I hope that your time with us this morning, more than anything else, has driven home God is good. God has made an unbelievable number of promises. They're all true. He's going to follow through with them. And he has been so kind to me. How could I walk out of this place with a chip on my shoulder, with anger in my heart, with anything but it overwhelming gratitude to him? him. Second, the more you know him, the more substantive and passionate your worship will become. The way to worship God is not to create an environment where people are manipulated. The way to worship God is to teach the truth so that people are so overwhelmed with truth that they have no desire but to say, God, you are good, and I want to praise you. That's why we open our service with scripture reading. That's why I mentioned the songs that we will sing because I want to draw your attention to the doctrines. To the truths. Thirdly, we need to understand that worship starts with facts in the mind. If you don't read your Bible, you are not in a good position to worship Him well. Fourthly, we've got to take action on the conviction that truth pondered produces real worship. Submission. Joy, gratitude, amazement. Why do we structure our service on a Sunday morning the way that we do? It's because I believe with all my heart that if you will worship God appropriately, it will start with knowing what is true. And lastly, we must understand we can't worship him if he's not our Savior. If you've never come to the fact that you are a sinner separated from a holy God and Christ has died for your sins and risen from the dead and through his sacrifice And his triumph over death and his righteousness, you stand forgiven and cleansed and justified. If you've never come to terms with that reality and place your faith in Christ, you can't worship him. It starts with being his child. If there's someone here this morning who's never placed their faith in Christ, I hope you won't leave here without coming by and saying, hey Pastor, I want to have a word with you about the gospel. You mentioned it at the end. I don't understand it. Can you explain it to me? I'll be very happy to do that. Or connect you with someone that would. Don't leave this place without that confidence. Let's bow together for prayer Father, as we think about this great psalm, what it calls our attention to, I pray that the pattern that has been laid out in this text Would be a pattern that is laid out in our lives, day in and day out, week after week, over the years that you graciously give us on this earth Father, help us to be heartfelt worshippers of you who are overwhelmed by truth. Father, help us to have a very clear A very accurate understanding of who you are. And Father, we are so grateful for how you have so graciously dealt with us. As we leave this place, may these truths settle in our hearts, and may we ponder them all throughout the day. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.