Book of Colossians. Continuing our study in Colossians. Now I was thinking a little bit ago that I don't know if I've really reviewed where we've been as far as Colossians. And I think it's been a while since we uh did I had to think, what did I preach on the last So just as a recap as you're finding your place there in Colossians, we talked about um that first section where Paul introduces Himself and he leads into a a prayer and a praise for the people of Colossian of Colossae. And then he he talked about giving thanks unto the Father. From whom we have redemption. And then he leads, transitions into this section that we're going into now. But before we look at the verses that we're going to we're gonna cover I wanna I wanna kinda open it up to everyone. I want you to just say what your favorite hymn is. What what what is your favorite hymn? Grace, obedience. I'll I'll say mine mine is it is uh not it is well. Um Be still my soul. You know, we all have our favorite hymn or hymns, maybe we can't pick just one. But um wouldn't it be great to know that your favorite hymn was 100% every word of it biblical Maybe maybe you're thinking, I I like my song, but you know, there's a little funky things in it. Uh I I d I'm not putting down anybody's hymn, but we know that there's some hymns you're like, that's not a a hundred percent accurate. Now the the passage that we're looking at there in Coloss here in Colossians tonight Is actually considered a first century church hymn that ended up being a part of God's word. Wouldn't that be cool if your favorite hymn was a part of God's Word? Then you would never have anybody that can Backlash against it, right? Always pick it for favorites. So we're gonna be looking at Colossians one verses fifteen through seventeen, but the the the passage or the hymn is found in the va those five verses fifteen through twenty. So what I would like for us to do, since it is a hymn, I don't know if we could figure out the tunes to it or not, but we're going to go ahead and read it uh responsively. So, for those of you that missed your Sunday nap, this is your chance to wake up. So, uh let's start with verse 15. I'll read that, and then you'll read uh the next verse. So Colossians 1. 15 states, who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature? That are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether there be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created by him And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. That in all things he might have the preeminence. For it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell. His cross by him to reconcile all things unto himself. By him I say, whether they be things in earth So you can kind of look at that, those five verses, and see kind of a common theme here is Christ as the creator. And that focus is especially seen in the first three verses of that hymn. So we're going to be looking tonight at verses 15 through 17, and we'll see that from those verses, God wants you and I to worship God the Son, Christ, as the creator. Now you be maybe wondering, okay, worship worship him as Creator. How do I do that? Well, we'll see in these th in these three verses that there are three fundamental truths that we can praise Christ for And that first truth is that you and I must praise Christ for the truth of his deity As part of being creator, we see that Christ has inherent deity. Look again at verse 15. It says, who is the image Of the invisible God and the firstborn of every creature. We'll save that second half of the verse for later. But focus in on that first phrase. Who is the image of the invisible God? The image. We we see that word come up a few times in scripture. And you may be wondering, okay, image, like a picture, like a portrait. Yes, um the word image in in the in the Greek really uh focuses on the representation of something, like a statue. Some Greek texts, ancient Greek texts use it to describe like a bust of Julius Caesar or of uh well Beethoven didn't live at the time. Time, but you know, you know what I'm talking about. A a figure. It's not the um it's not the actual person, but it represents the actual likeness of it. And that's what it's saying here. We can see what God is like by seeing Christ. So That that might seem a little funny to you. Let's turn over to 1 Corinthians 4 and we'll get a better understanding of what that word is entailing. Now, you may be thinking the word image is also found in Hebrews. That's a different word. that ties in a little close more closely the idea of his deity. But this has a little bit of a nuance to it. So looking in 1 Corinthians 4, verse 4, I'll read 4 through 6. Paul saying, For I know nothing by myself, yet is that the right verse? First Corinthians four four through six Turn over to Second Corinthians. That's what it is. Second Corinthians four, four through six. Yes, Second Corinthians four four three-six It says, In whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, same word there. should shine unto them. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Now, you see that word image there in verse 4. It's the same exact word that we find in Colossians. It's an expressed likeness. It's a statue. It's how we know what someone looks like. And verse 6 really shows us the point of it. Look again in Colossians 4. 6. Says that God commanded the light to shine out of darkness into our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So when you look at Jesus Christ, when you look at his face, when you consider who he is, you understand the glory of God. That is the glory of God. When we want to see what God's glory looks like, we look at Christ. He's the expressed image of it. And who does God share his glory with? No one but himself. That is Christ. He is God He has inherent deity. That's a truth that we cannot escape from. And we ought to praise him for it. We ought to thank him for it. Because it's because of his deity he was able to create. He deserves praise as creator because he's God. So the truth of Christ's deity is a truth worth praising him for. Look back in Colossians. Turn back there. Colossians 1. So not only do we need to worship Christ as our Creator by considering praising Him for the truth of His deity , If we go on, we'll see that you and I must praise Christ for the truth of his omnipotence, his almighty power, his infinite power. Look at verse 16. You like how I got you to read the longest verses? Verse 16 says, For by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth. visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. Praise Christ for the truth of his omnipotence. When we see this list, we see the different things that Christ created. And when we consider what those things are, we see his almighty power. We see that his power is displayed physically in the creation of this universe. Remember how in Psalm 191 it says The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day and to day uttereth knowledge. We know God's power, who God is, by looking at what he physically created. Well Christ physically created. Now in junior church a couple of weeks ago I I got to make the kids jaw jaws drop. It was pretty funny. I I told them when we were talking about the days of creation When God created the stars also. Well, I gave them the number that scientists think represents at least how many stars there are in the universe. They think there's at least one billion trillion stars. And God just made that extra. So just Because you probably can't picture that big of a number in your mind. What I did was I got on the whiteboard and I wrote a one and then I drew twenty-one circ uh zeros. Right after that one. That's at least how many stars there are. And God just spoke them into existence. And he knows them all by name. That's his omniscience. That's his omnipotence. His almighty power. That's the power that Christ holds. So, what do we do with that? We just keep it in our heads? No. We need to have it in our tongues. We need to praise Christ for it. He is the Almighty God, the Creator And his power is not just displayed physically in this universe. It's displayed displayed spiritually in the invisible. Look at verse 16 again. We see the physical In the things that are in heaven and the things that are in earth, the visible things. Well, what about the invisible? Well, Christ created those things too. And what are we talking about? We're talking about The spiritual realm, angels, the fallen angels, the things that we cannot see. Now, there are times when angels Are physically seen. But they are invisible creatures or spiritual creatures. Christ created those. Now In 2 Kings 19, we see just how powerful just one of those angels are. You remember the story. The uh Assyrian army is coming up against Israel. And what what does God do? He sends an angel to kill 185 ,000 people in that army. Now you that's a that's another number you probably just have in your mind number. That's two and a half times the capacity of Raven Stadium One angel killed that many people. And you know what? God created all of them God has more powerful than all those angels. Christ is All-powerful, and we see it simply by what He created that are in the things that are invisible. The things that are visible, the creation around us, those things which declare his glory. The invisible, the the power that we see in just the angels. But you know what? Something that's more real to us, I think, is when he tells us that God created Or is in is over the political powers of this entire world. His power is displayed politically through the nations. Look again in verse 16. It says, For by him were all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible and invisible, and then whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and forth. Now we live in a politically tumultuous time, right? Unique from all the other times of the world of our history. Mankind has had a very interesting history politically. It's it's nothing new. We have political turmoil throughout history. But you know what? God is in control of all of it. I mean, consider the fact that even today we have more powerful nations than has ever existed on the face of the earth. More than just one nation has the capacity to wipe out another nation with nuclear weapons. But you know what? God is still orchestrating everything that is going on in this world for his glory. All the political powers, all the political schemes, whether they be in this nation or in the other nations. Every man has his own agenda, but you know what? God has his, and his will overcome them all. God has displayed his power. Christ has displayed his power politically through the nations. Spiritually through the things that are invisible. Physically in the universe that is around us. So what do we do? We just keep it in our heads? Just think about it. It's a nice thought. No. Those truths need to be on our lips. We need to be praising Christ for them. We need to praise God, not just in church, but as we go about, when we hear the people at work, when we listen to the people on the streets or listening to the commentary on the news. We need to be praising God because He is the almighty, omniscient God. In fact I want to share this with you that the weakness of God is stronger than all men. Man thinks he has the ability to control the physical. Some men think they have the power to control the things that are spiritual. Some think think think that men can control things through politics. No, God. God is in control of it all. So, two fundamental truths for which Christ deserves our praise are the truths of his deity, that Christ is the express image of the Father, of God. And his omnipotence, his power infinite. But worshiping Christ as Creator also involves this third truth And this is really the thrust of the entire Book of Colossians. This is the high point of this hymn : Christ's preeminence, his transcendence. You must praise Christ for the truth of his preeminence. How do we see that? Where do we see that? Look again in 1 Colossians, or sorry, Colossians 1. Hope you don't have a second Colossians. Colossians. Look back at verse fifteen. We talked about it, or looked at it. It says who is the im image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature. Look down at verse seventeen. And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. Now, what are we talking about? Look , thinking back to verse 15. What are we talking about? The firstborn of every creature. That's a That's sometimes a debate a debated verse. I think that comes from a misunderstanding of what that word firstborn is referring to. It's not referring to his birth Physically. It's not referring to him being created because Christ was not created. No, it's talking about his position. Christ is first above all of creation He's above it all. All things. Look again, verse 16, this is the last part. All things were created by him and for him. Firstborn doesn't mean that Christ is the first created. He wasn't created. I mean, consider in verse 18. We'll talk about that uh next time. But it says in verse 18, he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn. There's that word again, the firstborn from the dead. Now, was Christ the first person to ever be raised from the dead? No. Christ Himself rose people from the dead. So what does that mean? It means that among all those that were raised from the dead, Christ was First. He has preeminence. He stands out among them all. So when we look at Christ and we look at creation, when we look at the universe, The spiritual realm, the politics, Christ stands up above them all. He has preeminence. He is unique in his position In relation to everything else. He's the firstborn of every creature. Not only that, Christ is the sustainer of the universe Look again at verse 17. It says, He is before all things. He is before. He is preeminent. And by him all things consist. Now this is a special truth because this shows us that not only did Christ create all things, he doesn't only stand above all things. But he is intimately involved in his entire creation. What does that word consist mean? It really carries the idea of bringing something together. For a purpose. It's used in some Greek texts to describe the unity of a string ensemble. You think about musicians and they come together. You can listen to one and it sounds pretty good on its own. Then you listen to another and you think that's that sounds a little strange. But when they come together It creates a harmony, a unity that is only consisted of all that is brought together This piece and this piece brought together. Now Christ, where does he stand? All the universe is held together by him Him, God, our infinite almighty God, holds everything together. Just because he can No, for a purpose. Think back to Psalm 19. It says the heavens declare the glory of God. It doesn't just declare God, it declares his glory. And that is the purpose of this creation. It is so that we can look at Christ and his preeminence and his power and say, He is worthy of all glorious praise. Now, what does that mean in my personal life? What does that mean in the day-to-day? Yes, I get to praise God every day. I get to wake up and praise Him. But look. No one's living in a perfect world. No one has the perfect life. And oftentimes it feels like nothing's going right. But you know what? Everything is moving. Toward God's glory. And we get to be a part of that. Every moment of every day, look and see how this is moving me to praise God. He deserves our praise. He wants our praise. God wants you to worship God the Son, Christ. as the creator. And we've seen the three fundamental truths that really help us to praise Him Colossians 1, 15 through 17 shows us how we ought to praise him for the truth of his deity. We need to praise him for the truth of his omniscience. But as we'll see again throughout this entire book, You need to praise him for his preeminence, Christ's superiority, Christ's uniqueness, his almighty glorious self. So I want to challenge you this week. Think about Christ. Think about how he created all things. And praise him. Let's pray Father, thank you for the glorious truth that we've seen in your word, knowing that your Son, Jesus Christ, created all things. That he has preeminence, that he is above all, and yet he is intimately involved in this creation of his. Though we've sinned, though we've fallen short. Though we so often stray from that personal walk with you, you're still involved, you're still bringing everything together for your glory. Thank you for letting us be a part of it. Help us this week not to be discouraged, but to look and see how we can praise you. We love you, Father. Keep us safe as we go about going our separate ways tonight. Which in Christ's name we pray. Amen.