I'd like to welcome you to our evening service. Hope that you had a good afternoon and like I said it feels like summer this uh this evening last week when we got out of church it was like forty degrees And this week we're going to get out and it's going to be like 82 or something. So it's unbelievable. That's the way it goes in Maryland this time of the year. Well, let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then uh we'll start with some singing Father, we're so grateful for a beautiful day. Thank you for the opportunity to gather again this evening. And as the Word of God is brought, I pray that our hearts would be tender to it As we have opportunity to sing, I pray that we would think about these wonderful truths that we express in song. And let's I pray that our our hearts will really be engaged. And as we have opportunity to share testimonies, I pray that the things that are shared would uplift each person here. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good evening, everyone. Good to see you out on this balmy spring day So as we get started on our song services, we're going to turn to page 416. Stand with me, page 416. We start off our services with My Faith has found a resting place I hope you can say the same thing. My place has found our resting place. I need no order , I need no other. Starting the page. 400 dainte. Page 418. All right. And not copy book. Just keep looking at the screen Sing out. Trust and obey. Sing until we run into the words. When we walk with God. I don't want to play, come on, we can go ahead , who are you? We can be all, but we trust the way , not right now. Can I know that one of you can go away? But we run over, but we never can run. We okay? Let's keep going on the left. Number five. Oh I died in the way I will I 'm gonna go Please be seated. We'll turn back to page three ninety-one. Page three ninety-wine. All four verses of I am resolved I will hang the black brain break with the common. I believe all the name of the country. I will come with now, I will be the land of the way , the land. Amen. Our missions woman, Brother Braxton. No one is either. I love you , God , I 'm a name, my love you thought, I love you , Lord, your name. Okay, please stand with me How can we say starts banging up? Okay, I 'll see. Page 4 Hut of Day 2, we might as well sing the All Saga 's, it seems like. We've got some smart kids Page 482. Okay. The first person didn't specify a verse. The second person specified verse 2. So first and second verses of dwelling in Neulaland. Alright, I miss I promise all in the right of all the way. And I don't know that when the birthday we can do in our way. God, from your day , I think I 'll come. What they lack in size they make up for in volume. Amen. KP 415. 415. They may be small, but their hearts are mighty. See ye first Wow. Okay. Okay, ladies, can you sing the Alleluia for us while the rest of us sing the chorus uh the verse? Here we go. I needed more ladies on the Aleluia. Let's try it one more time, ladies. Come on. Here we go. Amen. What's happening now? Page 392. Page 392. We will sing this right before the pastor comes. I don't believe we've got Master Josh, but you guys aren't gonna do any special, right? Yeah. I thought you might want to do a solo or something. Never have. Hey three hundred and ninety-two, first, second, and last. Who stand with me? So we'll be a little belly , I 'm a life. And we will make it rain long. Like one I like we are We are on the land We 're Amen. Great singing tonight. Enjoyed it very, very much. We're going to be continuing our series in 1 Samuel, and we're going to be in 1 Samuel chapter 12. I'm very excited about this text. I think there's some encouraging things in here for all of us as we'll work our way through this text, primarily the second half of the chapter. We'll just briefly touch the first part of the chapter, but spend most of our time from 13 on through the end of 1 Samuel chapter 12. And I will pick it up and start reading in verse 13. 1 Samuel 12, starting with verse 13. Now, therefore, behold the king whom ye have chosen and whom ye have desired. And, behold, the Lord has set a king over you. If you will fear the Lord and serve him And obey his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then shall both ye and also the king that reigneth over you continue following the Lord But if ye will not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against his commandment of the Lord, then shall the hand of the Lord be against you, as it was against your fathers. Let's skip to verse 20. And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not. Ye have done all this wickedness, yet turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart And turn ye not aside, for then ye should go after vain things, which cannot profit, nor deliver, for they are vain. For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased the Lord To make you his people. Moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. But I will teach you the good and the right way. Only fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all your heart. For consider how great things he hath done for you. But if ye shall still do wickedly, ye shall be consumed. both ye and your King. Father, we thank you for this passage of Scripture. May your Spirit work in and through His Word. To your people, this word to our hearts and to our lives, not just to sit and to be a part of another service and sit in the people But yet we can take heed to the words that we can meditate and think upon them and make them a part of our lives and be doers and not just Tears only. Father, would you do the work in the hearts and lives of your people as we come before you this evening for the honor and for the glory and the praise of our Savior Jesus Christ? We pray. Amen. In this text of Scripture, I had all kinds of titles running through my mind, but I ended up just sticking with the long one. Yesterday's sins should not stop you from obeying God today. I think we'll see this several times throughout our text today. Yesterday's sins should not stop you from obeying God Today. So let's pick it up in verse 13. It says, Now therefore, behold the king whom ye have chosen and whom ye have desired. And behold. The Lord has said a king over you. Now it's hard for a preacher to see it now therefore and not go back just to touch. So we'll just just quickly go through the first part of the chapter, just very just touch on it a little bit. In verse 1 of chapter 12, and Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I've hearkened unto your voice. in that all that you have said unto me and have made a king over you. So Samuel is obeying their voice, gives them a king. He didn't agree with it, but it's what happened. Then in verses 2 through 5, we're going to see Samuel's character and his testimony before the people as he served them. And I'll just read it through quickly just to remind ourselves of where we've been. And now, behold, the king walketh before you, and I am old and gray-headed. And behold, my sons are with you, and have walked before you from my childhood unto this day. So from the child, Samuel's been growing up and just living out before them. And then he asks him some questions. He says, Behold, here I am, witnessed against me before the Lord and before the anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Whose ass have I taken? Or whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Or of whom or of whose hand have I received any bribe? To blind mine eyes therewith, and I will restore it you. He's k he's challenging them. What have I done against you Have I done anything wrong against you? And their reply in verse 4, and they said, Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us. Neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand. So he challenged them, and they're like, you know what, you've you've done well We just don't want to listen to you. We don't want to hear from the Lord. We want what we want and we want a king But then in verse five, as we wrap up this thought, and he said unto them, The Lord is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day that ye have not found aught in my hand, and they answered, He is witness So Samuel is, I've lived great before you. I've done good character and testimony. I've not taken anything that I shouldn't have. I've not done anything I was not supposed to. Do you guys, can you think of anything? They say no. And I just think that's good testimony for us to ponder. And was it yesterday's Proverb and the one before? And it talks about the righteous or as bold as the lion? Ryan, when you're doing right and you're living before the Lord, and Samuel's testimony here was very powerful. Have I wronged anyone? Can you think of anything? And if we could jump to 1 Timothy 3, I think that's what means to be blameless. Not just you're sinless, but no one could really hold anything against you. So we could say Samuel, he had a great character, integrity, and blameless. And yet he wants the people to know, yet you're still not wanting to obey, and yet you are still desiring to get what you want, despite God's warning, despite what he's done. But yet, in your desire, as we did a couple of weeks ago, sometimes God does give us what we desire And that's what happened as we've seen this. And then we pick it back up in verse thing, just jumping back to verse 13. He says, the king whom ye desired. He says, there it is. Behold, ye have chosen, and ye have desired. And behold, the Lord has set a king over you. So God gave you what you requested. He gave you the desire that you wanted, but yet he gave you the warnings, but he still didn't anyway. And in Psalm 78, we see a similar thing, starting at verse 29. So they did eat and were filled, for he gave them their own desire. They were not estranged from their lust, but while their meat was yet in their mouths, the wrath of God came upon them and slew the fattest of them, and smote them down the chosen men of Israel For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his wondrous works. Therefore, their days did he consume in vanity, and their years in trouble. Going back to remind us even a couple weeks ago, what do you desire? We do desire things. Is it Submissive to God's desires, submissive to God's will and in his word, or do we just want what I want because that's what I desire, regardless of what God says? So we need to be careful. We do need to be careful. They made a mistake. And yet they are enjoying what they are receiving because they got what they want. In the New Testament we see a similar thing. Here's just a thought to remind us in James. Chapter 1, starting at verse 13, says, Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed, then when lust hath conceived. It bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. We can't blame God. And sometimes yet we get what we desire, and we do want to play the blame game. Adam tried it from the beginning. Eve tried to follow suit. And we haven't stopped. We have desires and we have things and we try and blame the game and we try and push the finger, but yet we're getting what a lot of times what we desire and yet we want to push it off on God or others. So they get the king that they have chosen that they desired. Let's continue on with verse 14, and we're going to look at the fear of the Lord and obey his voice. Just straightforward right out of the text in verse 14. If You will fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord. This is the part where they probably swallow hard because this is what they're doing. Then shall both ye and also the king that reigneth over you continue following the Lord your God. They're asking themselves, are we fearing God? Are we serving? Are we obeying him? Well the verse I perform says, hey, you desired this. You wanted this and guess what? God gave it to you And here's what we're going to see as we start unfolding and unpacking the rest of this text. God does give us what we desire, but here's what is amazing. A lot of times, from our perspective, we look at these things. And we look at challenges and we look at failures and we look at our shortfalls and things I I I should have done or I could have done or I didn't then I should have. And yet sometimes we will allow those things to beat us down, to think that it's not worth doing, and we allow yesterday's sins to stop us from doing right today. What we're going to see in the rest of this passage is despite getting what they desired, even though it was not what God wanted for them, he allowed it to happen, but God has not done. In his grace and in his mercy, he is going to be reminded of them. But you can still fear me. You can still obey my voice. You can still do right. Because that's what he's encouraging them in verse 14. And he talks about if you will fear the Lord. The children of Israel would have known Deuteronomy 6, a couple of verses out of that chapter, verse 2, that thou mightest fear the Lord thy God. To keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee, thou and thy son and thy son's son, all the days of thy life. And that thy days may be prolonged. Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God and serve him, and shalt swear by his name in verse 13. They already knew they're to fear the Lord. Sometimes the hardest things in life is not, oh, how do I obey God? It's just obeying God. If we obey what we already know to do. They already knew to fear God. They've known this since they were children. Well, if their parents were doing what they were right, what they should have been doing. But this would have been this would not have been unfamiliar ground. Oh yeah, you know what? God did say to fear him. I I've never heard him say that before. I mean Moses in Deuteronomy is saying this. And so that's in verse 14, it says, fear the Lord and serve him. This too would have not been strange. In Exodus twelve thirty-one, and he called for Moses and Aaron by night and raised up and said, Raise up, and get you forth from my people, both ye and the children of Israel, and go and serve the Lord What is one of the purposes of them leaving Egypt so they can go and they can serve the Lord? And Pharaoh heard this ten times. And finally let them go so the way so they can do what? So the children of Israel could do what? Just be free from the bondage? Well, in part, but it was so they can go and they can serve God freely. That was a part of the whole thing. And that the whole world would know that there is a God in Israel. So what God is reminding them through Samuel here is things they already knew. You can fear the Lord You need to serve him, and to obey his voice. Later, towards the end of Deuteronomy, in chapter 28, says, And it shall come to pass if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God. To observe and to do all his commandments, which I command thee this day, that the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth. And all these blessings shall come on thee and overtake thee, if thou shalt hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God. God desires for us to fear him. God desires for us to serve him. He wants us to obey his voice. These are common sense things that Israel should have known. Yet they still desired something that was contrary to what God wanted. Yet God allowed them to have it. He's reminding them here, I still want you to obey, to serve. And he continues on in verse 14, and he says, I don't want you to rebel. Don't rebel against his commandments. Now in Psalm 81, it says a similar thing. They wouldn't have not had this passage, I don't think, at this point yet, but it says, So I gave them up to their own heart's lust, and they walked in their own counsels. Oh, that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my ways. I should soon have subdued their enemies and turned my hand against their adversaries. We are not to follow our own lusts and to rebel against God and our own counsel. God wants us to obey and to follow Him. Now, where does this get more challenging? Where does this, in a sense, almost really, it gets challenging to obey or to follow when we've already messed up? You know, when you sin the first time, your conscience may get after you 're thinking, I don't want to give in, I don't want to do this. But then you have that thought of, oh, I've sinned, I've done this before. I've stolen from the cookie jar the first time, and in fact I got away with it. I disobeyed a little bit here and it was okay. And you know what happens a second time? It's a little bit easier. And in the fourth and the fifth time, I don't think any young person takes a first drink and decides, you know what, I'm gonna be a drunk someday. I'm hoping I get a drunk. But they're not thinking that when they take their first drink. They could just be giving in the peer pressure. They could just be having a bad day. They're debating. Their palms are sweaty. Should I even do this? But the drunk thinks no more of it. They just consume it upon themselves. What is happening? We are allowing yesterday's sins or sins of the past to continue on us to think, you know what, I'm just no good. I can't serve God That's the easy trap that we can fall into. And what we're going to see here is that is not, that is not what God is encouraging people here. So let's look at this. In verse 15. 1 Samuel 12, verse 15. But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against his commandments, of the Lord, then shall the hand of the Lord be against you as it was against your fathers. So he's telling you, this is what I want you to do the verse 14. Verses 15, this is what you're not to do. This is what your fathers did. But you know what you're not you shouldn't do what your fathers are doing Even though they did wrong, you don't have to do the same thing. I want you to change what you're doing. Rebel against the Lord and not obey his voice. We're not to do these things. So we see this, and we I've got verses here in uh it says if you will not obey the voice of the Lord, Deuteronomy 28, yen. If you don't spend time in Deuteronomy and Numbers, sometimes we skip over some of these Old Testament books. Looks there's a lot of good stuff in there. And I appreciate pastors ABBI class. We're going through some of these in the Old Testament. There are some good things in there that we could be reminded of. So in preparation for my message, I found myself going back and trying to think what Israel These are things they should have done. They should have been encouraging things. They should have known not to do these things. It's a great uh opportunity just to think in the part of the truths, even from the old Testament. We need to read it, even though you think it may be old. Here it says, Will you not obey the voice of the Lord? They were known as Deuteronomy 15 fifteen. But it shall come to pass, if thou wilt not hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe all his commandments and his statutes with thy command thee this day, that all these curses shall be upon thee, and overtake thee. And then it said it gets again rebel against the commandment of the Lord. They knew about this in Numbers 14. 9. Only rebel not ye against the Lord, neither fear ye the people of the land, for they are bred for us. Their defense is departed from them, the Lord is with us that fear them not. Then again he says, Then shall the hand of the Lord be against you like it was your father's. I love this passage in Joshua. This is I didn't put the verse 15 on here. That's the one that's probably in a lot of our homes. But in verse 14, it says, Now therefore, fear the Lord, as we've already seen in this uh context of Exodus. I'm sorry, 1 Samuel 12, and serve him in sincerity and in truth, and put away the gods which your father served on the other side of the flood. in and in Egypt as ye serve the Lord. So he is telling them, this is what I want you to do in verse fourteen, this is what you shouldn't do in verse fifteen. And then we see even though we choose to do wrong, there are still going to be some consequences. but the Lord is still going to work before your eyes. Now Braxton hit this a little bit more last week, so I'm just going to briefly hit this section. We can stand and we can see what the Lord shall do. Look at verse 16. Now therefore, stand and see this great thing which the Lord will do before your eyes. Sometimes I think that we don't take time to stop and to see that God is still with us. working. Despite the fact that we might not obeying, despite that we might rebel, we're not obeying his commandments, we're in a slump, we're not doing right, we're a little defeated, and we think, why should I continue serving? Sometimes I don't think we open our eyes to see that God is still at work. His grace is mercy. We are still living, breathing. And his mercies are new every day. And God is not going to just throw you aside because we sinned or messed up. Guess what? If that were true, none of us would have a chance. Because we're all sinners. There is none righteous. No, not one. The difference is when we look at this and we've messed up. We need to take time to see what the Lord is doing before our eyes. Now, yes, we will have consequences. And that's what the next verses 16 through 19 are going to see the consequences for their sin. But are we admitting our sin? Are we going to confess it to the Lord? Are we going to choose to fear the Lord and his leader? I think this is something that we could really use in our country today. Look at verse 19. And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for the servants unto the Lord thy God, and we die not For if we had added unto all of our sins this evil to take us a king, you're saying, Listen, we know that we made a mistake. We took a king, we knew we shouldn't have. But now you have a king, you cannot change that, but what you can do is obey today. Don't let yesterday's sins stop you from obeying God's voice today. Admit that I have sinned. And they're coming to Samuel And just saying, hey, we did mess up. What are we doing with our sin? And we will see this play out, the difference between Saul and Samuel. I'm sorry, Saul and David. If you're going to compare the two and the sins that they had, and you're going to do a list, here's Saul and his sins, here's David and his sins, you look at the list, you'd be like, wow, this David guy is a pretty rough guy. But it's how they handled. One would admit his sin, the other would hide it. One would confess it and get it right and admit his shortcomings, as David. Saul would not. What we need to do is to understand. If we're to obey the voice of the Lord, follow his commands, it's to understand who he is. He doesn't give up on us just because we sin. He didn't come to the world to condemn us. We're already condemned. He came to seek and save that which was lost. He came to give us hope in himself, in who he is. And then we're going to look at the last couple verses here. We're going to spend a little bit more time here. Look at verse 20. Serve the Lord with all of your heart. Serve the Lord with all of your heart in verses 20 through 25. And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not Ye have done all this wickedness, and they have. Yet, he's going to start laying on really thick here. Yet, turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. Yes, you messed up. You messed up big. I told you what would happen if you were to choose a king And yes, you picked the king that you thought would look good. He was tall and handsome and he was mighty and he had the works. And yet I warned you and said, This is not what I desire. Yet, because you wanted it, I allowed you to have it. And he did. And yes, they mess up, and yes, they sinned. But what does he say? Yet turn not aside from following the Lord How many days can you go without sinning? How many hours? Do we just throw in the towel and give up? No, I've already done this before. It's no good. God doesn't care. And he does. He is telling the children. They did a blatant wrong sin. And yet God is learning, hey don't don't turn aside from following me. Yes, you've made a mistake, haven't we all? What's the difference? We can sit around and mope around and think I've sinned and I'm a horrible person and there's nothing I can do. I might as well just keep on doing it. Why does that come into our thinking so often? We just get defeated and we allow the Satan and the world to just beat us down, and I can't do these things because I've messed up. Yes, so has everyone else in the world. Yep. But the difference is we cannot let now there's going to be consequences. We don't get to choose those. But what I'm getting at here is just because you've made a mistake, big or small, blatant. Or just, you know, all that was a smaller sin. God is encouraging them, don't turn aside from following me. Don't do it. But serve the Lord with all your heart. That's the issue. And we see this unfold even so much more. We've seen it a lot in this Sermon on the Mount your inward righteousness, not just external looking good. God wants you from the heart to want to obey. And to desire. And when you raise children, and as you're raising them, sometimes you can tell they're disobeying because you said. But oh, there are some sweet times when you can say they're obeying because they want to do what's right. right. You're like, oh yes, I'm not gonna kill them before they get to you know they did obey. It only took me 9,933 times. And they get But you know what happens tomorrow? They might not remember. And you know being a father has helped me understand God all the more. It was really amazing. Being a father has helped me understand how God is towards me. Because I can understand. I your children will mess up. They'll make mistakes. You don't love them less. You don't want to beat them over the head with it. Sometimes you may be tempted, but you really is like you know you want them to grow, you want them to do well, you want them to learn from their mistakes. You want them to learn from your mistakes. Do we? Sometimes maybe We want them to continue. Hey, I still want you to obey me. I want you to love me with all of your I know you messed up, you're forgiven, it's over. And when you discipline your children, I think I I I at least I I imagine it was helpful to them. After I went through the discipline process and I forgave them, I tried to make it a point as a father I would not bring that up and hold that over him again. When I when the spanking was over and there was forgiveness and restoration, it was done. It was done. And with little kids, it's easy. They're so kind and so forgiving and so quick. But sometimes we see God as, oh, I you we get the guilty conscience, we see God as, well hi why would he do that? He won't do that Well I, as a sinful father, if I can forgive and desire for them to do right the next day, don't you think God, our Father, wants the same? We should not allow yesterday's sins to stop us from obeying God today. Don't let the world and Satan and our own sinful doubts Stop us, dragged us down from obeying God. We can wake up and have a new day. Look at this, it continues in verse 21. In verse 21, and ye shall not turn aside. For then she should go after vain things. Don't turn aside, he's telling me again. But if you do, you shall go after vain, empty things. Which cannot profit or deliver. They are vain. And then he reminds them, gives them something very encouraging in verse 22. He says, For the Lord will not forsake his people, for his great name's sake. sake. You know why God does this? Because He is great. And He is good and His name. Is what is great and good. He does it so he can point to his own greatness and to who he is. He is kind and compassionate. Anyone can be a mean dictator and let you have what you're thinking. And Israel would have been familiar. I skipped over the verse, but in Deuteronomy 6 5, that thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And then not to turn aside. They see this later in Deuteronomy. Take heed to yourselves, but your heart be not deceived. And ye turn aside to serve other gods and worship them. They have already been told in the past, don't turn aside. Don't leave God's commands. It is okay for you to turn back to God and do right today. Don't drag yourself through the mud and think, I can't serve God. Well, if you're saying that, you're probably in a good position because you think you can't. God, I need your help. But we need to admit our sin. I need you to help me see this. And I with my heart, with the innermost being, my heart and my soul and my strength and everything I am to obey God. Because it is easy to go against God. It is easy to disobey Him. That is who we are by birth and by choice. And we need God's grace and understand who he is. And for his name's sake, he won't forsake his people. We are Christ-like ones. We are Christians. Why would God forsake you if you are trying to turn back to Him? Now he's not going to take out the magic eraser and make all go away and no more consequences, because that's what really gets us. When the consequences come Talking about children, oh, they'll get real repentant real quick. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'll never do that again. I've heard that. I've said that. Okay But we want their heart. And then he does it for his great name's sake. And they would be familiar. In Psalm 106. 8, nevertheless, he saved them for his name's sake. sake, that he might make his mighty power be known. That God's great name is known, that he is forgiving, he is kind. If you come to him and say, God, we have sinned, I want to obey. Why would he not forgive you? Why would he not desire for even for his name's sake? And today, as Christians, Christ-like ones, little Christ. And you come before your heavenly Father and say, God, I know I have sinned. Will you forgive me? Help me not to obey. Let me be in your word, to obey your commands. You want to obey God? Get in his word. Ask him, pray, God help me not to be tempted. Oh, temptations will come. But for your name, not just for myself. For God's name could be on the line. And look at Samuel in verses 23 and 24. He says, Moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord and ceasing to pray for you. But I will teach you the good and the right way. Only fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all your heart, for consider how things he hath done for you, how great things he hath done for you. You know what I love about these couple verses? Sometimes we get overwhelmed with everyone else's doing it. In my family, in my state, in my country, in the world, other people are making mistakes, other people are falling short. And you know what Samuel is saying? I cannot sin against God by ceasing to pray for you. You know what? I want to continue doing right. He already appealed to his character before You and I can, as individuals, and as a family and as a church, we can serve God in a fallen, broken world that disobeys God. And it's possible with God's help. That's what the same was saying here. As an individual, you can do it. Don't let the world tell you you've messed up, you can't do it, everyone else is doing it, so you might as well forget it. Throw in the towel What he's saying is, I am not going to sin against the Lord. He is setting himself up as example. Paul said the similar thing in 1 Corinthians 11: follow me as I follow Christ. Samuel is saying, I have done nothing wrong before you. Already appealing to his character, they found nothing. And he's saying, I cannot allow myself to sin against God. That's where individual relationship, that's where loving God with all your heart and recognizing I personally In sinning against my God. That will help us. That concept of understanding, when I sin, I am sinning against God. Samuel gets it. Can you and I do the same? Oh, it's easy. Other people will do it. Pure pressure, and especially latines, could be very strong. And now sometimes you mess up, you make a mistake, and before you know it, it's all over the internet. Someone posts something and they get their phones out. I've seen many times right outside of a school where we used to live. A church we used to go to, several times there was fights right outside the street. You'll have two kids, they circle around, but you know what they do? When I was younger, people used to chant, oh fight, fight. I went to public school. Okay. And you know, these kids are picking on each other and everyone quickly circles around, flight, flight, flight. And they would just chant. Now you know what they do? These two kids get in a circle and everyone circles around, they're all whipping up their phones. They all got their cameras out and they're all rolling. And before you know it, it's plastered everywhere. And then it makes it a lot harder for these young people. Because now everything is everywhere very quickly. And it's harder for them to be restored. It's all over the place. They just can't quickly forgive the other person and move on. Because now everyone knows. And your friends of your friends of your friends all find out about it. That's defeating. And that will allow us, our sins to beat us down and think, I just can't serve God. But Samuel here is understanding and using himself. I cannot sin against the Lord. I'm going to keep praying for you You can do it. And not only will I continue to pray for you, I will teach you good and the right way. Hasn't Samuel already been doing that? Warning them, going before the Lord, coming back. Hey, God didn't want you to have this king. Now you've got your king. You got what you wanted, but there's going to be consequences, and consequences will continue to come, but don't let that stop you from doing right today And Samuel is using himself. And then he encourages them in verse 24. Only fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all your heart. For consider how good great things he has done for you. If you want to have a down out, no good, horrible, very good, bad, very bad day, however that goes, terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day. day think about yourself try it see what happens you keep thinking about yourself and your problems and see where that gets you Or you can take that time and consider what God has done for you and how you can serve God by helping someone else. By putting a smile on their face, by doing something for someone else other than yourself and having your own pity party. On occasion growing up, my kids, if they had something like that My wife would say something like, oh, why don't you write a letter to somebody else? Or why don't you help a sibling with this? Or go do that. You gotta get this got uh don't get optimized at your self-pity party and think it's all about me. That will get you to get defeated. That'll give you a bad day But if you fear the Lord and serve Him the truth with all your heart and consider what He hath done for you, God, I'm alive here today. My health may not be the greatest, but you're still good. And when is God's name not great? And when is it wrong to serve him? And when will he lead you astray? Will God not forgive? What has he done to you? Oh, he became a man, lived the perfect sinless life, shed his blood for you, rose a third day Continues to love and forgive you. Has given us his word. Yeah, that God. Why would we not want to serve him? But yet we still in our minds, we can struggle with this. But I messed up. I just we feel like I can't do it. We're dragging yesterday's sins and the past into today, and we think I can't do it today Stop thinking about yourself. What has God done for you? Now, what can you do for him? And you can do it as Samuel did in a day when it seems like no one else is doing it. These are God's people. They should have known better. He will continue, Samuel, with his life to teach them the good in the right way. It is good to live a different life before others, but we can't just use words Who we are and how we live and our actions have to back up our words. You can say whatever you want, but if you don't live it out, it's not going to carry the weight. And that's what Samuel is encouraging him to do. And we are to fear the Lord and consider what he has done. But he leaves them with a warning in verse 25. He says, but if ye shall still do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king. Earlier we read that, hey, you can still follow, you and your king can follow the Lord. But the decision is up to you. Yes, you've made mistakes, and you will. But God still desires to use you. God still wants you to obey. God still wants you to hear his voice. What you and I have to do is understand for his great name's sake and consider what he has done for us, we cannot, as God's people, allow yesterday's sins to stop us from obeying him today. Father, I am so thankful that you are a good and great God Sometimes in your wisdom, you give us what we ask for. For desires that aren't even right. But you can still teach us through this. You still desire for us to obey even after we've made mistakes. God, would we have a heart that desires to obey you for your name's sake? And we have a rough day and we're feeling down and out, would we consider what you have done for us? Lord, and based off who you are and what you've done, help us to not drag yesterday's struggles. Yesterday's sins into trying to do right today and right now. That is in the past We have right now. Tomorrow may never come. Would we, even as Samuel using himself almost as an example, To obey and to follow you, even though we make mistakes. We need your grace, strength, and mercy. Help us to be in your word and in your house, to find encouragement through your word, and get strength From on our knees as we desire to obey you and your voice. And we ask that you would help your people to do this in Christ's name Amen. It's a great challenge, isn't it? Couldn't help but think about the worst king in Israel's history. Was Manasseh. He was also the longest reigning king in Israel's history. You know what's amazing about Manasseh? At the end of his life, he turned to the Lord. And his son was a horrible king after him. But his grandson was a godly king. And he started reigning when he was eight. Crazy thing to think about. The question is, why w how could his grandson be a godly young man when his son was so wicked? It's because he turned to the Lord at the end of his life. And uh not suggesting anyone should live like Manasseh did, but what it shows you is that you know what God did? God still, he still was kind to that man at the end of his life. And uh great great challenge, great warning, and encouragement as well. Well, let's go ahead and uh close with our closing hymn 411, and that song is the solid rock. 411, the solid rock. Stand together, please. Sing verses one, three, and four as we close our service tonight. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus but his righteousness. I dare not know. Underground is singing man It's of his God as his blood saw for me and God well meet but with all around my soul Some is thinking then Where he shall come where itself Only I ever did be found Christ in his eye just and the love All that's his hand before the ground All the castle All of the God is singing and all of the God is Alright, well, we're going to go ahead and close out our service here in just a moment. I'd like to ask you for the Charlie Archibald and close us in prayer. And then we'll be dismissed. Yes. Heavenly Father, we do uh thank you for this evening that you've given to us. Thank you for the opportunity to gather and to learn from your word and into fellowship. Just thank you for the message brought this evening and the um The reminder not to give up when we fail, as as we often do, but to to get up again, to continue to serve you and to to love you and go forth. Try and obey your commandments. Just pray you be with us through this coming week. Help us to be bold witnesses for you and do all the glory for you in Jesus' name. Amen.