Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church tonight and looking forward to our service. Uh thankful to have the Andersons with us and looking forward to uh Dr. Anderson preaching later in the service. Let's bat together for a word of prayer. And then we will get started with our service tonight. Father, we're so grateful for another opportunity to open the word. And I pray that as your servant comes, that you would guide his thoughts and help him to expound the scriptures with clarity and passion. I pray that our hearts would be tender to the Word and that we would just have humility as the Word of God is opened. As we have opportunity to share testimonies, I pray that you would work in our hearts through those things. And I pray that as our teenagers this evening have an opportunity to have a hymn sing, that they would have wonderful fellowship together, that you would just bless their time together. I just pray that the Spirit of God would move in our midst tonight. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening everyone. We're going to start the song service out tonight by turning to page 445. If you'll stand with me, we'll sing four verses of Standing on the Promises. No setting. So if you can, stand with me and sing out tonight. Thank you , Mother Holland. I believe the word of God is not free better, where we want to run, wherever we 're And maybe family and thought Overlocking Boy And we have the problem with the God Amen. Now turn just A few pages to 451, page 451, or follow along on the screen as we sing. Rock of Ages. Cleft for me. I have to be able to do that. El reinero When I call it better, when I hold the world , make me all Go ahead and have a seat. Please have a seat, page 459 is our next song. Leaning on the everlasting arms Keep singing out all three verses. I need a tenor over here There was a G high G in a song I just barely could hit this m this evening. I think that little one can do it. Amen. Right. Okay, well, let's do four eighty-two first. All right, 482. And to our guests, be prepared. Because this is a a youth favorite. Page 482, dwelling in Beulaland. S I know you'll sing out. Okay. Sing out. Four eighty two. And we can die. We have no need on the land. Okie dokie, that's a crowd favorite, a young crowd favorite. Let's go to page 105 in the blue book. Well, I'm almost there. 105. For me to live is Christ. Page sixty-three in the blue bag. Page sixty-three, I'm almost there. Oh, okay. Glorious, comma, indescribable It's been a while. I forgot how to count that one off. My goodness. Okay, now we're going to go to page 144, I believe it was, in the red button. One forty-four. One forty-four in the red book. He owns the cattle on a thousand hills. Stand with me on this, and we'll sing it through a couple times No idea you were I'd like to say that tonight I consider it a great privilege for us to be able to have uh Dr. Anderson from Maranatha Baptist University. And Dr. Anderson has just started in his role as the new president at Maranatha. And uh Dr. Anstrom was a pastor for many years. In fact, as he and I were able to sit down and or stand up, actually, we had our conversation. Um, there are a lot of folks that uh over the years he has known that um Um maybe our paths personally have not crossed, but we uh know these folks. Um he was an assistant at one time up in uh at Faith Baptists in Lebanon, Pennsylvania, and we've had uh the pastor that are coming preach in this church many years ago. I believe a young man who grew up in this church was on staff at that church uh several years ago. So there's a lot of overlap, and I'm very, very thankful for us to have the opportunity tonight to have him bring the word and preach it and then uh tonight for you guys to have an opportunity to get to talk to him afterwards about uh the university and the options that are available there. There's a great need for our young people to uh when they go into their fields of training to go into a field of training with a Christian perspective. And in college is where a lot of times our perspective is being shaped. I mean it we it's being shaped over the course of our lives. But It's such an impactful period of life. A lot of times who we marry we we meet in school. Uh a lot of times where we end up in church when we're uh out of that season of life will in some way be connected to where we went to school. And so it's such an important decision. And I'm thankful to have him here. So, brother, please come and preach the word. Pastor, I appreciate that. It is we as a university intend, it's a been part of the character of Meredith to come alongside local churches. We admit right away that we are not God's unique body for this this dispensation. We're here to help you. Um we live in a un unique period of time in history, don't we? Not only because of the where the culture is heading, but where we have the ability even in our country Because of the advancements, frankly, that God has allowed us to have and enjoy the freedoms that we have so that we can take and take take time to focus on the education of young people and adults alike. So we come alongside your ministry. I was just speaking with a pastor on Friday at our school. He came to visit, wanted to kind of know a little bit about the university. uh not necessarily directly connected in our circles, if I can put it that way, um in the state of Wisconsin, uh, but of good Baptist church and wants to know who we are. One of the things I mentioned to him, I said, Pastor, it is our desire, we'll do everything we can that the young people you would send our way is to when they return to you. They'll be a more godly Christian, love you, and not disdain your ministry. Uh what a shame on our work if ever we would have young people that would walk away from the Lord or turn away from where they've grown up. Serve the Lord, love the Lord, moms and dads and church families that have invested in their lives. And so our purpose is to try to do everything we can to help you. We have lots of options at Marinatha. I won't take the time to go through all of those, but if you have young people that are looking to go into the trades One of the characteristics of Maranatha from the founding is that we're a liberal arts university, not simply a Bible college just training folks to go into pastoral ministry, missions, Christian education. Those are our core. They are who we are. But we also understand the need for plenty of young people that go out and serve the Lord, feel like God has called them to be a godly, can I put it this way, godly plumber, a carpenter. that will affect their neighborhood and community for the Lord Jesus Christ. And we want to be a help to them spiritually in every way to prepare them. So there are numerous liberal arts uh majors that you can come to Marinath and learn and prepare for that ministry and go on to further education, all those kinds of things, as well as that core of all the pastoral, uh missionary education, uh uh ministries that are vital to the can ongoing work of the Lord in around the world in the harvest field. So and then we have another thing for you folks. You say, well Marnatha's a long way from here. Yeah, I knew. I flew here yesterday and it was anyway, say um why would I ever send my kid all the way to the Midwest? Well, if you want me to truthfully answer that question is because I think we're good at what we do, but um you say, Well but I can't Well, that's the joy that Marinatha a number of years ago, actually, uh probably 15 years ago, we had already put the laid the groundwork for us to do much work online. And so you can receive your degree totally online and interact with in live video. It's not exactly the same as being in class, I'll tell you that. Sitting down where you can have the commiseration or the blessing after classes. You know, what's that professor, you know, anyways. Um But there is a a huge value to many of you folks that are out serving the Lord in your ministry and life, whatever it may be, and you want to continue to grow your education, that can be a rich blessing. You can take classes online and pick up your degree down the road. I was uh in many, many, in fact, it was over a couple decades that I worked on my doctorate degree. And it was in life and ministry going on, but wanting to have that touch where I was being pushed spiritually and in my profession to be all that I should be for the Lord. honing skills to serve the Lord better. And I'm grateful for those options to be able to do it from afar and then and then grow in my personal ministry. So all those options are available there. We want to just be a blessing. Try to be a help to you. We would love for Anchor Baptist Church if they if you send us kids, and I think we have a couple. We've had a couple I know in the past. Oh, by the way, your former pastor, Andy Connerman. Uh I think he's my friend. I'll claim him. All right, there we go. Uh Joy, I knew him from seminary days of all things way back at Calvary and Lansdale in Pennsylvania. So what a joy to have known him for over decades at this point. And we he's uh on the board at Maranathha. He's always prodding and poking. You know, Dave, you gotta do this. How about this? He's a man full of ideas. Um anyway, if we can be a blessing to you, we want to come alongside and just be that source of rich blessing so that as young people would come to us and by God's grace we would send them back. that they would have great effect on this area for the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's our part. If we can answer any questions about the school, come see us. Let's get take our Bibles this evening. Let's get to Exodus tonight. Exodus chapter 17 In Exodus chapter 17, so if you're trying to place in your mind real quick um where we're at in the story of Israel's history. So they have just been recently through the Exodus. They've gotten out of Egypt. They have just experienced the provision of the sweet water at Mara, and they had just begun to receive their manna. God providing wonderful provision for them on a day-to-day basis. You know the what we call the Lord's Prayer, it's really the disciples' prayer. Give us this day our what kind of bread? Daily bread. And God did that for Israel for four decades. In a very real way. They had no way to provide for themselves. God providing manna, putting it even on the ground so the animals could eat. Isn't that something? What a great God we have in that wonderful provision. So of all people We say, come on, Israel, isn't it great to trust God? God is going to care for you all the way. And yet we do know the story, don't we? And they like us. struggle with trusting God. And there's that sinful tendency. Yes, as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, God's in charge. We want to trust and obey, and yet we have this old flesh that hangs on. And pokes and prods us to stay away from the Lord, to doubt and question, to grumble and complain. And we need to see that for what it is. And turn our hearts away from it and follow our Lord, even when we don't know the answers to our problems and questions. Uh let me start with a little bit of a caveat for just a second. Your pastor didn't come to me tonight and tell me what to preach. Now you say, well, why are you telling me that? Because we're coming to a really important part. There are really two parts of the story tonight. The first half of the chapter here is dealing with how you relate and how you can be a blessing or a curse to your spiritual leaders. The second half of the story tonight from this chapter deals with how you relate to and can be an integral part of God's work. God has a place for every one of us. And though it may not be a place of great popularity or everybody knows you, that doesn't matter. What matters is that you're serving and pleasing God and doing his work. And he needs you, actually. You say, no, God is sufficient and of itself. Yes, but he has chosen in his wisdom and perfect will to use us To get his work done in this world. And that's amazing. Now, obviously this is an Old Testament setting. We'll see in the work that God had for them to do, they were destroying the Amalachites. So let's go kill the Amalchites. No, no, no, that's not the application for tonight, sorry. But that was God's work for that time. Can I then not take and apply it to my time? What is God's work for me today? I'll let you mull over that question as we walk through. So we're going to walk through these two wonderful narratives. True narratives. This is not some kind of make-believe we the the narrative word is used all the time today politically, well here's the narrative that we want to put out. No no no this is God's truth. This really happened. But it is an amazing story that shows us how To love our leaders rightly, how to get involved in God's work correctly. Beginning in verse 1. And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from the wilderness of sin. That's just the name of it, alright? It has no no connotation that they were in a sinful state. That's just the words called, all right? After their journeyings, according to the commandment of the Lord. Now They were moving after their journeys, all right? They were moving from place to place. And then it says they were doing it, notice that really important phrase, according to the commandment of the Lord. God with his Shekinah glory was directing their steps. The pillar of cloud by day, the pillar of fire by night, directing where they were going. So they were following the Lord, and they were to pitch there in Rephedim Alright, this is in the south of the wilderness of sin, not far from Mount Sinai. And there was no water for the people to drink. Now, don't miss the fact that in the end of verse 1 They were moving according to God's command, and God directed them to the place where there was no water. Wherefore the people did chide with Moses. They protested and said, Moses, give us water that we may drink. Now, could Moses do that? We obviously know the answer is no Moses, though a great man of God, could only perform miracles if God directed him. What was he gonna do there? I I it's like, I see, there's no water here, but God has directed us here. What should have been the reply of God's people? They had just experienced manna. They had just experienced the bitter water being made sweet. Could they not trust God in this place too? Especially since they knew God had directed them? How often in life, believer , do we daily struggle with trusting the leadership of God in our life? So let's not be quick to condemn the Israelites. I'm afraid that that condemnation can be pointed right back at us often. Something bad happens in your day. No water to drink for Israel. And what do we do? We start complaining. We start blaming anybody and everything that's close at hand instead of asking God for help. So what does Moses do? Moses said unto them, why chide ye with me? Wherefore do you, and he brings them to reality, wherefore do you tempt The Lord, why are you complaining against God? I am not the one to complain against. And your complaining is actually striving to manipulate and demand something special of God. Basically, what Israel was saying, God, you don't know what you're doing. I can't trust your word and your direction in my life. And it happens to be that Moses is out front, so let's poke at him. And the people thirsted there for water, and the people murmured against Moses. And said, Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our cattle with thirst? Moses, you're leading us and you're leading us wrong, and we're all gonna die. Now wait a second. They could see the Shekinah glory at that moment. Was it God or Moses leading them? Yes. But who was most important in that leadership? God was Now Moses did the right thing here, and I appreciate so much his example. As the leader of God's people, Moses cried, verse 4, unto the Lord, saying, What shall I do unto this people? They be almost ready to stone me. Moses Both in an honest analysis of what was going on, and yet in a trust to his God, runs to the Lord. He went to the right place for help. Over my many years in pastoral ministry, it's hard at times when God's people blame the pastor for their problems. Instead of saying, you know what, God is doing something in my life, what should I be learning? Many times sitting down to counsel someone, it's very evident what God is doing in their life and they don't want to hear. And here's the children of Israel. Could they not see it? I mean, to us, reading the scripture passage, it seems rather obvious. God wanted them to trust him. Do you realize, folks, that God on purpose in life always leads us to points where the only person that we can depend on is Him? And that's a good place to be. When I can learn to trust the Lord through thick and thin, through good and bad, through great days and sorrowful days, I'm in a good place. Will God ever let you down? No. It's easy to say that. It's hard to live that, isn't it? And Israel is demonstrating that here. And Moses stands as the face, the hands and feet of God there. They could see him. They could get mad at him. May we not do that to our spiritual leaders. So what does God do? And this is really precious. Verse 5. And the Lord said unto Moses, Moses. Go on before the people. In that simple answer of God, it's apparent that Moses ' heart had become discouraged. We we'll hear it in other instances where he says, God, I just let me out of this job. I I don't want it anymore. It's too much. Well, Moses was at least at this point thinking that. And God says, Oh, hang on, Moses. I need you to lead. Get back to leading the children of Israel. Don't let their complaints sidetra you from the job that I've asked you to do for my glory, for my prospering of God's word. Moses, get back to leading. And take with thee of the elders of Israel and thy rod. Now the rod was a significant tool. Um I don't have the time to run you back through the beginning of Exodus. but it was always there in representing the presence of God. He took it before Pharaoh. It was used as the tool by which miracles were accomplished through God's hand. It was the wonderful picture of the power of God when it was thrown down and became a snake. Oh yeah, the magicians did the same thing with their incantations And then what snake ate up the other snakes, all right? God always demonstrating his power. And so this was a significant symbol, a picture for the children of Israel to see, oh yes. God is all powerful. Take thy rod, wherewith thou smotest the river, the one that he parted the Red Sea with. Alright? Take it in thine hand and go. Behold, I will stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb, right, another name from Mount Sinai, and thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come water out of it, that thy people may drink. And Moses Notice what he did. Wonderful leader of God. Not a lot of courage in his own heart. Moment of discouragement, but Moses did. So in the sight of the elders of Israel, he obeyed the Lord. Now, why were the elders there? So that they had witnesses of God's great love and care. There would be no question that God was here Now, it's funny to me. He says, go to the rock in Horeb. I don't know if you've ever seen pictures of Mount Sinai or not, but there's like rocks everywhere. Uh uh like go to the rock. Uh years ago, traveling from Maranatha in West Virginia, uh we were down in Charleston and I had to go this was long before cell phones, all right, the good old Ran do any of you remember the Rand McNally maps? Oh no, it's great. All right. I loved them. I loved directions. I grew up farming, so you always knew where north, south, east, and west were. Anyways, pull off the ram ignoring map. And and we could see the dot where the city was we were supposed to go. There were literally no roads on the map getting there. It's like how do we do this? So um unlike most men, I actually stopped and asked questions. Um, hey, how do you get to such and such a town? Well we we started working our way out of Charleston to into the mountains and one final stop, I said, Well how do you get there? Oh yeah. You go down the road now, we're all on gravel road at this point. And you come to the big oak tree and you bear to the left there. And then when you get over the mountain, it'll be right down there in the valley. Well okay, I'm starting to drive down the road and it's like I know my trees. They're all oak trees. What? Come on, pal. The big oak tree. I mean there was no road signs. There was nothing. There was a gravel road. Well sure enough, we come around the bend. There's the big oak tree. I think that the thing was massive. It was there probably since the flood. Anyway, Okay, there's the big this is the same thing. It was very apparent which was the rock at Horeb. And that's where God would do his great work. And the children of Israel would know that God was with them still, even though they complained. Children of God Here's a really important question to ask yourself always as you live through life, as you go through challenges. Maybe can I address the application directly to you as a church tonight? To be encouragement to you and to your pastor. You're here on a Sunday night. I suspect that you're very supportive of what God is doing here. Bless you for that. That's the right spirit and attitude. May God keep our hearts there. But here's the question to ask. Are you a cause? of spiritual grief to your spiritual leaders, whether it's your pastor, maybe in the home, to dad, maybe at school, to the teacher. Here at church, the Sunday school teacher, are you a cause of spiritual grief to your spiritual leader? Or do you help them follow the Lord? Be a witness to what God is doing, like the elders. See God's great hand. So what happened? Verse 6, Behold, I will stand there before uh stand before thee there upon the rock in Horman. Thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come out water of it. that the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel. And he called the name of that place Masah. Remember, they had tempted the Lord all the way back up at the end of verse 2. And that's the word massah testing. And Meribah. Protests because the children of Israel chided, right? Because of the chiding of the children of Israel and because they tempted the Lord saying, Is the Lord among us or not? I'm reminded of what the writer of Hebrews says many, many centuries later in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 17. Obey them that have the rule over you and submit yourselves. Why? Why would you do that? For they watch for your souls, as they that must give an account, that they, the spiritual leaders, may do it with joy and not with grief. So they can give an account of their ministry before the Lord. And do it with joy. I trust that one day when God has Pastor Porchet standing before him, he can give an account of his ministry at Anchor Baptist Church And do it with joy and not with grief. Now, the writer of Hebrews goes on, and here's why. He says, For that is unprofitable for you. Giving us a clue, believer, you stand before the Lord and you're a source of grief to your spiritual leaders. You complain at them instead of taking your burdens to the Lord? Lord, what are you doing in my life? Are you trying to teach me something? Do I need to trust you? Do I need to obey you? You cause grief to your spiritual leader and you will give an account one day before the Lord for that. And that won't be unprofitable if you're a grief. That will be unprofitable if you're a grief to your pastor. To your father, to your fellow laborer and the Lord that's leading you along. Don't let that be your testimony before the Lord. Lord. May we help our spiritual leaders love and follow the Lord. Like the elders encouraging them, like we would see here in a moment in the next story. Of Aaron and her holding up Moses ' hands, being just an aid, a help in the work of the Lord. May that be our sweet testimony. So they tempted the Lord saying, Is the Lord among us or not? Well, the truth of the answer is, of course they were. Of course he was. God was there doing great work even though they couldn't see it, even though they thought they would die of thirst. And yet God came through and provided miraculously, always providing their daily needs. God will never forsake you. Why don't you trust him? Now let's hasten on. Verse 8. Point number two, really in the in the story tonight, in our message. Maybe I should give you give it to you this way. So we talk about me and my leader, but now let's talk about me and God's work. How does God want me to do his work? Well, let's look at the story here. Then came Amalek and fought with Israel and Rephidim. Now We have mention of them in Genesis 36. They were a descendant of Esau, a grandson. You would say, hey, wait a second. Aren't these like brothers, Israel, and they're the cousins? All right. Uh well Amalek ran away from God rather quickly. They were a marauding group. They were known for taking camels actually and attacking people, coming in really swiftly, stealing they just Steal all kinds of stuff, slaughter people who didn't care. Um, this was a scary moment. And Moses said unto Joshua, now here's the first mention that Joshua's ever mentioned in Scripture. It's apparent that he was already much Gain getting a lot of training under Joshua. Choose us out. So Moses under Joshua, choose us out, men, and go out, fight with Amalek. We're probably only two, three months into the wilderness at this point. Where did they get these swords? Uh maybe it was when, remember the Egyptians gave a lot of stuff to Israel? They said, go spoil the people. All right, so maybe they got their swords there, alright? Obviously, as slaves, they didn't have swords. Egypt wouldn't have let them have that. Somehow they had enough tools, but had they had a lot of training? Doubt it. A few men probably. So go fight, go go choose out men that were able to do it and go fight with Amlet. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God. Again, notice the the demonstration of God's presence with the got rod of God in my hand So Josh Joshua did as Moses had said unto him, and fought with Amalek, and Moses and Aaron and her Now again, this is the first mention of her. Just for a little bit of fun, her was a hymn. It was really clear. We knew that, alright? There was no doubt, all right And Hur went up to the top of the hill. We know historically one of the great um historians of the nation of Israel said Hur was actually married to Miriam. We don't know that biblically. So maybe maybe Moses ' brother-in-law Um but someone we we'll find his name mentioned later where he was definitely a leader in the nation, a spiritual leader for them. So someone comes alongside to help Moses. Excuse me. Then it came to pass. When Moses held up his hand, that Israel prevailed, and when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed. You see, this was God's war, not Joshua's war, not Israel's war. God alone is the one that gives victory. Another great lesson for Israel to learn. He was fighting for them, and that beautiful picture of the rod of God in Moses ' hand. Above the battle, demonstrating his transcendence and power over it. Well, Moses is a man and he needs help So we go on verse twelve. But Moses' hand were heavy. Um have you if you've ever done this before, just hold your hand. You don't have to hold anything. Just hold your hands in the air. See how long you can keep them there. Alright, kids, you go home and do that tonight. See if you can keep them up for an hour. Not now. They got the hands already. Not now, all right? Yeah, hold your hands up. No, don't do that. Um so and you'll see how hard that is. It's very difficult. Blood flows out. All right, and it's just your hands get very heavy quickly. Well, Moses' hands were heavy. And they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat thereon. And Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side and the other on the other side. And his hands were steady. until the going down of the sun. God, picturing in the rod being held up that he is above man, he is sovereign, the battle is his, not yours, and God was going to bring victory that day. But notice how the scriptures define it in verse 13. And Joshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword. This is amazing. It was God's battle, but Joseph fought. I'm Joseph. Joshua fought, and Joshua is the one that's honored in Scripture. We have an amazing God. I'm reminded of what Paul says in 2 Timothy 4, verse 17. I have fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I have kept the faith. I've lived under God's presence. You see, for Joshua, the calling on his life at this moment was to do God's work in leading a group of men to annihilate Amalek. No, it wasn't fully done yet, but they won the battle that day. God 's work was Joshua's work. Now, if, dear believer in Christ, You are a laborer in God's harvest field. There's work for you to do. It's God's work, but he wants you to come alongside and be his hands and feet at this moment, at this time. And God, as he always does, honors his faithful servant. Even though, like Paul, we would acknowledge that it was not God, or not me, but it was God that did the great work. 1 Corinthians chapter 15 verse 10. But by the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all. It's like, Paul, are you tuning your own own? No, he says, no, no, no. Not I, but the grace of God that was with me. Paul understood that we, in a unique and spiritual connection with our Heavenly Father and our dear Savior Christ, are engaged in his work. I labor, and yet it's the grace of God that empowers me to do the work. Joshua fought But it was God, as demonstrated in the rod, that was completing the battle. It was God's battle, not Joshua's. And yet God in his love for his children honors Joshua. Joshua discomfited them. Verse 14. And the Lord said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in a book. And rehearse it in the ears of Joshua, for I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. And Moses built an altar and called the name of it , Jehovah Nisi. For he said, Because the Lord has sworn that the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation. You see, God's work is my work. Again, as I turn back to 2 Timothy chapter 4, Paul had fought a good fight. He'd finished his course. He's kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness. God honoring his faithful servant Yet we see even as we finish the story here tonight that God's work has work yet remaining. Write a book of remembrance. Remind Joshua, Joshua the work's not done. Amalek needs to be fought against again. It was several centuries later. When God wanted that work completed, and King Saul annihilated the Amalekites. And yet that book of remembrance was there to remind them, hey, God's work is still ongoing. You see, folks, until the Lord returns, you and I have work to do too The harvest is white. Believers need to be encouraged and disciplined, trained, pushed forward, discipled. What are you doing about it? Jesus Christ in his perfect plan ascended and he wants you and I to do his work If it was perfect and best, he'd still be here, but it's not. In the best way to bring glory to our great and transcendent sovereign God, he's chosen to use us as servants in this wonderful world. to serve him, to accomplish his work. May we not forget and may we engage just like Joshua. Just like the children of Israel, just like even Saul, generations later. And so what does God's work call for? Well, notice, as they had the wonderful victory over Amalek, Moses built an altar and called on the name, or called it, Jehovah Nisi, God will. Be my signal pole. Oh, the signal pole. Ah, yes, the rallying place where we gather together and remember God's goodness. And get instructions for further work in the Lord. A rallying pole in that day and age was often used on the battlefield to help people know where the command was on the battlefield. They would see the pole, run, find their command, and get back into the battle. What an amazing picture. God is the one that gives commands. We're the ones that go do the work. May God help us to be faithful in God's labor. Maranatha really is about trying to help you be faithful in God's work and go forward for the Lord. May God help us to do that. Moses ' staff had proclaimed, God is here. God is on your side. God is fighting for you. And in their worship of the Lord, they recognize and acknowledge that He was there, but they still had work to do. O believer, may we be willing to follow our spiritual leaders, not be a curse to them. And may we be about engaging in God's work until he comes. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for your goodness to us, and thank you for the sweet example of Moses and Joshua in particular here. Lord, may we be faithful to support and encourage and not be a discouragement to our spiritual leaders in our life. May we in times of trouble run to you and not be caught complaining and griping against you and against God's leader. But then like Joshua, Lord, may we be willing to just engage. When we're called to do work, get at it. May we be faithful to that. May we be engaged in the work of the harvest field today. Lord, we know that you will honor those who are faithfully serving. You'll will hear those cherished words. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. We'll be undeserving of that because we'll recognize that you've worked through us. And yet we have the delight of engaging in your work. I pray that you would help us to be faithful to that Lord, I have not explained in any way thoroughly the salvation tonight. That's been an assumption. But I hasten to pray for anyone that would be here tonight without the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. May they come to trust you, turn from their sin, and know you as their Savior, and get engaged in the work that you've called all of us to do. Thank you for this church. Thank you for the opportunity that they've given me to come and just share God's word tonight. May it be of help to them. And would you prosper the work that's going on here in the days ahead? It's in your name we pray. Pastor, you come. You know, as I was thinking about some of the last things that were stated, uh it reminded me of this little Banner that we have right here. I don't know if you notice that the little white strips there we had a a a defect, so hopefully we're going to get the banner fixed. But uh we're getting ready to come into missions month. And this year when we have our missions month This is what we're going to focus on. God's plan, our privilege. 2 Corinthians 4. 7. We have this treasure. That's the gospel. in earthen vessels, clay pots, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us I think that that passage just so wonderfully states what ministry is. It's normal people who are all flawed people, okay, we are sinners saved by grace. And we have the privilege of taking the precious word of God, the gospel, and taking it to lost people. And we have the precious flip privilege of taking the doctrines of the faith and expounding them. with new Christians so they can be built up in the faith. And so this this coming month in October, when we have missionaries in each week, And we have an opportunity to be exposed to the work they're doing. A lot of them are people that we support. Some of them are folks we we may be able to partner with down the road. This will be our focus. And I think it really fits in very well with that picture of God bringing a victory, and there's Moses holding his hands up, and his hands are being supported by Joshua and her. And ultimately God is working through Him. God's work is always done through human instruments, and that's a stunning thing to consider. Thank you for that challenge. If we could, let's turn in our hymn books to hymn 463. And the song we're going to sing in our closing is Blessed Assurance. Jesus is mine. 463. Let's stand together, please. We'll sing this together for our closing hymn. So you will come to the crystal kingdom. But as the Lord can be God, there 's a crowd , who has been my store. Glory is my God , praise my name, is my glory , is this my God , praise my name. For all the law, there is no memory, it is not God to the light, it was dead. I was a war happy life, I can make it all good. Great on. He 's singing I want to remind you that tonight our teens have a SINGSPRAM, and so make sure teens that you are heading to the back so you can get ready to get in the van. And also on Wednesday, I hope that you'll be able to join us as we have our continuation of our series to the Sermon on the Mount. And this week we're going to be talking about blessed are the peacemakers. And so Boy, that one could be a couple of weeks. We'll see. But uh what a what an interesting text we'll be dealing with as we're working our way through the Beatitudes through the sermon. on the mount. So hope you'd be able to join us for that. Brother Charlie Archibald, can you please come and close us in prayer? And also if you guys can uh head to the back during the prayer that way folks can come by and greet you and get to know you a little bit. Charlie Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your love. Thank you for uh bringing us together this evening. Thank you, Dr. Anderson, and um Safe safely bringing them here and uh for the ministry of uh Maranatha Baptist University and just uh continuing to bless us there. Just thank you for the uh reminder this evening and the um how powerful you are and how um how great of a God you are and how important it is that we do support those that you put over over us in our help to them. Just pray be with us throughout this week that we can continue to honor and glorify you. In Jesus' name, amen.