Now open our Bibles to 2 Chronicles 34. And in this passage, we're going to read about, you could argue, one of the greatest kings. in Judah, which could bring a couple of different things. It could be comforting, encouraging. It could also be convicting. When we look at the age of how he was and the things that uh were able to be accomplished. So it's really this hopefully it could be maybe comforting and convicting, both, uh, and encouraging all at the same time. So we're going to pick it up as we look at young Josiah and lessons that we can learn from him in 2 Chronicles 34. I'm just going to pick through some of these. I'm not going to read the entire chapter, but we'll start in verse 1. Said Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign. And he reigned in Jerusalem one and thirty years. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the ways of David his father. and declined neither to the right hand nor to the left. For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, He began to seek after the God of David his father, and in the twelfth year began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places and the groves and the carved images and the molten images And they break down the altars of Balaam in his presence and the images that were on the high above them, and he cut down the groves and the carved images and the molten image. Images and break in pieces, and made dust of them, and strode it in the graves of them that sacrificed unto them. And he burnt the bones of the priests. upon their altars and cleanse Judah and Jerusalem. And so did he in the cities of Manasseh and Edom. Ephraim, and Simeon, even unto Naphtali, with their maddocks round about, and when he had broken down the altars and the groves, and had beaten the graven images into powder, and cut down all the idols throughout all the land of Israel. He returned to Jerusalem. Now, in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the land, And the house, he sent Sephim, the son of Zeliah, and Masiah, the governor of the city, and Joah, the son of Jahaz, and sorry if I mispronounced their names, they can correct me. later, the recorder and repair the house of the Lord his God. And we came to Hiah, the high priest. They d delivered the money that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites had kept, the doors, and gathered the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, and all the remnant of Israel, and all Judah and Benjamin, and they returned. To Jerusalem, and they put it in the hand of the workmen that had the oversight of the house of the Lord, and they gave it to the workmen that wrought in the house of the Lord and repaired And amended, amended the house. Skip down to verse 14. And they brought out the money that was brought into the house of the Lord. And Hilkiah the priest found the book of the law of the Lord given by Moses. And Hilkiah answered and said unto Shaphan, the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord, and Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan. And Saphan carried the book to the king and brought to the king word back again, saying, All that was committed to thy servants, they do it. And they gathered together the most money that was found in the house of the Lord, and have delivered it into the hand of the overseers and to the hand of the workmen. And Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Saying, Hilkai the priest gave me a book, and Shiphan read it before the king. And it came to pass. The king had heard the words of the law that he rendered Skip down to twenty four. Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place and upon the inhabitants thereof, even all the curses that are written in the book, which they have to do. Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands. Therefore my wrath shall be poured out upon this place and shall not be quenched. And as for the king of Judah Who sent you to inquire of the Lord, so shall ye say unto him, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, concerning the words which thou hast heard. Be Because thine heart was tender, and thou didst humble thyself before God when thou heardest the words against this place And against inhabitants thereof, and humblest thyself before me, and didst red thy clothes, and weep before me. I even heard thee also, saith the Lord. Behold, I will gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shalt be gathered to thy grave in peace. Neither shall thine eyes see all the evil that I will bring upon this place, and upon the inhabitants of the same. So they brought the king word again. Then the king sent and gathered together all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem. And the king went up into the house of the Lord, and all the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the priests and the Levites, and all the people, great and small, and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the Covenant that was found in the house of the Lord. And the king stood in the place and made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord. Lord, and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all his heart and with all his soul. To perform the words of the covenant which are written in this book. And he caused all that were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin to stand to it, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers. And Josiah took away all the abominations out of all the countries that pertaineth unto the children of Israel, and made all that were present in Israel to serve. Serve, even to serve the Lord their God. And all his days they departed not from following the Lord, the God of their fathers. Let us pray. Father, a lot of scripture was just read as we look at much of what Josiah has done in this chapter. Would it be encouraging? Could it be Convicting, could the Spirit of God use these men of old, these truths that they lived out, that were penned for us, that we may understand Understand them, that we may apply them to our hearts and to our lives, and not just ours, but to those around us, and most certainly to the Generations that come behind us. Father, would you do a work in us and through us to bring honor and glory to our Savior's name of Jesus Christ? We pray. Amen. So as we start out this chapter, I wanted to read that most of the chapter, most of the highlights anyways, which is a good portion of it. it and now I'm just going to break it down simply as we walk through it because that's the main part here as we went through the whole thing. Now we're just going to slowly work through just portions of this. So we start out in verse 1. In verses 1 and 2, we're going to see Josiah was put on the throne. And if you notice when we were reading or you're familiar with the account here, Josiah was only eight years old when he began to reign. Now if you're anything like me and you're in junior church, you're working with kids in tiny trackers and truth trackers, you usually do not want to put an eight-year-old in charge. I mean how about it? If we just had, you know, instead of Pastor Porsche, we could have like Caleb Porsche, you know, lead us next Sunday. Caleb, how about it? Are you are you are you close to nine? Or eight? Nine, okay. I gotta go younger than that. Sorry, Caleb, you had your chance, blew it. You are you are disqualified because you're too old. I so I mean if we didn't what is going on here? So just to back up a little do we have any eight-year-olds in here by the way We do. Torin? Yeah, buddy. Hey, next Sunday, Pastor said you could be like Josiah. Okay. You want to rule a mini kingdom? Alright. Let's just pretend that doesn't happen. But what we have in reality with this text is we have an eight-year-old becoming king. What happened? Why? Well just very briefly, let's w look at what brought this circumstance. We're just going to briefly look at the last couple of verses of chapter 33 here. As we start in verse 21, just this last one. And I think if we read these verses, they're pretty self-explanatory to get a pretty good feel for what's going on of why you would put an eight-year-old on the throne. So let's look at some brief history. Chapter 33, verse 21 through the end of the chapter. Amnon was 2 and 20 years old when he began to reign. And he reigned two years in Jerusalem. So why the short reign? We will find out. But he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord, and did Manasseh his father. For Amnon sacrificed unto all the carved images which Nasseh his father had made and served them, and humbled not Himself before the Lord, as Manasseh his father had humbled himself. But Ammon trespassed more and more And his servants conspired against him and slew him in his house, in his own house But the people of the land slew all them that conspired against King Amnon, and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his stead. So what we have is we have the evil king that chose not to humble himself. He got very proud, got very arrogant. He was a young guy. And he didn't reign very long because of the evil and the wickedness that he was doing And some people have had enough. And when you're an evil person, I don't know what it is, but you tend to surround yourself with other evil people because they're not willing to follow the rules. They're willing to bend, to twist, to break. To do whatever it is to the rules to make themselves or make you look better. The problem is when you're in power and you do that, and others under you in power do the same thing, there's a lot of lack of loyalty. There's a lot of lack of trust. Because if you're not a trustworthy person, you tend not to trust in others You've probably heard it takes a thief to catch a thief type of idea. If you're not a trustworthy person, you're gonna always assume that, well, they're not telling me the truth. So what you have here is you have an evil king. He's got evil people around him. They don't like him. So they go to take him out. And they do. But then there's other people in the land that didn't like those people, so they take them out. So you have a lot of leadership and you have a lot of things going on A lot of killing, murdering, assassination going on here. It's like what is going on? And all this happened because he was evil. And then so what you're left with Is a 23-year-old king, a 24-year-old king who has an eight-year-old son that didn't plan on dying when he was 24. But they take him out. Others took those people out, and then those people decide, you know what, we'd rather surround ourselves around this eight-year-old king and kind of start over. That's a sense uh essentially what is happening here. So they're willing to put an eight-year-old on the throne and we'll help this guy. So that's the brief background of why you put an eight-year-old up there. It's evil taking place and evil acting upon evil and people doing what they want to do. And that is the history of what takes place there. So you have an eight-year-old who reigned in Jerusalem and ended up reigning for 31 years. Then you look at verse 2. Here's what's incredible. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the ways of David his father, and declined neither to the right hand nor to the left. As we would say in the New Testament, he stayed on the straight and narrow. He did which was right in the sight of the Lord at eight years old. Here's where I want to pause for a moment. Sometimes in church, we can get um frustrated. Sometimes we see the fingerprints, the sticky, we see random balls, we see extra energy running around, and sometimes for a moment we think, what are these kids doing? Or we think, where are their parents? And we could tend to, in the flesh for a moment, get frustrated. Or, for a moment, if we pause, what we can recognize is this eight-year-old has a soul. This eight-year-old at a young age and younger, they can learn to serve God. I'm reminded of a couple of verses, common ones, in 1 Timothy 4:12. I often put this one on the teen calendar. Let no man despise thy youth. Paul, writing to Timothy. He's older than eight, but still older to a younger. Be thou an example of the believers in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. I'm going to read the Mark 10 account, but we see this in each of the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. It says in verse 14, but when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for such is the kingdom of heaven. So you have the apostles and other disciples around Jesus, and they don't want the kids to come to him. You're a waste of the Messiah's time. He's busy. He's too busy reaching the adults, correcting the scribes and the Pharisees. He's too busy doing those to work with the little children. And Christ is going to use These little children and the simplicity of their faith as an example. And what we see here is it is not too young to start Serving God. It is not. So when we see these eight-year-olds and we and younger, why do you think as a church, one of our biggest evangelist outreaches, as a church, as a whole, reaches what age group? The senior saints? The adults? How many of us we give up an entire week? Some of us take extra time off work. Some of us skip meals to run a vacation Bible school And Vocation Bible School ends at the top end at sixth grade, eleven and twelve year olds, and runs all the way down. As a church, we want to invest in the young people. people in the next generation because we believe it's important to reach children when they're young. And as I read this text, this is kind of the convicting slash encouraging part is you have a young boy. At this young age, deciding he's going to serve the Lord. Let us not underestimate children in their youth, youth as a whole. Invest in them, pray for them, train them. And in verse two, he says he did what was right in the sight of the Lord, and he walked in the ways of David. David, his father. And in looking to the future, he's going to say he declined neither to the right to the left. He is walking in a godly way. Oh, the an eight-year-old is not going to read his Bible the same, and the truths will be simpler. But that's where it starts. Don't ever think a young person is too young. And as a church, I use these examples because We invest in them. We have truth tractors. We have tiny trackers. Little guys. Really, you know, four, five, six years old before first grade? Why do we do that? Is it a waste of time? We are taking the truth of the Word of God and putting it into their minds because they believe it. Would we do it accurately? Would we we do it correctly. Junior church. That's why we have to be careful to handle the word of, oh, I'm just teaching junior church. It's easy. But are we handling the word correctly? Are we simplifying These truths so these young people can serve God so they don't turn to the left hand or to the right hand. So we can take doctrinal truths from the Word of God and break it down in a little of trust and obey. Usually we sing that as a kid's song. And that is a simple truth, but yet very profound. If adults could just simply trust and And obey. Wouldn't that change our lives too? How about obedience? It's more than just learning how to spell it. Okay. It's learning how to follow through. And Jesus does love all the little children. And if we understand these truths from little children, I just find this a very comforting and convicting way to start here with young Josiah as he walked. In the ways of the Lord, and he did right in the sight of the Lord. Let us not underestimate the children. Invest in them. Pray for them. If you've got grandchildren, your own children. So we see Josiah is put on the throne in verses one and two. At the first part of verse three, we're going to see Josiah personally seeks God. He personally seeks God. Look at verse 3. He says, for the eighth year of his reign, and often they would go by how many years a king would reign, so it is eighth year, that puts them at a whopping 16 years old So he's now learning to drive in our modern understanding, okay? Or trying not to scare everyone else on the road. So the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, and can I pause and do this for for the teens here? This is for the teens. You're becoming 16, you're becoming the upper echelon of the youth group. You know, all those other ones are starting to get down there. The Bible says, while he was still yet young. At 16. There's still a lot in front of you. And I used to keep track of teens. I was like, oh yeah, they're they're coming close to they were born around the time I graduated. I gave up. Up on that long ago. But they're young. And sometimes you don't realize it. They have a long way to go. They can learn much. But at 16, listen to what happened. Here, in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young. He began to seek after a God of David, after the God of David his father. And to the teenager. Don't think that you are too young to seek God on your own. Don't think, oh, I'm going to wait till I'm 18. I'm going to wait till maybe college, or wait till I get on my own, and then I'll really do it my way. Start seeking Seeking God God now. Today. While you're 16, seek God. One reason why I love working with teenagers, several reasons. But some of them, one, they're younger, they're not scarred with sin. They've got a lot of life and energy before them. And a lot of them, they want to they want to know truth. They want to understand. They're trying to make decisions for themselves. Because right around, you know, 16, 17, 18, you know, as they're getting older, they're just They're starting to seek a little bit more of what I believe. And parent is okay, you you can't treat a you can't uh discipline a 16-year-old like you would an eight-year-old. A five-year-old and a 15-year-old. It's different. When they're little, you just say no. Why? I said. End of discussion. That works when they're five. When they're fifteen, sixteen. Hopefully we're getting to the point that we want them just go from to following God as the parents do to seeking God personally. Is this their personal God? At 16, he is seeking the Lord. Are we developing our children so that they as an individual, not as a child of mommy and daddy? But as an individual, begin to seek and to soak and to ask and to ponder and to meditate the truths of the Word of God for themselves. At 16, he was seeking the Lord in the eighth year of his reign. That makes him 16 years old. He was young. Don't wait, oh I'll do that one. Start today. Because procrastinators are always the leaders of tomorrow. Start today. While he was yet young, he began to seek after God of David his father. And then we continue. So then we're going to see In verses 3 through 7, how Josiah purges the land. And it says here, in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem. And he lists all those things that we already read. So now in the 12th years, this puts him at 20. At 20 years old. So if he's going to college, he's halfway through. Thereabouts. And look what he does. Because he was trying to do right in the sight of the Lord, because he was personally seeking the Lord and doing the best that he can. I'm just gonna use the the words here of what he did during this time as he was twenty years old trying to lead this nation. I just picked out words to describe because sometimes they get a little bit graphic, but I want I pulled out all the words in these next several verses. to what he was doing that his dad had set up, that his grandfather had restored, and his dad uh brought up in the the back and forth between the grandfather and the father and now him Listen, I'm just going to give you the words. He purged them in verse 3. He break them down in verse 4. He cut them down. He break in pieces. All those are in verse 4. In verse 5, he burnt them Actually, that's kind of interesting. He burnt the bones of the priests on their own altars. Sometimes I think in our Western mindset we think, oh, how evil and how cruel. He's proving a point. He took these priests and burned them on their own altars. Take that, priests. I'm going to burn you on your own altar. Wow, that's interesting stuff. So that's a little tidbit there. And then then it ends verse 5. He says, and he was cleansing. So you have purging, breaking down, cutting down, breaking in pieces, and burning things. And what's this doing? It's cleansing. It's purging of sin and wickedness. We can't get better if we don't admit what's wrong in the sight of the Lord. If we don't agree with God, we're not right. What Josiah is doing is he's trying to do right according to the Lord. He's seeking him. He's personally growing in his walk with him. And then it continues. In verse 7, he says it broken down. Beaten to powder, and he cut them down in verse 7. All these words are what he's doing to the images and to the graves and to the idols of all these false religions that are out there. He's getting rid of it. He is purging the land. And then in verse 8 through the rest of the chapter, I broke down this chapter just by his age. So we're going to quickly look at the last portion of his life. So we've seen in the first two verses Josiah was put on the throne. In verse 3, the first part, we saw Josiah personally seeks God. And 3 through 7, we're going to see Josiah purges the land. We've seen that. Now, in verses 8 through the end of the chapter, we're going to see Josiah's public influence. And I think sometimes as young people we get this backwards. We want to influence our world. One of the new key words of the day is they want to be influencer. But who are you influencing and why? And what do you believe? And what is your purpose? I don't know, but I want to be an influencer. Okay. What are you influencing and what is your motive and your purpose? They don't want to be known for something. But what we're going to see is Josiah did it right. He was personally seeking God. He was doing that which was right. He became personal. Then he was getting the sin the best he knew as a king of his country. He's getting things out of the land. He's trying to do things right as much as he can. And as he does this, what happens is it starts to spread. And it influences beyond. If we read through this, when you read about Ephraim and Nasseh, this is going just beyond the normal boundaries of Judai. So his influence is going public. It's getting out there. So he purchased land verses 8 through 10 We're going to see how he starts restoring the house of the Lord. He said he purged the land at the beginning of verse 8. And in verse 9. He says, and when they came to Lkai the high priest, they delivered the money. Hey, where they're finding money. That's good. And they brought in the house of God with the Levites and kept the doors. They're repairing these things. And they return to Jerusalem in verse ten and they put it in the hand of the workmen. They're restoring, they're rebuilding, they're putting it together. And I will say, uh, I just appreciate those uh in our church. You you clean things up, you repair things, you cling things, you do things without being uh asked. You when you are asked, you do it right away. There's a lot that goes on in this church to keep it the way that it is To keep it restored. I mean you imagine the repairs for your house? This is much bigger than your house. And it takes a lot, so I appreciate that. But that's what they're doing here. They're restoring, they're building up, they're working in the house of the God, they're repairing it and mending it at the end of verse. 10. And then, have you ever had those times? Spring is just around the corner, isn't it? We had a nice tease today. Tomorrow, not so much. But we'll get a nice Nice to say tease. don't you want to like get things cleaned out? You're going to the depths as it's warming up and you want to get outside and you maybe do some spring cleaning or go to that closet. Yeah, that closet. And you're digging things out, you're organizing things, you're going to start cleaning out your car. And you know what might happen? You might find something that you didn't know you were looking for. Hey, I was wondering where that was. But you know what's amazing of all things? That has happened to me, especially cleaning the car. Not as much recently. Sometimes in the church band, but usually in my car when my kids were younger. It's incredible. You know, you're cleaning your car out, spring cleaning, getting things done. And it's incredible. I can find McDonald's French fry. That looks the same as it did months ago. It's a miracle of miracles. I don't know how it happens, but I found it, I was like, wow, not eating that. But it looks the same. And if you microwave it, it might even taste the same. Who knows? But it's amazing what you find when you clean things out. Has this ever happened to you? It's happened to me a couple different, not just McDonald's fries, but you clean something out, that closet, the car. Whatever it may be, you're cleaning things out. Here we go. We found it. What are you looking for? That's what takes place here. You've got Josiah, he's just trying to do right. He's seeking the Lord. He's encouraging others. He's getting the sin and the wickedness out. And what happens? As he's doing this, they find something pretty special in verse 14. Verse 14, and when they brought out the money that was brought into the house of the Lord, Hilkiah the priest found a book of the law of the Lord given by Moses. So he's cleaning out. They're repairing. They're restoring. They're doing what they should. And what happens? God just so happens to lead them as they're repairing. God's house. And here they find the book of Moses. Look at that. It's incredible. I wasn't even looking for it. Here it is. That is great. And here's what's amazing about this whole thing. Everything we've read up to this point, it makes me wonder. Was it just from experience or from word of mouth that Josai was doing all the things we've already read about? seeking the Lord, personally making it his God, destroying all those graven images. Because now he found the word of God in verse 14. And Hilkiah is like, hey, look what I found. And they take it and they read it before the king. And as King Josiah now, in his twenties, he hears the word of God. And here's what's amazing. He's been trying to serve God and do what's right and tear down the images and build up the house of God. And then as he reads this, he doesn't go, check, check, check. I'm doing good today. I'm a great Christian. He hears the word of the Lord read, and conviction sets in. And he says We're still not doing things right. We're only doing the outward. We're trying to do some things right, but we're not obeying the law. Sometimes in our life, you and I can think, I'm doing great. I'm doing good. It 's like a man beholding his face in a glass. But then he walks away and thinks he still looks good. Forgetting his hair's messed up. That's problems getting easier with me. You know, y stuff is everywhere, face, hair, and you know, especially if you're the you know, y I couldn't imagine having longer hair. trying to fix it every day. Praise the Lord. I don't have to worry about that. But we look in the mirror and sometimes we can see ourselves and who we are in God's word and we can recognize. Wow, I read God's Word. I'm not as good as what I thought. I think I'm something, but when I compare myself with the Word of God, when I compare myself to Christ, which is the only one we should compare ourselves with, I fall short. And look at his response. So in verse 14 they find it and they take it and they read it to the king and then it comes down and in verse 19 and it came to pass when the king had heard, this is verse 19, heard the words of the law. that he rent his clothes. He's repenting. We are not doing things right. And then He answered, and this is where the they verse 23 or 24, thus saith the Lord, behold, I will bring evil upon this place and upon the inhabitants thereof. So Josiah's recognized, I've been doing evil. Look what God said he's going to do. But what happened is Josiah, as we read earlier, he humbled himself. Look at the description. Well it says they've forsaken me. They've served other gods. But look at verse 27. Here's the exception of King Josiah. Even though he had a wicked father, even though he did more and more wicked before this. As a young person, you do not have to follow the pattern, and I don't mean this in a in a bad way necessarily, but you don't have to follow the pattern of your parents or grandparents of wrongdoing in the family. It could be something as divorce, alcohol, drugs, anger issues, whatever it may be. You don't have to follow the pattern. And would we as parents do our best to give them a pattern we're following? But here Josiah didn't have great parents. Don't blame your actions on others. You need to personally seek God, take responsibility. How do you line up with the Word of God? Not your friends, not even your parents. Josiah is in his twenties at this point. He's been seeking the Lord personally for several years at this point. Now he reads the word of God. He recognized he does not measure up. He didn't have that great of example of the Father. He only made it to 24. He was assassinated, and then other people kill them that killed him, and then he became king. He doesn't remember that much as a little child. He remembers it got messy. You don't have to follow the pattern. And as parents, it's okay to teach our children to be better than we are or were. We want them to of God. be We want them to see God, to humble ourselves, to teach them right. So because of how King Josiah, even as a young man, still at this point, he hears the word of God. And God responds by saying, this evil must be punished. But what God does is extend his grace to him as an individual. He doesn't say your father messed up, so it's coming down. The hammer and the gavel 's coming down on you, Josiah. No, because he humbled himself, because he was tender. Let's look at this But as for the king in verse 26, they're saying unto him, verse 27, because thy heart was tender. And thou didst humble thyself before God when thou heardest the words against this place and against the inhabitants thereof, and humblest thyself before me. You heard the words, you humbled yourself, you were tender to it, and you wept before me. And I have heard thee also, saith the Lord. The Lord is going to extend grace and mercy to King Josiah, and ultimately, while he is reigning, because of how he viewed himself. before holy God, even though he was already doing things that were right, even though he was already tearing things down and burning them and ripping them and turning them to powder. He was already trying to do things that were right. But in his view, in line with the word of God, he was still not right When he compared himself to the scripture, he was a sinful man that needed God's help. How do you see yourself with the Word of God? Maybe that's why we don't want to be in God's house. This is Sunday night, okay, we're all here. Is it hard to read God's word because it convicts? Because our pride is getting in the way? We see what happened in the generations before this. His dad did not repent. He made it to 24. His grandfather was kind of back and forth, got extended a little bit, because he did humble himself towards the end. Are our hearts tender? To the word of the Lord. Are we humbling ourselves before him? And then, because of all this, we read how it really affects those around him. He sent and he gathers people together, he's gathered in the elders. And he's going to the house and he's telling the priests and he's telling the people. And then the king stood in verse thirty one and the king stood in this place and made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord, to keep his commands. He wanted to continue to serve him. And his testimonies and his statutes with all his heart. It's not just the externals, not just wiping things out. He recognized it's more than that. God is after the heart of the individual. From the king on down, not just the king, but the people. And we're going to see that. So with all his heart, with all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant which are written in the book. And then he continues, and he caused all that were present in Jerusalem. And Benjamin to stand to it, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers. And he continues, and this is what I love about verse 33. Verse 33, when I've been reading this chapter over and over again, it reminds me at the very beginning. Hopefully you'll catch it. It kind of reminds me of Job a little bit. two and Josiah took away all the abominations out of the countries that pertaineth to the children of Israel, and made all that were present in Israel to serve. So he's wanting others to serve, not just himself, but he wants others to serve the same God and the same truth and to humble themselves before God. Even to serve the Lord, their God, and all the days. That they departed not from following the Lord, the God of their fathers, and all his days they departed not. So at the beginning, it talks about King Josiah departed not But because he humbled himself before God, even though he didn't have the greatest examples, he was trying to seek God on his own and do what's right, and he read the law and he realized he was still undone and he still wasn't doing things right. He personally was doing his best to own himself before God, and then And he then in turn, look at it, they, his personal relationship with the Lord and his devotion to seek them, encouraged others. They departed not from following the Lord, their God, either This is one reason why church is so important. There's not a king here and a kingdom, but this is God's church. This is what God has given his life for. To be washed by the Word, to be cleansed, to give Himself for the church. Would we encourage one another? To live according to God's word and not our preferences, not what I think is better, not because this is what works for me and I'm all puffed up about myself. No, are we working to plan People to the Word of God, so they with all their heart, with all their soul, even from a young age, can seek God and to serve Him. So as they grow and they and as they walk with God, they can serve Him. be more devoted, more compassionate towards God, His Word, and others, and so they can in turn encourage others to do likewise. These are some lessons from this chapter of King Josiah, which we can argue is one of the best kings, not because he was so great, but he recognized he can humble himself and seek God. From our youth on upward. And his life ended the same way it started. And I think for those of us that are not so young, we want to end well. We want to end To run a race like Paul did and not have any regrets. Could we invest in the next generation? Could we stay humble before the Lord and his word as we seek to serve him? Let us pray Pray, Father. It is a privilege to serve you, to be in your house. To think upon these truths. From a young man, he didn't want to be king eight, but from a young age, he did that which was right in your sight. And as he grew, it just continued. Even when he was doing right, he was confronted with your word and realized he still fell short. And because of that, you were gracious. You were merciful to give him peace during his reign. Not that he was so great, but he recognized that you are great. And that you are good. Can you help us to encourage the next generation to follow you? That we would get sin in our life where necessary And do our best to serve you with all of our heart and all of our soul, as King Josiah did, from our youth to our last breath. And all this would be done to bring glory and praise To your Son, our Savior of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen