Come with the right heart attitude. That's really what we're after. Come and say, God, what do you have for me to change? We're going to keep this focused and we're going to want we want God to work in our hearts and lives. I know it's busy. I know there's a lot of things going on. But if you and I will take the necessary requirements to draw nigh to God, he has promised he'll draw nigh to us. And I don't know what God wants to change in your life. I don't know what God wants to change in my life, but I know I'm not what I could be, and I know I'm not what I even should be at times, but I know God's working on me. Aren't you thankful he's still working on you too? Take your Bibles this morning and go with me to the book of James. A familiar passage, one which perhaps you have heard preached before and no doubt you will hear preached again. But one which we are going to look at this morning in James 1, which I pray can be a challenge and encouragement to each and every one of you. James is one of those passages that every time I read through the book of James, I am challenged. perhaps the very first book of the New Testament that was given to us. And it's written from a perspective of people who are struggling. One of the biggest misconceptions I had is it And perhaps there's others in this room that have that, is that when you become a Christian and once you reach this level of stability, uh it becomes easier. All the challenges, the problems, the issues get put away. And nothing actually could be further from the truth. Because when you and I walk with God, when we follow God, actually the trials and the difficulties and challenges even come more sometimes. Sometimes we make a decision, we follow God, we launch out in the faith, where I'm going to trust you. And then we wonder why life gets difficult, don't we? We wonder why after we have stepped out on faith and done this and we've decided to follow God in truth, we wonder why it gets challenging. Well, James tells us that God has a purpose. And sometimes people think, well, you know, life is just random. There's just no point to it. It's just this random happenstance, a bunch of problems, difficulties, and trials. And James sets the record straight. James is writing to those first century Christians who have come to faith in Christ and their lives got challenging, the same group that Hebrews was written to, and the same group that 1 Peter was written to. He's writing those first century Jewish Christians who are struggling. This is hard. This is difficult. So look with me what the Bible says in James chapter 1. He says this. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting. Now, let me ask you, and this is the part of Sunday school where you guys in the audience interact with the teacher Who is James? Half-brother of Christ. Everybody want to agree with that answer? Yeah? Thanks for answering. Appreciate it. Good to see you. again. Yeah, I know all of you knew that. You just weren't answering or you were letting somebody else answer, right? Yeah. Half brother Jesus. And he says, James, a servant. Now this is a little bit technical. Does anybody know what that word servant is? Slave doulas. So this is James, and he's saying, I'm the slave of my brother Now how many brother combinations? I know we have at least one, we have two, three brother combinations. Would the younger brothers in this room, would you willingly call yourself the slave to your older brother? Yeah, that's true, Brent. I just know it that's what happens. Probably not, and you wouldn't want to. But that's what James does. I'm a bondservant, I'm a bond slave to the Lord Jesus Christ Now that's not a politically correct term in our day and age, but it meant something different back in the Roman Empire. And here's what James is saying. I am a bond slave to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. He doesn't flex Because you know, if I'm the half-brother of Jesus, I'm going to drop that in my bio, aren't you? I'm going to be, hey, I'm Brent. I'm the half-brother of Jesus. You all better listen to me because I know what I'm talking about. I grew up with truth. But I didn't do no, he doesn't do that. He says, James, the bond slave of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he says to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. He starts to begin to impact truth and he doesn't really give much of an introduction. He just drops right in here and he says, count it all joy. He shows us the attitude that we're supposed to have in our trials. And when you start to unpack this and look at this truth, you see that trials actually have their purpose in producing and helping and guiding and growing us. But here's the problem. Most of us do not enjoy trials. How many of us this morning pray, God, would you send me some trials today? Nobody? I didn't either. Because we don't like trials, do we? We would rather not have trials. Can I get a witness? Amen. I know this is kind of the mid-south, you know, but you can respond back. It won't hurt, it won't kill you. I'm from Arkansas now, and sometimes it gets going there. Amen. Hallelujah Feel free to talk, it's okay. But no, we would rather not have trials. I don't know what you're facing, I don't know what difficulty, challenge, insurmountable task you are facing in your life or family or ministry, whatever. But let's be honest, all of us in some extent would rather not have trials But notice what the Bible says here. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. One author wrote this, For the believer trials are not needless disappointments and sufferings that life randomly throws at us. Rather, they are providentially designed and allowed by God to do a great work in and through us. And one author wrote this, there's a certainty in trials, my brethren counted all joy when ye fall into diverse temptations. There's a sudden sud uh uh uh quickness, or we could say suddenly in trials, you fall quickly, when you fall. But then there's also the fact that every believer has trials. There's diverse temptations. Now, I was, I grew up in Iwana as a kid. Uh I know I think you guys do truth trackers here. Other churches do patch clubs and wanna, you know, whatever kids' ministry. I remember reading and learning this verse as a very literal young man. And I used to picture this verse, I used to picture this guy in scuba gear who's down, like he's you know he's going underneath the water and he's facing temptations. Did anybody else ever as a kid when you were lit very literal think that? You're gonna leave me hanging here? No one else? Okay, one. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that. We identify together. Is it Anna? Okay, thank you, Anna. Appreciate that Well, this is what I thought. I'm a very little kid, and I thought about divers temptations. What temptations do scuba divers face? I don't know Not exactly what it's talking about. This verse is talking about the various or the diverse types of temptations. And obviously many of you knew King James better than I did back when you were in fourth, fifth grade. And you understood that this is talking about various types of temptations that we fall, that we face, that we go into. And here's the attitude that we're supposed to have. We're supposed to have, my brethren counted all. Joy. Now, have you ever stopped to think about the logic of this? You want me to rejoice? You want me to have joy? When I face problems, how many of you have faced problems in your life? Things you would rather not face? How many of you are facing them right now? How many of you think you will be facing them sometime in the future? Yeah, all of us. So you we're supposed to have joy? What kind of attitude is that, James? Happy, happy, happy. You're weird, James. Come on. That's not what we're supposed to do. Because that's completely antithetical to what the world handles problems, isn't it? The world says, oh, not again. No way. Oh, I can't bel oh. Can you believe it? James is kind of all Joy. Now joy is different than happiness. Some of you are happy because your team won this weekend, but you may not be happy next weekend when your team doesn't advance. Right? That's happiness. Some of you may be happy because the weather's beautiful and then it's a beautiful day. It's not ice. Pastor showed me the videos of your parking lot a couple weeks ago. We had the same the same weekend we in Arkansas, we got twelve, fourteen, fifteen inches of snow. You guys got the ice. You're welcome. But you know it's happy because you're you can actually come to church this morning. You didn't have to shovel your driveway. I'm happy for that. That's different. Joy is something different. One preacher said years ago, joy is an inside job. It's based on the character of God, who he is, what he's doing. And this is what James says. Look what it says again in the verse 2. My brethren count in all joy when you fall in diverse temptations. Regardless of the source or the problem or the issue, the attitude that James is advocating can take all the bitterness out of even the most uncomfortable trials because we know that God is working in them. One author said it this way, most people count on all joy when they escape trials, and they count on all grief when they have to endure them. That's the way we typically handle, right? We count it all joy when we can, oh good, praise the Lord, I got out of that one. Oh, I have to face this one. I gotta go through this one. But actually, James has kind of all joy when you go through it. Why? What kind of nonsense is James advocating that we adopt in our lives? Notice what it says again. My brother encountered all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this that the trying of your faith is working patience. Why can you and I have joy as a little kid song said years ago when Christ with Christ in the vessel we can Smile at the storm. Did you sing that song as a kid? With Christ in the vessel you can smile at the storm. How many of you sang that? How many of you have never heard that song before? Okay, we'll have to sing it sometime or something. You remember singing that kids? Yeah, I won't ask you to sing it now. But why is it that we can actually have joy in the midst of the storm? It's because Christ is doing something. You know the name Elizabeth Elliott. She passed away over ten years ago. In fact, I saw one of her recent biographies about her in the bookstore. And she said this, the secret of joy is Christ in me, not me in a different set of circumstances. We would rather have the different set of circumstances than we think we can have joy. But actually, with Christ in me, no matter what you're facing, You can have joy. So we see the attitude in trials is joy. We see the purpose in trials in the next verse, verse 3. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. God says, I have ordained and I have appointed these difficulties, these trials, I've allowed these issues into your life because I'm doing something. And this is incredibly important for believers to understand. We have to go through a challenging process to become useful and formable for what God is doing. We have to be conformed to the image, or we will be conformed to the image of his son. How does God do that? He uses trials, he uses sufferings, he uses difficulties. He uses challenges. He goes at us to change us. And that's where we have to be willing to be molded. It's kind of like metal. Have any of you ever worked with hot molten metal? Uh we don't have blacksmiths in our culture much anymore because most of our ironwork comes from overseas. But you know, in the olden days a blacksmith would pour, they would they would molt do molten, aluminum. Uh we were at a amusement park recently and they had a blacksmith shop and we were watching this guy mold signs and he ended up sandcast and he would f mold it. Well, I don't know about you, but that liquid probably didn't enjoy getting heated because it's this big chunks of metal he throws into there and it gets it on the boiler or onto the furnace and the blast furnace heats it up and then becomes usable. Well, nobody really enjoys or has much use for iron ore or for raw aluminum. It doesn't do much if it's just hunks of metal. But when it goes to the smelting process, when it goes to the furnace of affliction, that's when it actually becomes useful. And that's when it becomes usable for everybody to enjoy or to be used by. And that's what God is doing with us. He's using the trials, the difficulties, to challenge, to change us. In the book prior that we just passed, Hebrews, you find that in Hebrews chapter 11, all these men and women went through great trials of affliction. They faced difficulties, challenges, problems. And I don't know if we could interview them. Hey, Abraham, would you go like to go through these afflictions or would you like not to? Well, I don't think I would like to do that Hey Moses, would you like to pass on this or would you like to go through this? I think I'd like to pass on this. All of them, if they had had the choice, would have stepped away from it and we would too. But here's what James is saying. Knowing this, it's a settled knowledge. This is what we have to know. Knowing this, the trial of our faith is working patience. So it doesn't matter what you're going through, you can have joy. Because it's enjoyable? No. Because God's working. God's doing something in the difficulty you're facing We have to believe it by faith because the sightsee doesn't work at the time. It could be health, it could be marital, it could be relational. It could be financial. It could be any of a number of things. There's something that you wish wasn't in your life. All of us have that. And we we wish, God, God, would you help me get out from under the sky? Would you take this away? We pray against it. We we fight against it. We moan. We say this isn't fair, this isn't right, there's no way I can have joy, there's no way I can be successful, and yet at the same time God is using that, whatever it is, to produce faith, to produce joy, to produce peace, to change you and I, to produce patience, which is incredibly valuable to God. So this is where we have to have faith and we have to believe that God is doing something. Let me just ask you, you don't have to share the nitty-gritty details, but what are some of the things in your life right now, currently? That God is using to change you. What are some of the trials? You don't have to share the nitty-gritty, all the you know, ins and outs, but just a couple word answers. What are some of the trials that God is using to change you? I know this is big room. Yes. Health. Yeah. Anyone else? Health? God's using health to try you? I got diagnosed with long COVID a few months ago. And uh it's been trying. Yeah, anybody else? Yes. Parenting. Yes. I got three in the room. Yes Yes. Amen. What is that? What else? I'll answer one for the teenagers because they're not answering. Tests in school. Academics. Sports, all those things. God is using that to grow you, and it's producing patience. What else? Finances. Anybody else wish there was another couple numbers in your checkbook? You think life would be better without those uh with another couple numbers? Yeah, uh probably all of us in some extent. And what is God doing? That's a trial that He's using. What else? Waiting. Waiting. Isn't that the hardest You wish God would just make it happen. God, I have it figured out my mind that you should do this here, here, here. And if you did this here, here, it'd be so much easier in life. Right? And we have to Wait. What else? Career progression. Yeah. God, I'm not where I thought I should be or could be or want to be. Yeah. Any what else? Peer pressure, yeah. What else? You are listening. This is good. I appreciate that. Yes. Yeah. You you almost like you're parenting again, your parents, taking care of them. Yeah. What else? We could talk about trials for a long time, couldn't we? These are all things that we put on the prayer list that we oftentimes we want to get out from under, right? We want we want this advancement, we want this forgiveness, we want this uh we want this you know benefit, we want this, we want, we want this thing to get resolved and we want to move past it. We want to but yet God puts us under this trial because why? He's producing patience. He has us on the burner of affliction. He has the cookies in the oven affliction, and we would rather press the easy button and open the oven and get the cookies out. But if you get the cake out too soon, is the cake edible? No, you stick a fork in it and it's you it's soup. You gotta let the cake stay in the oven of affliction, even though the cake may not enjoy it, but the cake becomes useful after it stays in the oven for the certain amount of time, right? And God has us in that oven of affliction producing patience. And one day he'll pull us out and say, Well done. But until he does, we have to stay under that. We have to wait. We have to stay in that issue. So the attitude we're supposed to have in trials is joy. The purpose in trials is patience, but I want you to see the result of trials in verse 4. But let patience have her perfect work that ye may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. Now if you stop and think about this, what is God doing here? We're supposed to let patience have her perfect work. We're supposed to let the challenge, let the issue, let the problem remain in our life and do something. And yet so often we fight against it. We wait, we long, we pray for deliverance, we dream about the time when God resolves this issue. Oh God, please, please. And we think that we No no no we're supposed to let that issue have its perfect work in our life that you may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. Now when you see perfect and entire here, James is not talking about sinless perfection. He's talking about maturity and usefulness. How many of you enjoy Christian biographies? I do. One of the things I challenge young men and women with, and here's a free plug for the teenagers and young adults, that mainly sit, not that you're not young or teenagers over here, but mainly over here this morning, read good Christian biographies Set truth in front of you, men and women who walk with God. I'm reading about A. W. Toza right now. It's challenging. I'm reading about a man I had never heard of, Manley Beasley, who's an evangelist in the Oklahoma, Texas region. years ago. Wow, what a challenging read it is. Read about men and women and you find that every person whom God used in great ways, they went through great affliction. They went through great difficulties. Well, we know this. The men and women who protect our country, who are in today, right this very minute in harm's way. They go through great challenges, don't they? Those of you who serve, you know what it's like to go through boot camp. You know what it's like to go through the weeks, the months, the years of training. Well, why do we think it's anything different with the Christian life? Would you feel comfortable if our if our country was defended by 13-year-olds? No offense, Daniel. Would you feel comfortable if our country was defended by a bunch of 13-year-olds? Would that comfort your hearts at night? No. What if your police force was made up of a bunch of 15-year-olds? Whoo, that's gonna be fun. Yeah. 15 year olds are thinking, yeah, that'd be cool. That'd be great. That'd be no. No offense, teen boys. But we want men and women who have gone through difficulties. What about your doctors? You don't want uh eight you don't want to walk into the doctor's office and have an eighteen-year-old walk in and say, Hey, I'm Dr. So-and-so. I got my license and uh certificate this morning off my Frostyplex box and I'm here to what's what can I do for you? What's wrong? Uh-uh. You're walking out, aren't you? You want men and women who have taken tests None of this common core garbage. You want men and women who've taken hard tests. You want men and women who have taken hard, difficult life tests. You don't want somebody who's gone through easy, yeah, they just gave me a pass and they gave me this honorary medical degree. No. No, thank you. I want somebody who's going to protect me, who's going to help me, who's going to treat me. I want them to face difficulties. I want them to go through hardships. Don't you? Don't you? Yeah. So why do we think it's any different when it comes to the Christian life? We would rather have an easy existence. float through holding our latte, sipping our lemonade, talking about theoretical problems while we're in our rocking chair and lazy boy, and get to heaven and praise God for his wonderful grace. But that's not what the way it works. God uses the difficulties to make you perfect and tire. I mentioned already the name Elizabeth Elliott. One of the reasons why she has been such a blessing, even though she's been gone for over ten years now, Uh and really before that she was her health was declining. So really for the last twenty years she has not had an active ministry per se. But one of the reasons she was such a blessing is because her first husband, who died seventy years ago. She wrote about that and that encouraged and challenged. And then her second husband who passed away, she wrote and encouraged. And then she was in the third marriage that was really troublesome at the end of her life and it was really hard. And she wrote and she had this program about Gateway to Joy, and she's been so challenging. She went through difficulties and yet she handled it. I'll never forget some of the missionaries I've gotten the privilege to hear who are now, some of them have gone into glory, who went through great hardships, great trials of faith. Some of our missionary heroes, including the Apostle Paul, including the martyrs, the apostles, and others in the New Testament era, they went through great difficulties, great problems, great issues. They did not have an easy life. And we're thankful for their testimony, their witness, but we don't want that in our life, do we? We would rather have it easy But the reason that they were perfect and entire is because they went through the difficulties. They handled them with joy and they became perfect and entire mature and useful. Some of the most mature and useful people as they age in church are the ones who face difficulties. And there's difficulties that are in this room that God has allowed into your life because you have an opportunity then to minister, to help, to encourage, to challenge, to speak truth to others And that's what God is doing. Trials are not needless hurt that we face. No, they're an opportunity for you and I to grow in Christ's likeness so that we in turn can challenge and help and encourage the next generation coming behind us. That's what trials are. And James says, let patience have our perfect work in verse 4, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. We're supposed to allow the difficulties in our life to do something. The word patience here has the idea of a quality of stamina that enables a person to stay on their feet when facing a storm. Another author wrote this, God will bring every believer who endures trials rather than running from them to maturity, as we persevere in them. James taught that in light of this fact, we should rejoice in our trials rather than rebelling against them. They are God's instruments for perfecting us. And again, to quote Elizabeth Elliott, there's a good many things in this life that we can't do anything about, but that God wants us to do something with. God has trials in your life and my life because he's producing something. A stamina, an ability to stay on your feet. To maybe years from now, decades from now, if the Lord allows, that we're able to help and encourage and lift others up, that we're able to be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. It's been my privilege to see godly saints, men and women who live their life and you think, oh man, they must have had an incredible life, and you start interacting with them and you're like, oh, they've had some hardships. They've had some trials. They've faced great loss, great sorrow, great pain. They've gone through great suffering, and yet they're still joyful because they handled the trial correctly. They let it Into their life. That's what God wants you tonight to do. Let me ask you, every single one of us, what are you doing with the trials you're facing? How are you allowing or handling? And really it comes down to what are you thinking about the trials? How are you viewing the trials that you're facing? Well, the passage doesn't stop there. Look what it says there in verse number five. We see the purpose in trials in verses 1, 2, and 3, and 4. We see help in trials in verses 5 and following. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. They give it to all men liberally and abrayeth not, and it shall be given him. Oftentimes we hear this verse or we recite this verse out of, you know, out of its context, and even though it's still true, the context that is given here is specifically within trials. So, okay, you got this issue, this problem, this person, this difficulty, you got this issue you're facing, and you don't know whether you're supposed to pray against it, you don't know whether you're supposed to endure it, you don't know what you're supposed To do. Have many have you ever been there? Yeah, some of you there may be there right now. So what are you supposed to do? God, I I don't know. You can ask for wisdom Here's the great truth. God is not sending you trials saying, here's some trials. Ha ha. See you later. Take care. I'll talk to you in a couple weeks. Aren't you glad that that's not what God does? God gives you trials, he allows trials into your life, and he's like, hey, hey, if you need wisdom, I'm right there. He says, again, look at it. We know this verse. Many of us know this passage. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God to give it to all men liberally. Did you know that our God is a liberal? Yes. It says right there. Our God is a liberal. Obviously, not in a political sense, but our God liberally gives to anyone who asks. So here's what happens. You and I go through a trial, and let's say it's Monday and we got this issue, this person, this this this family, this financial, this whatever the trial is, health, whatever it is, God I need wisdom. I don't know how I'm supposed to handle this. What do you what are you doing here? I don't I don't know what I'm supposed to do. Am I supposed to pray against this? Am I supposed to accept this? Am I what are you trying to accomplish? God, I need wisdom as I face this trial so I can handle it with joy I need help. And that is an honest prayer that we're supposed to pray, and it's a good prayer to pray. But notice what it says there. If any of you like wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally, and abradeth not, and it shall be given him So we ask God, God, I need wisdom. And God gives us wisdom liberally. He's like, yeah, yeah, here's some wisdom. Yeah, yeah, sure. Whatever. Yeah. It's like God, hey, God, I I don't want to bother. Yep, yep, you can have wisdom. But I uh oh okay It 's like he knows what we need and he liberally gives it. And he doesn't chide us. He doesn't abrade us. We often do this, those of us as parents, we do this with our kids. Son, daughter, uh, we talked about this. You you I I pre I'm gonna do this again, but but listen to me, watch me. Uh we already went through this and you need You we I'm gonna do it, but you better, right? So we do as parents. But God doesn't do that. He doesn't abrade us. Hey God, I I I I asked for wisdom yesterday and I I you don't have to give it if you don't want to. But I asked for wisdom yesterday and I I need more Wisdom today. He's not up in heaven saying, Gellus, you didn't use the wisdom correctly. You didn't even use most of it. You didn't use much of it yesterday. And you want more wisdom today? Gellus. Okay, but but Gels, you you better use it today. No, aren't you thankful God doesn't do that? God, I I I need wisdom. I'm facing this issue, this person, this problem, this this difficulty. And God says, yeah, here's wisdom. The next day, hey, God, I don't I don't wanna bother you and I know I've been I didn't I didn't appropriate the wisdom correctly yesterday, but I mean more wisdom. You you don't have to if you don't want to. It's okay. If if you don't want to, it's o it's completely fine. You don't Don't have to. No, God's yeah. Yeah. Because our God is liberal with wisdom. And if you're facing difficulties, if you're facing issues, if you're facing trials, God liberally gives. He's there to help you. But notice what it says. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally, and abbraideth not, and it shall be given him. It's a promise If you're facing difficulties, if you're facing trials, if you don't know how why am I supposed to think about this as a parent? How am I supposed to think about this with my parents? How am I supposed to think about this financially? What am I supposed to do with this situation? What are we supposed to do here, here, here, here? God, I I need help. I need wisdom. And he gives it. The next day you're coming back with the same request. God, I still need wisdom. He gives it again. What an incredible God he has. It's not like he's up in heaven aloof and uh, ha ha ha, let's see how you handle this one. Ha ha. No It's not some sadistic killjoy up in the heavens looking at cosmic as we are cosmic ants or something. No. He is there deeply feeling what we're going through, knowing who we are, loving us deeply, and helping us along the way. He is the ultimate parent. He is guiding and growing. He is allowing difficulties just as parents do. We allow difficulties in our kids' lives because we know it's good for them. If we stop the difficulties in our kids' lives, what does that produce? Arrested development. But God is there. He's there helping, guiding, giving wisdom as we handle the trouble. Trials. Notice what else it says here in the passage. We're almost done here this morning. It says, if any of you lack wisdom, verse 5, let him ask of God that give to all men liberally, and abrayeth not, and it shall be given him. Then we see verse 6, but let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed. I I heard this verse either taught or I read it incorrectly years ago. And I this verse, you know, instead of producing a spirit of faith to ask produce kind of a fear. And I I I think I've even heard this verse taught. Well have you got to ask in faith. Because if you're not asking in faith, if you don't know that you know that God, then you you shouldn't ask. Well, I isn't that the point of prayer? Because I don't know. So I'm supposed to ask in faith? Nothing wavering? Well, I'm supposed to ask in faith. Well, what does that mean? It's not faith that you already know the details, because none of us do, because that's the point of prayer. I identified with the guy that came to Jesus. Lord, I believe, helped out my unbelief. Anybody else like that? So what is this verse saying? You have to ask in faith, number one, faith that God can, because his word says so. Number two, you ask from the life of faith personally. Because if you follow the context and you even look at the next verse, look what it says in verse 7. Oh, again, finish out verse 6. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. Here's what it means to ask in faith. It means coming from a consistent perspective of faith, believing that he is, and that he is rewarder of them that diligently seek him. It means believing as God said to the inverse five, and it shall be given him. God, I believe that you're going to give me wisdom, and I believe you, but I'm also living from a life of faith. It doesn't mean I have all the answers. It doesn't mean I know you have to ask in faith, nothing wavering. That means you have to have absolute faith that this is what Well, I'm asking because I don't know. I'm asking because I I have questions Asking in faith means that I'm I'm coming from a life consistent life of faith. Our natures tend our nature, human nature and our nature in general tends to wonder when life is going well, we don't trust God like we should. Right? Yeah. Thank you, all two of you. You know, we're we're good. We got this But when life is difficult, when you know that that we get those phone calls, when life just starts to fall apart, when you know you know, people start knocking, when the finances come do it, ah God, I need you. And you see that a lot of times people in church they come back to church when they they need something from God And here's what God is saying here. Here's what James under inspiration is saying. We have to ask from a consistent life of faith. It doesn't mean we have all the answers. No. It means that we ask believing that God is. And it talks about the double-minded man who's unstable in all his ways. It's the person who's getting tossed to and fro, the wind being tossed to and about, for let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. Have you ever played in the surf, either in the Atlantic or the Pacific or the Gulf or anything? You ever played in the surf? How many of you ever gotten tossed in the surf? Yeah, you you get tossed and then you go to stand up and you're not actually standing up, you're actually going the other way, and you go to face the beach or the the the the land and you're like that's not where's the land at Yeah, you know what it you know what it's like, right? And you're you're pulling sand and salt and everything. And I mean you're just like, whoo, yeah. And you didn't have video, and as soon as you're standing up, the next way is knocking you back over. That's the double-minded man. That's the person who's driven with the wind and tossed, who doesn't put his trust in God consistently, who says, Oh, I'm feeling good, I'm gonna trust God. That's the person who's going back and forth, back and forth. And that's the individual who doesn't have the promises of God. It's the person who says, God, I need. God, I believe that you are. And I don't know what I'm supposed to think you're I'm asking in faith, believing that you can, because I don't have the answer. I know I'm nothing I'm asking in faith from a consistent when it's good and it's bad. I'm walking with you. I'm trusting you. I'm asking in faith. I don't want to be double-minded. I don't want to be trusting you when it's I need you and not trusting you when life was good. No, God, I'm trusting you. I don't want to be inconsistent. I want to be consistently trusting you. That's the person who has the promise. Ask in faith and it shall be given you. When you and I ask in faith, what does that mean? Living from a consistent life of faith, God, I'm trusting you. I need you. I know I need you. That's when God says, you'll have that answer. What an incredible promise. How many of you are facing difficulties, problems, issues, and trials in your life right now? Okay? How many of you say, Brent? Yeah, I need wisdom. Yeah. Well good news. Feel trust. Feel depend He'll provide wisdom. He doesn't say he'll remove the trial because he doesn't do that. He's designed the trial. But if you'll trust him, you can know God's got a plan Sometimes we think this life is full of just aimless, endless randomness that just doesn't make sense. Can I remind us this morning that that's not true at all? That our God, who loves us, knows us, and cares for us, has allowed, designed, and in fact sends difficulties into your life and my life. Well that doesn't sound like a great God. No, he is. Because he's changing. He's allowing the difficulties in your life and mine. And you know why why is this important to know? Because if if life was random, we couldn't have joy. But because life is not just random, it's actually ordained. and cha and and designed by God to change us. Because trials are there for purpose. We can stop and we can say, praise the Lord. God's doing something. Are you facing a trial? Count it all joy. Are you facing difficulties you don't know what to think about? Count it all. And at the same time you're counting at joy, say, Hey God, I I don't know what I'm supposed to do here. Are you lacking wisdom to how to parent, to how to handle finances, to how to deal with situations, to how to to how to, you know, you name it. Yeah, I I well then you can pray. And God will give wisdom. What an incredible truth this is. And as James goes on throughout the book, he explains that the Christian life is something that is not just, oh, what's happening? This seems crazy. No, no, no. It's God who's working, doing, changing, challenging, and using even the difficulties to do that. Let's all bow our heads and close our eyes as we finish Sunday school this morning. Before I pray, can I pray for anybody? I won't mention any names, but would there be anybody here this morning that would say, Brent, God used his word in my heart, my life to challenge, to change. I need this perspective. on trials. Can you lift your hand to that and say, hey, this is me. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Anybody else say, Brent, God challenged me. I'm facing difficulties and I was reminded and encouraged this morning. I can actually pray for wisdom in this. I'm not alone in this. I can pray for wisdom. God used his word in my heart and life to encourage me. Would you lift your hand to that? Praise the Lord. My hands up too to both those questions. Father, help us this morning and help us even tomorrow and this week as we face trials, help us to respond correctly. believing and knowing that they're not needless, aimless disappointments. They are incredible opportunities to grow. We would rather not face them. We'd rather have it easier. We'd rather have our finances taken care of. We'd rather have that health problem resolved. We'd rather not have to deal with those individuals. But we know that we can have true joy in the midst of the storm because you've ordained it, you've allowed it, and you're right there with us providing wisdom if we'll but ask. Help us to be men and women. of faith, who ask in faith, believing, knowing that you can. Thank you for the challenge of this early book and the way we can live. Thank you for your truth. In Jesus' name. Ain Amen