Take your Bibles this morning and go with me to Genesis 35. Genesis 35. It is a joy to be back here to anchor to see many familiar faces, but also to see new faces at the same time. And I know God wants to work in every single one of your hearts. So let me start by piggybacking after what just Pastor Joel just said. How are you doing? Well yeah, that's the Sunday morning answer. But how are you personally doing in your walk with God? That's a little maybe a little bit more loaded a question. Because I have almost never on Sunday mornings had anybody tell me the real story. Hey, good to see you. How's it going? Oh going great, going great. Yeah, good to see you. Oh good to see But really, how's it going? Are you today exactly where God wants you to be? Well, yeah, Brent, I'm here. I'm sitting in church. Not your physical location. But your spiritual one. Because I don't know everybody's backstory. Many of you I've been seeing and ministering here for several years, off and on, as God has allowed. But I also know that Sin comes up, challenges, difficulties, pain, hurt. So I ask you again to consider this morning, and especially as we look at this passage , How are you doing? We could also ask the question, where are you at? That's Southern for where are you at, for those of you who are not from the South. I'm from Arkansas now, so pardon me. But where are you at? I'm here sitting in church, Brent. I know that. I see that. But where are you at spiritually? That's the bigger question. Would you look with me at what the Bible says here in Genesis 35, beginning in verse 1? It's a familiar story to many if you've been raised in church, the story of Jacob. And God said unto Jacob, Rise, go up to Bethel and dwell there, and make there an altar unto God that appeared unto thee when thou fledest from the face of Esau, thy brother. Then Jacob said unto his household and to all that were with him, put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean and change your garments. And let us arise and go up to Bethel, and I will make there an altar unto God who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand, and all the earrings which were in their ears. And Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem. And they journeyed, and the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob. So Jacob came to Luz. which is in the land of Canaan, that is Bethel, he and all the people that were with him. And he built there an altar and called the place El Bethel. Because there God appeared unto him when he fled from the face of his brother. Father, would you help us this morning to ask important spiritual questions? As we look at this story, which may be familiar for some, would you help us to see past even familiarity to ask the spiritual questions that are recorded for us in Scripture? Lord, help your word, your stories, your narratives to ring and challenge within each and every one of us. I pray for those who may not be walking in truth. Yes, they're here, yes, they're tuned in, they're watching, they're listening, but they're not walking in truth. Would you challenge them spiritually? For those who are perhaps apathetic, would you challenge us? And would you show us the clear path of your word to get back to where you want us to be? Lord, we need you. I need you. In Jesus' name, amen. First Corinthians 10 says that every single story that we have in the Old Testament was written for our learning, for our understanding. And though we can't take liberties with every story and take them and sh make them say whatever we want, there's a very clear emphasis throughout the Old Testament stories that the reason they're given to us is so that we don't have to make the same dumb choices that some of them made. And for that I'm thankful, aren't you? But I want you to ask you the question this morning. How many of you would be honest enough to say that you are familiar with the story of Jacob? You know the life of Jacob. You're familiar with the story of Jacob. Can I see your hand? On the flip side, how many of you just be honest enough to say, Brent, I know the name, but I'm not really too familiar with the man Jacob? I know the name, but I'm not too familiar. Oh, few people. Well, help me out here this morning as we get started. Who was Jacob's father? Isaac, thank you. I appreciate that nice strong answer from over this side. Who was Jacob's grandfather? Okay, yeah, now now we're going. Who was Jacob well what was special about Jacob's birth? He was a twin. Who was his twin? Esau. And what was special about Esau? He was red and hairy. And Esau was born first, but you remember what happened at birth? Well before birth? God had promised that the older will serve the younger. At birth, what happened? Jacob, that supplanter, that heel grabber, reached out at birth and grabbed the heel of his older brother. Older by just a few minutes, obviously, there are a few seconds, but he grabbed the heel. Well the boys grew up, and obviously there's some problems in the tent because you know dad likes Esau, mom likes Jacob. And here we have a recipe for disaster The boys go on their life, and obviously Esau is this rash man. In fact, there's an entire book in the Old Testament that's dedicated to Esau and his descendants and the problems they cause. And even Esau is mentioned in the New Testament as an example of what not to be. But you you look in this Esau character, he comes in one day and he's starving. I tend to believe at this point he's in his upper teens, early twenties because of how he's responding and how hungry upper teen boys can be. He comes in and he says, I'm starving. I gotta have some food or I'm gonna die. Well, Jacob, the very sly trickster, hears it and goes, Okay, I'll give you this soup, but you've got to give me your birthright Sure, fine, whatever, because Esau's empty. He really doesn't care about spiritual things. He hands over the birthright. Well, years go by, Esau gets married. It's a grief of mine to Isaac and Rebecca, mom and dad. They don't like it. He's not a moral man, he's a bitter man. Probably he's mad at mom and dad. There's issues. There's problems. The Bible and Hebrews record some of those for us. But years later, Dad thinks he's going to die. And there Isaac calls his oldest son into him and says, go get some venison, make it like I like it, and then I will bless you. Well mom 's on the other side of the tent and she hears it and she says very quickly to Jacob, go, go, go get a kid of the goats, and I will dress it exactly like your dad. I can fool him. I know what he likes. And then he'll bless you instead. Have you ever stopped to think that what Jacob did was he put the goatskins on his arms, how hairy his older brother must have been? It just, you know, you don't have to think too hard like that was one hairy dude. And smelly too. So Jacob goes in and he deceives Dad. Well, a short time later, Esau walks in the door, and you know what happens? He's like, I 'm here, and Jacob's, or Isaac's confused. Wait, wait a minute. I already gave the blessing away. No, no, Dad, you've got to bless me too. Well, Esau is furious with his brother, and rightfully so, and says to everybody that's that's there, I'm going to kill him after Dad is dead. And mom and dad believed him because mom thought, you know, I'm I'm gonna send Jacob away. Now, the Bible doesn't say explicitly in this passage, but you can actually go back and do the math. How old do you think the twins were when the incident I just described took place? Throw out a guess. Twenty? Seventy-five. Now that puts a whole new perspective on not leaving home. Right? Jacob is seventy-five years old. Up until this point in his life, we have zero sense of any spirituality happening. Zero. None He's a trickster, he's a supplanter, he's self-willed, he's sly, and he stays at home. He's 75. Well here in Genesis, and I'm not going to take you back because of time, but you can go back and read in in the Genesis twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven He leaves home. His mom comes up with a story. In fact, dad doesn't die for several more decades. Dad was a little bit premature in his death feeling there. But mom doesn't make it, and Jacob never sees mom again. But dad and mom conspire together and they say, we need to get Jacob out of here. Mom says he'd send him up to Padan Haran. So they're in the promised land, and Padan Haran, where she's from, mom 's from, is up where northern Syria and modern-day eastern Turkey meet. It's up there in the highlands Well the first night out he comes to this place called Laz, and he makes rocks his pillow, and he lays there, and there God speaks to him. For the first time in his life, it seems like from what we can see, this is when God begins to interact with Jacob. And God says, Jacob, I've got a great plan for you. He repeats to him the Abrahamic covenant. And Jacob wakes up the next morning and says, surely God has been in this place. And he names the place, you know the name? Bethel. Bethel, the house of God. And he realized that this is a special place. This is a place where God spoke to me. This is a place that God talked to me. This is a place where I felt the presence of God. Now, without getting too touchy-feely, there's probably been places like that in your life, times, seasons like that in your life where you have sensed God talking with you. How many of you, just you know, for for illustration purposes, and just to be honest this morning, how many can name a time in your life, you can point to a time in your life when You sensed God was working, God was doing, God was growing. You sense that God was doing something in your heart and life. How many can Yeah, you got a time like that. So not to pick on anybody that just raised their hand, but why not now? It's a valid question, right? Why not now? Well, brother, I remember years ago we had a special speaker at a church, and God really worked in my heart, and there was a season Where God began to do amazing things in our ministry and our home and our family and all these. Well, why not now? Has God changed? Has the truth changed? And we would say hardy, no, it hasn't. Truth is settled. So why not now? Well, many of you know the story. You can read it. It's a fascinating story if you want to. Genesis 26, 27, 28. Jacob goes up. And what happens? He falls in love with uh girl. It's about time, he's seventy-five He agrees to get married. And now the other shoes on the other foot, so to speak. He now is receiving what he's been dealing. And he wakes up the next morning after marriage, and that's not the person I thought I married. And some of you like, ah Brent, I can identify. No, no, no. This actually wasn't the person he thought he married. He married what he thought was going to be his sister-in-law. But that didn't stop him. He still got the girl he wanted and had to work an additional seven years. And then at the same time, he's following the customs of the day. He's got the two concubines, handmaids as well. And so there's four women in the house, and some can have kids, some can't, and they're jealous. Oh wow, what a mess And for the next two decades, his wages get changed. He's not honest with his boss, who's also his father-in-law. He's not raising his kids to walk in the fear of the Lord. We find that out because the kids are an absolute mess. He's got all these sons and a couple daughters, and he's not doing what God wants him to do. We don't find any aspect about what God is doing in his heart and life. We don't find anything that you know, he's walking in truth, he's walking in obedience, he's obviously, from what we can see in Scripture, not raising his family correctly. What a mess of a family. Infighting, intrigue, problems, you name it. But in the middle of all that, we find something that happens. And if you keep your finger here in 35, look back with me to chapter 31. You find this fascinating, really surprising piece that comes along. Verse number three: And the Lord and Jehovah said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers and to thy kindred, and I will be with thee. Return. Come on back, Jacob. Return. And Jacob is beginning to sense I don't have this altogether. I've made a mess at life. I'm not what I should be. I'm not where I could be. I know this is not right. I know because I walk with God. I I I know I watched my grandfather Abraham. I watched my dad walk with God. Not perfect men, but I watched them walk with God and I I sense in my own heart I'm not what I could be. I'm not where I should be. This morning, if you're sensing the same thing There's good news. If you're willing to listen like Jacob did, you can get back to walking with God. Well, Brent, I'm in church. Well, you can be in church and be miles away from walking in truth. Brent, I'm dressed right. We're not doing certain. . You can be separated to the ends and still not be separated to God. Jacob began to listen. And it's going to take a while to unpack this, but he begins to listen to what God is saying to him. And later on in the chapter, in verse number 13 , It talks about how I'm the God of Bethel, where thou anointest the pillar, where thou bowest the bow, now rise, get thee from this land, and return to the land of thy kindred. God begins to speak to Jacob and the first thing that Jacob does is he listens. And that's the first thing that you and I have to do. Perhaps God is using today in your life difficulties, problems, issues. He's challenging you through the difficulties, the circumstances of life, and he's saying, hey, we know in Hebrews that God chastens his own. That's not a popular politically correct opinion. But God sometimes gets our attention through hard circumstances. And perhaps God has done that or is doing that even now in your life. Are you listening? Am I listening? Listening. Jacob begins to listen to God, and to his credit, he knows that God is talking to him. He hears God's voice. And how often do we go through life and we don't listen to what the Word of God says? We don't listen to the still small voice of the Spirit that speaks through the Word of God in our hearts and lives. He doesn't speak of himself, it says in John. He speaks the word of God, and we don't listen. The Bible prompts us, the Holy Spirit prompts us to share truth, to love. to honor, to stop, to train, to do whatever God's calling us to do within our capacity. He's giving us the grace to do it and we don't obey truth. We're not listening. But to his credit, Jacob, for the first time it seems like in his life, listens to truth But it doesn't stop there. Many of you know the story. He starts making his trek back. He's now a very wealthy man and several hundred people are with him. We don't know the whole number, but it's a it's a great deal of people, servants, animals, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of sheep He makes his way back and he all of a sudden hears that his brother Esau is coming out to meet him after twenty years. Ooh. And he is scared to death. He is still whiling his way and he's figuring this out and he's trying to set this all apart and he's doing all these things. But the Bible records this fascinating story in Genesis 32. He there the night before he meets with his brother, he there begins to wrestle with the angel of God. And the angel of God asks this an incredible question. Look at verse 27 of chapter 32. The angel asked him and said unto him, What is thy name? Now there's obviously more to the story here, but The angel asked Jacob as they're wrestling, What's your name? Well, Jacob's now in his 90s, and it would be tempting for us to think, well, Jacob has amnesia. No, no, no, no, no. What is the angel of the Lord trying to get him to do? Be honest. What's your name? And Jacob has to come and confess. I'm Jacob. It's me. It's me. Dear friend, if we're gonna see the path of Jacob back to truth, back to Bethel and staying and dwelling there, then you not only have to listen. But we have to get honest. Perhaps every single one of us in some circumstances could blame parents, we could blame circumstances, we could blame, you know, issues for our problems. Well, you know, I if I didn't have this spouse If I didn't have those parents, if I didn't have these kids, if I I would be a lot more spiritual if I didn't have No, no, no, no, no, no, no. You know the old song? It's me, it's me, it's me, O Lord. Standing in the need of prayer. It's me. You know who the biggest problem my church at home is? Gospel Light Baptist in Rogers, Arkansas. You know who the biggest issue is, the biggest person, the biggest problem we have? You're looking at them. You know who the biggest issue in our family, my family is, the Gellas household? It's me. It's me. And the way we're going to get back to walking in truth, the way we're going to get back to spiritual Bethel, if we could use that analogy. He said, not only if you listen, but if you get honest. And Jacob realizes I 'm the trickster. I'm just a planter. And this is the time of his life where God changes his name to from Jacob to what? Which means friend of God. But it had to there had to become a moment of honesty. Perhaps it is there's some dads in the room this morning that you want to make every excuse. Well, I got a busy work exchedual. You know, we haven't I haven't always done, but you know, I've got this, and no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You've got to get honest. Perhaps there's some moms, some wives. Perhaps there's some teenagers who you want to point, well, I would be, but my this and that. No, it's me We are as close to God as we want to be. James, as I already talked about in Sunday school, says James 4. 8, draw nigh to God and he Will draw nigh to you. You are as close to God today as you want to be. God's always there. What's the problem? It's me. It's you. That doesn't make me feel good. No, it's not designed to. It's not supposed to. It's the truth. It's you and I. And here, Jacob, he realizes I've made a mess of things. I have royally messed this whole thing up. And there he confesses, I'm Jacob. Well, God's grace gets in that whole situation, and Esau and Jacob respond to each other in niceties, and in fact, they remain cordial throughout their life. In fact, they bury their dad together later. And God blesses the whole situation. Well, Jacob comes in and is, you assuming you know the story, they they buy some land. That's what you naturally do when you move to a town, unless you move to this area and then you just pray. But they buy some land. And there, as you know, you're tempted to do that the teenagers, you know, want to get to know the other teenagers. And Jacob's daughter, Diana , goes out and gets to interact with some of the other females because that's what teen girls want to do. They want to talk. It's a universal truth. Well, unfortunately, they go to this area and Jacob's daughter is incredibly mistreated. You can read about that in the previous chapter. Incredibly mistreated. So what do the sons do? The teen and young adult sons do? You know the story? They go in deceitfully, out of vengeance for their sister, they go in deceitfully, lie, and then while the men are recovering. They slaughter them all. Whoo! This doesn't sound like a good family to you, does it? This is the type of family that if they were starting to come to church, some of the deacons just come back, hey Pastor, I don't think we should should have this family in our church. I heard what they did to their neighbors. That's not good. This is not a good this is not a good family. Would you agree with that? This is a family that's not walking in truth. And Jacob is becoming very aware of it. He's listening. He's honest. He's realizing how sinful he is. And there will be no coming back to God until you and I understand and realize, listen to what God is saying, are honest with who we are and realize how sinful we truly are. We like to compare ourselves among you, well, I'm, you know, my kids haven't shown up in the paper. Their names are not in the paper. That's not the standard. The standard is God Himself. And Jacob is being an absolute mess of a man here, and he's realizing it. The end of chapter 34 records the fact that Jacob is upset with his sons. Why did what you mean? Why did you do this? And the sons are mad at dad. Are you treating our daughter, your daughter like a harlot? And Jacob's like, you've made me to stink. This is horrible. This is bad, bad, bad, bad. Under no circumstances would we look at the life of Jacob up in this point and say, oh, there's some redeeming qualities. No, not really. He's a liar, he's a thief, he's a scoundrel, he's failed as a father, he's failed as a husband four times over. Wow, what a mess. And he didn't even start listening to God until he's in his 90s. You talk about an unredeemable character you have in the life of Jacob. What a mess of a person. What a mess of a family. There's no hope for these people. Write that family off. It's just bad. But aren't you thankful that's not the story? Jacob, here, as we pick up the story in chapter 35, verse number one, and God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel. And dwell there, and make there an offer unto God that appeared unto thee when thou fledest from the face of Esau, thy brother. What an incredible, incredible story. When you think about it in the context. God came to Jacob knowing everything he was, knowing all his past sins, failures, and issues. He said, come on, arise. Notice what Jacob and how Jacob responded. We're not told everything, but Jacob then goes in verse number two. Jacob said unto his household and to all that were with him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and shall you Change your garments, and let us arise and go up to Bethel. And I will make there an altar unto God who answered me in the day of my distress and was with me in the way which I went. He says very clearly to his family who he has not raised in truth, to his sons who are at this point an absolute mess, absolute mess. He says, we're going to go be clean. But I don't know. I got teen kids, Brent, and I got I got young adult kids. I don't know if they want to. Jacob didn't ask them if they wanted to He said, we're going to follow God. We're going to walk in truth. And Jacob shows us dads what it's like to lead in truth. It's me, it's my problem, it's my issue. I have failed in so many ways to lead, to grow, to guide, to teach, to be the man I'm supposed to be. And Jacob confesses all of that. He says, God, I want to be pure. He listens, he's honest, he realizes how sinful he is and how sinful his family is. But then he begins the purifying process. Now, dear friend, listen carefully. Your life and my life cannot be pure outside of Jesus. We don't have the necessary requirements. We cannot turn from our sin because we can't. We're dead in it before salvation. But we can turn to Christ, and Christ, through his spirit, changes us from the inside out. And that's the incredible thing here. Jacob realizes this, and he says, we cannot walk with God. We can't give it back to Bethel. Living the way we live, doing what we've done, being what we've been. I know from watching my grandfather Abraham walk humbly, from watching my dad walk humbly with Jehovah, I know, I know that we can't where we're at. And so he says it's time to get rid of garbage. It's time to get back to truth. Now let's just get honest. We live in a social media world there are streaming services that can get garbage straight in your home within seconds. And let's just get on some more, can we? We tolerate it, don't we? Well, that's just, you know, it's 2026, Brent. That's what we No Do you want to walk with God? Do you want to be close to Him? Do you want God to interact with you on a daily basis? Do you want that sweet fellowship? It's time to get clean. The grace of God leads us, as Titus says, to say no to ungodliness and yes to righteousness. God's grace says say no to the garbage of this world. Oh Brent, that's just mere moralism. No, it's called grace. It's not moralism. It's not legalism. It's called grace. The grace that saves leads you and I to live holy, godly lives in this present world, Titus 2 says. And yet so often we don't. We tolerate garbage. We tolerate impurity. We tolerate gossip. We tolerate strife and envy. We tolerate everything that God says. No, you don't have to live that way. And we tolerate it and we think, well, what you know, I'm I'm not as we're not as bad, we're not gonna watch that. We have a certain rating limit, we have this filter, but but but that's not the answer. The answer is not looking around at ratings, the answer is am I pleasing the God Am I walking in truth? And notice this was not waiting for the wives to get right. Well, I'm praying my wife gets right with God. I'm praying that she leads out. I'm praying that she no. This was dad saying, this is what we're going to do. This is what we're not going to do. Put away the strange idols. His wives are still idolaters He has not transferred his faith. His wives still have the idols of their parents, still have the idols of their ancestors. He has not translated his faith even to his wives, let alone his kids. He says, We're going to walk in truth. We're going to follow God. He knew that walking with God naturally requires purification. Not that we have to do it. That helps us. No, no, no. When we look into the light, as he is in the light, as 1 John says, the light cleanses, the light shows the darkness. Oh God, change me. God, show yourself in me. So often we don't want that. We would rather have the darkness than the light because we're used to it. We're comfortable with it. But could it be that that's why we don't have the close fellowship that we so long for and so need? Well, Jacob purifies, but there's another step we see here as well, and this is not that these are all mechanistic steps if you do all these things. No, we're just showing you what Jacob did this morning. He moved. Notice what it says again in verse 3. Let us arise. And then in verse number 5, and they journeyed. Now, if you were to go back into the previous chapter, in fact the previous verses, you find that they had just bought property at the end of chapter 33, beginning of chapter 34. They just settled down. They just put the tent down. They just, you know, established some roots. But here, when God called, they moved. Now I can't stand here this morning and look at you and tell you that if you walk with God, if you follow God, if you get back to Bethel, God's going to move you to I can't tell you that. But I do know from my own personal realization that when you and I follow God, oftentimes things change in our life, sometimes unexpectedly. When you and I walk with God, He moves, He changes, He challenges, He does things in our hearts and lives. Jacob, you are just, we just we just bought this land. You just put down roots. Well he kind of had a problem with his neighbors. He got it made his neighbors mad at him. He killed them all. Or his son's dead. Yeah, that kind of doesn't help neighborly, you know, relations. But he didn't care. It doesn't matter if we just bought that. God's calling us back to Bethel. And that's the amazing thing He journeys. And God protects him. And then verse 5 you see that the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the son of Jacob. God protects them, God guides them because they're heading back to Bethel. This is where God is calling them. This is where he was probably supposed to be at the beginning. This is where he's supposed to remain throughout his life. He's heading there. He's now walking with God. He's sensitive. And look what it says there. So Jacob came to Luz, which is at the in the land of Canaan, that is Bethel, he and all the people that were with him, and he built there an altar and called the place El Bethel. Because their God appeared unto him when he fled from the face of his brother. And if you go back again and look at verse 1, it says there, and God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel. And what are those next two words? Dwell there, stay there, remain there. It's an incredible story if you stop and think about it. But really, the most perhaps surprising, and perhaps the truth that challenged me the most as I began to study and think on this familiar story was the fact that how God responded. We read chapter 35, verse 1, and it's pretty straightforward. And God said unto Jacob, Rise, go up to Bethel and dwell there. Okay, okay, well, yeah, but stop and think about it. Did God know what Jacob had just done in chapter 34? Yeah. Did God know about Jacob's family's failure? Did he? Did God know that Jacob for the last 90 plus years really hasn't shown much spiritual appetite? Did God know that? Yeah. Could God have said, Jacob get to battle. Could he have said that? Would God have been right in saying that? Yeah. But is that what God did? Hey Jacob. Come on. Come on. Come on. Get to Bethel. Stay there. Live there. Dwell there. Perhaps there's some in the room this morning. Brent, I I've made a huge mess of my life. Yep. Brent, I I'm I'm getting older now. Yep. Brent, my my kids are gone. Yep. I I I I've done things that are bad. I I've man. Yep. And what does God say? Come on. Come on. But but I I I I I no come on. Come on. Our God is an amazing God. Because I know me, and you know you, and I'm thankful you don't know me like I know me, and then you're thankful I don't know you like you know you Right? But God knows. What does he say? No matter where you're at in life. No matter what you've done, no matter what you've said, no matter decisions and choices you've made, what does God say even this morning to you through his Holy Spirit, through his word? Walk with you Me. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come up to Bethel and dwell there. And through the person of Jesus Christ, He offers forgiveness. Now I forgive. I try to forgive, but I'm not good at it. You offend me a bunch, I'll probably not forgive you. I'll probably struggle to forgive you. I'll pray. You should forgive. You're a preacher even. Be honest. You do the same thing. But God, who is rich in mercy, says to you and I repeatedly, come on, come on. For some of you, you have trusted Christ maybe years ago, but there's been seasons of your life even recently where you're not walking in truth. You're not leading your home, men. You're not walking in truth. You're not doing what God has called you to do. And today, God is calling you once again to the story of Jacob. Walk with me. Trust me. But perhaps you're here and you've never trusted Christ. You think, Brett, I don't know if I could. I've got so much baggage. Yeah, you you see the story of Jacob? I'd say there's baggage here. It's going to take years for those older brothers to unpack everything. Decades, in fact, until they actually came face to face with truth. But it doesn't matter who you are. It doesn't matter where you're at in your Christian walk. If you're even on the Christian walk, there's a God in heaven who desires a relationship with you and me The psalmist said, Thy gentleness has made me great. And aren't we thankful that we've gotten mercy throughout life? But the Lord's mercy. we're not consumed. Because if we got what we deserved, every single one of us this morning would be in hell. Every single one of us. Because none of us have anything to offer God. Isaiah says our righteousness are as filthy rags. Rags are used to wipe up human fluids. Look, that's what our good works are. And yet through God's incredible riches and kindness at Calvary, Jesus became sin for you and me. He took the sin penalty. But I don't think I have enough energy to try hard. No, no, he's not asking you to try harder because you can't. Well, I don't think I can change. You can't do that either. Because if you're in sin, you're dead in it. You can't change. He's asking you and I to walk with him, to trust him, to believe him. And that's what he continues to do all throughout our life. But Brett, I've made so many mistakes. Yeah, all of us have. Jacob especially. And what did God say? Come on, get to Bethel, dwell there. I don't doubt that this morning There's some individuals who, as Hebrews said, the sin of this world has hardened you. Difficulty circumstances, perhaps a little bit of fatalism has grown into your heart and your life, and you're like, ah, eh. That season of passion and joy that I once knew that's that's never going to happen again. And God, in his mercy, is reaching across from Scripture through the Holy Spirit and saying, hey, come on. Walk with me. Trust me. Get back to Bethel. Get back to Battle. Come on. Get back to the house of God. As I mentioned, the older brothers were pretty much gone. It would take several more decades until they actually started speaking truth from what we see in the text. But there's a young boy. There's a young man who saw the revival that God did in Dad's heart. He was in the tent with dad when dad got right with God. We don't know exactly because it's hard to know exactly the time frame. This man was made the young boy with four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten in that junior neighborhood. What was his name? Joseph. And you see the marked difference of the older brothers. And the spiritual passion and vitality of Jacob or of Joseph. And maybe some of you are tempted to sit here and say, well, brother, I've made so many mistakes. I'm past the point. of God actually working in me. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're never past the point. And the fact that on your last years you could walk with God and you can make a difference for eternity in your last years because that's the grace of God You can impact the next generation. You may have made so many mistakes in marriage and family. You may be sitting here and you're now a senior saint in the Lord, but you say, Brett, I I'm limited in what God can do. No, no, no, no, no. Walk with God no matter where you find yourself. Jacob did. And it changed the course of his family. And obviously that the last half of the book of Genesis almost is about that young boy and his story and his passion and his faith. And don't every one of us love the story of Joseph? But very well could be that without Genesis 35 and Dad getting right, you may not have the story of Joseph getting right and walking with God. So don't discount where you're at in life. Don't cash it aside and say, oh, I'm just no no no no no. Get back. To Bethel. If you're here today and you walked into church thinking, well, I'm a good person, I live a good life, I've been baptized, catechized, compromised, whatever ism, religious ism you want to put there, if you are trusting in that, For your salvation, dear friend, without being mean or unkind, I have to tell you plainly, it ain't good enough. That's southern, by the way. You don't have enough righteousness. You never will. No amount of giving, good uh doing good, anything can take that place. And you can you can get baptized never church You can be a good outstanding citizen. You can try your hardest, and yet you never will attain the righteous requirements needed to get to heaven. But praise the Lord, there's one who did. The only person who ever lived perfectly, he paid our sin debt on the cross. And most of you out of this who know about who Jesus is, but did you know what he did for you? He's not just a moral teacher. He's not just a good pattern to follow, though he's all those things. He is the sinless Son of God who paid for your sin debt and mine. And if we will reject our good works and say, I can't, and like the thief on the cross, look to Jesus and say, Can you save me? If we'll do that in simplicity and say, I can't, you can't, then you today can be made right with God. You can have your sins forgiven. You can have eternal home with Him. And you can begin to walk with Him like He's calling you to. If you've already done that, is God calling you back to Himself? Come on. Come on. Come on back to Bethel. The story we read this morning is not just a cool story that happened almost 3,000 years ago. It's a story of a God in heaven. Who is after you and I and in mercy and grace has made provision for you and I to walk with him. Wow. What a God. As we finish our service, I know we have more, but before we go on, would you be willing for a few minutes just to close your eyes? To bow your heads, to stay engaged, but for privacy's sake, I want to ask some questions and I want you to be honest. My goal is not to embarrass anybody, but my goal is for us today to be honest with where we're at spiritually. How many say, Brent? I realize, and I gotta be honest, I am not where I should be spiritually. I'm not at Bethel. I'm not walking with God Would you raise your hand honestly to that fact? Just lift your hand. God knows already. Would you be willing to be honest with that? Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Those of you who just raised your hand, I didn't see how many, maybe a dozen, maybe 20, maybe 30. I don't know. But several hands across the auditorium. This morning, do you see what God is talking to you about? You're obviously listening. Are you getting honest? Are you willing to do what God is asking you to do to move back to Bethel? How many say, Brent, this morning I I I know what it's like to live there. I know what it's like to walk with God, and I want that again. God challenged, God burdened me. Would you pray for me? Would you lift your hand to that? I want that again. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Me too. How many say, Brent, I I I admit it that in my heart, as you were speaking, I was making excuses. I'm too old, I've made too many mistakes, I've made too much of a mess. And I know it's it it seems like a long way, but I I acknowledge who I am and God has challenged me through the story of Jacob this morning. Would you lift your hand to that? God has challenged. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Lord, praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Would there be anybody who'd be willing to say, Brent, I walked in this morning thinking that you had to be good, do good, look good, go to church, you know, do the religious stuff, and that kind of helped you get to heaven. But what you said a few minutes ago kind of challenged all that. And now I have questions. I don't know, I'm going to heaven. I I got questions about it. I'm not sure about it. Friend, I'm not going to embarrass you. I'm not going to call you out. But just Pastor and I are looking. We'd like to pray for you. Would you be willing just to raise your hand? I don't know. I'm going to heaven. I'm not sure. I've got questions. Just raise it simply. We see that hand. Thank you. Thank you for honesty. You put it right back down. Anybody else? I don't know. I'm going to heaven. I have questions. We would love to pray for you. We'd love to help you. How many finally, before the pianist plays and pastor comes, how many finally would say, Brent? This morning, I truly am incredibly grateful. Maybe you could even use the term overwhelmed by the fact that God would still invite me to Bethel. And I want to glory in the fact that God still wants a relationship with me. My hand's up. Would that be you this morning? Praise the Lord. Lord. During this time when the piano plays, if God has spoken, I would encourage you, I would challenge you to get things right. Maybe it is that you need to come forward and pray, maybe you need to kneel and pray. However it is God has spoken, you respond.