Ecclesiastes is where we're going to be tonight. I trust you had a good afternoon. I know these are busy days, and so let me challenge again, like Pastor said. Do your best to be here. We're going to be focused in on what the Word of God has for us. And so if you don't have a Bible, feel free to look on with somebody else because I want you to see the text tonight. This is a unique book. Maybe even log on, open up a Bible app that type of thing. But find Ecclesiastes. I want you to see for yourself what Solomon is saying here. It's an incredible book. Often I would argue that Ecclesiastes gets misinterpreted, but it's an incredible book that really points us and asks some big questions. Uh just you know so we're staying awake here, just shout it out. Who wrote Ecclesiastes? I already mentioned it. Solomon, thank you. I was waiting for our teenagers because they've been they've been answering questions and waiting for them to answer out loudly, but I didn't hear anything Of them. Solomon did. We would believe based on what we can read here that Solomon probably wrote Ecclesiastes toward the end of his life. He's writing almost in a sense of, yeah, I made some mistakes. He had a 40-year reign and initially he walked with God and followed God. And yet Ecclesiastes is written to show that he experienced everything there was to experience, but yet it left him empty. It left him broken. In fact, if you look with me in verse chapter 1, verse number 12, I the preacher was king over Israel and Jerusalem. And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under heaven. This uh this sword travail that hath God given to the sons of man to be exercised therewith. I have seen all the works that are done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit If you've read Ecclesiastes, you know that's part and parcel of a book. There's that phrase that keeps coming back, vanity, all is vanity. What is vanity? It means empty. It means it's not anything to sink your teeth into. And Ecclesiastes, perhaps as much as any other book of wisdom literature, challenges our perspective on life. Now I realize tonight there are several young adults, there's teenagers, there's several others of you who are not yet married, there's many young couples. There's several of you who are empty nesters and several senior saints, and I won't tell who's who and try to help you identify who's what There's several of us who have are in the prime of life, we're living our life, we're trying to find meaning. Others of you are younger, you're trying to still search out what am I supposed to do. Others of you have lived life for the most part and now you're looking back And yet the song , excuse me, Ecclesiastes, the Proverbs that Solomon gives here, the application is incredible for all of us. We believe and know that from earlier that Solomon walked with God for the first portion of his reign. He was an incredible, incredible ruler. In fact, God blessed him in incredible ways. Many of you would know the story of how the fact that God came to him offering him either wisdom or riches. He chose wisdom, and so God gave him riches. And Solomon was incredible in so many ways, but he in that Incredible reign that God had given him, his heart was lifted up and drawn away. The first thing that we see that draws away his heart is not specifically mentioned in the text. But you and I know from Solomon's life that he had a problem with women. How many wives did Solomon have? Too many. Yes. 700. 300 concubines. Or as one little Sunday school boy said, 700 wives and 300 porcupines. Not too far from the truth. And obviously he didn't even know who half these women were, but they joined the harem because, oh yeah, yeah, I'll I'll make relations with this king, and yeah, yeah, okay, yeah, sure, whatever. And those women brought with him their foreign gods. And so here Solomon's heart starts to get turned away. He did exactly what Deuteronomy and Moses have said not to do. He multiplied wives, he multiplied horses, he multiplied gold and silver. He did exactly what God had said not to do for a king of Israel. And Solomon began his journey away from truth. And he now, what we can think is at the end of his life, and he's writing. And he's one of those guys that could, you know, if you were sitting down talking to him, could regale you a story after story after story. He's had an incredible life. And yet, the end of it, he says it's it's all empty. It didn't satisfy. No matter where you're at in your life tonight, I want you to see what Solomon says. I want all of us to take wisdom away from what Solomon is saying in these passages. Look what it says down in verse number 16 of chapter 1. He says, I commune with my own heart, saying, Lo, I have come to great estate, and have gotten more wisdom than all they that would have been before me in Jerusalem. Yea, my heart had great experience of wisdom and knowledge. And I gave my heart to know wisdom and to know madness and folly. I perceive that this also is vexation of spirit, for in much wisdom is much grief And he that increases knowledge increases sorrow. So after he experienced the whole women thing, ah, that's not satisfying, he went on to wisdom. And perhaps it is tonight that some of you, especially younger folks, you're thinking to yourself that if I could only get a college degree, if I could get this amount of wisdom, if I could get this, then I'd be truly satisfied. Then I'd have something to seek my teeth, and then I'd get respected. And you know, Solomon had it all. I am naturally a curious person. I enjoy watching documentaries. I enjoy the science type stuff. I enjoy technical details. If I was not in the ministry, I probably would have studied engineering or physics or something like that. I enjoy technical things. I can nerd out and geek out and I can lose myself in Wikipedia over those endless articles. And before long, I'm studying 5th century Inca Empire stuff. Where did I get there? I don't know. Anybody else like that? You like nerdy, geeky details? Yeah. Sometimes I don't enjoy the education, the formal education part of it. I enjoy learning. I enjoy facts, figures, all those things, technology. I enjoy history. I enjoy all those things. Solomon took that to the nth degree. In an age when libraries were not all that common, he collected the greatest library on the face of the planet and put it in Jerusalem. He put together a zoo. And obviously in our day and age with our modern technology and what we see and even, you know, high-definition pictures of the world and stuff and all these animals. Our kids don't understand what it was like to go to a zoo. We didn't have that as kids, even us growing up. We had to go to a zoo, which was, you know, every every fifth year or something, we could go see it at a zoo. But Solomon put together this incredible zoo. And you can read about in Kings and Chronicles. He collected animals from all around the known world. He was a procurer of fine arts. He tried to get everything he could, but you know what he found out? That wisdom didn't satisfy. He gave his heart to know wisdom in verse 17 and to know madness and folly. I perceive that this also is vexation of spirit. Because he came to the conclusion, verse number 18, for in much wisdom is much grief. The more you know, the more it hurts. And he said, uh wisdom can't satisfy. So we tried the women thing. No, it doesn't satisfy. He tried wisdom. It doesn't satisfy him. So he tried something else. Look at chapter 2, verse 1. I said in my heart, Go to now. I will prove thee with mirth. Therefore, enjoy pleasure, and behold, this also is vanity. I said of laughter, It is mad, and of mirth, what doeth it? I sought my heart to give myself unto wine, yet acquaint my heart with wisdom and to lay hold on folly. Till I might see what was the good for the sons of men, which they should do under the heaven all the days of their life. So Solomon not only tried the women thing, he tried the wisdom thing, but then he moved on from that and he tried Wild parties, you could say, if you want to keep it alliterated. Now it doesn't take much imagination to know what Solomon is able to do. You have the world at your fingertips, you're the king. And so he gives himself to wild parties. He gives himself, you could say, if you want to keep the W's going, he gives himself to wine. And the wine flowed in Jerusalem. The wild parties and I don't worry, we're not going to explain or you know imagine what happened. You can do that. It's not hard to imagine what Solomon gave himself to and what he brought into the kingdom, all the paganism that he brought in and the way they worshipped. He gave himself to the wild parties and he found out something very quickly. It hurts. There's individuals in the room tonight who you could tell us firsthand it's brought Brokenness. It's empty. And not to glorify your past or before you were a believer, but you can testify to the fact that it 's broken. It's empty. It hurts. It thinks you the world wants you to think that all that fun and frivolity is going to leave you satisfied, but you can testify. There's many of you that could testify tonight. Uh-uh, it hurts. It can't satisfy. And yet there's other young adults in the room tonight and teenagers who you're still thinking in your heart, life, well, as soon as I'm out of here, I'm going to enjoy something. That my no mom and dad wouldn't approve of, the church wouldn't approve of. You're setting your heart already on, let's just call it wine or wild parties, on mirth, frivolity. And you wouldn't admit it because you can't. Your parents are sitting next to you. But your heart is set toward that. Listen to what Solomon says. Look at your text. Look at Ecclesiastes chapter 2, and look what it says here. Verse number two, I said of laughter, it's mad, and of mirth, what doeth it I sought in my heart to give myself into wine, yet acquainting my heart with wisdom, and to lay hold on folly, for I might see what was the good for the sons of men, which they should do unto the heavens all the days of their life. He figured out pretty quickly. It hurts. It's painful. And listen to Solomon. I tried women. It didn't satisfy. I tried, you know, w uh w wisdom, getting degrees, learning, education. I built a library, I I built a zoo, I assembled the greatest scholars, and the more you know, the more it hurts. And then he goes on, he says, I tried wild parties. I just said, forget this, I'm going to live it up. I'm going to enjoy life. I'm going to, you know, enjoy what God has made. And that too is empty. And so here he is, he's going through life, he's trying all these things, and he's realizing it hurts. It can't satisfy It's broken. And for every person here who has lived those things or tried to live for those things, you can testify to the fact that it can't satisfy you. Get that degree. There's more. It didn't scratch the need you thought it would scratch. It didn't fulfill the need you thought it would fulfill. You you live it up And perhaps you can tell stories and you've got scars to prove it, the emotional, physical scars to prove it. Yeah, yeah, I I did that. And it hurts. It's regret, pain, and suffering now. So, you know, what's left? We'll keep looking. Look what it says in verse 4. I made me great works. If we're going to keep the alliteration going. So he tried the women, he tried the wisdom, he tried the wild parties, the wine. He tried the work. Well, you know, this is noble. This is good. This is what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to work hard because obviously God's people are going to serve him forever. We know that. And Solomon did that. Look what it says there again in verse 4. I made me great works. I builded me houses. I planted me vineyards. He dug into everything that life could have for him. He thought, well maybe if I actually get busy, if I work hard, if I produce things, then I'll find something, then I'll find meaning in life, then I'll find respect, then something will happen inside of me that will make me fill, fulfill. And that's oftentimes what God's people do, because we know wild parties are bad. You know, I don't have enough brain cells to have wisdom. So maybe if I work hard, maybe if I, you know, put myself down, maybe if I build a business. All of us have a sense where we enjoy fulfilling something, where we enjoy completing something, don't we? I like working with my hands. When we were in college, we worked in the cabinet shop. Um I enjoy still to this day trim carpentry. Uh after college for a little bit I did some framing. And after that I got into pretty much everything uh you could do on a house. Never done really much commercial anything. Uh but uh you know I can do it all. I'm Jack of all trades, master of none. I enjoy finishing a project. How many guys are like that? You enjoy a project? I know there's some blue-collar workers in here, also some other guys who are in different things, but you enjoy finishing the project. You enjoy the the lawn when it's done. You enjoy the project when it's finished. You enjoy the piece when it's painted. You enjoy that. Oftentimes that's what we sink our teeth into. Maybe you're like me where you get involved into a project specifically working with your hands and uh you this is all you think about. And you You can see it finished. Anybody like that? You got it visualizing. And you even in church, you know, you're listening to a pastor, but at the back of your mind is like, I'm going to put the final code on that project. Tonight, this afternoon. Anybody else like that? Yeah. Well Solomon was. And he realized that this is empty. The women. No, that's not that hurts. That's painful. Stay out of the palace. It's a mess. Well maybe if I get wisdom and I collect all this, I know that that hurts too because the more you know, the more it hurts. Well, I'm just gonna forget all that, I'm just gonna live it up. Leaves me even further broken. Well, maybe if I leave a legacy of making something beautiful, and that's what he did. He made gardens. And in fact, it was so incredible that people came from a no round the world to see this incredible structure, the incredible structure that he made. Uh his horse barn, his his uh where he kept his horses was so big it could hold I think was three, four thousand horses. It's a lot of horses. Any of you have a horse? Anybody have a horse in here? Anybody want a horse? Okay. You want three or four thousand? No, that's a little bit too many. But Solomon, he just didn't go a certain direction. He went all the way And he thought, as probably many American families think, even conservative Christian families, well, you know, if I if I'm able to accomplish this, if I'm able to build this business, if I'm able to, you know, step back and accomplish this and do this. Then I'll be successful if I only have a certain amount of money. If I only you know do this, if we build a name and do it. And he did all that. And he built this beautiful gardens and people came from all around the world. And I can respect that. I enjoy viewing beautiful gardens. I enjoy going to botanical areas. I think heaven's going to be beautiful and excited. I enjoy setting things out. I'm not quite the gardener that your pastor is. Every square inch of his backyard is garden, I think. But I enjoy setting plants out. I enjoy, you know, setting bulbs out in the fall, watching them bloom in the spring. Solomon did all that. I enjoy walking with my wife through water features and on paths that are that are done nicely. I enjoy beautiful landscaping. I enjoy architecture when it's done well. I enjoy walking into buildings that are take your breath away. Wow, this is beautiful. This is done well. This is nice that the glass, the wood, the steel, the all this is gorgeous. And Solomon thought, if I could get some work done, if I could accomplish something, if I could build something notoriety, then my life would be satisfied. But do you think it did? No. Look down at your text again. He says in verse number five, I made me gardens and orchards and I planted trees. Trees in them of all kind of fruits. I made me pools of water to water therewith the the wood that bringeth forth the trees I got me servants and maidens and had servants born in my house. Also I had great possessions of great and small, cattle above all that were in Jerusalem. before me. Well if I can get that little hobby farm, if I can get the ranch, if I can get a couple head of cattle, well Solomon did that and more. He took it to the nth degree. Well, if I can enjoy this hobby, if I can enjoy this, if I can do this, if I can, you know, if I can restore that classic car. I'm speaking from a guy's perspective. So ladies, I'm sorry I may not be hitting where you're at. If I can, you know, restore that classic car, in my case a classic tractor. If I can, you know, have this truck, ha ha, guys like trucks, guys need trucks. Can I get a witness? Amen. Yeah, guys, haha, yeah I've got a big diesel truck and you know what it costs? A lot. I drove my gas van over here, not my diesel truck this time But if I can do this, if I can accomplish this, if I can live this, and so many men, good Christian men and young men and even women, have pursued work thinking that that would satisfy And Solomon is saying, I did all that, and it didn't satisfy. It didn't scratch the itch I thought it would. You and I know this from a practical standpoint. You ever sunk your teeth into something thinking it would bring you some sort of happiness? Maybe a boat or a hobby? Or I know this in politically correct, but a firearm. Oh man, if I can get this, then it'll be. And you you sink your teeth into that. And you know you're you're fine, happy, go lucky, and all of a sudden you see the new commercial for the new truck that just came out this year and you're like, oh Honey, your truck's only two years old. You don't but honey, look what that does. I like the color. And ours got one rock chip on the side of the doors. I think we need to trade him because that And all of a sudden you you get that or the new phone and the new phone comes out, the iPhone 18X34P that's thirty three hundred dollars, whatever it is. I'm being facetious, I know. But you get that new phone and or you get that new toy, you get that new hobby, and you think it's going to satisfy. Does it ever satisfy? No. It can't. It can't. All of us know that. But we still look on Facebook Marketplace for that next thing that's gonna bring Bring us something that it can't. We still go and look for that next, you know, high. Well maybe if I I if I got to go on this vacation Maybe if I got to do this, maybe if I got to do this, isn't this where we live? Uh you don't have to answer yes. I'll just answer yes. Yes, for you. This is where we're at. We live our life trying to find enjoyment and satisfaction, and we live our life trying to find something in this world. Solomon had it all. It's empty. It can't satisfy. It's vanity. It's actually vexation of spirit because when you try to find your purpose in that whatever it is, it leaves you hurt and broken and improved. Well, you know, Brent , if I could only have a certain amount of money, then and probably every person to ever live has said this. Well, if I had X amount of dollars, then my problems would go away. Then I'd be satisfied. Then my life would truly be fulfilled. Well guess what? Solomon had that too. Look down at what it says there. In verse number uh number eight, I gathered me silver and gold and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces. I got me men's singers and women's singers and the delights of the sons of men as musical instruments and that of all sorts. So I was great and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem. Also my wisdom remained with me. Solomon went after wealth in incredible ways. You can actually do the math. He would receive hundreds of metric tons every year of gold. How much is gold right now, the spot price of gold per ounce? Forty five thousand. Five thousand dollars per ounce. Ounce. Woo! Silver is up to 70 something, I think. Silver, he didn't even count. Eh, yeah, silver, whatever. Okay, put this in perspective. Uh million-dollar house. I know that doesn't mean as much as it used to, but a million-dollar house is still the goal for most Americans that's unachievable. That million dollar house. Can you picture with me tonight a million-dollar house? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So a nicer house probably in a nicer neighborhood is still a million dollars unless you're in some sort of big city where, you know, you know, two square feet is a million bucks. So if you picture a million-dollar house with me, most individuals, most Americans won't be able to achieve that in their lifetime. And that's fine, because after all, don't forget this world's not our home. We're just passing through God's preparing us a house where we'll live with him forever. But a million-dollar house, most Americans can't get to that, but let's just use that as the standard, that million-dollar house. Solomon wasn't just a billionaire, because if you think about it, a billionaire can buy a million-dollar house every month of their life for 83 years. So billionaire, think about a billionaire. Uh Musk, uh, you know, Bezos, Gates, any of those guys. They can buy a million-dollar house every month of their life for 83 years. Solomon wasn't just a billionaire. Yeah varies wildly based on what figures you look at, but he was worth anywhere his personal net worth. And okay, back up to these billionaires. Their net worth, what is that? Is that their actual liquid cash? No, that's just what their total company is worth If you were to liquidate it at that time. Their actual cash liquid assets is much less, usually only a couple percentages of what their net worth is. Solomon, we're not talking about his net worth, we're talking about what he had in gold and silver, his liquid assets. was in the neighborhood of 1. 1 to 4. 2 trillion dollars. Yeah, that's this is yeah that's just numbers. He could buy that million dollar house every hour of his life for eighty years plus He could buy one million dollar house this hour, one million dollar house the next hour, one million that's how much money. And if you that's that one trillion. If he's two to four trillion, he could buy two to four houses every hour of his life. That's more money than anybody ever has even thought about. Solomon was incredibly rich. You know what he says? Look down in your Bible, and look what it says in verse 10. And whatsoever mine eyes desired, I kept not from them. I withheld not my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced in all the labor, and that was my purpose of all my labor. Then I looked in all the works that my hands had wrought, and all the labor that I hate labored to do, and behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no profit under the sun. You and I are tempted to sit here and say, well, you know, you may not think it's profitable, but Solomon, can you share some of that with me? I'd like to experience that for myself. I'd like to make my own judgment call, Solomon. Just give me some of that and I'll make my own judgment call, right? But stop and think about it. Here's a man who had everything and more unimaginable wealth He did all the work he could. He made a beautiful city. He beautiful gardens, incredible. People came from all over the world to see that, and they would say, oh , the half has not been told how beautiful this is. He had wild parties galore. He indulged in wine, wisdom, he had it all, and women. You would think that this ultimate playboy would be satisfied at life. But what does Ecclesiastes, in fact, the entire message of the book say? It's empty. It can't satisfy. It's broken. Not that it's bad necessarily to work because I look out the room and I see guys who have jobs and you've made successful businesses. Others of you are in the military and you're you're working and you're hopefully retiring and then you're gonna make a certain amount of money, there's nothing wrong with that. All of us have things that we enjoy, we have hobbies, all those things, and there's nothing inherently wrong with that. But if we're living for that to bring happiness and satisfaction. Got news for you. It can't. And for our young adults, specifically the teenagers, listen very carefully. What you're setting your goals on right now is very important to think through. Because if you're thinking if you're thinking that hey I can bring satisfaction if I get this degree, if I get this amount of wisdom, if I get this relationship, if I get this work done, if I accomplish this, if I build this business, if I make this much money, then I'll be satisfied. You will wind up empty and broken and dissatisfied with everything. Because what's the whole point of this? Is this so we just wring our hands and say, oh, there's no point in life? No, no, no. And some have looked at Ecclesiastes and said that same thing. No, no, no. Solomon is at the very end of his life and he's challenging. He's reaching across the ages and he's saying, Hey, it's all empty It's all empty. I experienced, I did it all, I had it all, and more than anybody ever will have, and I can tell you today it is empty, empty, empty. If you're living for it to provide satisfaction, it can't So what's the point? Go with me to the very end. In fact, it was read this morning. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verse 1. Solomon concludes these thoughts. He gives practical wisdom. Yes, he challenges us, and there's a lot of truth that's really unique in Ecclesiastes. But he says in Ecclesiastes 12, verse 1, Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. He challenges young people specifically in this passage, and those who still have life left, no matter where you're at. He says, Hey, now's the time to remember God in the days of your youth. Now's the time to realize that all this stuff is not going to satisfy because it can't. And you can be successful in all these things. You can make your millions, you can have your works, you can build your businesses. You can do everything the world says to make you happy, and you will find at the deep core of your soul that it can't. In fact, it makes you broken. It makes you bitter. So, what's the answer? You and I were made for one reason. Here's the whole crux of Ecclesiastes. Look down at verse 13. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandment. Commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. That sounds rather simplistic. You and I were made for relationships. You know that. Many of you came tonight expecting to have fun after in this beautiful weather after the service. To talk, to interact, to eat, to fellowship. We know that. But yet when it comes to spiritual matters, when it comes to big life goals, we often forget what we're made for. We were made for a relationship with God and God alone. And anything we do in this life that we try to find our satisfaction, anything we do in this life that we try to grab onto, that we try to sink our teeth of happiness, and that we try to put our eggs of happiness in that basket outside of walking with God is going to leave us broken and unfulfilled. Brent, are you saying that we shouldn't work hard? No, no, no, no, no. Are you saying we shouldn't enjoy beauty? We shouldn't get to Greece. No, no, no, no, no. That's not what Solomon is saying in this passage at all. He's saying that remember that under the sun Under the under heaven, under the in this life, if you're seeking that pleasure to provide satisfaction and happiness, it is empty and broken. It cannot do it. So what's the Answer. Fear God. Keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of man. Walk with God I don't know everybody's story in this room. I've interacted with several of you. I know some of your stories. But I do know this about me, and I know this will be true about you because what the Word of God says. Anytime we try to find our happiness or satisfaction and what we can accomplish down here, what we can enjoy or participate down here, whether it be good or bad, anytime we try to do that, we will not be satisfied. So what's the point? Solomon's saying, I I experienced all this and it all led to more frustration and emptiness and vanity. It's all empty. It's not helpful. It doesn't scratch the edge because it can't. Walk with God. Centuries ago, a pastor and theologian said this: You have made us for yourselves, O Lord, and our hearts are restless until they rest. God has made you and I for a specific purpose. Tonight some of us are trying to find our purpose in what we can accomplish. We're trying to find respect in what we do. We're trying to find respect in a title that we earn, or degree, or relationship Or an amount of money we're aiming for. If I can get this and retire with this nest egg, then I'll be truly happy and satisfied, then be set for life. We're trying to find a purpose and we don't know why it's not working. We don't know why we're not happy when we finally get there. Because we were made for God. And I know this is elementary Christianity, but I find myself needing these truths on a regular basis. Because even in ministry, I get work focused, I get goal focused, I want to check this off, I want to do this, I get I get organizational focus, I get this, and I miss the fact that I'm made for God and God made me to know him and to enjoy him, and that's what I'm going to be doing forever. And so this life is just this is fleeting, it's just a vapor, it's just a breath. And I need to spend my life. If it's really going to matter, if I'm going to have joy and true satisfaction, I need to spend it knowing Him. Walking with him and enjoying him. If I try to find my purpose in anything besides God, I will be dissatisfied and disappointed. Perhaps some of you can give testimony to that because even now you know what's in your soul. You've been successful You've climbed that ladder. You've built that business. You've accomplished the goals that you set out to accomplish perhaps years and or decades ago You've achieved that rank. You got that relationship. You did what you what you set out to do. And you feel like I did it, I made it, I'm fine. No. It doesn't. For every young adult, teenagers, listen carefully. There's many in the room tonight. I pray you are successful in life. I pray you do find God's will and do it to the fullest, whatever that is. But realize one thing very quickly Very clearly, whatever in this life you try to sink your teeth into, that you try to be successful, and you try to find your happiness and identity in that, it will leave you broken, even though it may be a good thing. Follow God, walk with Him , joy Him, know Him That's the whole duty of man. Very well concerned. be that there's some seasoned saints of God in this room tonight who what I've just articulated is exactly what you know to be true. Maybe you need to find one of these young people that are right here, and you need to teach them that. You need to show them You need to invest in them. Hey, it's empty. It's empty besides Christ. We were made for a purpose. purpose is knowing God. As we finish tonight, we're going to finish in just a few minutes. But could we just bow our head and close our eyes? In a minute we're going to have prayer. And in a minute after that, the piano's going to play, and we're going to think through and pray through some of these truths that God's interacted with. Before that happens, I'm going to ask some questions. How many would say, Brent, tonight, as you went through these first couple chapters of Ecclesiastes, I gotta be honest. I saw my heart desire. I saw some of my thinking in these passages. I saw it there. I've been trying to find my worth in relationships or wisdom or I hate to say it, wild parties, wine, or work, or wealth. I've been trying to find who I am and some of those things and God convicted me. God spoke to me. Would you lift your hand to that? I saw myself in some of those passages. I saw that's my motivation. Would you lift your hand and say, God spoke to me tonight? God challenged me. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Help me to say, Brent, tonight, I I gotta be honest. God showed me and reminded me again what I was made for. I try, and I'm the same way. I try to find my identity and what this world has to offer. Tonight God challenged me. God spoke to me About finding who I am, my completeness, not anything I can accomplish. Because as Solomon said, I know it, I see it, it's empty, it's broken, it can't satisfy I was made for God. And God reminded me of that tonight. And I want that to be my priority. I don't want that and my identity to be found, anything else besides I'm a child of God. relationship with him. God spoke, God encouraged, God challenged me in that matter tonight. Would you lift your hand to that? God spoke to me. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Lord. Final question. This is specifically for our young adults, our teens. How many teens would say, Brother Brent, gotta be honest? When I walked in tonight, if you had just asked me, I would have told you that one of the things that Solomon talked about, whether it be wisdom or wild parties or work. Or or women for the guys, or relationship for the girls, or even wealth. That was my motivation. But tonight God's challenged me. I don't want that to be my motivation for life. Specifically to the teens, young adults, would you be willing to raise your hand and say, God spoke to me tonight? God challenged me about my motivation, my reason for living. Would you lift your hand? God challenged me tonight. God spoke to me. Father, help us to think through who we are in you Help us to examine our own hearts. Help us to take the wisdom that Solomon is giving us at the end of his life. This broken man who's saying and who experienced it all. Help us to learn the truth. We need you. With heads bowed and eyes closed, let's stand to our feet as the pianist plays the invitation. Take this time, pray through, think through. Confess if needed. Maybe even kneel at your seat. Maybe sit and pray. However, God is speaking to you. As we stand, the piano since the beginning, you respond how God would have you respond before a pastor comes.