Take your Bibles and go with me to Daniel chapter 9. Hope you've had a great day today. And thank you for all those who have made an effort to be here, because I know Mondays are not the easiest night to come to church. And uh glad you're here. Trust you came and you're ready to hear God's word. I know some are still working, some have schedules, some have school, some have other things they're doing. But thank you for making an effort to be here. May God bless you for doing that. And it's great to see everybody here. Daniel is a fascinating book. I have enjoyed Daniel even recently. This past year our home church on Wednesday nights worked its way through Daniel and I got to participate in that and the preaching and teaching. And I have really getting to dig into Daniel was really encouraging for me. I have loved the book of Daniel. Here we are in Daniel chapter 9, and this is later in Daniel's life. Daniel's one of those figures that, you know, there's nothing bad necessarily written about him. In fact, he had already, by the time of his life, reached You know, that upper echelon of, you know, Moses, Daniel, Paul, that type of deal. He's one of those Bible characters that you learn as an early age, an incredible Bible character. But beyond that, he has so many incredible things. Obviously, there's prophecies, there's hundreds of prophecies that were already fulfilled by the time of Christ that are given in Daniels 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13. But beyond that, there's incredible detail about his life, his passion, his ministry. And tonight we're going to look at his brokenness, his understanding, and his confession. Look what the Bible says, beginning in verse 1. In the first year of Darius, the son of Ahazuerus, of the seed of the Medes, which was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans. In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, understood by books the number of the years whereof the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet that he would accomplish seventy years. in the desolations of Jerusalem. And I set my face unto the Lord God to seek by prayer and supplications with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. And I prayed unto the Lord my God and made my confession and said, O Lord, the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love the Him, and to them that keep His commandments. We have sinned, and have committed iniquity, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments. We'll stop there for now. Let's start tonight with asking God to help us be open and honest. If you're like me, your day has been busy. You've had yours found yourself going multiple different directions and even now you're sitting in a comfortable chair and your mind is going different directions or if it's going anywhere at all it's going different directions Can anyone give me a testimony and witness that's where you're at? Yeah. Okay. Thank you for your honesty. What we need is God to help us, don't we? We need God to show us his word. And the first thing we need to do is just pray and God, would you help me stay focused and attentive? So while I pray out loud, you pray quietly, asking God to help you get tonight what God wants for you. And individually, God wants to do a work in every single one of us. But beyond that, corporately, God wants to use his word to challenge every single person here together as a church I believe this message tonight can be huge, not only just for your life individually, but also for what God wants to do at Anchor Baptist Church. So while I pray out loud, would you pray quietly? Ask God to help you put everything else outside of it, because I know many of you have have busy days. I talked to you about some of it. Put everything else outside and for the next few minutes, 35-40 minutes, help us concentrate on his word. Will you do that while I pray out loud? You pray quietly. Father, we need you. And I know that our days of each of us have been busy, filled with school, home, work, different things, you know, all sorts of things. For the next few minutes, Father, would you help us individually and collectively focus on your word? Would you help me be able to communicate your truth? Would we see this passage And would we take note from not only the prayer of Daniel, but his passion and his his attitude behind it And would all of us grow in our understanding and our desire to know you better in our understanding of the Word of God, but also in our humility and our brokenness. Change us. We need you. In Jesus' name, amen. Here we are in the first year of Darius. And those of you who know the timeline of Daniel know that Daniel has now been involved with two different, not just administrations. But two different world empires. Very rare, in fact almost probably never happens. Because normally when a world empire comes in a clean house and everyone gets, you know, not just the boot or the pink slip, they get shown eternity. Just to put it bluntly. But not Daniel. Daniel's here. He's now in the second world empire, probably maybe fourth or even fifth king. We don't know exactly that there archaeologists debate about that. But he has served now for approaching 70 years. He's at the end of his life. The story of Daniel and the lines then happens around this time. But Daniel's at the end of his life and he is there and he's serving. And look what it says in verse 2. In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, understood by books the number of years whereof the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, the the the prophet, that he would accompl accomplish seventy years in the desolations of Jerusalem. So up until this point, it seems from what we can read in the text, Daniel did not have biblical understanding about the 70 years. We today can look back and we know that what God had said to Jeremiah, what God had said to Ezekiel, what God had said to those men. There's going to be 70 years of desolation. The land's going to be desolate 70 years, and after 70 years, I'll bring you back. Daniel, from what we can see, did not have that revelation. He did not have that. And so here he is as an older man. Well, I don't know how it happens, and this is one of those questions I want to ask Daniel when I go see him in a few years, few decades. Hey Daniel, did you find the book of Jeremiah after being in the the pro in in Babylon for a while? What what happened? Did you Did someone bring it? Was there a messenger that, hey, there's this book of Jeremiah? How did you start reading Jeremiah this late into the ballgame? Because it's just a few more years and God actually would be sending them back, maybe even around the same time. So Daniel, he comes to this biblical understanding after reading Jeremiah chapter 25. You don't have to turn there, I'll just read it for you. It says this in verse 11. And this whole land shall be desolate and be astonis and and in astonishment, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years. And it shall come to pass when seventy years are accomplished that I will punish The king of Babylon and that nation and the Lord for their iniquity, uh, and that nation saith the Lord for their iniquity, and the land of the Chaldeans will make up it a perpetual desolation. And I will bring upon that land all my words which I have pronounced against it, even all that is written in this book, which Jeremiah hath prophesied against all the nations. So Daniel's reading this seemingly, it seems like, for the first time. And he comes with this biblical understanding. He reads the book of Ezra. And he how the mouth of Jeremiah fulfilled the word of the Lord. And then he talks about in Jeremiah chapter 29. He's reading in how the Bible is very specific that these people will come back, and it says in verse 13, and ye shall seek me and find me, when ye shall search for me with all your heart. So Daniel is putting these things together and he realizes that the nation as a whole is not where it should be. Yes, the 70 years are coming to an end. He knows the chronology. He's been keeping track. He's an old man. He is now in the upper echelons of spirituality. But he realizes that we're not where we should be spiritually. We're not broken. We're definitely not seeking God with our whole heart. And you shall seek me and find me when you shall search for me with your whole heart. And he realizes that there's a problem here. He comes to this biblical understanding. We see several things about this In fact, he probably even went back to 1 Kings of Solomon's prayer that says this, when thy people Israel have uh be smitten down before thy enemy because they have sinned against thee. And shall turn again to thee and confess thy name and pray and make supplications unto thee in this house. Then hear thou from heaven, and forgive the sin of thy people, Israel, and bring them again unto the land which thou gave us unto their fathers Daniel is gaining this biblical understanding, he's understanding, and what does that mean? Biblical understanding first comes from a study of the word. Daniel in his 80s, maybe 90s now is still in the Bible. And I don't know, again, as I said, I'm not sure if he found it or if somebody told him, hey, there's this book called Jeremiah. Oh. He starts devouring it and he starts understanding. Oh I understand it. We today as believers don't put our noses in the book and then we wonder why we have so many problems. We wonder why there's so much apathy and so much questions, why there's so much, you know, back and forth, double-mindedness if we want to go back to Sunday school in James chapter 1. Because we're not in the Word. And Daniel understood by studying the Word. He knew what the Bible said. He knew the prophets. And now that he gets this fresh revelation that had been recently given to him from Jeremiah, he understood what was happening. There's many young adults in the room tonight, and I'm glad you're here. Oftentimes when I'm in camp in the summer, young adults come to me, teens come to me, and they say, hey Brent. And even at colleges, hey Brent. How do I know God's will for my life? If I had a dollar every time I've heard that question from young adults, but I find it's not just young adults now. It's a lot of people. And I always tell them Romans 12, 2 is a great passage. That's the passage where Paul says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, in verse 1, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. yourselves a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. What is Paul saying there? Don't allow this world to get into you, but be transformed. How are we transformed? By the what? By the word. And as we let the word of God get into us, as we get out of the world and into the word, we will be able to prove, be able to know what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. So I always challenge young adults specifically, God has a plan for you And here's the great thing, Psalm 16, 11, David said, Thou wilt show me the path of life. He made it very clear. You've got a plan for me, and I can know it. Putting those truths together in the entirety of the Word of God, we find that as we get out of the world into the Word, we can have biblical understanding We don't have to wander around with this hope-so -no so well. I don't know what I'm supposed to do. And so many Christian young people today are in that boat. They're just kind of hoping, feeling, and even Christian couples, you know why? Because our noses are in the world, not the word. And we have to get our Bibles out. We have to turn off the world. Get into the Word. You show me a young person, or even a not so young person, who's got his nose into the Word of God, you're gonna have somebody who understands the times You're gonna have a somebody who is confident in what God's doing in their life. They're gonna know what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. And Daniel comes to this understanding not because of any special vision that he's given, no, but because he's studying the book. Secondly, I want you to see this, and we're going to see this played out here tonight. Biblical understanding leads to prayer and brokenness. It doesn't lead to pride and arrogance. When Daniel understood what was happening here and how if ye seek me with all your heart you'll find me and he saw Solomon's prayer and he understood what Jeremiah was saying in chapter 25 and 29. You know what did? Ah Good. I'm glad I'm not one of those people that's been bad at I'm glad I'm really spiritual. No. The biblical understanding led him actually to be broken and to be in prayer and say, God, you we've sinned. Biblical understanding, when we understand the Bible, does not lead us to be this proud, aloof person. Well, I have degrees, wait for it, from seminary. My name is Dr. So-and-So, and let me tell you some of the deeper things of the Word of God. No. When we understand the Bible, it leads us to live simply and humbly and passionately. It leads us like Paul did to say that I'm the chiefest of sinners Lead just be like Solomon, who at the height of his wisdom, at the beginning of his reign, cried out very clearly, I don't know how to do this. I don't know how to come in, I don't know how to go out. It leaves us to be like Isaiah, who at the very end of the book of Isaiah, again a man who is passionate, who's served God for decades and decades and decades and has influenced countless thousands of people. Who cries out in brokenness at the end of the book in chapters 64 and 65? That's what Bible understanding does. It leaves you and I to be broken. And that's what it does for Daniel 2. If we are counting on our Bible knowledge or wisdom or well I've been in Sunday school, I'm a teacher, I know this, and I have this degree, and I've been to this and I've taken this class and uh here let me tell then no no no no we don't have biblical understanding We have knowledge that puffeth up. But Daniel, when he understands the word of God, it breaks his heart. And we see also from this passage. just the timeline of Daniel Daniel's life that biblical understanding isn't just for young people or even just for Bible college students or just isn't for young adults trying to find God's will. No, it's for anybody who seeks it. It can come at any age of life. And God's seasoned saints say, Amen , praise the Lord. Biblical understanding Understanding is not one of those aloof things that you have to, oh well, I guess I can't get understanding. I can't know the Bible because I didn't go to Bible college. I don't have a degree. I didn't go to SIP. No. You and I can as we study the word, as we get into the word, can understand what God is doing. It doesn't mean that God gives us special visions. It doesn't mean that God gives us special , God gave me a special word. No, he did not. He gave the word. Period. It means that we can understand it, and the Holy Spirit, who's inside of us, helps us interpret through the lens of what's happening in life. No, it's not a special vision. It's what God has promised to do. It's biblical understanding. And Daniel looks at the Word of God, the written, revealed Word of God in Jeremiah, and he puts it together and says, Oh, I get it now. Oh , I get it now. And he begins to pray. So we see not only this biblical understanding, but we also see the prayer. And as you looked at the prayer, we did not read it all. I would encourage you to read it down to verse 19. On your own time, you're going to see some truths. And obviously, we can't accomplish and look at all of these in the next 30 minutes. But once you see several truths that are mentioned here very clearly, Daniel number one in the prayer was personally broken. He was personally broken Well, Daniel, wait a minute. You don't have to be personally broken. You're incredible. You're just one of these great people. No. He was personally broken. Look at verse 3. And I set my face unto the Lord God to seek by prayer and supplications with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. We don't like to fast, do we? You know, pastor calls for a pot look at the church. Everybody comes. Hey, yeah, this is great. Pastor calls for a fast. Never done that. Yeah. I doubt there'd be as much ex as much excitement You know, I you know somewhere place churches in the deep south a lot of them have homecoming or fall family day or they're big you know harvest days and they everybody comes out of the woodwork and they got food, galore But imagine if God's people actually got honest and began to fast. May not be as attractional as potlucks, right? But Daniel began to fast, doing without that which we like. All of us have things that we like that move us that we sometimes go to. And when we do without whether whether it be coffee or sugar or food itself or media or whatever the cases that we're doing without to get to know God better, our bodies begin to crave it. Our souls begin to crave that. We we we naturally our thumbs go to a certain button and we s When the the screen's not there, we turn that off or we mute that for a day. We're like, oh, what do I do with my time? What do I do? Our bodies start to crave food and we start to our belly start to talk to us. And it's hard, it's challenging. It's not easy. But Daniel begins to fast, and he's making prayer and supplications with fasting, and then he says, in sackcloth. What are sackcloths? We don't do this much anymore, but Daniel got sackcloths. Obviously, if you've ever done the three-legged race, you probably know what sackcloth is. But what sackcloth would do, you would take off all the special, nicer, uh perhaps his uh kingly or his uh governmental garments. He would take that off, lay it aside. You're showing everybody that I'm sincere here. And he would take sackcloth, maybe like this. Obviously I got this locally, and this is not necessary the sackcloth itself, but he covered himself. And Sakov. And it was a sign that everybody, I I'm I'm mourning. I'm being serious here. There's nothing special about this. He took off anything that was colorful and he He went about in sackcloth. And then that they would they would do as it says at the end of verse 3. They would take ashes and they would smear them on their forehead and on their face. Nothing fancy, no jewelry, no no uh accouterments that would be bright or draw attention. It's really kind of dull and drab. And he there began to pray. He was personally broken. And it moved him to do things in his body that, you know, how many teenagers would want to walk around school or walk around with their friends like this? I'm wearing sackcloth today. I'm fasting. I don't think so. But even how many of us would want to walk around, you know, town wearing this? That's kind of weird. It's different. Maybe we could start our own fashion trend or something. But Daniel did this and it showed people and it was proof. I want to hear from you, God. I'm broken. God, what are you doing in my heart? What are you doing in my life? He's fasting and he's praying. I want to ask you to consider tonight as we get into this passage and we see some of these truths that are that are sprinkled throughout here. Are we personally broken over the souls around us? Are we personally broken over the state of our society? Well, you know, it's not my problem. I voted for Prim. I didn't vote for that. And I'm against that. I know we're against it, but are we broken over it? And even more close to home, are we broken over the state of our churches? I don't know everything. I'm good friends with your pastor. I've been preaching here now for off and on, eight years or so. Is Anchor Baptist right now everything it could be or should be? I think I know the answer to that, and you don't have to answer. And that's not a condemnation against anybody or anything, but are we broken about it? Are there families in the church that aren't walking in truth? Are there individuals that the church is just letting slip away? Are there people that need encouragement and challenge and need the the body of Christ to wrap their arms. Are we doing that? Are we broken over the state of the church, the fact that we are in many ways so powerless? As we read the book of Acts, is even as we look at church history, even not so distant church history, we see what the church accomplished when it fully surrendered to God. Are we broken or the fact that we're not being and doing exactly what God wants us to do? Have we settled for status quo? And again, Daniel's at the stage and age in his life where he could have taken a pass. He's old. Well, you know, that's not me. I'm old. But no, Daniel is personally broken. He's wearing fat he's wearing sackcloth and ashes. He's fasting. He's broken over the state of what is happening to his nation. He realizes the problem. But it doesn't stop there. He begins by magnifying and worshiping God. Would you look with me what it says there in verse 4? And I prayed unto the Lord my God and made my confession and said, O Lord, the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love him and to them that keep his commandments. We have sinned. He magnifies God. He lifts God's name up in this. He says, God, you are righteous. We're not, you're holy, we're not. You're transcendent, you're great and dreadful, you're an awesome God, you're faithful, you keep the covenants and mercy. God, you're bigger than we are. We acknowledge that we are nothing. We sing of you, we talk of you, but we don't live it in the accordance of who you are, we don't know you personally, we don't know you practically, we don't know of the fellowship with you, God, you are bigger than us. We magnify you. And that's where revival has to start. That's where brokenness begins. Knowing who God is It's not an emotion, it's not a feeling, no, no, it's it's knowing who God is. And every time people throughout scripture and people throughout church history understood who God is, what happened, they fell on their face, they were broken completely before God. Daniel's magnifying God and he's worshiping God. But we see instantly that Daniel was inclusive We hear a lot about the church should be inclusive and you need to be inclusive. They're missing the inclusivity that's that's needed. Before you get worried, wait a minute, Brent, we need to Daniel's inclusive in verse 5. Maybe not inclusive in a modern context, but look what he says. We have sinned. Well, Daniel, come on. Not you. You're the one who just a few months after this would pray and fast And open the windows for everybody to see. You're the one who with your friends stood firm when the entire nation of Israel that was in captivity capitulated when you were younger. You're the one who has faithfully interpreted dreams and given us that you're the one without the book of Daniel we wouldn't have really that much of a key to biblical prophecy. Not nearly as much. Daniel, you're the one who stands as a giant of the faith. In fact, even during his lifetime, the Bible says about Daniel that Ezekiel wrote that Daniel was one of the leading figures. And you know, we could talk about how Daniel is one of these great people, but Daniel's not no no, it's me. We have sinned. He's inclusive Now I want to submit to you tonight that the church needs to be more inclusive, no, not in the way that the world's woke agenda wants us to be. We need to include ourselves, but the problem is easy to push the oh yeah, you know, our church, if it If we didn't have to deal with that individual, if we didn't have to deal with that family, if we didn't have to deal with this, if we didn't have to deal with this, if, you know So if our country, if our state, if our if our fell no no no, it's us What's the old song say, It's me, it's me, it's me, O Lord. Standing in the need of prayer. It's me, it's me, it's me, O Lord. Standing in the need of prayer. Well, Brent, I'm not as bad. No, no, no. Then you're not ready for God to work. Daniel is broken. He's inclusive. It's me. Daniel, though he was definitely not part of the problem, included himself as the issue. But he goes on, Daniel, as we see here in verse 5, is thorough. He says in verse 5, we have sinned. What is that? We've broken the law. He mentions these sins of commission, the sins of what we have done. We've sinned. We've committed iniquity. What is that? Iniquity has the idea of perverseness. We've done wickedly, that's evil, and we have rebelled. We've resisted God's authority, even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments. Daniel goes on, he's very thorough. These are the sins that we have done. We've sinned, we've committed iniquity, we've done wickedly, we've rebelled, we've done things wrong. He then mentions the sins of omission. Look at verse number 6. Neither have we hearkened unto thy servants the prophets. We haven't listened. We don't want to listen. We don't want to follow God. We're comfortable. We have our lives. We have our jobs. We don't want to mess any of that up because after all if we we had to actually follow God then that would mess things up. We don't want that. We have our businesses, we've got our money, we've we've got our stability, we've got our nice pad of pews in our church We're fine. We don't need this. No, no, no. We haven't listened. We haven't followed. He goes on in verse number 10. If you drop down to verse number 10, he says this Neither have we obeyed the voice of the Lord our God to walk in his laws, which he set before us by his servants, the prophets. We haven't listened to the prophets, we haven't obeyed the prophets. So we've done all these wicked things and we haven't listened, we haven't obeyed. We are the problem. And it's easy for us to say, well, you know, it's not me, Brent, is that other families, that other individual it's the other family member of mine, it's the other family in church. No, no, no, no. We're the problem. Why isn't it that God was doing what he wants to do in my life? Why isn't it that God isn't doing what he wants to do in our churches? It's because of us. It's because of me. And Daniel includes himself. He mentions these sins of commission and he mentions these sins of omission. But then he goes on, he gets very brutally honest. Look back at verse number five. We have sinned. We have committed iniquity, have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even by departing from thy free sis. And from thy judgments. Now, obviously, we could talk about each of these words that we just looked at, but he's brutally honest. That's the essence of confession. Confession in our day and age has taken on this idea of you know just listing out your sins. Well, you know, I did this, I get upset with my wife, I got I I wasn't completely honest here, I had this thought, I had That is not confession. The Greek word has the idea of to say the same thing as or to agree with God, to say the same thing as God said about my sin. That's confession. And until we're really willing to be brutally honest with what God says about our sin, we will not be revived. We will not be changed. What does God say about it? You say that if I lust, that it's just like adultery, I I made the excuse that, well, then everybody thinks like that. Everybody talks like that. No, no, no, no, no. You say it's adultery. You say if I hate God, it's just like murdering somebody. I just say, oh, I just don't get along with it. No, no, no, God, you you hate that. That is wrong. That says it's a sin of murder. We have to get brutally honest with our sin, and until we do so, we will not experience God's presence in our life like he wants to. We have to get honest. It's amazing when you and I stop and we get honest. He says in verse number seven, O Lord, righteousness belongeth unto thee, but unto us confusion of faces. He's being honest because he's now interacting with the Word of God. He has seen that the nation as a whole has gotten comfortable. They've gotten their jobs, they've gotten their businesses. They haven't been living for those 70 years. They haven't been living to go back. And he sees it and he's interceding on behalf of the people. He's broken and honest. And he concludes himself. He says, We have sinned. We are not honest. We deserve this confusion. We deserve this lack of passion. And we deserve this this this yucky mess that we're living in. Because we have sinned He's completely honest. Again, it's me, it's me, it's me, O Lord, standing in the need of prayer. Again, let me challenge us. I realize this is the Monday night revival crowd. This is not the dregs of society. I get that. This is the people who, you know, came out on the Monday night. Who goes to church on Monday night? I get that But I also know that sometimes the Monday Night Revival crowd can look at how good we are and we think, well, you know, other people, I wish other people were here because I don't need this necessarily, but other people do. That's exactly the attitude that Daniel does not have, that he combats. It's me. It's me. God, I need you. We deserve this mess He's completely, utterly broken, and honest. Look down with me beginning in verse number 14. He begins to plead with God He says in verse number 14, Therefore that the Lord watched upon the evil and brought it upon us, for the Lord our God is righteous in all his works, which he doeth. for we obeyed not his voice. And now, O Lord, our God, that hath brought thy people forth out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and has given thee renown. As at this day, we have sinned. We have done wickedly. Oh Lord. According to all thy righteousness, I beseech thee, let thine anger and thy fury be turned away from thy city, Jerusalem, thy holy mountain. Because for our sins and for the iniquity of our fathers, Jerusalem and thy people are become a reproach to all that are about us. Now therefore, O our God, hear the prayer of thy servant and his supplications, and cause thy face to shine upon thy sanctuary that is desolate for the Lord's sake O my God, incline thine ear and hear. Open thine eyes and behold our desolations. And the city which is called by thy name, for we do not present our supplications before thee for our righteousness, but for thy great mercies. What is he saying there? We're not bringing our request into thee because we got something to offer you. No, no, no. We're coming at your mercy. God, we need you. O Lord, hear. Oh Lord, forgive. Oh Lord, hearken. Let's listen. And do, defer not for thine own sake. O my God, for this, for thy city and thy people are called by thy name. Daniel's broken. He's pleading. He's saying, God, would you work? God, would you do something? God, we don't just want to stay where we're at. We're comfortable, we're prosperous, we're doing fine financially, but no, no, no, we're broken. We're not pleading for you, we're not seeking you. Our kids are not being raised in a vibrant Christianity. They're not worshiping Jehovah like they should. And it's easy just to go and make excuses and justify it away and say, oh, that's just the way churches are. That's just the way people are. That's just human nature. No, God, you want more of me. And you have made everything necessary for me to know you. God, get a hold of us, change us, challenge us, move us, do something. This type of passion oftentimes makes people uncomfortable. This type of environment makes people a little bit, well, that's a little bit intense You know, I came for a Monday night service. I was hoping for an encouragement. You know, this word is, you know, believe, oh, that's such a blessing. Oh, that encouraged me. That spoke to me right now. We don't like this type of preaching. We don't like when God whaps uside the head and says, Hey, you're not broken. You're content. Oh, well, Brent, the church is growing again. Brent, the church has everything paid off. The church is well, that doesn't mean that God is necessarily blessing everything that we're doing. We can make so many excuses, and yet when we look at who God is and when we understand biblically, you know what it should do? It should make us drive us to our knees and say, God, I'm not who I should be. We're not what we could be. And it's easy to make excuses and say, well, you know, it's the other people in this in the equation. You know, it's those those people that come Sunday morning, oh man, what a mess. No, it's me It's us. It's all of us. If Daniel, at the end of his ministry Could understand biblically and interact with what God had said and come to this position of brokenness and pleading. God work. God change. God move. Then don't you think you and I should do the exact same thing? Again, a message like this isn't the most popular. This is not one of those feel-good every day is a happy day message. Probably won't make it into clips on YouTube. But that's fine. Additionally, a message like this is not designed for you and I just to leave and walk away from this passage not having interacted with it personally. Every word of God is pure, and every word of God is there for the training, the teaching, the correction, the instruction, righteousness. Every passage is, the entire Bible is. Tonight I'm going to do something a little bit different. Like Brent, you've already done something different. You're wearing sackcloth. I'm going to do something different. Can you guys help me out? I'm going to pass one of these out to every single person here. Let me go ahead and give you a stack. Give you a stack. Give you a stack. And every person is going to get one of these. Now, some of you are curious, what is this? It's actually a prayer. Prayer? Brent, we're a Baptist. We don't do this rote prayer thing. Oh, I know. I hear ya. I don't either typically. But I want to challenge you tonight. If you sense what God perhaps wants to do in your life, would you join me in this prayer? If tonight you're just sitting there and I'm I mean this in all sincerity and I'm not trying to pick on anybody, if you're just sitting there and you think, Brent, I'm fine, we're fine, everything's fine, our church is fine, we don't need any change Then friend, if that's you, if your family's fine, no one's no one's there's no problems in your life, and you know there's nothing spiritually wrong, then you don't have to pray this. You can just sit there But if in your heart you believe that God wants to do something more, if in your heart you believe like I do that God is perhaps leading you, perhaps to deeper understanding of God's word, and it's leading you, perhaps like me, to Being broken, would you pray this prayer with me? Again, this is something that I honestly have never done. May never do it again But the fact remains, God wants you and I to be broken. I'm going to pray, and I'm going to mean this sincerely, I'm going to pray the non-italicized parts. Can you join me on the italics collectively as a group? This is a corporate prayer of repentance. Would you pray it with me? Oh Lord. In brokenness and humility, we acknowledge our serious condition as individuals, as a church, as believers, and as a nation. God have mercy, forgive, restore, and revive for your great namesake. O Lord, we acknowledge that you are awesome, powerful, faithful, and holy in all that you are and do. You are loving, good, wise, and true. God, have mercy, forgive, restore, and revive for your great namesake. O Lord, you are holy, but we have tolerated impurity in our minds. We have not loved you passionately, but have loved religious actions and externals. More than genuine worship. God have mercy, forgive, restore, and revive for your great namesake. O Lord, we have not listened carefully to your word or loved it as we should. We have not honored it in our personal lives or homes. We have not obeyed the voice of the Holy Spirit in our hearts. We have quenched him often. God, have mercy, forgive, restore, and revive for your great namesake. O Lord, we have not sought you or your kingdom first, but have loved money, power, and materialistic gain. We have not shared our faith as you commanded, but have loved our comfort and acceptance in this world God, have mercy, forgive, restore, and revive for your great namesake. O Lord, we have not lived broken, contrite lives that you asked for, but have lived in our own self-interest, in pride and self-sufficiency. God, have mercy, forgive, restore, and revive for your great names. Oh Lord, we have failed to trust you with our anxieties, to submit to your plan for our lives. To believe and live your promises. We have failed to let the Spirit through the Word rule in our lives and have been filled with fear and care. God have mercy, forgive, restore, and revive for your great namesake. Oh Lord, we have failed in our relationships to faithfully witness of your saving power. We have failed to bring your sufficient grace into every difficult and broken family situation. We have lived for ourselves, not for the edification of others. O Lord, we deserve shame and disgrace, but we plead with you to restore and revive us. For your glory's sake, restore the joy of our salvation. Do not take the candlestick away from our church. Restore our families back to passionately following you. Help us to love you. To you belong the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Now I pray that that just wasn't a reading of some words on a page. I pray that our hearts and lives individually and collectively Would follow the pattern of Daniel and be broken completely. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Again, I know we just prayed corporately. But I do want to ask. I'm going to say, Brent, tonight, this is different, but I do get a sense of what God is doing through this passage in my own life. I'm not what I could be. I'm not what I should be. I'm not broken. I'm not honest at times And I see the issue. Would you pray for me? God spoke. God convicted. Would you lift your hand to that? Amen. Amen. Amen. Hands all across this room. Take some time. Maybe even get that list back out. Now that you've gone through it, while the piano plays, pray it again. Father, work in our hearts. Help us to be broken before you. With heads bowed and eyes closed, remain seated tonight while the piano plays a verse of invitation. You talk to God Pianist is gonna play through another verse. And Pastor will come after that verse. Please bow for prayer. Our Father, we're so grateful that we come together tonight, and we're here because we wanted you to speak to us. And we thank you for the example of Daniel. He was a godly man. He was an old man. He had so much perspective. And when he saw the Word of God and he thought of the history of his people, his heart was broken over the condition of a nation. And his contribution to that, his connection to that. Father, I pray that tonight our hearts will be very tender toward you. that you would speak to us and continue to speak to us, not just in this moment, but that this would begin a work that would continue for you Help us to be a humble people. Help us to know you as you are. Help us to love you and delight in you. Help us to walk soberly before you. Help us to be an expression of your love to the people around us. Help us to be a godly people And I pray for those who are not able to be here tonight. I pray that they would be able to come in contact with this message. Or maybe those who joined us in the live stream, I pray that they would be challenged Challenged by this message, and I pray that you would continue to do a work, not just tonight, but tomorrow, Wednesday night. Help us to be open to what you have for us Just thank you for meeting with us. We know you indwell each of our hearts, but you're working personally, specifically right now in our lives, and we thank you for that. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.