Acts chapter 20, and many of you would know this because this is a familiar passage to perhaps some, but Paul is on his third missionary journey. He's going back through what is Western Turkey He's heading back to Jerusalem. And in many senses, as we read this book, it it seems as though Paul is convinced I'm never going to come back to Ephesus. I'm never going to come back to this area. And perhaps even from what we can see is that he hopes to go to Rome. We see that later, but he believes perhaps that I may go to Jerusalem and die. So here he is, he's on his way back in Acts chapter 20, and look with me what the Bible says in verse number 17. And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church. Now, without a map up here, without putting a map up here for you tonight, Miletus is several miles south of Ephesus. In fact, it's around a bend. that have actually been to that area and Ephesus would have been a major coastal town back in the day. Now it's two miles inland because of the silting up of the river. Miletus likewise used to be right on the coast, and now it's several miles inland because of the silting up of the river. But Paul came to Miletus and he sent for the elders of the church. I don't know why he didn't go there himself. Perhaps he knew that it would cost him a lot of time. Perhaps he was like a dad with his group now because there are several people that are traveling with him. He's like, ah, we're not going to go there because I know if I go there it's going to take too much time and I want to get back on the interstate. But no matter what, Paul is very passionate. He sends for these group of elders and they come. And this is what he says, verse number 18. And when they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know from the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons. Now stop right there and think about how open that statement is. You don't know me incredibly well. You know your pastor better because he's been here over eight years. You know Pastor Josh now for three years. years and obviously they were the year before that. But can you imagine saying that about yourself? You know, you know what manner I have been at all seasons We see later in the passage that Paul had been with them for three years, night and day, constantly. Three years. You spend three years with me, I can tell you you're going to be able to name some faults pretty quickly. You spend three years night and day with somebody, you're going to be able to tell the good, the bad, the ugly pretty quickly, and probably be majoring on the ugly. But here's Paul, he opens himself up and he says, You know what manner I have been with you at all seasons. I want to ask each of us tonight to consider internally. What manner of men and women are we? What's our passions? What moves us? What drives us? What makes us tick? You ever thought about that? I know it's perhaps a deeper existential question about the deeper things, but seriously, what really drives us? And if somebody who knows us well were to put down on paper what really motivates that person, if you had a friend tonight to put down on paper what really motivates that person, what would they say? I am challenged personally, and I believe we have need to be looking at this passage tonight to be challenged individually and even corporately because of what Paul did and how he lived his life and the testimony he stood for. Look what he says there, beginning in verse 19. Serving the Lord with all humility of mind, and with many tears and temptations which befell me by the lying in the weight of the Jews. We see first in this verse his object of service and his ma uh how he served the Lord. He was not serving man He was not serving the pastor. He was not serving his family. He was not serving other, even the meet people he worked with. Though with naturally, when you serve the Lord, you serve those around you because you're serving the Lord. The object of his entire devotion, the object of who he was, what made him tick from the inside out was the fact that he knew one day I'm going to stand accountable to him. He was an apostle whose heart had been set free by the love of God. And on that road to Damascus some decades earlier now, he had surrendered everything, including his self-righteousness, but also his will, everything. And he was transformed by the power of God. The love of God transformed him incredibly. And now he could honestly look at these people that he ministered to for three years, night and day. He helped to establish, to grow this church And he had come back repeatedly, he had written to this church, he's passionate about this church. And he says, I'm serving the Lord Friends, we have to ask ourselves, so what's the object of our service? We know I serve the church, I serve my family by doing this, I serve my my spouse, I serve my kids, I serve my parents, I serve No, no. If your object of service is another individual or entity horizontal, it will eventually fizzle out. Because they don't always recognize you. They don't always pat you on the back. They don't always treat you fairly. I don't have to say this out loud, but do sometimes churches mistreat people It's another trick question. Do sometimes churches mistreat people? Well, I'm done with that. Ah , I can't believe it. Well, if that's your object of service, friends, life's gonna be horrible. You're going to peter out very quickly. And the moment someone doesn't recognize your service around the property or here in the building or with some sort of Sunday school ministry, the moment somebody doesn't recognize, you're going to get a little offended. Well, maybe I should take my skill set in ministry and money somewhere else. But no, no, no. If we're serving the Lord, it's completely different. Paul was motivated not by external focuses. Yes, he saw the great need. He had a passion for his countrymen. He talks about that in the book of Romans. But his object of service was the Lord. Why is it that missionaries, many of whom can go and leave their homeland and spend sometimes decades in lifetime, in fact, die on the foreign field, apart from the comforts of where they grew up? Why is it that they do that? Because they're serving the Lord. There's a lot of other reasons, but they're serving the Lord. And here the Apostle Paul tells us very clearly: the object of my service is the Lord, but he also shows us the method of our service Notice what he says there again in verse 19. Serving the Lord first with all humility of mind. We are so often quick to point to how good we can do something. Uh we we have some success in ministry. You know, we wow that children's church class and then we have them laughing and they leave saying, Mr. Brent, this was the best class ever, and we think, oh, yes. I know because I am the greatest thing gift to this church. And without me, this church really didn't survive and didn't do anything before. No. We're nothing. Have nothing. I'm nothing. Are nothing except for Jesus And so often we think to ourselves that I have something done. No, we we don't. And here's Paul, the Apostle Paul If anybody has the wherewithal on the right to come in and say, Look at me and my way of ministry, it would be Paul. But what did Paul say? I came in with humility I'm serving the Lord with all humility of mind. My method of service, number one, was in humility. I'm not trying to point to myself. I'm not trying to pick myself up. He mentions in Philippians chapter 2 a familiar passage: let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. But in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own thing, but every man also on the things of others. Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. What mind was that? Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man, he emptied himself. Literally. That's the type of service that we're supposed to do. And Paul, what moves and what's motivating Paul is number one, I'm serving the Lord, but I'm doing with humility. But beyond that, look what it says in the middle of the verse. With all humility and with many tears. Tears? R is it is it has it come to that, Paul? Do we actually need to weep over the lost that we're interacting with? We live in such a sanitized generation, and our churches are so stayed today, and I'm not advocating that we change our form of worship. But we live in such a you know formal time period, you know, we come in, we sing, and it's the it's a good song, it's good song, we have this, you know, great, great, perfect, wonderful. But when was the last time we were broken? We talked about it last night briefly, but when was the last time we were broken over the the lost people in our life? When was the last time that you and I drove down the road and we saw the faces of the people passing us? We thought they 're probably not on their way to heaven. When was the last time we drove by something, a big get together or something we saw people? And yes, we have missions emphasis. We have in our own our own home church. This month is our missions emphasis month back at Gospel Light. But when was the last time we were broken? Paul here he says I did with all humility and with tears. And it's not like he could fake his fake these tears. It's not like he could, you know, remember how I cried, haha yeah, I cried. No, they knew because they had been with him for three years. Night and day. Ministry is not just some checklist that we do. Well, I taught this, I taught this, I taught this, I entertained these people, I gave some good advice to these people. Check, check, check, check, check, check Woo, we're good, we're good, churched and done No, no. Paul says, I did it with humility, but I did it with tears. Psalm 126 may be familiar to some of you. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious Seed shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. It's easy to talk about the losses. It's easy to talk about the families who've walked away from church. It's easy to talk about the converts who didn't continue. It's easy to talk about, you know, well, I guess you we're just gonna have to say goodbye. I guess they we just lost that teenager. I guess we just lost that person. I guess, you know, I wish we could have but when was the last time we were genuinely broken over them? When was the last time we saw the multitudes needing a shepherd and we had Christ's compassion on people who are lost? It's not just different perspectives in other denominations and churches. It's not just different viewpoints, though there are those. They are eternally damned because they choose not to believe the true gospel of Christ. Those are harsh words, are those not? But that's exactly the truth. That should break us than it did Paul. He served the Lord with humility and with tears, but it didn't stop there. Look what else the verse says in verse 19. And temptations, which befell me by lying in wait of the Jews. When we face opposition, we very often want to change course, do we not? We face opposition in the workplace or at home or something something happens that we don't like that we're thinking, oh well, you know, let's backpedal, let's regroup, let's make this a little bit more palatable, let's make this easier. And Paul could have very easily, I'm sure he was tempted from time to time to do that. Well, let's just forget this whole thing. I'm just going to stay, keep being a temp maker. We find in other places of Scripture, like 1 and 2 Corinthians, that Paul went through great seasons of personal doubt and questions and problems. He was not immune to this at all. But he says I serve the Lord with humility, I serve the Lord with tears, and I serve the Lord with temptations, problems, issues. It seems like my life, and just this this is just me personally, when difficulties arise, I want to take the easier path. When challenges come, when I'm confronted with problems, when people oppose me, I want to backpedal, I want to you know go retreat into my office and go study some more. I I don't want to I don't want to deal with that. I want to stay away from that as far as possible But Paul said I was constantly being tempted, being antagonized by my own countrymen, the Jews. Now we don't oftentimes have Jews antagonizing us today in the gospel, but we have other people that do. We have co-workers, we have family members, we have many other people, and even this week I've heard some stories about some of your people in your life that are challenging you in the gospel that aren't uh allowing you to live fully it seems like. What do we do? Well we just gotta, you know, gotta pray for them. Let's just not ruffle the feathers. Paul could have said that, but what did he do? I keep going. Yeah, he got chased out of town. He got doors slammed on him. He got rocks thrown at him. He had to spend nights and days shipwrecked. He went through great trials, great hardships. He had to spend hours upon hours upon hours upon hours on his feet walking on these stone roads all across the Roman Empire. But what did he do? He kept going. He kept pressing on. And if we're going to serve Christ, we have to remember we're serving him. Not others. We're doing it with humility. We're doing it with tears. We're doing it with problems. We are going to have people oppose us. Are you okay with that? Yea, all who live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. It's going to happen. Jesus said, the world hated me. So don't be surprised when it hates you. If you follow me, don't think you're gonna be above what the how they treated me. And so often in our Western mentality we've wanted comfortableness. We've wanted, you know, ease. We've wanted, you know Acceptance, adaptability. We don't want to. But wait a minute, what did Jesus say? The gates of hell aren't going to prevail against us. The very world itself is not going to be able to stop with the church, the mission, and the message that the church has It's not going to be easy. Yes, we celebrate the great victories in church history. We celebrate those missionaries. We celebrate those great times of conversion, those seasons where God really worked. We celebrate that. We praise the Lord for that. But many, many, many, many times. Doors get slammed in your face. You get labeled. You get made fun of. You get cast aside and ostracized. And we don't like that. Our flesh Doesn't like that. That's why Paul said, I die daily. I have to die to myself. And you do too. I have to die to what people think of me. Because it's not going to be easy. In my ministry, I've had the privilege and honor of preaching Jesus in many, many, many different contexts. And I have sat on the plane next to atheists who have told me in no uncertain terms, you're an idiot for believing that. And they've done it usually nicely, others have not. I've preached in inner city missions, uh not just Baltimore, but also uh Pittsburgh a few years ago. I was preaching at breakfast chapel. In order to eat breakfast, you had to come to chapel. As you can imagine, it was a very live, attentive crowd. Much like some churches I preach in, not this one. But it was a very live, attentive crowd, very interactive, very enthusiastic. I'm kidding, if you can't tell. Why preach Jesus that he is the way, the truth, the life, that there is no salvation outside of him. Would you think at an inner city rescue mission, a Christian mission, would be a normal message? Well after I finished preaching, I said, I asked, you know, general question, hey, can I pray for anybody? Can I help anybody? Please come talk to me. There's this guy that came walking forward. And I have never, ever in my life heard words mentioned in such horrendous language. I've been to auto fart stores. I've been to ball games. I've you know I've heard sailors. This topped it, and he was directing it all at my wonderful Jesus. I have never forgotten what he says, not that I dwell on it, but I realize Jesus is the dividing person of history. There's no middle ground with him. People hate him. And people hated Paul and they hated Jesus and they hated what he was doing because he was upending their religion. He was upending their paganism. He was telling them, you don't have enough. And the gospel message as it came out, Paul endured lots and lots and lots of issues. Are we willing to? Around the family table, when family members start to bring things up, are we willing to endure some issues and problems because we follow Jesus? Now please don't misunderstand me. I'm not trying to say that all of us should be odious and nasty and mean. No, no, no, no, no. Jesus said very clearly we're supposed to be wise as serpents, harmless as doves, as disciples. But yet we also have to preach Jesus. We have to communicate truth. And if we're not willing to die to ourselves, if we're not willing to endure temptations, if we're not willing to be the brunt of d jokes around the water cooler, so to speak Then friends, we are not following Jesus. We're not following him. We're following whatever idols in our heart of passion or comfort or ease or attainment or or you know acceptable Christianity. We just we don't want to be a full follower of Jesus. That's a little intense. We just want to kind of blend. We want to fit in. We want to be comfortable. Paul said, No, I'm serving the Lord. So we not only see that Paul was serving the Lord, we see how he, secondly, if you're keeping notes or taking notes, he kept nothing back. Verse number 20 it says clearly, and how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and have taught you publicly and from house to house. I've got to be honest, when Paul says, I have cut back nothing , that's convicting to me. He later says that he in those three years shared with him the entire council of God, the whole council of God. I don't think he exposited every passage of the Old Testament and went through every line in detail. I think he gave them every theme that was necessary for life and godliness. But he didn't keep anything back. How often are we tempted to keep things back to make things more palatable? When someone asks us straight up, hey, where you know, if somebody doesn't trust Christ, where where where do you think they wind up for all of eternity? Well, we give the pat soft evangelical answer. Well, we you know I can't be the judge of that, and you can't, you know, I I don't know. I don't well what does the Bible say? What did Jesus say? And again, I'm not advocating that we'd be odious or mean or nasty about it, but in love and in humility, we have to share truth. Paul said, I kept nothing back. He went to those people who were going astray. He warned them. Praise God for godly men and women who are spiritual and who try to restore such a one. Proverbs is clear. Better is an open rebuke than secret love. Praise God for people who sometimes come into my life and say, Hey I don't think you're handling this correctly, Brent. Hey Brent, you're not viewing this correctly. Well, who are you to who That's our typical response, isn't it? Paul kept nothing back. He risked friendships. He risked popularity. He risked it all to put it all on the table. He kept nothing back. This type of life is not easy to live. This type of life takes, yes, discipline and discernment and commitment, but remember you're living for Jesus. That's who we're living for. That's who we're focused on. That's who's going to reward us. That's where we're going. And the Bible clearly says, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness. And Paul did that. He kept nothing back. It didn't matter your your your how much money you had, it didn't matter your influence or your power. And it's hard sometimes. We we like to please people, we like to fit in, we like all those things. And Paul said, I kept nothing back, but notice what it says there. Verse 20 And how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and have taught you. He showed them first of all by his lifestyle. Several decades ago there's this whole movement that said you don't need to actually preach the gospel, you just need to demonstrate the gospel. And there was different advocates of this and they would say different things, but the in essence it was called lifestyle evangelism. You don't need to preach necessarily. need to demonstrate. Well, friends, the Bible is clear. We have to go and tell the gospel. We have to preach Jesus. We have to share it, but we also have to live it. And our message is incredibly more powerful when it comes from a life that is lived that way. And Paul says very clearly in this passage in verse 20: I showed you and I taught you. We're supposed to be rich in good works. James makes it clear that that faith without works is empty. It is nothing. It doesn't mean anything. It doesn't show anything. Well I have faith. No, no. I show people by my faith, by my good works, that I have faith. I demonstrate to others that it doesn't mean I'm saved that way. Faith that is real will work itself out into my life. And Paul said, I showed you that. In fact, listen to what he said elsewhere. In 1 Timothy, he talks about how we're supposed to be rich in good works. 2 Timothy 3, we're supposed to be furnished unto all good works. Titus 2, we're supposed to be zealous of good works. Titus 2, young men are supposed to show a pattern of good works. In Titus 3, we're supposed to maintain good works. Hebrews 10 says we're supposed to provoke others to love and good works. And then Peter talks in 1 Peter chapter 2 that we're supposed to have a conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. Our lives are supposed to match what we speak. Yes, we're supposed to share the gospel, but we're supposed to show people by our life who we are. So let me ask you to consider tonight your life, your your comportment, the way you handle yourself, your your home life, even the way you mow your yard out front if you have a yard Do people see Jesus? By your you know how you you do business, the way you treat coworkers, the way you interact with people Do people see Jesus? He says, I showed you, and then he says, I taught you. He didn't just teach show them, but he also taught them. He says in 2 Corinthians that our gospel, if it's hid, is hid to them that are lost, and whom the God of this world had blinded their minds, which unless they had if they could see, the light of the gospel would open them up. He says, I taught you, and he did it in two ways. He did it publicly, and he did it house-to-house. Well, you know, I I don't want to really share my faith openly. That's not an option, friend. We have to share our faith. We have to. Remember what Jesus told his disciples? Follow me, and I will make you fishers. Yeah. Falling asleep on me. Let's try it again. Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Now think about that. Follow me and I will. It's gonna happen. If you follow me, you will become a fisher of men. Right? Would you agree with that statement? So let's let's reverse it. If you're not fishing for men, you're not following Jesus. Oh, Brent, come on. I got my ministry in the church. No, no, seriously. If we're not fishing for men, we're not following Jesus. And Paul was very clear here. I taught you openly, I taught you publicly, and I taught you house to house. What did he teach them? Look what the Bible says there, beginning in verse number 21. Testifying both to the Jews and also to the Greeks. Now who are those people? Who are the Jews and who are the Greeks? The Jews would be the religious conservatives, the people who are trusting in their good works, the people who are trusting what they could accomplish, the Greeks would be the skeptics. the scoffers, the the you know, I'll tell you what, let's let's hear your s your story, let's hear your opinion. Go ahead, share your version of truth, whatever it is. Huh, no, that's interesting. He taught the people who thought they had it, he taught the people who didn't want it. He taught everybody. Basically you could sum it up. He taught everybody that he came to, Jews and Greeks. Did he give them a different gospel? No, no, he didn't, because look what it says there. Testifying both to the Jews and also to the Greeks. Repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. Repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. This is what Paul taught publicly, house to house. He showed this, he demonstrated it, he taught it. This is what he gave. Repentance toward God, faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me ask you to consider. I know pastors talk about this. We're in agreement here. What is repentance? What is this faith thing? Well, those are your repentance, and they're faith. They're just those words we, you know, you know, repent. I find that a lot of good Christian people believe it but don't completely understand it, and as a result, don't really explain it the best. Now I'm not trying to pick on anybody tonight. I'm not trying to insinuate that you don't understand it or don't explain it the best. But let's just go over this again. I know for many this is review, but what is repentance? What is faith? When I say the word repentance, I do not mean penance. Did any of you grow up in a denomination or group or group or thing that talk about penance where you have to be sorry and you pray and pray through and mourn and be sorry? Did any of you grow up in the Yeah, a couple of you did Sometimes when people use the word repentance, they think about, well, you gotta be really, really sorry, you gotta cry. And if you're not crying, I don't think you're sincere. That's not in the Bible. You won't find that. What is repentance? I also don't mean, well, you've got to stop doing all that sin. Because let's be honest, when you're unsaved, can you actually stop sinning? No, you're dead in sins. You can't. You can try. You can try to turn over a new leaf. Did that ever work when you were unsaved? Did it ever work to try harder, do better? No, it doesn't. Because the Bible says we can't, we are dead in trespasses and sins. So when we say the word repentance, what does that word mean? The Greek word has the underlying realization of stop trusting or change your mind or this Stop believing this way and put your faith in something different. Repentance toward God, faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. There's several phrases that are used throughout Scripture, but one of the ones that I'd love to use is turn to Jesus. What does that mean? It means I was trusting my baptism, I was trusting my good works, I was trusting this, or straight up, I just wasn't believing that. I was believing my own uh understanding, I had my own understanding of truth, which is idolatry, by the way. And I turn from that and I turn to Jesus. What is that? Repentance and faith. To the religious person who's here who maybe this was you, or maybe this still is you. You came in tonight and you're thinking, well, I'm a good person. I live a good life. I do good things. I have good standards. I do this, I do this, I do this, I do this, and I don't do this, this, this, this this this this that's enough for me to get to heaven no no no no one you need to repent of your good works You need to stop trusting your baptism, good church membership, whatever it is. Stop trusting that. And in faith, turn to Jesus Christ. Repentance and faith. Now, friend, I may not use the word repentance in every gospel presentation because it has come with a lot of meaning in our church age. But I preach it every time I preach Jesus. I tell people something like this: you need to stop trusting yourself. What is that? Repentance. And you need to trust Jesus only for your salvation. What is that? Faith. It's you could say, as some authors have said, two sides of the same coin. The gospel coin. Repentance and faith Think about the thief on the cross. What did he do? He prayed the worst salvation prayer ever. Right? He didn't say he was sorry for his sins. He didn't even acknowledge Jesus as the Lord and Savior. What did he say? Remember me when you come into your kingdom. Oh, that's a bad prayer. That's a bad bad. But what was he doing? He's hanging there. I know I'm guilty. I know you're not. I can't. He can. I'm trusting him Repentance and faith. That's what Paul preached. In places that came out, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. What did he mean by believe on the Lord Jesus Christ? It means stop trusting your dead works, your idols. He wrote to the church at Thessaly. He said, you turn to God from idols. That's the essence of repentance and faith. You turn to God from idols. Repentance and faith. That's what Paul preached. That's what Paul hammered. That's what Paul did. day and night for the space of three years, publicly and from house to house, to the Jews, to the Greeks, to the religious, to the unbelievers, to the skeptics, to everybody. Repentance and faith. That's the message that you and I, repentance toward God, faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. That's the message we preach. Repentance and faith. We trust that Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and life. There's many, many illustrations, and all of them fall flat in some ways. But you know one of the best illustrations you have to use is your own personal testimony Paul probably used his eye. He did in fact in places else that we read. He said, I was believing this and I was trusting this and I was going this way. And God confronted me with truth. And he doesn't use the words every time, but this is what he says, repentance and faith. I trusted only Jesus. I trusted Him alone. Jesus That's the gospel. That's what our lives have to be about. That's what our ministries have to be about. That's everything that matters. This may sound a little bit more, but I occasionally enjoy going to cemeteries. Occasionally I preach at little country churches that will have cemeteries behind them. I was up in Pennsylvania a few years ago, and up on the hill behind the church were some revolutionary war veterans buried and Civil War veteran veterans. It was in a little holler up in the middle of nowhere that looks like time had forgotten And there was one little two-lane swiggly road going through following the creek down to the bigger city down there. But I walked through that cemetery, and that was just fascinating to me. to see and to read the inscriptions that some were not readable anymore. Several years ago I took my kids down to Cincinnati and there's a huge Arboretum that's also a famous cemetery down there. It's 800 something acres, hundreds of thousands people buried there. Many famous, famous people are buried there. And as I drove around, as we looked around, there's beautiful, beautiful monuments and and all these big uh obelisks and these big mausoleums. I'm sure 150 years ago when these people were laid to rest. There was huge wagon trains, huge carriages and huge, huge processions coming up from the cathedrals of the city into the cemetery to bury people. But now you look at their names and you go I have no idea who that is. You look at how big their monument and their mausoleum is, and you you obviously know that they had money, or at least their family did. But now I have did they own a business? Did they contribute to society? What do they do? Their names are lost. Dear friend, listen carefully 100 years from now, 100 years, can you imagine it? 100 years from this very minute, where will we be? Lord really in heaven , join God without sin, without the mess of this world. Can I get a witness Amen. Where will your stuff be? I don't care. I joke with people. My clothes are going back to Goodwill one day. I don't care. So often we live our lives for things that don't matter. Hey Paul, what you know, did you invest some money in a Roth or a 401k or you know that four, you know, those special mutual funds that apostles had? No? No. Hey Paul, did you build a house somewhere? Not that we can see. Hey Paul, did you really settle down and you know make provision and you know provide for no, no, no. But aren't you glad he didn't? Aren't you glad he went all out? Now I realize the Apostle Paul was given special grace to be the Apostle Paul. That's not going to be any of us. But I look at his passions. I look at his goals. I look at his purposes. I'm challenged. He served the Lord. He demonstrated publicly, consistently, this is what the gospel is. Repentance toward God, faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. And at the end of the day, that really is the only thing that matters. It does not matter how big of a house you live in. It doesn't matter what kind of car you drive because 25, 30 years from now, it's either going to be pulled apart from parts, it's going to be crushed up, and it's going to be in someone else's car or something. It doesn't matter the type of income you have now because after all with inflation it's not gonna be much anyway in a few more decades. It doesn't matter the size of your bank account because it doesn't g generational wealth is rare. Yeah, we've tried to leave something for our children's children. But I pray I'm leaving faith and a lasting legacy for my children's children more than I am money. What we do with Christ is really what matters. Paul is there and he's writing this passionate letter and he or he's telling this passionate story and he says, you know what manner of man I was. Look with me beginning in verse 22, and I read one read down through the end of the passage, not because I need a time filler, but I want you to see Paul's heart here. And now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me there, say that the Holy Ghost witnesses in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me. But none of these things move me. Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel, the grace of God. And now I behold, I know that ye all among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God shall see my face no more. Wherefore I take you to record this day that I am pure from the blood of all men For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. Take heed therefore unto yourselves and to all the flock that are which uh the over which the Holy Ghost has made you overseers, to feed the church of God which He hath purchased with you. with his own blood. For I know this that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock. Also of your own self shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them. Therefore, watch, and remember that by the space of three years I cease not to warn everyone night and day with tears And now, brethren, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified. I have coveted no man's silver or gold or apparel. Yea, ye yourselves know that these hands have ministered unto my necessities. And to them that were with me. I have showed you all things how that so laboring yet to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said , And when he how he said it's more blessed to give than to receive. And when he has thus spoken, he kneeled down and prayed with them all. They all wept sore and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him, starring most of all for the words which he spake, that they should see his face no more. And they accompanied him. We who have read the book of Acts know the rest of the story that God used Paul for several more years, in fact, perhaps. But if our ministry ended tonight, some of you are still thinking, Brother, I'm not in the ministry. No, no, no, you are in the ministry. 2 Corinthians 4 tells us we have this ministry. If we receive mercy, we're in the ministry. But if our life, if our ministry had to end tonight, what would people say about it? If our life was examined, what if our motives, if our, if our goals We're examined tonight before the throne room of heaven. What are we living for? I'm as guilty as anybody else I like trucks, tools, and guns. But they're not eternal. I like working my hands. I like projects. I like checking boxes off, getting things done, but it's not eternal. Only the word of God and the souls of men are May God help every single one of us. Not just us who are in full-time quote-unquote Christian ministry. May God help every single one of us Re-examine our priorities and our thinking. And re-examine if we're given the gospel, repentance toward God, faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. Can we all bow our head and close our eyes? As we finish tonight in just a few minutes. We're going to have a time of reflection, a time in a few minutes after, just a few minutes where the pianist is going to play just a hymn for us. But before that happens, I want to ask just a few questions. How many would say, Brent, tonight , I gotta be honest. I'm living for things that don't matter. And I know it's important. You've got to live, you've got to drive a car, you've got to work, you've got to save money, all those things are important, but I realize that that shouldn't be the focus of my life. And tonight God convicted me. I realize that my life has not been full of joy. It hasn't been full of peace. It hasn't been what God wants. Because I'm not living the way I should. God challenged me tonight. God convicted me through the Passage, would you be willing to lift your hand to that? God spoke. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. How many say, Brent, I I gotta be honest. As uncomfortable as this makes me feel, I don't give the gospel like I should. Yeah, I just want to be nice. I want to fit in, and for whatever reason, I don't share my faith. I don't share repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ like I should. And tonight God challenged me in that. I don't give the gospel like I should. Would you lift your hand like that? Praise the Lord. Many, many, many hands, mine included How can we say, Brent, I I genuinely want my life to do something. I don't want to be a nameless person in the cemetery. And people may not know me. I may not have my Wikipedia page when I die, but I want to turn people to righteousness. I want my life to actually matter for eternity. God help me. Would you lift your hand if that's you? Me too. Me too. Father, work in our hearts and lives during this invitation as we think and meditate on your word, help us to believe you. Help us to in obedience know that your grace can help us stand in truth. Help us live for what really matters. With heads bowed and eyes closed, the piano is going to play through just one verse of the hymn. While the piano plays, you pray and get things right.