And second Corinthians chapter 3. As we can start tonight, I got a few pictures in just a few minutes, but I want to start by saying thank you. Um many of you have given to our family this week by way of meals. We have eaten too well. And uh we have beaten incredible and thank you so much. It's always great to get come back to anchor and get reacquainted and get to see familiar faces and faces that uh are new faces, and it's great to get to meet the new folks as well. Uh let me ask you to pray for us. I, as I've mentioned already, head to the Philippines on Sunday afternoon. And for the past oh 15, 16 years now, I've been prepared to go to the Philippines 15 times total in total. And typically what we do, you got those first pictures ready? Are we ready? Almost. Okay, I'm going to keep talking. Typically what I do is I do basketball ministry. And I, you know, the Lord put this, you know, this whole thing together. Uh years ago, I started dribbling a basketball, and I'm not that great at basketball, but I'm tall and American and I'm not four foot six, I'm six foot four. And so basically, God put this whole ministry together for Baswamp. Baswell is bigger in the Philippines than it is here. It is huge there And so God allowed this to be used to help young men connect with Bible preaching churches over there. And I've worked with probably forty to fifty different Bible preaching churches over in the Philippines. helping them connect with the youth in their area. And so that's part of it. Recently in the past three, four years, a ministry friend of mine Uh brother Joel Nose and too, Brother Chris Hurst, who pastors north of Antipolo, or excuse me, northeast of Antipolo, up in the hills, he has started a specific outreach for Mahdi Thursday. Now Mahdi Thursday may not mean many things to you, but in the Catholic cultures there's oftentimes a big uh push on Mahdi Thursday before Good Friday because on Good Friday they even say it in their lingo, God's dead. God's dead today, so we don't go outside. Even some of their superstition, they don't do much on Good Friday. But on Thursday night, millions, literally millions, will walk up from Manila to the Cathedral Nantipolo. And it's right there where we're staying, and they'll throw some change in the altar, and they'll cross themselves and they'll walk back. For some it's a definite spiritual thing. They are They're very intent on doing this. They're they're hoping to gain some merit through this. Others it's just cultural. Uh the teenagers they're just hanging out. But they will walk, some of them 10, 15 miles up from uh Metro Manila, up into the hills of Antipolo, and they'll do this. Well, the past several years we've been privileged to hand out John enrollments. And I've been partnering with Chris to do this pack the last couple years. And uh the first year I was working with him, we handed out ten thousand that night. Last year we handed out forty thousand John Aromans. So we're praying that uh there, there we go. You can see see it. There's their copy. Well, we have a container that because of delays and everything is going to be stuck in port, but we still have 80,000 to give. So pray that, you know, I'm praying that God would allow us to get that because that's a specific John Romans for this outreach. that we designed, we had the cover design specifically in Tagallo with a DeGalo English version of it. So pray for that. You can advance one more slide and we'll see what's up there. It may not be on. You think it's on? It's not on. I'm just loud. It's not on. It is now. Okay. There we go. So this was us last year. This was the guys that went with me. And Jackson's there handing out, and this is what we'll do for about seven or eight hours on Thursday. Now Now it's 13 hours, 12 hours ahead of uh Easter time. So when you wake up on this Thursday, so a week from tomorrow, could you pray for our team, the Good News Team? Team. We will be handing out our goal was 100,000 John and Romans. We're partnering with three other churches. We're having a big youth rally that day, and we're going to hopefully get 120 people out handing out John and Romans. So we're we're praying that we can interact with over 100,000 people. Last year we got up 40,000. This year we're praying. We were praying for 100, but it may be closer to 80 because Because of what we the supplies we have, our container didn't come in yet. But pray for us. You can go to the next picture. This is a video. You can kind of see. Do you have a town? Sorry for the video following, yeah. I've never seen so many people in one place in my life. So pray for that. That video was actually taken about 1 a. m. in the morning. So uh yeah. But it will continue all the way till 3 a. m. , 4 a. m. It will kind of taper off. And you pray for pray for uh safety, but also pray for stamina, because I'll be preaching in a youth rally that day, and then we're gonna be ministering, giving the gospel that night. And we're praying that we can connect with thousands, literally thousands of individuals. So would you pray for that? I'd appreciate it. I know in years past that I've been here, I've asked specifically for extra Bibles, and I've taken those to the Philippines. I know many of you have provided extra Bibles that you have in your home that you're not using. using. If you have an extra Bible, my dad is going to be working at the Baltimore Rescue Mission on a mission trip in May, and he would be here to collect those. So if you have extra Bibles, get those to Pastor Joel. And he would gladly get those to my ministry contacts. All my Filipino pastor friends are always asking for Bibles. What do you mean? They use King James. They love the King James Bibles because English is a national language over there, as is the several other main languages as well. So if you have Bibles that you're not using that are just sitting on your shelf, you're not going to throw it away because it's the Bible, but you're not going to use it either. You got another one. And I always tell people, I'm not asking for family heirlooms, I'm not asking for great grandma's Bible that has all the names in it. No, but Bibles that still have life in it that could be useful, especially for pastors. Like I love taking old study Bibles over. Because many pastors I interact with over there only have basically what you have in front of you in the pew Bible. That's all they have. So I love taking old study Bibles over. So if you have any of those Bring those. Uh I was should have made this announcement earlier, but my dad will be here later this um a couple months from now, May. He's actually gonna be staying here at the church. Yes, and then he's gonna be staying with the burks, so pray for the burks too But um yeah but but pray for it pray for that ministry and it's never been our joy to send hymnals bibles over and to help these little churches the Philippines with evangelism through basketball, but also through this big outreach on Mahdi Thursday. So we appreciate your prayers there. Look with me in 2 Corinthians chapter 3 as we get started tonight. It has been a joy to be here. I have enjoyed interacting with your pastoral staff. I enjoyed seeing what God's doing here at Anchor, and I'm thankful for this ministry in this church. 2 Corinthians chapter 3, Paul asked the question beginning in verse 1, do we begin again to commend ourselves, or need we, as some others, epistles of commendation to you or letters of commendation from you? Ye are our epistles written in our hearts, known and read of all men. He is combating some heirs still that are in the Church of Corinth. Church of Corinth is this fascinating church. The Bible archaeology and Bible history record that the church was never big, but it had two of the biggest epistles written to them. Can you imagine getting to heaven one day and meeting some of those first century Christians? from from that era and say, hey, what church did you go to? And they they kind of hang their head a little bit and go, Corinth. Because obviously there's a lot of problems there. There's a lot of issues. I I would hate to be one of the you know I know they're brothers, we're gonna see them, they're brothers and sisters in Christ, but I'd hate to be one of those first century Corinthian Christians that we're going to meet one day. But Paul is addressing many issues here. And he's talking specifically about how this you and I are changed. Because some of these people are starting to think that, well, you know, look at how good I am. Look what I have. Look at you know look what I can accomplish. Look at what I can do. Look at look at my standards. Oh, look how clean I am. Look how well I'm definitely better. And Paul's like, no, you're missing it. You're pointing at the wrong thing. Look down with me what it says beginning in verse 5. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God. He makes it clear right off the bat here that we don't have it. You don't have it. I don't have it. As some of the young people would say, you're not that guy. You don't have it. You're not able to be and do and be changed with what God wants you to be and able and do and change. You can't. And so one of the things we come to as we study this passage is the fact that we don't have the capability to be changed. We are incapable of that. But look what it says beginning in verse number 6. Who also has made us able ministers in the New Testament, not of the letter, but of the Spirit. For the letter carleth, but the Spirit giveth life Well, I pray tonight, and we're gonna ask God's help in our time. Again, I'm gonna ask you, and we haven't done this every night, but I'm gonna ask you to pray quietly. I know it's been a busy week. There's been a lot of things going. Uh I talked to several of you who have had a lot of things happening in your life, and some of you have had major things happen this week. We need God to speak to us. And we would like God to get our attention and speak to us, wouldn't you? So we're going to pray to that end. Say simply something simply like this. God, I need you to help me understand truth. Because my mind is going a bunch of different directions. And if you'll do that honestly, I'm sure God will take his word and help each and every one of us understand it. Will you do that? Father, we need your help. I pray that you'd help us see Paul's heart here again in this passage. And though we may not know it, many of us perhaps have had the wrong view of biblical transformation. Perhaps we are still resting on ourselves in some way. Perhaps we're still resting on what we can accomplish, what we can do, what we bring to the table. Help us to see biblical transformation, what it is and isn't. Help us to see the word and would your word challenge us from within Help me to explain the passage, the context, and even the illusions that Paul uses here correctly. We need you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Paul is here and he's saying exactly that you don't have it, as we saw in verse 5. But we are not sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God, who also has made us able ministers of the New Testament, not of the letter, but of the Spirit. For the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life. What does that mean? What is this letter that he's talking about? What is the letter that kills? He's talking specifically about the Old Testament law. There's a misunderstanding, and I have battled this personally when I was younger, and even in ministry as I preached. People think, well, you know, I can keep the law. No, you can't. Well I've I've kept the I've kept the Ten Commandments. No, you haven't. Because if you stop and think about it, God says no gods before me, but yet every one of us have had idols in our hearts, if nothing else. Well God says, don't take the name of the Lord God in vain. And we have used his name flippantly or irreverently at times, maybe not in cursing, but we've used it flippantly or irreverently. You go down the list and every single one of those, well, Brent, I haven't murdered anybody, but have you had hatred in your heart? If so, you and I have to realize that we can't, and here's what Paul's saying, the spirit of the law is this, the letter of the law is this. You deserve death. You can't keep the law. We can't keep the law. None of us can. Paul makes it abundantly clear over and over again. We can't do it. You ain't got it. I ain't got it. Pardon my southern None of us do. It's Christ working in us, and he's going to go on and explain that. He says we are able minister to the New Testament, not of the letter, but of the Spirit, for the letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life. So, what is the spirit of the law as compared to the letter of the law? The spirit that now works in us is the spirit of Christ. You could go back to Romans 6, 7, and 8, and you could see what Christ is doing in his through you. life. He mentions this oftentimes throughout his epistles that Christ is working in you through the Spirit, and the Spirit takes the word of God and works in us. It's actually incredible. We are not under this letter to do, to perform, to try to keep and be in. No, no, no. We can't. The Old Testament letter kills, but the Spirit gives life. It is a ministry of the new covenant under which sins are forgiven and remembered no more, and people are motivated and enabled by the Spirit to do what the uh you couldn't do under the law. You couldn't achieve it. We still can't keep the Ten Commandments, even as working in ourselves. Well, I can in my own strength. No, you can't. We see also that the ministry of the Spirit is more glorious than the ministry of the law. Notice what it says in verse 7. But if the ministration of death, what is that talking about? That's the Old Testament law specifically. If the ministration of death written and engraved on in stones Now, time out for a second. Is Paul saying that the Old Testament law is bad? No, no, no, he's not. He's not saying that it's bad at all because he says in Romans chapter 7 What shall we say then? Is the law sin? No, God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin but by the law. In Galatians three he says something similar. Is the law against the promises of God? God forbid, for if there had been a law given which could have given life, verily righteousness would have been by the law. He makes it clear over in several passages that the law, keeping the law, being the law, doing the law, cannot save anybody. It can't sanctify anybody. So what was the purpose of it? It was to show us how sinful we are. That's what it did. And that's what it does still today. It shows people how much of the mark, how far off they are. That's the purpose of the law. Look what it says. Again, if the ministration of death, that's the law, written and engraved on stones, was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not steadfastly behold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance, which glory was to be done away, how shall not the ministration of the Spirit be rather glorious? Now I know there's some perhaps obtuse language in this passage. And I I'm not going to be able to do justice to the entirety of this passage, but here's Paul's argument. If the ministry of the law was incredible back into the Old Testament, so much so that when Moses went up To talk with God that second time? What happened when he came down? Do you remember? Yeah, he had to put a veil on his face. And the Bible records, and I didn't bring a veil, but I did bring a t-shirt. The Bible records that Moses had to put a veil over his face and he wouldn't talk to them except without the veil. And I know what some of you are thinking right now, Brent, you haven't looked so good at all this week. This is the best you've looked. Because Moses had this veil and he couldn't talk with the people because the people couldn't handle it. They said, oh no, no, no, no, we can't handle it. And Paul's going to talk about that in a second. When God when Paul excuse me, when Moses talked to God, he would take the veil off, but when he talked to the people, he had the veil up. And Paul uses that analogy from Exodus 34. Keep that in mind. He uses that analogy saying, hey. We are so much better now. Because if that was incredible of God if Moses saw the glory of God and God was in that and giving the law, how much better is it that you and I now are ministering in the Spirit, that we have the new covenant, that we have this New Testament, that we are ministers in the New Testament. Did you do you see the language there back in verse number six? Who's made us able ministers of the new New Testament? I'm not a minister, Brent. Yeah, yeah, you are. The ministry of the New Testament is the fact that Christ is in you, that Jeremiah 31 is being fulfilled, that he's writing his law on our heart. And that as Moses couldn't talk to people because that was glorious. Now we are even, it's even being more incredible, Paul's saying This is better. Because we can interact directly with the Holy God through Jesus Christ, something that the Old Testament saints couldn't do. We can go to the throne room and obtain grace and mercy and help in time of need. This is incredible. And for the people that Paul is writing to, he's trying to get them to understand the law had its place, but it can't save, it can't sanctify. It showed them how exceedingly sinful they are. Notice what it says there again in your text. Look down with me, uh verse number ten. For even that which was made glorious had no glory in this respect by reason of the glory that excelleth. What is that saying? The glory that Moses experienced was temporary. We saw that back in verse number 7. It was done away. I wonder how quickly the glory faded from Moses' face. You ever wonder that? He came down from the mountain and the people couldn't handle it. Oh, put no put up the veil, put the veil up, and Moses put the veil over his face. But I wonder if the next time he got frustrated with his wife, if the glory faded a little bit more. And you know, the next time he got frustrated with the people, if the glory faded further. I don't know. The Bible doesn't tell us specifically, but I'm sure there came a time when the people couldn't discern and just they just went on with normal. But Paul is saying, hey, the glory faded back then. But now it doesn't fade because God lives inside of you and he is eternal. His glory is within us. And he's making this huge distinction between the Old Testament and the New Testament and saying and telling us exactly what the purpose of the law was and what the purpose of the law not was. And obviously I'm not doing it justice tonight. We could spend weeks studying upon that distinction. But Paul's making it clear here. Hey, what we have now is incredible. The ministry of righteousness is more glorious than the ministry of condemnation. And this permanent ministry is more glorious than that which fades away. We see that in verses ten and eleven. For verse number 11, for that which is done away was glorious, much more that which remaineth is glorious. So what we have now in Jesus is absolutely incredible. And Paul uses this analogy of Moses in the wilderness. He uses that to get his readers' attention. So what is this new covenant? Well we see several things that this new covenant gives us. And first we see it in verse number twelve, it gives us boldness. Seeing then that we have such hope, we use great plainness of speech. And not as Moses which put a veil over his face, that the children of Israel could not steadfastly look to the end of that which was abolished. But their minds were blinded, for until this day remaineth the same veil untaken away in the reading of the Old Testament, which veil is done away in Christ. So what is he saying? I realize that the language here may be a little bit uh challenging to understand. At an initial reading, it takes a little bit in it, it takes a little bit to get used to. But I say, hey, we have boldness. We have such hope. We're not like Moses who had to keep a veil up. No, no, no. Moses, he when he talked with God, would take the veil down, but when he talked with the people, he had to keep the veil up. No, no, no. We don't have the veil in front of us Do you remember what happened the day of the crucifixion when Christ said it is finished? What happened in the temple? The veil ripped. Wow. He said it is finished. And the veil ripped top from bottom in that sacred place that the religious people were keeping from everybody else, God said it's open wide to who all may enter in. If you'll believe, you can have the ministry of the new covenant living within you. You can have Christ himself. You can go to the very throne room to obtain grace and mercy to help in time of need. Now, now let's let's just back up and just talk about this for a second. Many of us, myself included, have gotten used to it. You know, if you ever try to go, you know, 45, 50 miles that way. To Pennsylvania Avenue to go to this big white stone structure, and you're going to walk in the door and you're going to try to get an audience with a certain person, you're not going to be able to do it, are you? No matter how hard, no matter how genuine, no matter how sincere, you're not getting in, are you? Even if you voted for the individual that's in the office at the time, you're still not getting in. But do you know that today I got to interact with the supreme deity of the universe? I got to go to the very throne room and find grace for me and even obtain help for others. That's incredible. I come not on my own merit, not on what I can accomplish, not on how good I am or how what I No, I come because of what Jesus Christ did for me. I come based on what Romans 8 says about me. I come based on who he is and what he says. I am a son. I'm a joint heir with Christ, Romans 8 says. Wow, that gives me access. That gives me position. And that's what Paul is saying. Hey, some of you are pointing to what you can do. You're pointing to how you keep this and don't keep this and you keep the law and you're missing it What you're doing, he's in effect saying is you've got the veil of religion up. And the Jews, even unto this day, this very day specifically, even 2,000 years after Paul wrote that, still have the veil of religion up. They're looking at religion as the proof and they have the veil and the veil is up and they can't see the relationship that they could have with their Jehovah God through Jesus Christ their Messiah. Because they have the veil up, they're pointing to how good they are, they're pointing to what they do and don't do, and they they have the veil up, and that is what religion has done through the centuries. It has veiled people from the truth. Paul uses the analogy of the veil, and he says that veil is done away in Christ. Yet so many times God's people, myself included, go back to putting the veil up in our lives. How do we do that, Brent? How do you put a veil up? We point to what we're doing, we point to our religion, we we rest on what we can accomplish, we rest on our morals, we rest on this, we rest on this, and we don't walk with Jesus. What is that? That is taking the stinky, this is a cleaner t-shirt, that is taking the stinky veil of religion and is putting it in front and saying, I'm good, I'm good, and we look left, right. And we're not looking at God because we have the veil of religion up, and we're looking left, right, we're comparing ourselves among ourselves, which those who compare themselves among themselves are not are not wise. Paul's being very specific here. Corinthians, you think you've got it. You're requesting me to write you letters. And what are you doing? No, Corinthians, you don't have it. You never had it. You can't be a good Christian. You can't live the Christian life. Well, Brent, I can live the Christian life. I do a pretty good job. No, you can't Uh uh I've said this here before, but you know what the Bible says, husbands love your wives. I love my wife as Christ loved the church. Uh-oh. I'm in trouble. I can't. You go down through the New Testament, and here's the honest truth: You can't do it Well that's encouraging, Brent. I'm glad I came to Wednesday night service to hear that. I can't. Because you were never intended to. It's just Jesus working through you. And it's religion that puts the veil up and says, I'm good. I'm good. I'm looking aside. I'm looking around. I'm looking at how good I am. That's the veil of religion. And Paul's very clear. No, no, no. That's not the New Covenant, that's not the New Testament, that's not what we're here for. We get to look full in the light of Jesus. We can come boldly before Him. And religion veils. Relationship opens the way, relationship opens the door. That's what Paul's saying. There's boldness. Not like the Jews who, even till this day, there's blindness over their heart. Because when they're reading the law, there's still blindness. There's still the veil, which veil is taken away in Christ. We see another thing that this incredible covenant does. Look down with me when it says in verse number uh 17. Look at verse 17. Do you know that there's less light down here than there is up there? And yes, I almost had to grab my glasses tonight, but I'm trying not to. Look at verse 17. Now the Lord is that spirit. And where the spirit of the Lord is, there is what? Liberty? Brent, are we talking about the same Christian life? Because when I think about the Christian life, all I think is can't, can't, can't, don't, don't, don't, try, try, try If that's your view of the Christian life, can I just very politely tell you, friend, you're sadly, woefully mistaken? Because here's the view of the Christian life that Paul sang. And Paul should know because he's writing under inspiration, he figured this out because he came from bondage. This is where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. Wait a minute, Brent. Wait, wait, wait. Are you going to be one of those preachers that teaches I can do anything I want? No, no, no, no, no. The grace of God that saves me teaches me what not to do and how to live my life according to Titus 2. That we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. That we should deny ungodliness and worldly lust. The grace of God that saves me is what actually Points the way, the grace of God that saves me of what actually gives me liberty. You know, when you look at religion, and I'm not gonna pick on people tonight because there's good people who are very confused. There's people who are right in the gospel but wrong in this religion versus uh morality standard. Because they're they're pointing at how good they are, how tight they are, how you know we're gonna take it to the right, we're gonna We're going to be tighter, we're going to be more strong, we're going to be more moral, we're going to try this. And what are they doing? They're taking the relationship aspect away and they're putting the veil of religion up. And they're saying, I'm good, I'm better, I'm more holy than this, and they're looking left, right? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's not liberating. That is enslaving, that's in bondage, that that destroys the spirit, because here's what happens. When you're in that type of, well, you know, look at this, oh look at the look at this group over here, and they t they have their you know principles and their rules and their lists and Wow, they these folks look good. Well well yeah, I'm gonna fit in here and then oh well look at this group over here. I'm gonna oh look at this congregation. Oh man, this is encouraging. I'm gonna try to what should I do? Okay, okay. And you're not looking to Jesus, are you? You're looking to others. You, as Paul says in Galatians 2, are frustrating the grace of God. And it is so, so, so frustrating. I've said this here before, but you've probably seen this as well. Why is it that so many conservative homeschool families, which by the way, our family is one? Why is it that so many conservative homeschool families, the kids all look great, wonderful, beautiful, perfect, you know, orderly when they're teenagers, but as soon as they turn 18, 19, 20, they look like, you know, Abercrombie and Fitch models. Why is that? Because oftentimes God's people are frustrating grace. They're trying to, they got the veil of religion. Up and they're looking left-right, and there's no liberty there. There's no liberty. So, what is this liberty? The liberty that the Christian life is all about is the fact that we take the veil of religion down. We look into the law of liberty, Jesus himself being there as the word. We have a relationship with him and I'm not enslaved to this group. I'm not enslaved to this people's standards. I'm not enslaved. Does that mean you live any way you want? No, it means that he Controls me. He loves me. I'm a bond slave to him. That's the Christian life. And that's completely different than a lot of people think. Well, you can't do this, can't do this, got to do this. Look at this group. And this group says this, and pastor said this, and the doctor so-and-so said this, and this group said this. That is not liberating. Some of you have lived there, perhaps even now are living there. That's not liberating. Liberty, true liberty, is when you know that God loves me. He died for me. He paid for me. He calls me to holiness. He calls me to walk with him. And I will stand before him and him only based on what and how I live my life. Whew! That's exciting. That's liberating. And some of you need to take the veil of religion down because you don't have liberty You're in bondage to what people say and think and you know gotta keep this standard, gotta keep am I against standards, or am I against morality? No, no, no, no, no. Grace motivates us to holiness every time. If we're not moving toward holiness of God, we're not moving and living in grace. But there's liberty. Okay, we have 15 minutes left. I want you to see this final verse here, verse 18. This is actually where we're going to spend the most time. Lord welling. But we all, with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image, from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. There's so much in this verse. This verse is in the past few months has come to mean so much to me because this in essence is the summary of what Paul's getting at here. What is biblical transformation? Well, let me tell you two things that it's not, first of all. If you're taking notes, I'll tell you two things it's not, but then we're going to look at several things that biblical transformation. Is. Biblical transformation is not self-transformation. Well, I need to try harder. I need to turn over new leaks. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Could you even try harder? Could you even turn from your sin when you're unsaved? No. You're dead in it. What makes you think now that you have something that well I'm a Christian now, so I can No, no, no. It's grace. It's God working in me. It's God who's changing me because I've come to the realization, the strong realization, I can't change myself. But I can yield to him who can change me. I can trust him, and he's given me the grace to obey the truth of God's word. I can't change. me. I've tried. And if I can't change me, I know I definitely can't change my spouse or my kids or any of that. I I I can't. I can't change the people I preach to or minister to. I can't So it's not self-transformation because that doesn't, because remember look back at verse number six. The letter kills. The letter doesn't produce anything. It kills. The letter destroys. Nor is biblical transformation doing nothing. Well, I'm just gonna let go and do nothing. No. No, no. Every behind every command of Scripture there is the understanding that there's God's grace there to obey it. Well, I don't know if I can't. God's grace, if he says you can, then that means you can't. Because he's given you the ability, the enablement to do what he's called you to do. Husbands, he's given you the ability to love your wife as Christ loved the church. You can't do it on your own, but God can help you do it through as you walk through him. So what is biblical transformation? Several truths I want you to see tonight. Number one, it is an expected change. It's an expected change. Notice again verse 18. But we all. Biblical transformation is expected for all of God's children. It's not just the pastoral team. It's not just the missionaries who surrender. It's not just those young people who make decisions at Bible camp. Biblical transformation is expected for every single one of God's children, but we all, not just some, not just a group. No, no, no. We all. It's sad when kids don't grow because we expect them to grow. Believers not growing is not normal. We're supposed to be changed. We're supposed to be transformed. But we all. Number two, if you're taking notes It's a confronting change. Notice again what it says. But we all with open faith. Again, Paul brings back this analogy from Moses. He brings back in this veil motif and he brings it back into the passage. He says it's an open faith. It's not this veiled approach. Because remember, veiled in this passage represents dead religion that cannot change, that cannot do anything. It's not this veil thing. No, no, no. Paul says it's it's an open change. We've taken and we've put in the veil down. We're not thrusting in some sort of religious. No, no, no. We're looking at Jesus. We're walking in the light as he is the light. As we do that, we are changed. It's an open change. It's a confronting change, we could say. Moses was veiled, but we are open. We have an open face. The most radical thing you can do with your life. There's there's perhaps some young adults here, teenagers here, you're you're creating a bucket list. Maybe mentally, maybe even on you know in some sort of notebook you have this thing, I want to do this, I want to do this. I don't want to go skydiving. I haven't can't say I've ever wanted to jump out of a perfect good airplane. I want to do this. I want to see this. I want to see this. And I'll tell you one thing. The most radical thing you can do with your life is walk with Jesus. The most fulfilling thing you will do with your life is walk with Him. We all, notice what again it says in verse 18. We all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord. Number three, it's a mirror change He says here, beholding as in a glass. What's that talking about? It's talking about a smooth piece of glass to be polished smooth, and you see an image in there. It's a mirror change. We understand looking in the mirror. I would assume that most everybody in the room tonight looked into a mirror at some point today. Some of you for several minutes longer than others of us in the room Today. And I won't judge who looked in the mirror for how long. But all of us look in a mirror. We know what it's like to look into a mirror, right That's what looking and that's what biblical transformation is. It's looking into the mirror of God's word. James 1 talks about the perfect law of liberty. If you look therein and you're not a forgetful hearer, you're going to be blessed in your deeds. But if you look and see the issue, the problem, the difficulty, the changes that need to be made, if you look into the mirror of God's word and you see the problems and you don't do anything about it, was it really profitable to look in the mirror? No, thou's a forgetful hearer. But he that looketh in the perfect law of liberty and continueth therein, not forgetting what person he is, that's the person who's going to be blessed in his deeds, James says. Number four, it's a glorious change. Notice what it says again in verse 18. But we all with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord. The glory that is reflected in Jesus is what we see. When you and I look into the mirror, we see Jesus. When we look into the mirror of God's word, we see Jesus, his glory reflected, we see his attributes, his person, we see God Himself reflected. And I've been privileged this past week. I've been reading in the Psalms in 2 Samuel. Wow, I see God's working, and I see God's character, I see God's goodness, I see God's justice. And as you walk with God, as you look into the perfect law of liberty, you see that mirror, that glory of the Lord that's coming out of the mirror of God's word. And you're like, whoa, it's a glorious change. Number five, if you're taking notes, it's an admiring change. Notice again what it says. But we all with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord. So not only is it glorious, but it's an admirational change. We look and we interact with this person, this entity that we admire. Let me ask you to consider this. Have you ever been with somebody that you deeply admire? Perhaps a ministry individual, perhaps a person that you love dearly, perhaps a person that you don't get to spend a lot of time with, but that you respect immensely. Perhaps that individual's already gone on to glory. Perhaps they're a family member. You cherish those times that you got to talk with them and interact with them, don't you? Well, that's what it's like when you and I walk with God. When we look into the perfect law of liberty and we don't just read the Bible to check it off because that's just religion. And we don't just do this list to do it because, you know, that's what we're supposed to do because I'm a good Christian. I read my Bible and pray for five minutes. No more, but five minutes. No, no, no. When we actually admire who God is. When we stand there in awe and think about what the text is actually saying to us and think about who God is and what he's doing and what he's done and how he's working in our life and how he's changing and how he's good and he's perfect and he's lovely and he's wonderful. Whoa, it's an admiring change. We behold the glory of the Lord, we stand there in awe. Number six, if you're taking notes, it's a relational change. Again, we love and we know what it's like to have godly friends. I'm thankful for the men and women in my life that God has put there that challenged me, that uplifted me, that I'm able to talk to once in a while. Not often, not every day. I'm able to interact with it that I I come away and I think, wow, that's that's that's right, that's good That's truth. I need that. Every single one of us need individuals like that. Men and women who perhaps are in our same life age, life stage, but also people who are above us who we can look to and we can interact and we can have questions. In our church, I'm thankful that we have a retired pastor who walked with God for almost 50 years and pastored little churches out west, and now he's in our home church, and he's such a wealth of information and blessing for my wife and I. I love that. But even on a more real note, what Paul is saying here, we all with open face, beholding as in the glass the glory of the Lord are changed. It's a relational change. We're beholding his glory. We're knowing him. We're enjoying him. We're walking with him. We're enjoying him as we will forever. And as we do that on a daily basis when we open the world, you know open the word, the Bible is clear that it's a relational change that changes us. David understood this. Listen to Psalm 27:4. One thing have I desired of the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple. Wait a minute. David was a man that at the time was under the law, wasn't he? But you don't find in his writings, I keep the law, I'm working at my own due. No. He had a relationship with God that was incredible, that motivated him to be incredible. Number seven, it's a passive change Notice the tense of the word change there. But we all with open face, beholding as in a glass, the glory of the Lord, are changed. It's not you changing, it's not me changing. I'll never forget my freshman year of Bible college. I would hear a message upon what God was doing in my life of let's say a fruit of the spirit. And I would hear a message about this and I look in my life and say, oh it's not there. And I get so frustrated. And then I look around and see some of my friends had that fruit. I'm like, ah, getting even more frustrated. What is that? That's the works of the flesh. Finally, in desperation, I just gave up and said, I'm gonna stop doing all this mess. I'm just gonna I'm just gonna pray and read my Bible and walk with God. And if He changes me, He does. Ding A few weeks later I looked in my life and there's some fruit starting to grow there. Who put that there? It's God. Changing me. Because I already I've already come to this. Remember back in verse 5? Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God. I don't have it, you don't have it, I can't But God can. It is a passive change. Not that you and I aren't doing anything, but it's God changing us. It's Him doing the work. Because after all, I've said this here before, I know, but what is it? It's the fruit of the Oh, you mean it's not the fruit of my standards? You mean it's not the fruit of our Christian convictions and our morality and our our family, you know? No. That's the fruit of him working in me. And as I yield my vessel to do to allow him to change me, he changes me. Because I I I fully admit, and Paul is very clear here, I can't. You can't either. We're broken. It's Jesus. Living in and through me. So Paul says in Galatians 2, the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. I do not frustrate the grace of God for if righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. It's Christ who's living in me. It's Christ who's doing it. It's a passive change, number eight, if you're taking notes, it's a radical change. The word there changed in verse number 18 is the Greek word metamorphosiso. What does that sound like in English? Metamorphosis. What little creature goes to a metamorphosis? Butterfly. Now if I was from a different planet and I just landed today and you showed me a little slimy caterpillar that eats those leaves, And you tell me, though, okay, in a few weeks this is going to be that beautiful butterfly or moth that flies around and just is enchanting. I mean just gorgeous creatures that, you know, can fly and just look like they just glide to the air. I would look at you and say, uh-uh, you're lying. No way. But you've seen the slow-mo videos on YouTube of how they change and they metamorphosize. They spin their little cocoon and then they pop out 10, 15, 20, 20, 30 days later sometimes. Sometimes it's shorter, sometimes it's longer. And there's a This incredible creature. Would you say that's an incredible change? Absolutely. That's the same word that is used here in this passage. It's an incredible change. It's a miraculous change. It's a radical change. Uh we see just day by day, sometimes we don't see the change, but if you stop and back up and you think, well, yeah, I used to think this. I used to be I used to do that. Oh, and I don't do that. I don't even have the desire. I don't even have the appetite for that. God's working. God's doing a radical transformation process in every single one of us. Number nine, it's a Christ-like change. Notice how Paul describes this change. But we all with open face beholding in the glass the glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory. Same image. What image are we looking at? When you look in the mirror of God's word, you're not looking at a better you. That's humanism. When you look at the mirror of God's word, you're looking at Jesus Himself. That's the image we're looking at. God's not making you and I into a better version of me. No, he's turning us into Jesus. He's making us into the image of his dear son. Not that we're going to be perfect, not that we're going to be deity, not at all. But we are becoming more and more like Jesus. We are becoming like him. Romans 9 29, for whom he did for know, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. God is changing you and I into truth, grace, mercy, love, and compassion. That's who Jesus is. It's a radical Christ-like change. Number 10, it's a progressive change. Change in the same image. Look at what it says they're almost done from glory to glory. Romans 1 talks about the fact that there's this process of time called faith to faith, the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it's written, the just shall live by faith. It's a progressive change where God is taking us from one plateau of truth, and as we submit to him, he's taking us to the next and to the next and to the next. How many of you can remember back 10, 15, 20 years ago to a point in your Christian life and you can still remember how you thought or how you viewed things. Yeah, I can. And now you look at where you're at now and say, oh man, I I had no idea And now I view this and I see how God has been faithful and I've been doing this. Oh wow, this that's what God's doing. From glory to glory, from faith to faith. It's a progressive change that He's taking and as we yield, as we obey, He gives us the grace, and He's the one who's radically changing us. Taking us closer to making us more like the image of a son. But look what it says there. Even as by the Spirit of the Lord. Number 11, it's God changing us. It's God doing it. It's God's work of sanctification. I battle this consistently in my own life. Where I want to fit in, I want to be, yeah, I want to, you know, make my family or make myself look good. So what do I do? I turn to religion, I put the veil up, and I don't walk in the light. And then I wonder why there's frustration and problems, and I'm stunting spiritual growth. This is why individuals can be faithful in a Bible-preaching church for decades. And still not grow the way they want to, because what are they doing? They have the veil of religion up over and they're looking at this way and that way, and they're thinking to themselves, well, I'm pretty good. I, you know, I'm maybe not the best. I'm not one of these spiritual giants, but I'm I'm better than some of these people. No, no, no, no, no. You're not walking in the light. You put the veil down, walk with Jesus, and you will see what God does in your heart and light. The heart and life he changes you I mentioned this quote a few nights ago. But centuries ago a preacher and theologian said, Thou hast made us for yourself, O Lord, and our heart is restless until it rests in you. God has made us for one purpose: knowing Him, walking with Him, enjoying Him And if we're trying to short circuit this sanctification process by, you know, or if we're trying to stall it out just to try to fit in by putting the veil up. Then we are killing what God made us for. There's not liberty there. We're in bondage to what others think of us. We're in bondage to what others are trying to, you know, their standards, their morality. No, no, no. We walk in the light. Every one of us will stand accountable to God. So we walk in truth, we walk in light, we pursue Him. And as we pursue Him, He changes us from the inside out. That's biblical transformation. That's what you and I were made for. So a couple questions, we're done. We're three minutes past the top of the hour. Are you letting God transfer Or do you have the veil of religion up? Are you content to fit in with what others say or you know fit into No, no, no, put put religion down. No. Walk in the light. Well, Brent, I don't know. That may make us a little bit I don't know of I'm I'm used to having standards and all these rules and make Friend, please hear me out. I'm not advocating for a let-loose approach, no. But as you walk in the light, God will produce the holiness of passion. He'll write his laws on your heart, Jeremiah says. And you won't need people enforcing externals behind you because you'll naturally do the will of God from the heart. And as you're doing that, God will change you to make you more like the image of Jesus. Wow. So my final question is this. It doesn't happen outside of the Word of God. It doesn't. Are you Walking in truth. Are you living in the book? Are you enjoying God alone? I don't understand everything I read. Join the club, me neither. Your pastor has a bunch of degrees. I'm sure he could give you an answer or something. But none of us have all the answers. Every day. I put little notes in my Bible saying, question mark, question mark, what does that mean? I don't doubt the veracity or the validity of God's word I just come to a firm understanding. I don't understand it all. But I want to. And I study and I read and I come back to it. And sometimes I come back and understand it. I I but I'm interacting with truth. I'm interacting with him. I'm standing amazed at who he is, what he does, and how he works, and I see his plan through the ages, and I I see how little I trust him so oftentimes. That's The path to biblical transformation. Not checking boxes. Well today I read a chapter. Okay, check good. I'm a good Christian. No, that's the veil. You get the veil of religion up. Know Jesus. Walk with him in truth. It will change your life guaranteed. Can we all bow our head and close our eyes as we finish? Thank you for your patience and your time tonight. Final night. How many would say, Brent, tonight? I gotta confess, I've had some wrong understanding of transformation. The Lord, through the Holy Spirit, through the Word of God, showed me I have been thinking about biblical transformation. God challenged me tonight in my biblical understanding of how I'm changed. Would you lift your hand to that? God challenge me. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. How am I going to say, Brent, I've been checking boxes off. I've been going through the motions. I'm here sometimes too. Brent, I've been checking boxes off. It has not been a relationship. And I see the fault in that. I see the problem. I see the emptiness in that. Would you pray for me? Would you lift your hand? I've just been checking boxes. Yeah. Praise the Lord. I see the hands. My hand goes up too sometimes. How many say, Brent? I I I've had the veil up. Up. And I know this is going to take a while to unpack, but I I don't think I'm walking in the light because I'm looking side to side. I'm content with religion, not the relationship that God has for me. God tonight reminded me, he opened my eyes, he challenged me, he spoke to me. Would you honestly and humbly just admit to that? Lift your hand, I'll pray for you. God spoke. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. How can we say, Brent, I genuinely do want to have an incredible life Changing time with God. And I genuinely do want to know Him. Tonight, God encouraged me. God gently again drew me back to Himself. And reminding me what the purposes of reading and studying and praying are. God again encouraged me tonight to know him, to walk with him, to have that relationship. Would you lift your hand? Praise the Lord. Me too. Father, work in our hearts as the piano plays in a minute. Help us to do business with truth. Help us to Be biblically transformed. For anybody keeping the veil up, help them to see the emptiness, the frustration, the lack of liberty. I pray you help us all to walk in the light. As you are in the light, to enjoy that liberty, to enjoy that transformation, to enjoy the only thing that can truly satisfy us: walking with you With heads bowed and eyes closed, tonight as the piano plays, if God has spoken, if you raise your hand, there's many. Take a few minutes as the piano plays. Meditate, think, confess, pray, and talk to the one who loves you immensely.