A homily preached by the Rev. Diane Teichert Paint Branch Unitarian Universalist Church December 5, 2010

The choir’s delightful songs today mostly are about and evoke one of the most pleasant aspects of the “holiday season” that is now upon us. I refer, of course, to making merry with family and/or friends.  What tradition timed with the winter solstice does not include some or all of the convivial activities? Visiting, singing, eating, candle‐light, fire‐light, telling stories, being of good cheer together, keeping each other warm, going out in the cold to other houses to bring in our warmth and light?

Here in the northern hemisphere, this is the time!  “Season’s Greetings,” we say as we enter each other’s homes, ever respectful of the mix of traditions that make the “holiday season” in the United States so rich. Season’s Greetings!

Given the light‐hearted quality of our music today, I didn’t want to go all heavy on you in my homily.  What new is there to say about holiday parties such as the one we will have here this coming Friday night at which we will sing carols, make ornaments, decorate the tree and share ideas on how to simplify the holidays?

What new is there to say about Holiday Open Houses (why is it that both of my our invitations are for the same afternoon?) and similar traditions like Sinck Tuck among the Eskimos, Wassailing in England, Los Posados in Mexico, and so on?

Usually in December, I preach about the long, dark night and how we ought to treasure it for these few months, rather than blast it away, as if we are afraid of it, with energy‐consuming strings of lights on our houses and bushes, lighted inflatables on our lawns, floodlights shining on our holiday‐decked front doors. But, that’s a downer for those of us who love seeing Christmas lights as I even do.

Usually in December, I preach about the true messages of Christmas, which are the teachings of Jesus.  He said he was anointed to “bring good news to the poor, to proclaim release to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to let the oppressed go free…” But, that’s not light fare.

Usually in December, I preach about the gifts of the spirit being more important than gifts that are things, and how our presence is more important than our presents to those we love. But, that’s getting deep.

Sometimes in December, but usually not until Christmas Eve, I preach about the Christmas Story, about how Mary and Joseph traveled to Bethlehem because

Caesar Augustus wanted them to sign up to be taxed, and so on.

Speaking of taxes, besides being the holiday season, this is the season for talking about taxes on Capitol Hill and whether or not to raise them and if so on whom, and I’d like to observe that the purpose of taxation is to enable us to do together what we cannot do alone and to especially provide for the least well off among us, whose lives are inextricably connected with our own.

I personally would prefer to pay more taxes for jobs programs, better and equal public schools and universities, efficient public transportation, safer communities, single‐payer health care, maternity and paternity leave, and the other benefits enjoyed in other developed countries, where the taxation system doesn’t benefit the rich as much as ours does and will if the talk on the Hill is predictive.

But, that’s downright provocative!

So, I return to the light‐hearted spirit of our choral music today, looking not for something new to say, but rather something heart‐warming, encouraging, somewhat familiar. Something that lifts up the conviviality possible among us in the next month or celebrates its gifts of the spirit. Something not much more than

“Season’s Greetings!”

I found it in these words by a now retired colleague and friend, Dick Fewkes, who long and faithfully served our Norwell, Massachusetts congregation:

“May each of us find the epiphanies we seek,  whether early or late, in life or in death; in Jesus, in space, in stars, in the human embrace;  in dark‐night, day‐light, in close encounters of every kind;  in the peace of silence and the music of the spheres; in pain and in  joy, in laugher and in tears, in moments and months, in days beyond years. “

Season’s Greetings!