A sermon for Paint Branch Unitarian Universalist Church, Adelphi, Maryland Easter Sunday, April 16, 2017 The Rev. Evan Keely, Interim Minister

Early on Sunday morning, while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb and saw that the stone had been taken away from the entrance. She went running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and told them, “They have taken the Lord from the tomb, and we don’t know where they have put him!”

Then Peter and the other disciple went to the tomb. The two of them were running, but the other disciple ran faster than Peter and reached the tomb first. He bent over and saw the linen cloths, but he did not go in. Behind him came Simon Peter, and he went straight into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there and the cloth which had been around Jesus’ head. It was not lying with the linen cloths but was rolled up by itself. Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in; he saw and believed. (They still did not understand the scripture which said that he must rise from death.) Then the disciples went back home.

Mary stood crying outside the tomb. While she was still crying, she bent over and looked in the tomb and saw two angels there dressed in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had been, one at the head and the other at the feet.

“Woman, why are you crying?” they asked her. She answered, “They have taken my Lord away, and I do not know where they have put him!” Then she turned around and saw Jesus standing there; but she did not know that it was Jesus. “Woman,

why are you crying?” Jesus asked her. “Who is it that you are looking for?” She thought he was the gardener, so she said to him, “If you took him away, sir, tell me where you have put him, and I will go and get him.”

Jesus said to her, “Mary!” She turned toward him and said in Hebrew, “Rabboni!” (This means “Teacher.”)

“Do not hold on to me,” Jesus told her, “because I have not yet gone back up to the Father. But go to my brothers and tell them that I am returning to him who is my Father and their Father, my God and their God.”

So Mary Magdalene went and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and related to them what he had told her.

John 20:1-18 (Good News Bible)

P RIMA P ARS

Out of the depths of this long night, I’ve cried to thee, my God — a night of choking pain and fear. I can’t explain myself in my own skin, my innards clench emerging horror. No. I can’t abide my own heartbeat, my every throbbing vein caught in a hurricane of swirling loss — I’m gasping as I wrench myself away from the repugnant stench of unendurable despair. O hear my cry, and let thine ear attend, O Lord, to this, my breaking voice: with thee there is forgiveness, Lord, but will you overlook the choice we’ve made in blood atop a ragged hill?

This wretched state is what the people chose. I feel I should have known it, should have seen this coming — but between contempt for grace, and life abundant, how could they elect to cast their lot with those who live and rule by fear: the dull, the mean, whose power to demean they call their strength; whose zeal to disavow compassion and integrity somehow will make us great again — “We have no king but Caesar,” worshiping a bogus god whose promises of ease are brittle pediments of vanity, the cracked and crumbling frieze of freely chosen mass insanity?

The wail for crucifixion is the hoarse and nihilistic shriek of those who’ll buy a venomous reply to prophets’ queries (“What does God require of thee?”): the elevation of a coarse and cunning fraud; the flimsy alibi of those who would deny their loyalty as soon as things backfire; the cowardice that only dares aspire to sniveling appeasement of the strong, to tolerating wrong and cruelty if it’s someone else who’s on receiving end of it. The cross, the spear, the tomb — it’s all a con, a scam on those who choose to live in fear.

The people had a choice: they had to choose between compassion’s prophet and a thief of life; between belief in strength in our togetherness, and cruel fear-mongering. How could the message lose that offers up the hope of real relief for our ancestral grief? It turns out that we’re not that hard to fool. The blinding glitter of a Roman jewel confounds the nation’s conscience. That’s the sting of it: “We have no king but Caesar!” is our motto now. We’ve lost ourselves, and generations yet to come will have to count the cost: for now, today, we pliantly succumb.

Am I the only one who notices that Caesar never smiles? That stony face — it never bears a trace of joy or hope: it only wears a sneer of cynical disgust, a look that says: the purpose of this stupid human race is solely to outpace life’s idiotic march, year after year, to meaninglessly trudge, until we veer into the grave, through utter pointlessness. I’ll never acquiesce to this morose, grotesque abandonment of life, this futile gladiators’ game you play. I don’t consent to your deceit. I know you by your name:

perhaps you think you’ve got the people fooled; maybe. You might deceive yourself that they unstintingly obey, resigned to your indomitable reign. To two-bit despots like yourself, who’ve ruled not on compassion’s bedrock, but hold sway high on the fetid clay of hucksters’ promises, and smug disdain — just mercy’s weak to you, and the profane deserves reverence. Your sole satiety lies in the joyless glee and mirthless laughter of the dominant; no hymns of honest loyalty are yours, only a tuneless cant, discordant noise that self-respect deplores.

But I have sat at friendship’s table, known the amiable tabernacles of unselfishness and love; my ears have tasted laughter’s sweetness, seen the generous refrain of friendship grown from wisdom wise as serpents (not above the mildness of a dove). I’ve walked the streets and fields with those who mean to heal the rifts that slither up between us all, and I’ve known kindness that can make a weary people wake to some new day of possibilities. The warm bread of forgiveness has been mine; I’ve drunk down to the lees from honest barrels of inclusion’s wine.

So what does all this mean? Is all that smashed to bits? While some are hungry, who will feed them? Just give up the need to give a drink to those who thirst? So do we quit? Does this mean all our hopes are dashed that hospitality might supersede distrust and fear, that greed could yield to charity? I’m trudging through bewildered woods. And yet I always knew what I must do: the holy rituals of burial. That pulls me on, but what a bitter road I’ll tread, entombing what I hoped would heal and save. How can that hope be dead? Yet here it finds me, slouching toward the grave.

I know it’s common: all that lives must die, passing through nature to eternity. When living souls break free of these machines, the body left behind gives off a fragrance that can mortify our nostrils. So it’s difficult to be so close to death that we experience that scent which will remind us that this is the way of things, the bind of life that feeds on life — that last year’s grass and leaves will gently pass to this year’s nourished soil, nurturing new life. I know. But still, it’s hard to bear the loss of any thing, of anyone we love, without despair.

And yet the stone’s been rolled away, the shroud’s rolled up… an empty tomb? How can this be? What is this mystery heaped on my anguish? O my song, explain! Do otherworldly messengers reply to my dismay and pain by looking at my tears, and asking why?

***

S ECUNDA P ARS

In the beginning was the Self, the Soul, the Soul was with God, and the Soul was God. All things were made by God, the Soul; without that Self, not any thing was made that was made. In that Self, the whole of life is, life that is the light of God and of the Soul with God. The light shines in the darkness, lightening that darkness made at last unconquering: the Self, beyond destruction, intertwined with all things, unconfined by time, immeasurable, permanent. I carry on the fight: I will not mourn for what was never rent: The Spirit never dies, is never born,

is never-changing, everlasting. How can it be killed, or kill? No weapon can abuse the soul of man or woman, but untouched by parching gust or drenching flood, beyond what could allow it to be harmed, no power is greater than the Spirit. It began beginningless and ever One. I trust the Spirit’s omnipresence, so I must desist from sorrow, face to face with what must be: no grieving, but rejoicing in what cannot die, what’s seen between unseens of life and death. Why should I mourn, and contravene this everlasting truth? For it is good.

The time is not far off when we’ll reclaim ourselves, but not until we’ve all passed through the trials that will renew our covenant, or leave us destitute. Jerusalem will be engulfed in flame, And even now the axe is laid unto the root, and we must hew down every tree that doesn’t yield good fruit. Yet from a stump there now comes forth a shoot, and from those roots a branch has grown. On it will rest a new spirit of wisdom, understanding, counsel, might, the spirit of the Lord, and of the fear of God, not judging sight nor chastising the hearing of the ear.

Love’s universal banner’s been unfurled: a love that principalities and powers can’t take away: it’s ours forever. It is the true Light that lights each one of us that comes into the world. The tyrant who preposterously glowers from garish gilded towers knows nothing of the matchless strength that fights that fight of faith. And when the Israelites outdistanced Pharaoh’s chariots, the spark of freedom pierced the dark; by day, a sense of purpose, like a shade enfolding them, kept watch. (We can’t forget the cruel mistakes they made: our liberation isn’t finished yet.)

Like pallid whitewash on an ugly wall, thick daubs of rage and fear are smeared, but not enough to coat or blot away deluded prophets’ hateful lies, seductive cries for phony peace. Let fall in overflowing showers an onslaught of truth, like hailstones shot through stormy winds of love: then let the skies be rent, and let that hateful wall capsize. For I have seen a holiness. It may not be that I can lay my hands on it — not yet; it will ascend to my God, and to your God, and I’ll tell the world that I intend to smash to dust the very walls of Hell.

Hosanna! Nothing ever can destroy eternal love. It’s indestructible, it is unkillable, serene in its invincibility, relentless in uncompromising joy: immortal love — it flows forever full, shared ever free. Its pull embraces all of us, and sets us free: no fear — not in this perfect love that we imbibe together, cleansed, renewed and true; now we are worthy to drink deep this living water without fear; enough. The first are last, the last are first; each one is welcome here: draw from the well, and we shall never thirst.

The daughters of a new Jerusalem are on the march. We’re taking to the street and singing on our feet: we know we can. We are the ones for whom we’ve waited. Now, our brothers — God bless them — have done their part, but left things incomplete: there’s wisdom in retreat, so they retreated to the upper room while women went with spices to the tomb to do the holy rites our forbears taught. We’re willing to get caught in living the commandments and the vows of who we are. And as we carry on, we’ll veil our dauntless brows in pinks as brilliant as the fire of dawn.

Not even seven demons could deter or hinder me, or break my peace of mind, though my name be maligned — not minding all the lying mouths that spill insults. When kindness whispers, “I’m with her,” let every breath I’m breathing be aligned, committed to the bind, relentlessly, with what love will instill; yet no one knows me — no one ever will: remembered with contempt and ill-repute and called a prostitute; let haters hate. I only know that I’ve lived all my life, imperfectly, with grit in all I’ve done, to strive headlong toward truth: to find it, and commit.

A multitude of tender mercies blots out all my sins. An inward truth will urge me on, and I’ll emerge in wisdom, with my eyes for ever toward the One who plucks my feet out of the knots of tangled nets. I’ll willingly submerge in sprays of hyssop: purge me, and I shall be clean, of one accord, of one mind, of the same love with the Lord. I know how some would like me to behave: yes, I was warned. They gave an explanation. My response: my right hand I extend in love; my left’s a fist to fight the good, long fight of faith: nevertheless, I shall persist.

Like mother Miriam of old, I’ll shake deliverance’s timbrel as I go: I can’t keep quiet — no. My song, you sowed in tears; now reap and glean in joy, our scythe like a triumphant sword of hope. Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord.

NOTES

“The Song of Mary Magdalene” is a canzone , a European poetical form that dates back to at least the fourteenth century. Though most of the poems of the celebrated Rime sparse of Francesco Petraca (1304-1374) are sonnets (in a form we know as the Petrarchan sonnet, despite Petrarca not actually being the progenitor of that structure), some of the selections in the Rime are in the canzone form — indeed, “The Song of Mary Magdalene” copies exactly the rhyme scheme and meter of his canzone “Una donna piú bella assai che l’ sole” (no. 119 in the Rime ). More precisely, “The Song of Mary Magdalene” is a pair of canzone .

Lines 1-2: Psalm 130:1: “Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O LORD.” (KJV) 10-12: Psalm 130:2: “LORD, hear my voice: let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications.” (KJV) 13: Psalm 130:4: “But there is forgiveness with thee…” (KJV) 19: John 10:10: “I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.” (KJV)

25-26: John 19:14-16: “Now it was the day of Preparation of the Passover; it was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, ‘Behold your King!’ They cried out, ‘Away with him, away with him, crucify him!’ Pilate said to them, ‘Shall I crucify your King?’ The chief priests answered, ‘We have no king but Caesar.’ Then he handed him over to them to be crucified.” (RSV)

34-35: Micah 6:8: “He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the LORD require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?” (KJV)

47-48: Barabbas is described as a thief, a rebel, and/or a murderer in the gospel accounts (and depending on differing translations) — e.g., Luke 23:13-19: “Pilate then called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, and said to them, ‘You brought me this man as one who was perverting the people; and after examining him before you, behold, I did not find this man guilty of any of your charges against him; neither did Herod, for he sent him back to us. Behold, nothing deserving death has been done by him; I will therefore chastise him and release him.’ But they all cried out together, ‘Away with this man, and release to us Barabbas’ — a man who had been thrown into prison for an insurrection started in the city, and for murder.” (RSV)

92: Psalm 84:1: “How amiable are thy tabernacles, O LORD of hosts!” (KJV) Cf. Num. 24:5. 96-97: Matthew 10:16: “Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves; so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves.” (RSV)

107-109: Matthew 25:35: “for I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink…” (RSV) 121-122: Hamlet , I, ii.

143-151: John 1:1-5: “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.” (KJV)

152-172: Bhagavad-Gita 2:17-28: “Interwoven in his creation, the Spirit is beyond destruction. No one can bring to and end the Spirit which is everlasting. For beyond time he dwells in these bodies, though these bodies have an end in their time; but he remains immeasurable, immortal. Therefore, great warrior, carry on thy fight. If any man thinks he slays, and if another thinks he is slain, neither knows the way of truth. The Eternal in man cannot kill: the Eternal in man cannot die. He is never born, and he never dies. He is in Eternity: he is for evermore. Never-born and eternal, beyond times gone or to come, he does not die when the body dies. When a man knows him as never-born, everlasting, never-changing, beyond all destruction, how can that man kill a man, or cause another to kill? As a man leaves an old garment and puts on one that is new, the Spirit leaves his mortal body and then puts on one that is new. Weapons cannot hurt the Spirit and fire can never burn him. Untouched is he by drenching waters, untouched is he by parching winds. Beyond the power of sword and fire, beyond the power of waters and winds, the Spirit is everlasting, omnipresent, never-changing, never-moving, ever One. Invisible is he to mortal eyes, beyond thought and beyond change. Know that he is, and cease from sorrow. But if he were born again and again, and again and again he were to die, even then, victorious man, cease thou from sorrow. For all things born in truth must die, and out of death in truth comes life. Face to face with what must be, cease thou from sorrow. Invisible before birth are all beings and after death invisible again. They are seen between two unseens. Why in this truth find sorrow?” (Tr. Juan Mascaró)

177: Jerusalem was besieged and sacked by the Romans in 70 CE. 178-180: Matthew 3:10: “And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: therefore every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.” (KJV) Cf. Luke 3:9.

181-187: Isaiah 11:1-3: “There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. And the Spirit of the LORD shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the LORD. And his delight shall be in the fear of the LORD. He shall not judge by what his eyes see, or decide by what his ears hear.” (RSV)

189-190: Romans 8:38-39: “For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.” (KJV)

191-192: John 1:9: “That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.” (KJV)

195-196: 1 Tim. 6:12: “Fight the good fight of faith.” (KJV)

197-200: Exodus 13:21-22: “And the LORD went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, that they might travel by day and by night; the pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night did not depart from before the people.” (RSV)

203-211: Ezekiel 13:8-14: “Therefore thus says the LORD God: ‘Because you have uttered delusions and seen lies, therefore behold, I am against you, says the LORD God. My hand will be against the prophets who see delusive visions and who give lying divinations; they shall not be in the council of my people, nor be enrolled in the register of the house of Israel, nor shall they enter the land of Israel; and you shall know that I am the LORD God. Because, yea, because they have misled my people, saying, “Peace,” when there is no peace; and because, when the people build a wall, these prophets daub it with whitewash; say to those who daub it with whitewash that it shall fall! There will be a deluge of rain, great hailstones will fall, and a stormy wind break out; and when the wall falls, will it not be said to you, “Where is the daubing with which you daubed it?” Therefore thus says the LORD God: I will make a stormy wind break out in my wrath; and there shall be a deluge of rain in my anger, and great hailstones in wrath to destroy it. And I will break down the wall that you have daubed with whitewash, and bring it down to the ground, so that its foundation will be laid bare; when it falls, you shall perish in the midst of it; and you shall know that I am the LORD.” (RSV)

223-224: John Greenleaf Whittier (1807-1892), a Quaker, wrote a poem in 1866 which begins: “Immortal Love, for ever full, / for ever flowing free, / for ever shared, for ever whole, / a never-ebbing sea.”

226: 1 John 4:18: “There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear.” (RSV)

229, 232: John 4:7-15: “There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, ‘Give me a drink.’ For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, ‘How is it that you, a Jew, ask a drink of me, a woman of Samaria?’ For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered her, ‘If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that is saying to you, “Give me a drink,” you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water.’ The woman said to him, ‘Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep; where do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank from it himself, and his sons, and his cattle?’ Jesus said to her, ‘Every one who drinks of this water will thirst again, but whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst; the water that I shall give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life.’ The woman said to him, ‘Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw.’” (RSV)

230: Matthew 19:30: “But many that are first shall be last; and the last shall be first.” (KJV) Cf. Matthew 20:16, Mark 9:35, Mark 10:31, Luke 13:30.

248: Mark 16:9: “Now when he rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.” (RSV) Cf. Luke 8:2.

258: There is not the slightest suggestion in any biblical account of Mary Magdalene being a prostitute. 263-264: Psalm 51:1: “Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions.” (KJV)

264-266: Psalm 51:6: “Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom.” (KJV)

266-268: Psalm 25:15: “Mine eyes are ever toward the LORD; for he shall pluck my feet out of the net.” (KJV) 268-270: Psalm 51:7: “Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean.” (KJV)

270-271: Philippians 2:2: “Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind.” (KJV)

278-279: Exodus 15:20: “Then Miriam, the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and dancing.” (RSV)

281-282: Psalm 126:5: “May those who sow in tears reap with shouts of joy!” (RSV) 283-284: Julia Ward Howe, “The Battle Hymn of the Republic,” 1861.