Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 532 of our three-year church. journey through the Word of God, and we come now to First Chronicles chapter 9, which is the last of the chapters of names that open the book of 1 Chronicles. Chronicles. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to this important chapter today. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Every part of it is your word, a gift from you to your people, to glorify your name, to build us up in the faith. And Father, we pray that you would help us to understand 1 Chronicles 9, and that you would soften our hearts to receive it by faith and to see Jesus and your purposes for your people more clearly today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, 1 Chronicles chapter 9. If I can get it to come up. Here we go. So all Israel was recorded in genealogies. And these are written in the book of the kings of Israel. And Judah was taken into exile in Babylon because of their breach of faith. Now the first to dwell again in their possessions in their cities were Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the temple servants. And some of the people of Judah Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh lived in Jerusalem. Uthai, the son of Amihud, son of Amri, son of Imri, son of Ba And of the Shilonites, of the sons of Zerah, Jewel, and their kinsmen, six hundred and the events, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing. Of the Benjaminites, Salu, the son of Meshulam, son of Hodot Hudaviah, son of Hassanua Ibniah, the son of Jerohim, Elah, the son of Uzi, son of Mid Mikri, and of and Meshulam, the son of M Of Shepatiah, son of Rule, son of Ibnijah, and their kinsmen, according to their generations, 950. All these were heads of fathers' households according to their fathers' houses. Of the priests, Judea Jehoirib, Jacan, and Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshulem, son of Zadok, son of Mereoth, son of Ahitub, the chief officer of And Adeiah, the son of Jeroham, son of Pasher, son of Malkaijah, and of Masia sorry, Maasi, the son of Adiel, son of Jazarah, son of Meshulam, son of Meshilimeth, son of Imur, besides their kinsmen, heads of their fathers' houses, seventeen hundred and sixty. sixty, mighty men for the work of the service of the house of God of the Levites, Shemea, the son of Hashab, son of Azrachan Son of Hashabiah of the sons of Merari, and Bakbakar, Heresh, Galal, and Mataniah, the son of And Obadiah, the son of Shemiah, son of Galal, son of Juduthan, and Barakiah the son of Asah, son of El Cana, Who lived in the villages of the Natophathites. The gatekeepers were Shalom, Akub, Talman, Ahaman. And their kinsmen, Shalom was chief. Until then they were in the king's gate on the east side as the gatekeepers of the king. And Phineas and the Wells and the Wells and the Town. The Lord was with him. Zechariah, the son of Mel Melishelemah, was gatekeeper at the entrance of the tent of So they and their sons were in charge of the gates of the house of the Lord, that is the house of the tent, as guards. Levites were entrusted to be over the chambers and the treasures of the house of God, and they lodged around the house of God, for on them lay the duty of watching, and they had charge of opening it every day. Also over the fine flour, the wine, the oil, the incense, and the spices, others of the sons of the priests prepared the mixing of the spices, and Matathah, one of the Levites, Also some of their kinsmen of the Kohethites had charge of the show bread to prepare it every Sabbath. The heads of fathers' houses of the Levites were in the chambers of the temple free from other service, for they were on duty day and night. These were the heads of their fathers' houses of the Levites, according to the generation Leaders. These lived in Jerusalem. In Gibeon lived the father of Gibeon, G. I. L, and the name of his wife was Maiacah. and his firstborn son Abden, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nur, Nadab, Gidor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth. And Mikloth was the father of Shime And these also lived opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem with their kinsmen. Nur fathered Kish, Kish fathered Saul, Saul fathered Jonathan, Malkish, Abinadab, and Esh. Baal, and the son of Jonathan was Merib Baal, and Merib Baal fathered Micah, the sons of Micah, Python, Melech, Terea, and Ahab. And Ahaz fathered Jarah, and Jara fathered Alamath, Azmavath, and Zimri. And Zimri fathered Mosa. His son, Elieza, his son, Azel, his son. Azel had six sons, and these are their names. Azra Aracham, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sarah, Obadiah, and Hanan. These were the sons of So it's very interesting. What we have here in 1 Chronicles chapter 9 is primarily, at least at the beginning, an account of those who returned from the exile. So you see the title there, A Genealogy of the Returned Exiles. And so you see it's this mixed multitude of people from various different tribes. And the priests and the Levites and the temple servants were very prominent among that number. But this is the people who are returning But then you have an account of the way that David and Samuel first set up the administration of the Levites. For the service in the tent in Jerusalem before the tabernacle was built by Solomon. And you have an accounting of that by their division. Which is really telling you that when they got back in the land they wanted to reestablish the same lines, the same families, the same uh people who were responsible as were set up by David and and Samuel, and that had now been some six hundred years prior. And so they're trying to be very faithful to this pattern that they had inherited for hundreds and hundreds of years. So this is the primary focus. But then at the end we get this genealogy of Saul, of of Saul's parentage and then of Saul's descendants, because we're preparing for where we're going to be tomorrow, and that is in chapter ten which 1 Chronicles begins its story with the death of Saul. And the main focus of 1 Chronicles is on the kingship of David. We don't get as much about the life of David. That's 1 Samuel, but we're Focusing on the kingship of David, and we actually get a more in-depth and different perspective on the kingship of David than we get in 2 Samuel. But anyway, that's all coming up. First thing to note about the returned exiles is there weren't very many of them. We've had previous countings of God's people and their heads of households. And their families, and we'll get numbers in the thousands and the tens of thousands, right? But here you have a group of people numbering six hundred and ninety, and then another group of people numbering nine hundred and fifty. And then you have the priests, and they number 1760, and then you have the Levites who come back, and we don't have an exact number uh of them. There's gatekeepers who are 212. But these are all, for the most part, these are numbers under a thousand in each group. And so we've got a few thousand people right all together. Returning back to the land, not the tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands that we get in other countings. This is a remnant. God had made a promise that he was going to preserve a remnant, and this is what the counting of a remnant looks like. It is a small group Of people that God has preserved by His grace. And really at the center of this, disproportionately preserved And disproportionately represented were the Levitical priests and the tribe of Levi. And that's because the most important thing about being re-established in the land is the worship of God, the right worship of God. So a little preview, one of the things that First Chronicles is going to detail for us that we didn't get In 2 Samuel is the fact that David, when he prepared, when he was dying, when God had told him, No, you're not going to build the temple for me, but your son will. He prepared everything for the building of the temple so that everything was well supplied, generously, abundantly supplied for Solomon to be able to do that work. And we'll get detail on that. So why are we doing all this? Because the focus here is that the worship of God by the people of God is the center of the life of God. Now we're called to worship God privately in our own hearts, in our own private lives. We're called to worship God in our families, right? With our our families, maybe around the dinner table is probably the most common time we do that as families. Hopefully, we're doing that on a regular basis. But then we also gather together on the Lord's Day. the morning of the first day of the week, to worship God together as his people. And right now, as you're watching this, if you're watching it when it comes out, Mike and I are at the General Assembly Assembly of the PCA, which is a large national gathering of the Presbyterian Church in America, and one of the most important things we do, maybe the most important thing what we do. I shouldn't say that. The most important thing we do when we come together is worship God. Um yes, there's lots of business to do and there's lots of debates to be had and there's lots of arguments and there's lots of you know, procedural things. And those things are important because the faithfulness of the church to the to the word of God is is of utmost importance. But we gather together to worship. And so there's worship services throughout the general assembly. It's an assembly of the church to gather together and to worship God. And so that is critically important. Now I do have to note something sad where we can draw a connection between the Levites who were gatekeepers who were To guard the house of the Lord and Jesus. And that is because when Jesus was arrested in the Garden of Gethsemane, it was the temple guard that was Sent out to get him. So these were Levites of these same families who were put in charge of guarding the worship of God, and they went out and they arrested Jesus to drag him away to be crucified. And Jesus had said, If you tear down this temple, I will rebuild it in three days. Tells us he meant by that the temple of his body. So Jesus is the embodiment of the temple who has come among his people, the place where God is manifest. Among the people of God and the very men who are charged with guarding the temple, guarding the showbread. go after and arrest the embodiment of the temple, the very bread of life. So that's a pretty simple Sad commentary. It just is another show that however good the system is, however well-intentioned it is, however much it's been preserved, systems that rely on human beings are prone to fail. Because human beings are sinful and fallible. And so we need one as king, as priest, as temple, as bread, as sacrifice, who is Perfect, who is unstained, and who is unfailing, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the gift of your Son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. He is the one we need, the perfect one, the unfailing one. We thank you so much for him, and we ask that you would make us faithful to Jesus. in all that you give us to do as a church, that Jesus might be in the center of our lives individually and in our homes and in your church, we pray. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's 1 Chronicles chapter 9. Tomorrow we're going to move on to chapter 10. Hope you can join me for that. As always, have a blessed day in the Lord.