Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. I am from Forest Hill Presbyterian. Church. You probably knew that already. It is 1 Chronicles chapter 18, and we are on day 545 of our three-year journey through God's Word. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. for all that you have done for us. We pray that you would be with us today and that you would teach us from 1 Chronicles 18, write your word on our hearts, and help us to follow after you by faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. First Chronicles chapter 18. After this David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and he took Gath and its villages out of the hand of the Philistines. And he defeated Moab, and the Moabites became servants to David and brought tribute. David also defeated Hadadezer, king of Zobahamath. as he went to set up his monument at the river Euphrates. And David took him, took from him one thousand chariots, seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers. And David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but left enough for one hundred chariots. And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadidezer, king of Zoba, David struck down twenty two thousand men of the Syrians Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became servants to David and brought tribute. And the Lord gave victory to David wherever he went. And David took the shields of gold that were carried by the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. And from Tivhath and from Kun, cities of Hadadezer, David took a large amount of bronze With it Solomon made the bronze sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of bronze. When Tu, King of Hamat, heard that David had defeated the whole army of Hadadezer, king of Zobah, he went He sent his son, Hadorum, to King David to ask about his health and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him, for Hadade Ezir had often been at war with two. And he sent all sorts of articles of gold, of silver, and of bronze. These also King David dedicated to the Lord, together with the silver and the gold that he had carried off from all the nations. From Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and Amalek. And Abishai, the son of Zeruyah, killed eighteen thousand Edomites in the valley of Salt. Then he put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became David's servants, and the Lord gave victory to David wherever he went. So David reigned over all Israel, and he administered justice and equity to all his people. And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder. And Zadok, the son of Ahitub and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, were priests, and Shalsha was secretary. And Benea, the son of Jehoeda, was over the Karahites. And the Pelophytes and David's sons were chief officials in the service of the king. That is first Chronicles Chapter eighteen, the great victories of David, the military victories David, humanly speaking, one of the greatest military leaders uh in the history of the world, really, when you consider what he started with And where he was, and what he was surrounded by, and how much he was outmanned. Great victories. Right? This this little kingdom surrounded by greater kingdoms and outnumbered on every side. was able to establish dominance over that whole region, a dominance that continued through the reign of Solomon. So between the reigns of David and Solomon you have, you know, the better part of a hundred years. You know, where you have Israel being the great power in that part of the Middle East, which is highly unusual, but they're able to defeat these surrounding powers, the Philistines, the Moabites, the Syrians, and the Edomites And this is, you know, the Philistines would have been along the coast to the west of them, the Moabites would have been to the east, the Syrians to the north. And the Edomites to the southeast. And so all the surrounding major powers have been definitively subdued by David. And I say by David, and I say humanly speaking, David one of the greatest military leaders in history. The title in your ESV here says David defeats his enemies, and verse one says, after this, David defeated. And then verse two, and he defeated. And verse three, David also defeated, right? And then down in verse twelve you have Abishai who comes in on it. And he killed 18,000 Edomites. Right? But after all of this is said, what's the concluding remark in verse 13? And the Lord gave victory. to David wherever he went. So should we say that David was a great military general who defeated all of his enemies all around? Or should we say that the Lord gave victory to David wherever he went? Well the Bible says both. Right. But one is clearly a secondary cause, and that is David's human leadership, which God blessed him with, his military might, which God blessed him with. Him with. And the other is the primary cause, and that is the Lord's hand was at work upon David and through Israel. So this is a way to understand these questions of divine sovereignty and human responsibility or God's will versus man's free will actions. Yes, we do what we do. And we are responsible for the things that we do, and we do the things that we do freely by our own will, right? David decided to go to war with these surrounding nations. He had battle strategies and tactics. This doesn't get into all that, but he he he fought these battles and he won these battles. But The undergirding and overarching reality to all these things is the sovereign hand of God. The sovereign hand of God undergirded David and the armies of Israel and upheld them. and gave them victory and was superintending over everything to order all things according to the will of God. Now, that's not the same thing as to say whenever something happens in the world, God is pleased with it or that he is happy about it, we could say to use that uh kind of language that we understand is a little bit anthropomorphic or it's a little bit trying to understand God. God doesn't rejoice over everything that happens in the world, even though He is sovereign over everything that happens, God is grieved by sin, God hates evil, uh, God will punish wrongdoing, but He has a good plan and He has a good purpose that He's always working out through everything. And through victories and through defeats, through triumph and through sorrow, through times of prosperity for his people and times of trial for his people, God is always at work and he's at work to accomplish his purposes to bless and to prosper and to discipline and correct and to test and to try whatever it is that he's doing. Right? So when we experience that in our lives, we need to be sure that when things are going well, we're giving God the credit and the glory for it because it's his blessing. And we need to be thankful. And we need to praise his name. And when things are hard and difficult, we need to seek the Lord. We need to pour out our hearts before him. We need to plead with him. And we also need to try to learn from him. This is another reminder to us, as there are so many throughout the Bible, of the Lord's sovereignty and of our responsibility under that sovereignty. And then the very end of chapter 18 is just a sort of snapshot of how David administered his kingdom. David is wise in that he knows he can't do it all himself. He is certainly a very, very gifted leader. He's a poet and a musician and a warrior and an inspiring leader of men. And it could be very easy for someone in David's power to think, well I can do it all. I'll just I'll just run everything myself. But that's not the way God has designed his world to work. That is not the way God designs people to work. And so David knows that he needs competent administration. People he can trust, people who will be faithful to him and faithful to the Lord, and that's what he does. Joab, hmm, not the greatest, but he is definitely a great warrior. And he definitely is a very capable military uh leader, and so he's over the army. And there are problems there, and Solomon's gonna have to deal with those problems from Joab, but Um Jehoshaphat, son of a Hilud, is recorder. Zadok and Ahimelech are the priests. Uh Shavshah is the secretary. Benea is over the Karahites and the Pelathites. Who are they? Remember, those are the temple guard, the the Levites who are to defend and protect. the the things of the temple, the worship of God. In this case there's no temple yet, but it's the the things of of the worship of God, the Ark of the Covenant and uh all that it belongs to the worship of God is guarded and protected by the Karaphites and Philipites. So Benea is over them. And they also kind of serve as a personal bodyguard to the king at one level. And then David's sons are chief officials, and so he's got some of his sons in key places of administration. So that's just a little reminder to us that we all need help in doing what God's given us to do. None of us is God and can't do it on our own. And we depend upon people to do what God's gifted them to do within the service of God's kingdom. So what do we learn from 1 Chronicles 18? Well we learn that God is sovereign over all things. But that we are still responsible for doing what God calls us to do, and that in in good times and in bad we need to look to the Lord in all things. to rejoice and praise him and to seek wisdom and counsel and instruction from him and that in the body of Christ, in the church, there are different Roles and responsibilities and different gifting that God has given, and that we all are called to work together for the sake of the kingdom of God and for the glory of God. And God is sovereign over all of that. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for teaching us. Help us to walk by faith in obedience to your word. Help us not to just live. according to our own human will or according to our own instinct or our own desires, but help us to acknowledge that you are God Almighty That you are sovereign over us as your people, and that we are called to walk humbly, thankfully. And dependently under your hand and for your glory. We pray these things, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's 1 Chronicles. 18. Tomorrow we're beginning the book of Hebrews. Yay! A new New Testament book. Hebrew is a wonderful book. Can't wait to get into it. We'll be starting that tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that. As always, I hope you have a blessed day in the A Lord.