Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 521 of our three-year journey through God's Word. We come today to 1 Chronicles chapter 2. I think this is going to be a fairly short devotional today. I am not feeling really well. Uh wasn't able to preach yesterday morning and uh just fighting something. So we will pray and ask for the Lord's help, and then we'll dig into this portion of his holy word, this wonderful chapter of 1 Chronicles 2. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the opportunity to gather together as your children, to study your word together each day. We pray that you bless us in 1 Chronicles 2 today. Help us to know your word and to grow in our love for you. We pray this in your name. Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, 1 Chronicles chapter 2. These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. The sons of Judah, Ur, Onan, and Shela. These three, Bathshua, the Canaanite bore to him Now Ur, Own Judah's firstborn, was evil in the sight of the Lord, and he put him to death. His daughter-in-law Tamar also bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all The sons of Perez, Hezron, and Hamul, the sons of Zerah, Zimri, Ethan, Hemon, Kalkol, and Dara, five in all. The sons of Carmi, Achan, the troubler of Israel, who broke faith in the matter of the devoted thing, and Ethan's son was Azariah. The sons of Hezron The sons of Hezron that were born to him, Jeromeel, Ram, Chilabal, Ram, fathered Aminadab, and Aminadab fathered Nashan, Prince of the Sons of Judah. Nashan fathered Salman, Salman fathered Boaz, Boaz fathered Obed, Obed fathered Jesse. Jesse fathered Eliab, his firstborn. uh uh uh binadab his second, shim Shimei Shimeah the third, Nathanael the fourth, Radai the fifth, Ozem the sixth, David the seventh. And their sisters were Zeruya and Abigail. The sons of Zeruya, Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three. Abigail bore Amesa. The father of Amesa was Jether the Ishmaelite. Caleb, the son of Hezron, fathered children by his wife Azuba. And by Jaroth. And these were her sons, Jesher, Shobah, and Arden. When Azuba died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him her. Her fathered Uri, and Euri fathered Bezalel. Afterward, Hezron went into the daughter of Maker, the father of Gilead, whom he married when he was sixty years old And she bore him Sigub, and Sigob fathered Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead. But Gesher and Aram took from them Havath Jaer, Kenath and its villages, sixty towns All these were descendants of Maker, the father of Gilead. After the death of Hebron, Hezron, Caleb went into Epretha, the wife of Hezron his father, and she bore him Asher, the father of Dekoah. The sons of Jeromeel, the firstborn of Hezron, Ram his firstborn, Buna, Oran, Ozim, and Ahijah Jeromeel had also another wife, whose name was Atera, and she was the mother of Onam. The sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jeramel, Maez, Jamin, and Echer. The sons of Onam Shemai and Jada, the sons of Shemai, Nadab and Abisher. The name of Abisher's wife was Abehail. And she bore him Abon and Mulad, the name of the sons of Nadab, Selad and Apame. And Selad died childless. The son of Apan, Ishii, the son of Ishi, Shishon, the son of Shishon, Ahlai. The sons of Jada, Shemai's brother, Jether and Jonathan, and Jether died childless. The sons of Jonathan, Pelath and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jaramiel. Now Shishon had no sons, only daughters, but Shishon had an Egyptian slave whose name was Jarbah. So Shishan gave his daughter in marriage to Jarha, his slave, and she bore him Ati. Ati fathered Nathan, and Nathan fathered Zabad. Zabad followed. Fathered Ethlal and Ephlal fathered Obed. Obed fathered Jebu, Jehu, and Jehu fathered Azariah, Azariah fathered Helez, and Hellez fathered Eliasa and Eliasah fathered. Sismai and Sismai fathered Shalom, Shalom fathered Jechemiah, and Jehemiah fathered Elishema. Verse 42, I'm making a little bit bigger for myself. The sons of Caleb, the brother of Jeremiel, Marishah the firstborn, who fathered Zip. The sons of Mareshah, Hebron, the sons of Hebron, Korah, Tapua, Recham, and Shema. Shema fathered Raham, the father of Jorkiim. and Recham fathered Shemai, the son of Shemai, Maon, and Maon fathered Bethzur. Epha also, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, Mosa, and Gazaz. and Haron fathered Gazez, the sons of Jodai, Regam, Jotham, Gishon, Pelat, Epha, and Shaoth Maica, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheeber and Tirhanna. She also bore Shaiaf, the father of Madmanah. Shiva, the father of Macbinah, the father of Gibeah, the daughter of Caleb was Aksa. These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephraim, Shobal, the father of Kiriathiron, Salma, the father of Bethlehem. and Hareth, the father of Beth Gator. Shoval, the father of Kiraath Jirim, had other sons. Heroah, half of the Menuhoth. And the clans of Kirioth Jirim, the Ithrites, the Puthites, the Shumothites, and the Mishraites. From these came the Zorites And the Eshtelites, the sons of Salma, Bethlehem, the Netophites, Atroph, Beth Johab, and half of the Mehnath The Naftitites, the Zorites, the clans also of the scribes who lived at Jabez, the Tirithites, the Shimeothites, and the Sukhites These are the Kenites who came from Hamath, the father of the house of Reka. That is 1 Chronicles chapter 2. That is the word of God. It is living and active, sharper than a two-edged sword, breathed out by the very mouth of God, but I am having a very difficult time pronouncing those names. It's hard enough when I feel well, but when I have been dealing with a fever and And my head's kind of in a fog. It's hard to get those those names outright. But anyway. This genealogy, what do we see here? Well, we're focusing in now on the sons of Israel. So this is this is the line of the elect, the line of God's chosen people. Although it's interesting the way we have his sons mentioned here, we have Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, Dan, Joseph. Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. So, you know, Joseph had two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, who were included as tribes. And so but this is genealogies and so those tribes aren't listed among the tribes here because these are the s these are the actual sons of Israel. And so it's Joseph instead of uh sometimes in the listing of the tribes you'll see Ephraim and Manasseh. So you might have been wondering, where are Ephraim and Manasseh? Well remember those were not direct sons of Israel, but they were grandsons. who were given an equal portion among the sons because of the special role that Joseph played in God's providence in saving his people. One thing that stands out to me as I look at these things is just how much sin there is in in the lineage and the legacy of God's people. You've got Judah, right? And he's got these sons, Ur, Onan, and Sheila. This is the tribe that's being focused in on here, because this is the tribe where the kings are going to come. from and where David's going to come from and where the the line of the covenant promise is going to come from. But we we're told that Ur was evil in the sight of the Lord. He put him to death, but so was Onan. Onan was also evil in the sight of the Lord, was put to death, and then Judah withheld Sheila from being given to Tamar, which is what he should have done, and so Tamar ended up having uh twins by Judah. Remember she dressed up like a prostitute. This is all in Genesis. One of the interesting things about coming to this genealogy Here in First Chronicles, after we've been doing all this reading, is that we know these stories. These are stories that we've that we've read together and that we've thought about together. So we know the sin that is here. You know, you get down to verse 7, you have Achan, the troubler of Israel, who broke faith in the matter of the devoted thing. Remember that That's during the Exodus when they're coming into the promised land in the book of Joshua. And uh they they conquer Jericho, and we all remember how wonderful the conquering of Jericho was. Remember after Jericho, it was Achan. who kept the things that were devoted to destruction, and he kept them for himself. And so that brought trouble upon Israel. And so again, this is the point we see sin and sin and sin. We also see unexpected things where God's ways are not our ways. So you have Jesse in verse 13. who fathers Eliab his firstborn, Abinadab the second, Shimeah the third, Nathanael the fourth, Badi the fifth, Ozun the sixth, and David the seventh, and it's the seventh son, David, who's going to end up becoming the great king. That's very unexpected. So God uses sinful people and brings redemption. And uses sinful people to accomplish his good and righteous purposes for his people. And God uses unexpected people, right? The youngest son who's out tending the sheep and whose dad didn't even think to have him come in and appear before the prophet Samuel because of course why would David be chosen? He's the he's the youngest. That's never the way that it goes. You don't ever pick the youngest to be King. And so God works in unexpected ways and God works even through the sin of people. And then another thing that I've said before I in genealogies is that there are many, many names here that are unfamiliar to us, that the only place we read about them are here in these genealogies. Some of them are very familiar, but some of them are not familiar. And so, one of the things that these genealogies teach us is that there are no unimportant people in God's story that everyone plays a part, even if they're unknown to history, even if we don't consider them to be one of the famous people from the Bible, they still have their part to play, and God knows their name and God counts them among his people. So God uses sinful people to accomplish his good purposes for his people. God uses unexpected people and chooses unexpected people people uh to become great by his grace for his purposes and then there are no unknown uh people in God's kingdom. Everyone has uh a role to play and God knows all of his own by name. Alright, that's 1 Chronicles 2. Let's close in prayer Father, thank you for this time. Thank you for this chapter. Pray that you would bless us in growing in knowledge, understanding, and wisdom that we might understand how you work. And that we might trust you to continue to work. We see a lot of sin in your church still today. We see a lot of sin in our own lives. And we know that you use sinful people to accomplish your good purposes. And none of us are anything special in the eyes of the world. We're not famous. And yet we matter in your eyes. You know our names and you have a purpose for us within your kingdom. Remind us of that, Father. We pray these things. things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well that's 1 Chronicles chapter 2. Tomorrow we're actually going to be jumping back to the book of Acts. So have a blessed day in the Lord.