Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Hemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 541. And we're just a few days away from the halfway point of our three year journey through God's Word, and we're in First Chronicles chapter fifteen. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word and the gift it is to be able to be in your word together each Would you teach us from 1 Chronicles 15 today? Write your word on our hearts and draw us to Christ, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. First Chronicles chapter 15. David built houses for himself in the city of David, and he prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched a tent for it. Then David said that no one but the Levites may carry the ark of God. And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the Lord to its place, which he had prepared for it. the sons of Aaron and the Levites, of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, with one hundred and twenty of his brothers, of the sons of Morari, Asiah the chief, with two hundred and twenty of his brothers Of the sons of Gershem, Joel the chief, with a hundred and thirty of his brothers, of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemiah the chief, with two hundred of his brothers. Of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, with eighty of his brothers, of the sons of Uziel, Aminadab the chief, with one hundred and twelve of his brothers. Then David summoned the priests, Zadok and Abiathar, and the Levites, Guriel, Asah, Joel, Shemeah, Eliel, and Abin. And said to them, You are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites. Consecrate yourselves, you and your brothers so that you may bring up the ark of the Lord, the God of Israel, to the place that I have prepared for it. Because you did not carry it the first time. The Lord our God broke out against us, because we did not seek him according to the rule So the priests and the Levites consecrated themselves to bring up the ark of the Lord, the God of Israel, and the Levites carried the ark of God on their shoulders with the poles, as Moses had commanded, according to the word of the Lord David also commanded the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their brothers as the singers who should play loudly on musical instruments, on harps and lyres and cymbals. to raise sounds of joy. So the Levites appointed Heman, the son of Joel, and of his brothers Asaph, the son of Barekiah, and of the sons of Morari, their brothers Ethan, the son of Cusheah, and with them their brothers of the second order, Zechariah, Jaziel, uh, Shemir Shemiramoth. Easy for you to say. Jehael, Huni, Eliab, Benea, Masaia, Matathiah, Eliphalehu, and Mikana. Nea, and the gatekeepers Obed Edom and Giah. The singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were to sound bronze cymbals Zechariah, Asiel, Shemiramouth, Jehiel, and the first time. And Alephalehuck on his name, I don't know why. Alephalehu. Mikneh, Obed-Edom, Giel, and Azaziah were to lead with the liars according to the Shemonith. Kenania, leader of the Levites in music, should directly music, for he understood it. Barekiah and Elkanah. were to be gatekeepers for the Ark, Shemiah, Josh, Nathanael, Amazai, Zechariah, Benea, and Eliezer the priests should blow the trumpets before the Ark of God. Obed Edom and Jehaiah were to be the gatekeepers for the ark So David and the elders of Israel and the commanders of thousands went to bring up the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord from the house of Obed-Edom with rejoicing. And because God helped the Levites who were carrying the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, they sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams. David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, as also were all the Levites who were carrying the ark and the singers, and Kanana, Kanania, the leader of the music of the singers, and David wore a linen ephod. So all Israel brought up the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord with shouting, to the sound of the horn, trumpets, and cymbals, and made loud music on harps and lyres And as the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord came to the city of David, Michael, the daughter of Saul, looked out the window and saw King David dancing and and celebrating, and she despised him in her heart. The proper bringing up of the ark So what do we see here? Well we see that in the months between the first failed attempt and the second success successful attempt, David was busy learning and making proper preparations. You see, sometimes we can fail at something. and just give up. We think, oh, what's the point? And especially if it's a spiritual defeat, we can even get down on the mouth and feeling depressed about it and God just hates me. God's against me and everything I do is always gonna fail and what's the point in trying anyway and I never get anywhere but blah blah blah blah, right? And that's not what David did. David didn't just sit there and you know you know, moan over his Cheerios in the morning and trying to figure out, you know, why it is that he's such a miserable failure. He thought, he read, he learned, he grew, and he realized I need to do some preparation here He actually prepared a place for the ark to be taken. There wasn't going to be a place for the ark. So if the cart had made it all the way up into Jerusalem, what were they going to do with the ark then? It can't just sit out in the open. That's not appropriate for the holy And he then learns from the law of Moses that only the Levites are to carry the ark and they have to carry the ark on poles. And so he makes sure there's plenty of Levites. He gets the right Levites together and they they are consecrated according to the law of Moses to bring up the ark of the Poles of the Lord. And it is very, very explicitly clear in verse 15, as Moses had commanded according to the word of the Lord. I tried to emphasize that as I was reading the passage. That's what they were doing. But more than that, they were also saying if the presence of God is going to be here in Jerusalem We not only need a place prepared for it. We not only need the proper people to carry it in the proper way, but this is going to be the center of worship for the people of God. And so we need to prepare to lead the people in proper worship. And so David organizes the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their brothers as singers, who play loudly on musical instruments. and who lead the people in song. And we get here, if you know the Psalms well, this middle paragraph here in chapter 15, we get lots of anticipation of things that are in Asaph ends up writing a bunch of psalms, ends up being the leader of a of a line of psalm uh writers as well as psalm singers We also get some musical notations that some of them played harps according to Alamoth, while others of them played lyres according to the Shemonith. And those are musical notations. you'll see in some of the Psalms, according to Alamoth, according to the Shemonith. We don't know what they mean, no idea. We just know that harps were played according to Alamoth, which is probably a tune, probably a well known way of singing, or a way of doing the singing, or a tune. And then the lyres, which is different in sh means. Usually, by the way, if Hebrew words are left untranslated, like according to the Shemonith or according to um, you know, owl Moth or Selah that we see in the Psalms. If they're left untranslated, like a miktum of David, it's because we're not 100% sure what those words mean. mean. And the translators don't want to say, well, this is what that word means for sure, when we're not 100% sure. There's a lot of this ancient Hebrew, well not a lot, but there's a number of words in ancient Hebrew. Hebrew that we're just not familiar with the meaning of them. And so it's safer to leave them untranslated and just bring them in as they directly are in the Hebrew text rather than try to make a speculative guess at what they might mean. But so a place is prepared and the proper carrying is prepared according to the Word of God and then the worship of God is prepared. And so finally, with everything ready and everyone in their place, David and the elders and the commanders, they go to bring up the covenant of the Lord from the house of Obadiah Edom with rejoicing. And this time it goes gloriously well. They're doing things according to the Word of God. They're doing things in a thoughtful and wise way. They're doing things in a proper way. And so God is blessing them. And they sacrifice seven bulls and seven rams as a thanksgiving offering to God. And of course everything's going well and everything's done properly and God is evidently blessing their procession and so everyone is happy, right? No. At the very end of the chapter we learn about Michael, the daughter of Saul, who was David's first wife. And she not happy about it at all. David is wearing a linen ephod, which is he is properly covered. Uh she's gonna accuse him of dancing naked before She he wasn't. He just wasn't wearing the royal robes. He wasn't clothed in majesty as the king. He was there as a worshiper. And acknowledging the greater king of the Lord. And that Michael likes the status. She likes, you know, the the trappings of wealth and power. She she liked it when her father had it. She likes it now when her husband has it. And so she despises that. That's just a reminder that when we're honoring God, and when we're doing things properly, and when God is evidently blessing the work, Those who love the world and those who love the ways of the world will oppose the work of God. That is guaranteed by Scripture that the work of God never advances without So it's an encouragement to us to not be discouraged whenever there's opposition, but to make sure we're being faithful to God and we're walking in wisdom and then to be thankful Thankful for his blessing and not to be too bothered by the opposition. Let's pray. Father, thank you that your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Never allowed the opposition of the world to stop him from doing what you called him to do. Whether that was Peter who told him that there's no way in the world he was going to die, or whether that was Judas who betrayed him and so forth. Sold him for thirty pieces of silver, or his earthly brothers who who mocked him and made fun of him, or whether that was the opposition of the Sanhedrin, or of Or of Pontius Pilate and Herod. Jesus never let the world's opposition stop him from doing what you gave him to do. Let us follow in the footsteps of our Savior, and let us follow the example of David here in verse Chronicles fifteen and be faithful to your word and faithful to your calling and not be distracted or worried or derailed by what the world thinks. We pray this In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's 1 Chronicles chapter 15. Tomorrow, Lord Willie Mike will be back for 1 Chronicles chapter 16. I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.