Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day number 529. And that brings us to 1 Chronicles chapter 7. And in 1 Chronicles chapter 7, we get the other northern tribes. So in 40 verses we get a summary of the rest of the northern tribes. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Father, thank you for 1 Chronicles chapter 7. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the day-by-day progress of being able to spend time in your word. We pray that your Holy Spirit would help us today. In 1 Chronicles 7, help us to see your truth. Write it on our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The sons of Issachar, Tolah, Pua, Jashab, and Shimron, four. The sons of Tola, Uzi, Raphael, Jeriel, Jamai, Ibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their fathers' houses namely of Tola, mighty warriors of their generations, their number in the days of David being 22,600. the son of Uzai, Israhiah, and the sons of Israhiah, Michael, Obadiah, Joel, and Isheah All five of them were chief men, and along with them, by their generations, according to their fathers' houses, were units of the army for war, thirty six thousand, for they had many wives and sons. Their kinsmen, belonging to all the clans of Issachar, were in all 87,000 mighty warriors enrolled by genealogy. The sons of Benjamin, Belah, Beker, and Jediael, three. The sons of Belah, Ezbun, Uzai, Uziel, Jeremoth, and Eri, five, heads of fathers' houses, mighty warriors. And their enrollment by genealogies was 22,034. The sons of Beaker, Zemariah, Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioni, Amri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth, and Elimeth. All these were the sons of Beaker. And their enrollment by genealogies, according to their generations, as heads of their father's houses, mighty warriors, was 20,200. the sons of Jediel, Bilhan, and the sons of Bilhan, Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Kenana, Zathan, Tarshish, and Asheshar. All of these were the sons of Jediel, according to the heads of their fathers' houses, mighty warriors, seventeen thousand two hundred, able to go to war. And Shupum and Hupum were the sons of Ur, Hushem, the son of Aber. The descendants the descendants of Naphtali, Jaziel, Gunai, Jizer, and Shalom, the descendants of Bilha, the sons of Manasseh, Azrael, whom his Aramean concubine bore. She bore Maker, the father of Gilead And Maker took a wife for Hupam and Shupam. The name of his sister was Maiacah, and the name of the second was Zelophahad. And Zalophad had daughters, and Maica, the wife of Maker, bore a son, and she called his name Peresh, and the name of his brother was Sheresh, and his sons were Ulam and Rakam The son of Ulam, Beden. These were the sons of Gilead, the son of Maker, son of Manasseh. and his sister Hammulecheth bore Ishdod, Ishad, Abiazer, Mala. The sons of Shemitah were Ahion, Shechem, Liki, and An The sons of Ephraim, Shufila, and Bared his son, Tahath his son, Eliada his son, Tahath his son Zabad his son, Shuthilah his son, and Ezer and Eliad, whom the men of Gath who were born in the land killed because they came down to raid their livestock And Ephraim, their father, mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him. And Ephraim went into his wife. and she conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Bariah, because disaster had fallen upon his house. His daughter was Sheera who built Lower and Upper Beth Horan and Uzan Shira. Refan, Refa was his son, Reshef his son Tilah his son, and Tahan his son, Ladan his son, Amahud his son, Elishema his son, Nun his son, Joshua his son Their possessions and settlements were Bethel and its towns, and to the east Naeron, and to the west Gizer and its towns, Shechem and its towns, Aya and its towns. And also in possession of the Manassites, Bethshean and its towns, Tanakh and its towns, Megido and its towns, Dor and its towns, In these lived the sons of Joseph, the son of Israel. The sons of Asher, Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Uriah. and their sister Sarah, the sons of Bariah, Heber, and Malchiel, who fathered Berzaith Heber fathered Jafflit, Shomer, Hotham, and their sister Shua, the sons of Jafflet, Pesak, Bimhal, and Ashvath These are the sons of Jafflit, the sons of Shemer, his brother, Roga, Jehubah, and Aram, the sons of Hellam, his brother, Zopha, Im The sons of Zopha, Sua, Harnefer, Shual, Birai, Imra, Bezer, Had, Shema, Shilshah, Ethran, and Bera, the sons of Jithur, Jephuna, Pisbah, and Era, the sons of Ula, Era, Haniel, and Riziah. All of these were men of Asher, heads of fathers' houses, approved, mighty warriors, chiefs of the princes Their number enrolled by genealogies for service in war was 26,000 men. That is 1 Chronicles chapter 7. And we have these northern tribes, the smallest and least of which was Naphtali. They get a very, very short treatment here, just one verse in verse 13. Really the largest and most prominent of these northern tribes was Ephraim. Manasseh had a huge territory, but Ephraim was very uh prominent. And so uh this is the tribe where Joshua the son of Nun came from. Uh Who led them into the Promised Land. And it just has a lot of key cities. Beth-shein, that's one of the cities we went to go visit when we were in Israel. It's probably the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world. I know if you Google that it's going to say Damascus, Syria, but evidence is that Beth Shean is a little older than Damascus, Syria. Uh Megiddo, uh which is um Very important town. So the major trade route from Egypt to Mesopotamia ran through Ephraim. And the Gidda was a major city of huge importance. So Ephraim was the most important of these northern tribes. And um naphtali the probably the least important. We begin with Issachar. Issachar is an interesting tribe in that they are renowned as being wise and capable warriors. So these got eighty-seven thousand warriors who come from the tribe of Issachar. That is many times more than come from some other tribes. And so you've got a tribe that is very capable of making war, uh very wise for war. And that's kind of what they're they're known for. The Benjaminites are next. And this is Again, kind of giving you a military register. What's interesting about this in Chronicles is that, you know, Chronicles was written after the exile to Babylon and the return. And when Judah is really resettling in the land, Judah, Benjamin, Levi, really the other tribes are essentially lost? You know, the lost tribes of Israel. And so they were conquered under Assyria and they were resettled in other parts and their distinctive ethnicity was kind of lost. You have in the northern Israel and the beginnings of what are the Samaritans who are not going to ever be regarded as true Israelites by the rest of Israel by uh and and then judah the prominent tribe which is why that group that settles down there in the south around Jerusalem become known as the Jews or the Jewish peoples because of the So they're almost all from the tribe of Judah, with some from the tribe of Benjamin and some Levites who are settled in among them. So if that's the historical context when Chronicles is written, why are we getting all of this detailed accounting of all of these cities that were owned, and all of these men that were able to fight Is this just nostalgia? Is this just Ezra or whoever the chronicler is looking back into history and saying, oh, those were the good old days? No. Ezra believes the promises of God, or whoever wrote the Chronicles, believes in the promises of God, and he's reminding the people that Israel was once a much larger, much more robust and complete nation, and that these are the tribes of Israel, and these were their cities, and these were their territories. And these were the men who were uh rallied together for for fighting purposes. This will be a theme in Chronicles' couple places where all Israel will be gathered together because the chronicler is wanting to keep before the people of God a larger vision of God's purposes for them. Now ultimately God's purposes for his people will be even larger still, because it won't just be the twelve tribes of Israel settling in on this land in Israel, but it will be people from every tribe tongue. people and nation, a countless multitude that are gathered together as the people of God. But this purpose here is to Give the people as they're returning from exile, as they're a small band in and around Jerusalem, in Judea, the Judahites and a few remnants of Benjamin and Levi. Who are re-establishing in the land for them to know God has a bigger purpose for you. This is bigger than you and your immediate context And as I reflect on that, I think, what a great message for the American evangelical church. I say evangelical with the error quotes because that's a fuzzy term of uh indistinct meaning. But what I mean by it is the true believers who are committed to the gospel and to the Word of God and preaching Jesus Christ. The the the Church of Jesus Christ, faithful to the gospel and to preaching Christ in America, feels like we're a small remnant, we're sort of outnumbered, we're losing the cultural battles such as they are. Um we we feel like maybe the days of the church are are coming to an end. Maybe we feel like just a you know bedraggled rag tag bunch or whatever. But we need to see there's a bigger vision. We need to see that this thing's bigger than we are. And God has people all over the world, and God has a kingdom all over the world, and God is bringing in many from the east and the west. from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. And just as the people returning from exile needed a bigger vision of what God was doing, had done, and was doing, we need a bigger vision of what God has done. and is doing. And the way he's doing it is now not through these twelve genealogical tribes in this particular part of the world, but now he's doing it through the true Israel, the Lord Jesus Christ. and the church of Jesus Christ, the body of Christ, which is the living temple of God throughout the whole world, and God is building this up in a beautiful, beautiful way. So just as we see the chronicler trying to expand the vision of these Judahites, we need to have our vision expanded in a similar way. Let's pray. Father, thank you for calling us to be part of a kingdom that is so much bigger than we are. Our little corner of it here in America is just that, a little corner of what you are doing in the world. You are at work in mighty and magnificent ways. Continue to build up your church. Continue to encourage the hearts of your people. May we pray and engage. In the kingdom building that your son Jesus Christ is doing throughout the world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for 1 Chronicles chapter 7. Mike's going to be back tomorrow, Lord willing, for 1 Chronicles chapter 8. Have a blessed day in the Lord.