Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 547. And we're in 1 Chronicles chapter 19. We're just about at the halfway point. So there's 1,095 days of devotionals over the three-year course. And so half of that is 547 and a half. So between today's devotional on 1 Chronicles 19 and tomorrow's devotional on 1 Chronicles 20, we will officially cross the halfway point. And so we are just about halfway through our three-year journey through God's Word. It's been a wonderful journey so far, looking forward to the second half. So this will be the end of the first half And then tomorrow Mike will be here with 1 Chronicles 20, Lord willing, for the beginning of the second half of our three-year journey through the Word of God. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and for the gift and blessing it is for us to be in your word together each day. We pray that you bless us in First Chronicles 19 today, help us to understand your word. and to receive it by faith and to treasure it up in our hearts and to see Jesus more clearly and to love Jesus and follow him more closely for what we learn about you and your will for us in your word today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. First Chronicles nineteen Now after this, Nahash, the king of the Ammonites, died. And his son reigned in his place. And David said, I will deal kindly with Hainun, the son of Nahash, for his father dealt kindly with me. So David sent messengers to console him concerning his father, and David's servants came to the land of the Ammonites to Hanun to console him. But the princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun, Do you think because David has sent comforters to you that he is honoring your father? Have not his servants come to you to search and to overthrow and to spy out the land? So Hanun took David's servants and shaved them, and cut off their garments in the middle at their hips, and sent them away. And they departed. When David was told concerning the men, he sent messengers to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Remain at Jericho until your beards have grown, and then return. When the Ammonites saw that they had become a stench to David Hainun and the Ammonites sent one thousand talents of silver to hire chariots and horsemen from Mesopotamia, from Aramach, and from Zobah. They hired 32,000 chariots and the king of Nach and his army who came and encamped before Mediva. And the Ammonites were mustered from their cities and came to battle. When David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army of the mighty men. And the Ammonites came out and drew up in battle array at the entrance of the city, and the kings who had come were by themselves. In the open country. When Joab saw that the battle was set against him, both in front and in the rear, he chose some of the best men of Israel and arrayed them against the Syrians. The rest of his men he put in charge he put in the charge of Abishai his brother, and they were arrayed against the Ammonites. And he said, If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall help me, but if the Ammonites are too strong for you, then I will help you. Be strong, and let us use our strength for our people and for the cities of our God, and may the Lord do what seems good to him. So Joab and the people who were with him drew near before the Syrians for battle, and they fled before him. And when the Ammonites saw that the Syrians fled, they likewise fled before Abishai, Joab's brother, and Abishai. Entered the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem. But when the Syrians saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they sent messengers and brought out the Syrians who were beyond the Euphrates. with Shop, the commander of the army of Hadadezer, at their head. And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan and came to them and drew up his forces against them. And when David set the battle in array against the Syrians, they fought with him. And the Syrians fled before Israel. And David killed of the Syrians the men of seven thousand chariots and forty thousand foot soldiers. and put to death also Shopak, the commander of their army. And when the servants of Hadadizar saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they made peace with David, and became subject to him So the Syrians were not willing to save the Ammonites anymore. All right, First Chronicles nineteen. Here we have David has had all these victories over his enemies that we read about in the last chapter when we were last in 1 Chronicles a couple days ago. He had victory over all of his enemies all around, and God had given him this peace. This may be a little bit of a backtracking to sort of tell the story of how David got victory over the Syrians. As chapter eighteen is kind of a summary overview uh look. So what we have here is the immaturity and foolishness of a new young king. So it's kind of a foreshadowing of something that's going to happen in Israel. After David and Solomon, when Solomon's son Rehoboam takes over as king in Jerusalem, he's going to be foolish And he's going to listen to the foolish word of his counselors, his young counselors, and he's going to uh dishonor Jeroboam, who had been appointed as taskmaster over Solomon's works and And that whole thing is coming. And so there's going to be a division there. But this is another example of a young ruler who is uh listening to the advice of the princes of the Ammonites who seem like the young men in the land who have hot heads and hot tempers and not a whole lot of wisdom that comes from years of experience. David is fully intending to deal kindly with the Ammonite. because he's had a good relationship with the king of the Ammonites. It's been a peaceful relationship, and so he wants to continue that But Hanun is is convinced by the princes that David's really just spying out the land in order to to search it, to overthrow it, to conquer it. And so he takes these servants of David who've done nothing wrong but other than try to make peace and to bring a blessing, and he shaves them, shaves off their beard, which is very humiliating in the ancient and then cuts off their garments in the middle at their hips, which would obviously be very humiliating. So this double humiliation and sends them away. David comes to meet them. He's a king who cares about his men, who cares about his people. He says, you just stay here at Jericho until your beards are grown, uh, so you don't have to come into Jerusalem and face people uh with that shit shame and so he then decides this is this is gonna require answering and so The Ammonites figure this out. They figure out we kind of did something stupid. We shouldn't have done that. This is not going to go well for us. And so they take a thousand talents of silver. It's a lot of silver. And they hire chariots and horsemen from Mesopotamia, from Aramayac and from Zobah. They get all these different areas and really areas of Syria what we call Syria. uh is this area basically corresponded to the modern day nation-state of Syria, but it's sometimes called Aram. uh sometimes referred to as as Mesopotamia because it it really i i it can extend as far north as the area of the Tigris and the Euphrates and that Mesopotamia the land between the rivers is between So they're sending north. They're sending north to these people who have more chariots and more soldiers, and they're hiring. They're hiring thousands of chariots and a huge army. And so David sends Joab and the mighty men, the army of the mighty men. And they're very, very much outnumbered. And they've got Ammonites on one side, they've got Syrians on the other side. So Joab says, okay. Talks to his brother Abishai, and he says, All right. You take these men, I'll take these men. I'm gonna go against the Syrians 'cause they're the stronger armies of Joab is the lead commander and takes the strongest men, the some of the best of the men of Israel, and then he leaves Abishai to go against the Emma. with sort of the the rest of the army. And and I and actually this is one of my favorite things that Joab says. Joab does a lot of bad things in his history, but here what he says is actually He says, If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall come help me. But if the Ammonites are too strong for you, then I will help you. Be strong and let us use our strength for our people and for the cities of our God. And may the Lord do what seems good to him. This is a good example of what I talked about two days ago, uh, and that is that victory, you can see it as human Ingenuity, human courage, human wisdom, and certainly Joab here is an experienced commander in battle Uh this is one of the toughest ones he's going to have to fight, but he is a longtime experienced commander in battle, and so he makes a plan. He and his brother Abishai, who's also very experienced. in battle. And it's a good plan. They're gonna take the strongest men and go against the strongest opponents, the Syrians, and take the rest of the men and go against the lesser opponent, the Ammonites. But If that strong contingent isn't strong enough to take on the Syrians, then some of the men who are fighting the Ammonites will help out. But that assumes that if one of them is winning You know, if one of them is losing or having a hard time, the other one will be winning. So that's maybe not going to be the case. And so he says at the end of the day, we need to be strong, we need to let us We need to use our strength for our people and for the cities of our God, but may the Lord do what seems good to him. He realizes that undergirding and overarching their efforts is the sovereign will of the Lord. And so he says, we're going to do our best, we're going to be strong, we're going to use our strength, we're going to try to be wise. But in the end of the day, may the Lord do what seems good to him. When we have done our best, it is not our best that ultimately wins the day. It is the sovereignty of God, the good will of the Lord. And so God grants the victory. Does that mean that Joab and Abishai could just sit back and say, well, whatever the Lord wants to do, he's going to do, we'll just sit back and wait to see what happens. No. They make a plan, they execute the plan, they give it all they have. They use their experience, they use their courage, but they trust the Lord. And they win And they win and they come back to Jerusalem victorious, but then all the Syrians decide we're going to need to all gather together and we're gonna make this great alliance and we're gonna come against David. And so David himself now goes and gathers all of Israel. Before it was just Joab and the army of the mighty men, the sort of standing army that was kept in and around Jerusalem. Now it's all of Israel under the direct command of David and they go and they really decimate the Syrians and it's just a an overwhelming victory that God gives and then There's peace. So again, this the lesson I think here from 1 Chronicles 19 is similar to what we had in eighteen, and that is that God is sovereign and all victory comes from him, but that we are still responsible to do what God calls us to do. But it is also Here a picture where David is a picture of his greater son, the Lord Jesus Christ, who has won a greater victory Certainly there was humiliation and shame to these messengers of David when they were shaved and had their garments cut off in the middle. But the greater shame and humiliation Humiliation to God's people comes from our own sin and from the condemnation of our great enemy, Satan, and with the eternal punishment of not just being shamed by being shaved and and And so a far greater enemy, a far greater shame, a far greater long-term consequence. And so the far greater Son of David, the Lord Jesus Christ, comes and wins that far greater victory because it was the will of the Lord. It was the Lord's will. to give his son, to through his son win victory for his people over our great enemies. And so we now have that victory in Jesus. But having the victory in Jesus is not a call to be complacent and lazy and sit on the sidelines and say, well, we'll see how things unfold. It's a call to us To spread the good news, to pray hard, to worship well, to serve hard, and then to trust in the Lord that that victory that Christ has secured will be worked out throughout the world according to his will. And even through our hands being used as his instruments. Let's pray. Father, thank you for King Jesus, our King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Thank you for the greater victory that He's won for us over the great enemies of Satan. Sin and death and hell forever. He's delivered your people from shame and from eternal condemnation. We thank you for Jesus, and we ask That you would strengthen our faith in Jesus and help us to walk in humble obedience and in strong courage and hope. to do what you call us to do and to trust you for the advance of your kingdom and for the resolution of the work that Jesus has won for your people. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's 1 Chronicles 19. Lord willing. Mike will be back tomorrow for 1 Chronicles chapter 20. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.