Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you for day number 560. sixty of our three year journey through the Word of God. We're back in First Chronicles this morning for First Chronicles twenty seven. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. Thank you for these times that we get to spend together in your word. We pray that your spirit would guide us, teach us, strengthen us, build us up in Christ for your glory in our lives, for your church, for the good of your people. Be our teacher, be our guide. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. First Chronicles 27, we get to the army of This is the number of the people of Israel, the heads of fathers' houses, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and their officers who served the king in all matters concerning the divisions that came to the eyes. and went month after month throughout the year, each division numbering twenty-four thousand. He was a descendant of Pyrez, and was chief of all the commanders. He served for the first month. Dodai, the Ahohite, was in charge of the division of the The third commander for the third month was Benea, the son of Jehoida, the chief priest. In his division were twenty-four thousand. This is the Benea, who was a mighty man of the thirty, and in command of the thirty. Amizabad, his son, was in charge of his division. Asahel, the brother of Joab, was fourth for the fourth month, and his son Zebediah after him, in his division were twenty-four thousand. The fifth commander for the fifth month was Shamhuth, the Israelite. In his division were twenty-four thousand. Sixth for the sixth month was Ira. the son of Ichesh the Koite in his division were twenty-four thousand. Seventh for the seventh month was Helez the Pelanite of the sons of Ephraim. In his division were twenty four thousand. Eighth for the eighth month was Sibekai, the Hushahite, Hushethite, of the Zarahites, in his division was twenty four thousand. Ninth for the ninth month was Abeazer of Anathai. A Benjaminite, in his division were twenty-four thousand, tenth for the tenth month was Mahari of Natopha of the Zarahites, his division twenty-four thousand, eleventh for the eleventh month. In the twelfth month, Benea of Pirathon, the sons of Ephraim, in his division were twenty-four thousand. Twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldi, the Neetophite of Othniel, in his division were twenty-four thousand. Over the tribes of Israel, for the Reubenites, Eliezer, the son of Zikari, was chief officer, for the Simeonites, Shepatiah, the son of Maak Michael, for Zebulun, Ishmah, the son of Obadiah, for Nephtali, Jeremoth, the son of Azrael, for the Ephraimites, Hosheah, the son of Azaziah For the half tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedeah. For the half tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Ido the son of Zechariah, for Benjamin, Jaosiah The son of Abner, for Dan, Azarel, the son of Jeroam, Jeroham. These were the leaders of the tribes of Israel David did not count those below twenty years of age, for the Lord had promised to make Israel as many as the stars of heaven. Joab the son of Zeruya began to count but did not finish, yet wrath came upon Israel for this, and the number was not entered in the crime. Chronicles of King David. Over the king's treasuries was Asmavath, the son of Adiel, and over the treasuries in the country, in the cities, and the villages, and in the towers, was Jonathan, the son of Uzziah. And over those who did the work of the field for tilling the soil was Ezra the son of Celeb. And over the vineyards was Shimei, the reign of the And over the produce of the vineyards for the wine cellars was Zabdi the Shifmite. Over the olive and sycamore trees in the Shephila was Baalhaman, the Gitarite and over the stores of oil was Joash. Over the herds that pastured in Sharon was Shithrai the Sharonite. Over the herds in the valleys was Shaphat, the son of Adli. Over the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite, and over the donkeys were Jediah the Mironathite. Over the flocks was Jazaz the Hagrite. All these were stewards of King David's property. Jonathan, David's uncle, was a counselor, being a man of understanding, He and Jehael, the son of Hakmoni, attended the king's sons. Ahithafel was the king's counselor, and Hushai the Archite was the king's friend. Ahitha was succeeded by Jehoida, the son of Benea, and Abiathor, Joab, was commander of the kings. army. So first chronicles twenty seven begins with uh an accounting of the army of Israel. Now this is not the standing army of Israel. Israel that was made up primarily of the mighty men, the the three and then the three hundred and then the three, the thirty of the three hundred, and then there were probably about six hundred total uh among the the mighty men. The mighty men were basically David's personal bodyguard and his personal army and they were the standing army and they were with David at all times and they would go into battle under the command of Joab any time. This is the citizen militia. And each division of the citizen militia had Uh twenty-four thousand or twenty-four units, this word that's translated thousand and makes it look as twenty-four thousand could actually be units, and so a unit could vary in number, but we go with twenty-four thousand. And so you've got twenty-four thousand uh times twelve, and so that's uh two hundred and forty thousand plus forty-eight thousand is two hundred and eighty-eight thousand. uh people, right, if I do my quick math correctly. So you've got a a possible standing army here uh of two hundred and eighty eight thousand. Now there were more people than that who were of age and who could wield a sword We know from the account of the chronicle uh sorry of the census that David took toward the end of his reign, there were like over one and a half million Million. But this was the militia, those who were enrolled in military service, who trained for military service, and who served one month a year. in and around Jerusalem. So they would come in when it was their turn, they would come in and serve, not just in Jerusalem, but they would also be in the major um guard cities and guard towers and fortress towns along the border. So they'd be spread out. But at any time you had the mighty men, which were in Jerusalem, around David, his inner so circle uh and then you had this one of the divisions of twenty four thousand. So if they needed to go to war if they were attacked, they would have at their disposal the twenty-four thousand of that one division plus the uh the mighty men under Joab. The whole operation would be under Joab. Now there were times when David would have to call for all of Israel to go to war, like against the Syrians. There's an episode of that. And so excuse me. And when that happens then you get the whole two hundred and eighty-eight thousand who march out to battle together. you can see it's a a pretty formidable fighting force, but it's also pretty flexible in that for the most part, if you're serving in the military eleven out of twelve months, you're at home. And you might have some training to You might have some things to do, but you're also a a a citizen. You're also a farmer, probably. Almost everybody was a farmer. And so you would be taking care of your family and your farm. But you might have other responsibilities as well. So that is the army of Israel. And what does this mean? Well, excuse me. One of the applications That I see, I think we can legitimately draw from this to the church today, is that, you know, there are people who are officers within the church. There are people who have standing responsibilities within the church who serve every week. But then there are times when When you need more people to roll up their sleeves and help out and make something happen. At Forrest Hill, we're getting ready to launch our first ever vacation Bible school We did a a community outreach festival for about five years and that was very well attended and very successful. But it required just about all hands on deck from the whole church to really make that happen because it was quite a huge undertaking. Uh we're getting ready to embark on a building program. We've purchased land and and uh Uh we're going through the design process and developing our site plan to submit to the county. And so this this is requiring, it's going to require all hands on deck to make this building a reality by God's grace. sometime in the future. So there are times when you have the regular ones who are in service on an ongoing basis according to their rotation, but then there's time When you need all hands on deck, and that's something that that the the whole church needs to be prepared to be engaged in. Now you also have officers. Who are administering the law and who are overseeing the affairs of the twelve tribes. And so these are men who are chosen because they are of respect within their tribe and they are uh put into basically to be the chief administrator over the affairs affairs of that tribe. We saw earlier that there were Levites who were assigned, uh twenty seven hundred and seventeen hundred, they were dispersed throughout for the instruction in the law and the handling of the things of God. These would be more chief administrators of the affair. So there is a bit of separation of church and state. These are not all Levites. These are these are king-appointed officials who are administrators So the temple and the Levitical service and the worship of God was kept separate, uh although both under God and both under the word of God and the law of God they were kept separate and that you had separate men who were administering the state, and that's what this is being described here, so we can get a biblical principle of separation of church and state, which doesn't mean of course a a godless state. Of course Israel was a theocracy, there's a whole other discussion to go down. But you do see this idea that the the the secular issues of the army and of the state and of the the collection of taxes and those kinds of things. You have the King's Treasury. Again, earlier we saw in chapter 26 there was a need to Administer the treasuries of the house of the Lord. This is the King's Treasury. So treasure of the House of the Lord, that's your tithe. We're following here. You give to God what belongs to God, you give to Caesar what belongs to Caesar, as Jesus said. Um and so this was people who were in charge of the king's treasury that was would fund the army and that would fund state construction projects like walls and towers and and bridges and uh other fortifications. primarily in roads that were being built. And then you also have people who were in charge of the storehouses for the state. Again, there were separate storehouses for the temple. These are storehouses for the state. So again, we're seeing this just just the separation of church and state. That's the pattern that's set up uh under the law of God. Um and then the final thing we see here is that uh you have the c the wise counsel. Proverbs is full of advice about how kings need to rule according to wisdom, which means they need to have wise counsel. So David has several counselors. Uh he had His uncle, Jonathan, and then Jonathan and Jehael would also together uh attend the king's son. That means they would tutor and instruct the king's sons in the law and in the ways of governance. Ahithel, chief counselor, he features prominently in Absalom's Rebellion, where unfortunately he took the theory And then you have um um Hushai the Architect, the king's friend, who ends up really helping David out during Absalom's rebellion. And then you have Ahithophel, Jehoiada, Abithor, these are the chief priests, and Joab's over the army. So you have the king and his counselors, you have the priests and the temple, and you have the army. And you have a right, proper administration of all of these things. This is another lesson, like we saw earlier chapters. There needs to be order, there needs to be structure. There needs to be people who have delegated responsibilities, but everybody is to function under the law of God and under the rule of God. And so this is what we should be looking for in the church today. Today is order and structure and office and delegation and accountability and everything to be under the oversight of God and his word. And each person sort of in their place of calling. In this way, the church can function well and can do all that God calls us to do. Fully. So often the church doesn't do all that God calls us to do. We don't do enough evangelism. We don't do enough missions. We don't Why don't we? Well, at least part of the reason is that there's not enough people who are stepping up to serve as according to their gifting. Part of it may be that those people are not properly trained. trained and enrolled in places of service within the church. Part of it is also because God's people don't tithe anymore like they used to. So there needs to be funding for the work of God. And so you're supposed to tithe, and that should be ten percent of your income, and yet most professing Christians who are involved in church give around two or three percent of their income. And so we're dealing with a quarter of the funds that we should have for things like missions and reaching the nations and evangelism and outreaching to our community. And so we very often are just in a position of being able to keep things going with within the local church and not prioritizing missions. We we try to put a priority on missions at Forest Hill, but everything everything does depend upon the generosity of God's people. Thankful to have a generous body at Forest Hill, but um I know there's always ways that we can step up and serve more faithfully. And so we have an example here in David. And again, why is this being written in Chronicles? I've mentioned this Before, but as they're re-entering the land, as they're re-establishing themselves in Jerusalem and in Judah, the chronicler wants them to see we're all going to have to serve. We're all going to have to have our You can see the outworking of this beautifully in the book of Nehemiah, which we will come to later in our Bible reading reading, so we'll look forward to that. But let's close our time in prayer today. Father, thank you so much for the gifting that you've given to your church, for the ordering of it. For the officers that you've called and appointed over your church, for those who have been called to serve so faithfully in ministry capacities week in and week out, we thank you for you are a faithful God, and you are good and generous to provide Would you continue to build up your church at Forest Hill and other local faithful churches and throughout the world that Christ's kingdom might be manifest in the world as a witness to the world? of the reality of who you are and what you are all about. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. That is first Chronicles twenty-seven. Tomorrow Mike will be back, I think. If I have my schedule right, for 1 Chronicles 28, have a blessed day in the Lord.